-- Apple New Campus Cost Seen Jumping to $5 Billion: Tech
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-04-04T22:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/apple-new-campus-cost-seen-jumping-to-5-billion-tech-correct-.html
(Corrects unit of measurement in 30th paragraph and
removes NBBJ project attribution in 40th paragraph.)  At what turned out to be his last
public appearance,  Steve Jobs  stood before the Cupertino City
Council on June 7, 2011, to present plans for a new corporate
campus for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Scarecrow thin yet forceful as ever, Jobs displayed several
renderings of a headquarters intended to accommodate more than
12,000 employees in a single, circular building.  “It’s a little like a spaceship,” he said of the massive,
four-story ring, which, at 2.8 million square feet, would be
two-thirds the size of the Pentagon and set among 176 acres of
trees where today there are mostly asphalt parking lots. “We
have a shot,” he said, “at building the best office building
in the world. I really do think that architecture students will
come here to see it.”  Jobs died four months later, before the final plans could
be submitted to Cupertino city planners, though he had made it
clear that this corporate Shangri-La would be expensive. Apple
would add 6,000 trees and hide almost all the roads and parking
spaces underground. There would be plenty of cafeterias,
including one that could handle lunch for 3,000 employees. Jobs
highlighted the main building’s curved exterior walls. The plans
call for unprecedented 40-foot, floor-to-ceiling panes of
concave glass from  Germany .  Before the  Cupertino council , Jobs said, “there isn’t a
straight piece of glass on the whole building,” adding that
“as you know, if you build things, this isn’t the cheapest way
to build them.”  Ballooning Budget  He had that right. Since 2011, the budget for Apple’s
Campus 2 has ballooned to almost $5 billion from less than $3
billion, according to five people close to the project who
weren’t authorized to speak on the record.  If their consensus estimate is accurate, Apple’s expansion
would eclipse the $3.9 billion being spent on the new World
Trade Center complex in  New York , and the new  office space  would
run more than $1,500 per square foot -- three times the cost of
many top-of-the-line downtown corporate towers.  Before his death, Jobs had hoped to break ground in 2012
and to move in by the end of 2015. Apple will start tearing down
the 26 buildings on the site in June, according to another
person familiar with the plan. At the company’s annual meeting
on Feb. 27, Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook said the move-in
date has been pushed back to 2016. Apple declined to comment for
this article.  Cost Cutting  One reason for the new timetable, say three people who have
spoken to Apple personnel about the project, is that the company
has been working with lead architect Foster & Partners to cut $1
billion from the budget before proceeding. Jobs and Apple first
hired  Norman Foster ’s firm, renowned for the rebuilt Reichstag
in Berlin and Hearst Tower in New York, in 2010.  Apple has named a general contractor -- a joint venture of
 DPR Construction , in  Redwood City ,  California , and
prefabrication specialists  Skanska USA Building  in New York --
though it hasn’t completed agreements with the scores of
subcontractors needed to finish the job. Some contractors will
be submitting bids by May. There’s so much dirt to be removed,
excavating the site will take six months and require a
continuous, 24-hour convoy of trucks, says a former Apple
manager who heard a presentation from Foster’s firm.  Cost overruns are to be expected on large construction
projects, and the scale of this one has evolved -- from an
initial plan to accommodate 6,000 employees to offices for
12,000 or even 13,000 in one place. Meanwhile, $1 billion is
still less than 1 percent of Apple’s $137 billion in cash
reserves.  Falling Shares  Yet the multibillion-dollar budget for Campus 2 could add
fuel to the debate about what Apple’s doing with all of its
money. Investors didn’t squawk much when Apple was dominating
the smartphone and tablet market, though its shares have fallen
38 percent since September amid rising competition from Samsung
Electronics Co. and concerns about Apple’s product pipeline.  Now shareholders are calling for a big dividend, stock
buyback or, in the case of Greenlight Capital’s  David Einhorn ,
the issuance of a new class of preferred shares. Apple has
hinted it might oblige in some way, though critics are sure to
question whether curved glass is the best use of funds.  “It would take some convincing for me to understand why $5
billion is the right number for a project like this,” said
 Keith Goddard , the chief executive of Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Capital Advisors Inc., which owns 30,537 shares of Apple. “This
is rubbing salt in the wound, to spend at a level that most
anyone would say is extravagant, at a time when they’re being so
stingy on dividends.”  If the stock continues to underperform, Goddard predicted,
“this headquarters would perpetuate the negative story.”  ‘Campus Curse’  Moreover, in Silicon Valley, nothing says you’ve peaked
quite like a lavish new headquarters. Highfliers such as Silicon
Graphics Inc., Borland Software Corp. and Sun Microsystems Inc.
all suffered the “campus curse”: Their fortunes went south
soon after opening swank corporate villages.  Few architects will publicly question the judgment of Jobs
and Foster, though many privately snicker at the doughnut-shaped
design. At a time when Google Inc., Facebook Inc. and others
favor floor plans that promote as many chance meetings as
possible -- a Jobsian virtue -- the circle could isolate people
and teams. A circle does not allow for much flexibility. Many
companies today opt for “living buildings” that can be easily
reconfigured. Facebook’s West Campus in Mountain View,
California, will be one huge quarter-mile-long structure --
essentially a large warehouse that can be adjusted on the fly as
projects are started and finished.  Aesthetics, Productivity  Aesthetics seem to trump productivity, says Scott Wyatt, a
managing partner at  NBBJ , a Seattle-based architecture firm
that’s designing offices in the region for Google and Samsung.  “I would be concerned that it would be alienating, as
opposed to convening,” Wyatt said. Rather than making it a
great place to work, “it seems more like an object, just like
the iPhone is an object.”  There’s no indication that Apple is getting cold feet. For
one thing, it needs the space. Even after the campus opens, it
will continue using its current Infinite Loop headquarters,
which houses 2,800 employees. Given its cash, Apple can make it
happen, even at $5 billion. Yet Cook dropped hints at Apple’s
annual meeting in February that the campus would not be
precisely what Jobs envisioned.  “Steve put a lot of love and attention into this before he
passed away,” Cook said. “Hopefully we’ve made it better
during the design phase. We want to do this right.”  Sustainable Design  Apple’s spectacular second campus, at least as Jobs
conceived of it, was never going to be purely practical. Set on
land Apple purchased in two blocks -- 50 acres in 2006, and
roughly twice that from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in 2010 -- Jobs
wanted it to be a model of sustainability. The goal, he said,
was for the facility to generate all of its own electricity,
relying on the grid only as a backup. He wanted the whole place
to look less like an office park and more like a nature refuge.  Shortly after entering the new campus at one of just two
entry roads, the plans reveal, most cars will be directed
underground into a network of roads and garages. The company
plans to plant 15 acres of native California grassland and 309
different species of trees (that includes the 6,000 new ones and
1,000 existing trees that will be dug up, stored during
construction and transplanted back from the nursery later). The
vast courtyard in the center of the main building’s doughnut
will be especially verdant, with apricot, olive and apple
orchards and an herb garden near the patio of a sprawling cafe.  Underground Auditorium  The plan is for only six structures to be visible when it’s
all done: the headquarters, the lobby to an underground
auditorium (no more schlepping to  San Francisco  for product
demos), a four-story parking garage separating the campus from
Interstate 280, a fitness center, and two research and
development labs housing testing facilities such as an anechoic
chamber for analyzing antenna signals.  “The overall feeling of the place is going to be a zillion
times better than it is now,” Jobs told the Cupertino City
Council.  To achieve its goals of a “net-zero energy” campus, the
roof of the spaceship will hold 700,000 square feet of solar
panels, enough to generate 8 megawatts of power. (That’s enough
to power roughly 4,000 homes.) Apple says it’s negotiating
contracts for additional solar and wind power.  Open Windows  To keep consumption down, the company plans to install
“climate responsive” technology. Judging from the drawings,
this will include window treatments that automatically open or
close to let in just the right amount of light, wind and fresh
air to maintain a comfortable temperature. Apple will probably
make liberal use of Solatubes -- skylights that are used to
shunt outdoor light into internal offices -- and huge, airplane
propeller-size fans made by companies such as  Big Ass Fans Co. 
in Lexington,  Kentucky , that move lots of air without using much
energy.  The true expense of the campus lies not in green tech,
though, as much as the materials -- as well as what product
designers call “fit and finish.” As with Apple’s products,
Jobs wanted no seam, gap or paintbrush stroke showing; every
wall, floor and even ceiling is to be polished to a supernatural
smoothness. All of the interior wood was to be harvested from a
specific species of maple, and only the finer-quality
“heartwood” at the center of the trees would be used, says one
person briefed on the plan last year.  Curved Glass  The main building will also be groundbreaking in how it’s
assembled. While the structural shell will be erected on site,
the glass that forms the exterior walls will be bent and framed
by  Seele GmbH  in its factory in Gersthofen, Germany.  “It’s something like 6 kilometers of glass,” said Peter
Arbour, an architect with Seele, who said no company has
attempted to use panes as large -- certainly not curved panes --
in anything approaching this scale. “Normally we talk in terms
of square feet.”  Seele, which built the glass staircases in many Apple
stores as well as the large glass cube at the entrance to its
store on Fifth Avenue in New York, has doubled the capacity of
its plant to supply the Apple project, Arbour said. Most curved
glass is created through a heating process that can lead to
cloudiness or house-of-mirror-style distortions. Apple’s will
use a cold-bent process; Seele developed machines to bend the
panes and hold them in place as they are laminated with a
bonding material so they keep the correct shape.  “With cold-bent glass, you get a true surface and true
transparency and true reflectivity,” Arbour said. Seele can
complete this process only at its Gersthofen factory, requiring
that the glass be shipped from  Europe .  Prefab Modules  Arriving by truck will be thousands of prefabricated 26-
foot-long modules in various configurations -- bathrooms,
utility closets and banks of offices complete with carpets and
window treatments, said three of those who spoke with Bloomberg
Businessweek about the project.  Because the work is done in factories designed specifically
for the purpose, the approach can yield far more precise
construction and fewer hours of on-site labor -- and potential
savings on local union rates. It’s also faster. Apple hopes to
complete construction in two years, compared with the three to
five it could take using conventional methods.  Apple hasn’t announced any major changes to Jobs’s vision,
so some of the sought-after $1 billion savings will probably
come by rolling back his sky-high requirements for fit and
finish.  Museum-Quality Floors  Rather than cement floors, Jobs wanted to use a stone-
infused alternative such as terrazzo, buffed to a sheen normally
reserved for museums and high-end residences. Jobs insisted that
the tiny gaps where walls and other surfaces come together be no
more than 1/32 of an inch across, versus the typical 1/8 inch in
most U.S. construction.  Rather than a lightweight, sound-absorbing acoustical tile,
Jobs even wanted the ceilings to be polished concrete.
Contractors would typically erect molds with crude scaffolds to
pour the cement in place, yet that leaves unsightly ruts where
the scaffolding puts extra pressure on the surfaces. According
to two people who’ve seen the plans, Apple will instead cast the
ceilings in molds on the floor and lift them into place, a far
more expensive approach that left one person involved in the
project speechless.  Grand Future  On a recent visit to the site, a hint of the grand future
blended in with the practical and unglamorous present. Apple has
vacated some buildings in one corner of the property, though the
parking lot is almost full outside the offices of Apple’s
facilities staff. A large square structure looms up from behind
the building, obscured by a 30-foot fence that’s covered with
white tarps.  A peek through the fence reveals what appears to be a life-
size mock-up of the entrance to the future headquarters,
complete with floor-to-ceiling glass and a huge banner hanging
from the ceiling with a photo of an iPhone, like the ones that
hang in the lobby of Infinite Loop. It’s clean, minimalist and
stunning -- a four-story iPad.  Wyatt, the NBBJ partner, met with Jobs to talk about
various projects over the years.  “I can imagine Jobs going through some of Foster’s
buildings and thinking, ‘This is what architecture should be,’”
said Wyatt. “This isn’t a bad thing, but they’re an architect’s
architect, not a customer’s architect.” (Foster & Partners is
the lead architect for Bloomberg Place, the London offices of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News  and  Bloomberg
Businessweek .) The firm declined to comment for this article.  Demanding Designs  Foster & Partners has designed several of the most
demanding and technically innovative buildings in the world.
Foster made his name with the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corp.
(now HSBC) headquarters, completed in 1985. Built quickly with
then-novel prefabrication and structural engineering techniques
(reflected in the tubular columns and elaborate trusswork of the
tower’s exterior), the skyscraper cost $1.3 billion -- in 1985
dollars, making it the world’s most expensive tall office
building at the time.  Since then, Foster has emerged as the U.K.’s best-known
architect. The kinds of projects he chooses these days, such as
new airports in  Hong Kong  and Beijing, are rarely budget-driven,
and the clients seem only too glad to spend on them.  The 1997 Commerzbank AG headquarters in  Frankfurt  pioneered
many energy-conserving techniques and featured multistory
“sky” gardens. A delicate, costly, high-tech glass dome crowns
Berlin’s Reichstag, the ruined home of the Bundestag, which
Foster rehabilitated in 1999. Its design was controversial,
though it has become a much-beloved symbol of progressive,
unified Germany.  Little Opposition  Jobs and Foster’s vision isn’t likely to run into any civic
obstacles. Cupertino expects to have completed an environmental
impact report by July, said City Manager Dave Brandt, who
doesn’t anticipate much in the way of community opposition.
Apple won points by agreeing to transport Glendenning Barn, a
historic landmark, to a more accessible site, and by investing
in a public transit program to encourage more than a third of
employees to get to work by a method other than car.  Apple may struggle to find subcontractors, though. There’s
a building boom in Silicon Valley, with new hospitals, a new
stadium for the  San Francisco 49ers  (who are finally leaving
Candlestick Park and moving to  Santa Clara ), and offices for
Samsung, as well as Facebook West and Google.  Thin Profit  With so much good business out there, some companies may
hesitate to commit manpower to a project that’s running behind.
Moreover, according to two of the people close to the project,
Apple is offering a cost-plus contract that pays only half the
percentage of profit of some large deals, leading some potential
partners to wonder if Apple expects them to sign up more for the
glamour of working on a marquee master plan than for the money.  If that were ever true -- and no doubt, many an Apple
supplier discovered it had fallen into Jobs’s reality distortion
field -- it’s far less likely in the  Tim Cook  era. Apple may
have more money than Croesus, though without Jobs’s star power
and maniacal control, it’s becoming more like other big,
conventional companies.  Ironically, that may be precisely why Jobs’s spaceship will
one day land in Cupertino, regardless of cost. To backtrack now
would be tantamount to admitting it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  