-- Apple Pulls Bookstore App in China Over Illegal Content, FT Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-04T10:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/apple-pulls-bookstore-app-in-china-over-illegal-content-ft-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  removed at least one
mobile application from its China iTunes store for containing
books banned by the government, the Financial Times reported,
citing the app’s developer.  The online bookstore provided access to 10 works, including
three by Chinese writer Wang Lixiong, FT said, citing Hao
Peiqiang, the app’s developer. Books by Wang, who is also a
political activist, are mostly banned in the country, according
to the newspaper.  The removal of the app follows an apology this week by
Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  to customers in its
second-largest market. State media including  China Central
Television  had criticized the company for its customer service
and warranty policies, prompting Apple to say it will now offer
full replacements of older iPhones experiencing problems.  One of the banned works available on the online bookstore
is about the future of China’s policies in Tibet, while another
addresses the future collapse of the Chinese government,
according to the FT. The third book details Wang’s visit to
Xinjiang and his detention by state security officers, the
newspaper said.  Beijing has faced political dissent in Tibet since its
military took over the region in 1959. Last year, 83 Tibetans
died after setting themselves on fire to protest Chinese rule,
with at least three more dying in January, the Tibetan
government-in-exile said on Jan. 25.  The online bookstore has not been removed from App stores
outside China, FT said. Apple’s Beijing-based spokeswoman
Carolyn Wu didn’t answer calls to her mobile phone on a public
holiday and didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed questions
from  Bloomberg News .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  