-- Hargreaves Services Confounds Buy Calls With Drop: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-04-04T11:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/hargreaves-services-confounds-buy-calls-with-drop-london-mover.html
Hargreaves Services Plc (HSP)  fell for an
eighth day, the longest streak in three years, even as analysts
say the U.K. supplier of materials and transport for energy
companies is poised to gain as it settles difficulties at a coal
mine and fraud in its Belgian unit.  Hargreaves Services, based in Durham,  England , is
mothballing its Maltby colliery because of geological risks to
health and safety, and in February said the  loss  from Belgian
malfeasance may be 17.7 million pounds ($26.7 million).  “As the issues at Maltby and in  Belgium  are worked
through, that should be a positive catalyst,” Justin Jordan, an
analyst at Jefferies LLC with a buy  rating  on the stock, said in
an interview today. Some investors are banking gains, Jordan
said, after the stock rose more than 40 percent in the three
months before the current decline.  The  shares  fell as much as 0.8 percent to 823 pence and
were down 0.2 percent at 12:49 p.m., heading for the lowest
close in more than five weeks. That extended the eight-day
decline to almost 7 percent.  Hargreaves said Feb. 28 that it expected a “strong”
second half and predicted it would meet its full-year forecasts
excluding Maltby and Belgium. Those difficulties should be “put
to bed” by the time the company announces results for the year
ending in May, Jordan said.  Hargreaves is benefiting from increasing use of coal in
U.K. power stations as a result of an expanding price
differential with gas, the London-based analyst said. It’s also
expanding rapidly in  Europe .  25% Upside  Jordan predicts the shares will rise to 1,030 pence,
implying an upside of about 25 percent. He is one of four
analysts with a buy recommendation among those who share their
research with Bloomberg. Two analysts advise holding the shares,
while none say sell.  “Outperformance in the shares since December does not yet,
in our view, reflect the potential of the ‘new’ Hargreaves,”
Michael Donnelly, an analyst at Westhouse Securities, wrote on
March 5 after the interim results. Earnings before interest and
taxes gained 6 percent in the first half on an underlying basis,
he noted.  Donnelly predicts the shares will rise to 984 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  