-- Maryland Poised to Tighten Gun Laws After Senate Vote
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-04-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/maryland-poised-to-tighten-gun-laws-after-senate-vote.html
Maryland  will ban dozens of assault-
style weapons and impose new licensing requirements on handgun
owners under a bill that would make it the latest state to
impose new limits after the massacre in Newtown,  Connecticut .  The state Senate passed the measure 28-19 yesterday. The
legislation also bars sales of ammunition magazines that can
hold more than 10 bullets. It awaits the signature of Governor
Martin O’Malley, a Democrat who sought the changes.  “Maryland has chosen to enact a comprehensive, common
sense approach to licensing and gun safety,” O’Malley said in a
statement after the vote. “We’ve chosen to take action by
advancing the strategies that work to save lives.”  A Democratic stronghold, Maryland follows New York,
 Colorado  and Connecticut in limiting firearms ownership after
the killing of 20 students and six educators Dec. 14 in Newtown’s
Sandy Hook Elementary School. The attack led President  Barack Obama  to call for expanded federal limits, an effort that has
been slow to advance amid opposition from gun-rights lobbyists.  “If we’re really going to tackle this program seriously,
then we’ve got to get Congress to take the next step,” Obama
said April 3 in a speech in Denver. He plans an April 8 trip to
Connecticut, keeping up the pressure as Congress reconvenes.  The measure in Maryland drew objections from Republicans
who said it would encroach on law-abiding gun owners and
wouldn’t stem violence or prevent shootings like the one in
Connecticut. Maryland already has some of the most restrictive
gun laws in the country, according to the Law Center to Prevent
Gun Violence, a San Francisco-based group that backs tighter
limits on firearms.  Slow Movement  While more than 600 gun-control bills have been proposed in
state legislatures across the nation this year, many have been
slow to advance, a sign of the political divide over the issue.
Some states, including South Dakota,  Arkansas  and  Tennessee ,
have loosened firearms limits this year.  Lawmakers in Connecticut, a state with a gunmaking industry
that dates to Colonial times, expanded a ban on assault-style
semiautomatic rifles and barred sales of high-capacity
magazines. The measure signed into law yesterday by Governor Dan Malloy, a Democrat, also mandates background checks for all
would-be gun buyers.  Maryland already requires background checks, including for
private gun sales. The measure passed by the Senate yesterday
and the House of Delegates the day before would require handgun
owners to obtain licenses and pistol-permit seekers to provide
fingerprints. It also contains provisions to prevent residents
with a history of mental illness from owning guns.  Hundreds of opponents and supporters gathered in Annapolis,
the capital, earlier this year as lawmakers advanced O’Malley’s
measure. The effort drew criticism from Accokeek, Maryland-based
gunmaker Beretta U.S.A. Corp., which said other states were
courting it for relocation.  Once enacted, the wider ban on assault-style weapons won’t
affect existing owners and dealers will be able to continue
selling the guns until the law takes effect in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  