-- Asian Dollar Bond Sales Pause for Longest Stretch Since February
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-04T04:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/asian-dollar-bond-sales-pause-for-longest-stretch-since-february.html
Asian companies paused sales of
dollar-denominated bonds as markets in Hong Kong and  China  shut
for a public holiday. Debt risk in the region rose.  Issuers from Asia outside of  Japan  last sold U.S. currency
notes on March 27, the longest period without offerings since
Lunar New Year celebrations halted issuance in February,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharjah Islamic Bank (NBS) 
and a unit of  Yingde Gases (2168)  Group Co. are meeting investors this
week about potential deals, while  Korea ’s Daegu Bank Ltd. is
planning talks, according to people familiar with the
arrangements. Offerings in the region quadrupled to $17.8
billion in March from $4.3 billion in February, the data show.  “This has been a really quiet week due to the holidays in
China and Hong Kong,” said Gene Cheon, head of Asia credit
research at Deutsche Bank AG. “Activity will pick up in the
next few weeks.”  Average bond yields for Asian borrowers in dollars rose to
 3.6 percent  yesterday, the highest in more than two weeks,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes. Markets in China and
 Hong Kong  are closed today to celebrate the Ching Ming Festival.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose 2 basis points to 122 as of 8:28
a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
The benchmark has ranged from 100.5 to 122.3 since Dec. 31,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index increased 1.5 basis points to
111 as of 9:28 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche Bank prices.
The gauge fell 46 basis points in the three months ended March
31, its second consecutive quarter of declines, CMA data show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index climbed 1.5 basis points
to 120 as of 10:45 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking Corp. prices
show. The measure has ranged from 102.3 basis points to 127.5
this year, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  