-- Asia Stocks Pare Drop, Japan Reverses Losses, on BOJ
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-04T09:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/asian-stocks-fall-on-economic-growth-concern-before-boj.html
Asian  stocks  pared declines, with
Japanese shares reversing losses, after the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
expanded its stimulus program in its first policy decision under
new governor Haruhiko Kuroda.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, advanced
2.8 percent, reversing an earlier drop, as the yen weakened
against the dollar and Japanese  government bonds  rose.
 Mitsubishi Estate Co. (TPREAL)  surged 7.2 percent in  Tokyo , leading gains
among property firms.  BHP Billiton  Ltd., the world’s No. 1
miner, retreated 1.5 percent in Sydney as copper sank to the
lowest price since August.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 0.6 percent to 134.11 as
of 6:05 p.m. in Tokyo, paring a loss of as much as 1.1 percent.
Japan’s Topix Index reversed declines of as much as 2 percent to
close 2.7 percent higher after the central bank said it will
double monthly bond purchases in a bid to reach 2 percent
inflation in two years. Markets in  China ,  Hong Kong  and Taiwan
are closed today for a holiday.  “It’s quite an aggressive move and it shows the Bank of
Japan is more serious than they’ve ever been,” said Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which manages $126 billion. “They are
already quite close to doing open-ended quantitative easing,
anyway, and they are likely to announce that later in the month.
They have announced a lot more than I thought they would.
There’s more to come.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the regional benchmark gauge,
climbed the past five months as Japanese shares increased on
speculation the nation will deploy more stimulus and amid signs
the  U.S. economy  is recovering.  Bond Purchases  The Bank of Japan board today streamlined its asset
purchase programs, temporarily suspended a cap on some bond
holdings and dropped a limit on debt maturities. The BOJ will
buy 7 trillion yen ($74 billion) of bonds a month, the central
bank said in a statement.  Japanese exporters and real-estate developers advanced.
Toyota Motor Corp. gained 2.8 percent to 4,925 yen and Honda
Motor Co., Japan’s second biggest carmaker, rose 3.4 percent to
3,645 yen. Mitsubishi Estate gained 7.2 percent to 2,846 yen and
Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. soared 10 percent to 4,165
yen.  “It’s a pretty strong statement of conviction from the
Bank of  Japan ,” said Jeremy Hall, Singapore-based director of
Japanese equities at Henderson Global Investors Ltd., which
oversees about $99 billion. “I’m still quite constructive on
the outlook for Japanese equities.”  Regional Gauges  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index added 0.4 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.9 percent. India’s S&P BSE Sensex Index
declined 1.2 percent, falling for a second day, as overseas
funds sold shares amid concern economic growth is weakening and
corporate earnings may disappoint.  South Korea’s Kospi index retreated 1.2 percent, the most
in four months, as the risk of conflict with North Korea curbed
demand for the nation’s assets. North Korea ratified a law this
week authorizing plans for “counter-actions,” including a
nuclear strike, against so-called U.S. aggression, official
media reported today.  “North Korea is heightening its threats day by day and
that risk factor is having a negative impact on South Korean
financial markets,” said Jeon Seung Ji, an analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Rising tension is prompting foreign
investors to sell more Korean stocks, weakening the currency. In
the meantime, exporters are likely to look for a point to sell
dollars.”  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.4
percent. Financial and energy shares tumbled yesterday, leading
the  S&P 500  to its largest drop in five weeks, as ADP Research
Institute data showed U.S. companies boosted employment by
158,000 workers in March, less than the median forecast of 39
economists surveyed by Bloomberg who called for a 200,000 gain.  The data came before a non-farm payrolls report from the
Labor Department on April 5, which may show U.S. employers hired
a net 195,000 workers for the month, according to the median
forecast of 87 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) , which has a bird-flu treatment
under regulatory review, rose 5.7 percent to 1,879 yen in Tokyo
after the disease took a third life in China. Health authorities
in Shanghai are investigating a man’s death yesterday at a city
hospital as a new strain of bird flu spreads in eastern China.  Copper for three-month delivery in London dropped for a
fifth day, sliding to an eight-month low of $7,331.50 a metric
ton.  BHP Billiton (BHP)  declined 1.5 percent to A$31.75 and Rio Tinto
Group slid 1.4 percent to A$54.60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  