-- Matolcsy Opts Against Bazooka in Hungary Funding for Growth Plan
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/matolcsy-opts-against-bazooka-in-hungary-funding-for-growth-plan.html
Hungary ’s central bank soothed
investor concern that it would embark on large-scale
unconventional stimulus under new President Gyorgy Matolcsy, a
critic of the previous monetary-policy leadership.  The forint and bonds rose yesterday after the Magyar
Nemzeti Bank announced a 500 billion-forint ($2.1 billion)
program, including interest-free funding for commercial lenders,
to boost corporate borrowing and said it would use about 10
percent of its foreign-currency reserves to cut the country’s
short-term external debt.  Matolcsy took office last month after levying the highest
bank tax in  Europe  as economy minister, which contributed to
Hungary’s second recession in four years. He had criticized the
previous central bank leadership for not doing enough to boost
growth. The plan is more limited than previous market
speculation, according to  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   “All those who expected” Matolcsy “to fire a big bazooka
of unorthodox monetary-policy measures” yesterday “were
certainly disappointed,” Michal Dybula an economist at BNP in
Warsaw, said in an e-mailed report yesterday. The plan “poses
little in the way of significant credit risk to the bank, nor
does it threaten the forint  exchange rate  to any great extent.”  The forint reversed losses after details of the plan were
announced and gained 0.6 percent to 300.85 per euro by 8:28 p.m.
in Budapest.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender, rose 2.3
percent to 4,272 forint. The yield on Hungary’s 10-year
government bond fell 9 basis points to 6.02 percent.  ECB, BOJ  Central banks around the world are looking for ways to
stimulate growth. The  European Central Bank  stands ready to cut
 interest rates  if the economy deteriorates and is considering
additional measures as a debt crisis enters its fourth year, ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday. The  Bank of Japan  doubled
monthly bond purchases yesterday as part of a bid to end two
decades of stagnation and 15 years of deflation.  The Hungarian central bank is seeking to emulate the  Bank
of England , which uses its Funding for Lending program to
stimulate credit, Matolcsy said yesterday. The economy shrank
2.7 percent in the fourth quarter from a year ago, the biggest
drop in three years.  Before his nomination to the central bank by Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban , Matolcsy called for the “brave” use of
“unorthodox” monetary-policy tools in December, sending the
forint to its weakest in seven months. On March 1, he said the
central bank can support government policies and boost the
economy as long as it doesn’t jeopardize price and financial
stability.  Bonds, Mortgages  Speculation about a stimulus plan included potential bond
purchases by the central bank, according to Concorde Securities
in Budapest. The forint also strengthened as policy makers
decided against a push to convert foreign-currency housing loans
into forint, Equilor Befektetesi Zrt. said in an e-mail.  “The size and the scope of the program ease concerns about
excessive monetary easing that may undermine stability,”  Eszter Gargyan , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Budapest, said in an
e-mail yesterday.  Under its preferential-lending plan, the central bank will
offer 250 billion forint to commercial lenders at zero percent
interest, with the aim of extending credit to small businesses
with an interest rate of no more than 2 percent, Matolcsy said.  Another 250 billion forint will be available to small- and
medium-sized companies to convert foreign-currency debt to
forint at market exchange rates, he said.  Rate Cut  In Matolcsy’s first rate decision, policy makers on March
26 cut the  two-week deposit rate  to 5 percent, taking the
benchmark to a record low with the eighth quarter-point
reduction in as many months. Easing can only continue if
uncertainty in the market environment abates, the central bank
said in a statement, tightening its earlier conditions.  The central bank, which meets commercial lenders on April
8, will continue to pursue a “prudent and predictable”
interest-rate policy in the aftermath of the measures, which
won’t threaten financial stability and will have a
“negligible” impact on mid-term inflation, it said in the
statement yesterday.  “The program provides for the long-awaited start of low-
interest, forint-based lending,” the Economy Ministry in
Budapest said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The plan is
“great help for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises,
which can help start Hungary’s economic growth.”  Policy makers are also seeking to reduce Hungary’s short-
term external debt by 1 trillion forint by using about 3 billion
euros ($3.86 billion) from its foreign-currency reserves.  ‘Not Bold’  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank wants to convince commercial banks
to repay their foreign-currency debt maturing in less than a
year, extending swap lines to them for conversions to protect
the forint from weakening. The measure may help cut the amount
commercial lenders keep in two-week central bank bonds by 900
billion forint to 3.6 trillion forint, Matolcsy said.  The central bank will also offer the Debt Management Agency
the possibility to convert forint into foreign currencies if it
decides to issue longer forint debt to repay maturing foreign-
currency loans.  “The plan is not as bold as it could have been,”  Neil Shearing , a London-based economist at Capital Economics Ltd.,
said in an e-mailed report. “The provision of cheap forint
liquidity is unlikely to provide a big boost to lending and the
plan to switch the foreign-currency loans of SMEs into local
currency will not ease their overall debt burden.”  Reserve Effect  Foreign-currency reserves and external debt expiring within
one year would fall “by the same extent,” ensuring “reserve
adequacy,” according to a  statement  published on the MNB’s
website yesterday. Reserves were at 32.3 billion euros at the
end of February, 4 percent higher than a year earlier.  “The amount of foreign-currency reserves the bank flagged
it wants to use isn’t drastic,” Viktor Szabo, a  money manager 
who helps oversee $11.8 billion of assets at Aberdeen Investment
Management Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail. “However, I believe
this is only the first step and it breaks a taboo, namely that
they won’t touch the reserves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  