-- Australian Retail Sales Increase as Rate Cuts Spur Spending
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-04T01:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/australian-retail-sales-rise-faster-than-expected-in-february.html
Australian retail sales rose four
times faster than economists forecast in February, led by gains
in household goods and department stores as interest-rate
reductions encouraged spending. The local dollar advanced.  Sales climbed 1.3 percent to A$21.95 billion ($23 billion)
from a month earlier, when they rose a revised 1.2 percent, the
Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. That beat the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists for a 0.3
percent gain and was the biggest back-to-back gain in almost
four years.  The data validate  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn
Stevens ’s decision to hold rates this year after six reductions
-- totaling 1.75 percentage points -- from November 2011 to
December to help buttress the economy. Policy makers are trying
to stimulate industries outside mining, where investment is
predicted to plateau this year, and offset the drag on the
economy from a high currency.  “Monetary policy is working,” Paul Bloxham, chief
Australia economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former
RBA official, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.
“It’s starting to support the consumer in Australia.”  Spending on household goods, at department stores and on
other retailing all gained 1.6 percent, today’s report showed.
No categories declined, it showed.  The local dollar rose to $1.0478 at 12:02 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0460 before the release. The three-year government bond
yield climbed 5 basis points after the release to 2.90 percent.  Cuts Working  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total of 50
basis points late in 2011 and a further 125 basis points in May,
June, October and December 2012 to help stimulate the economy.
It said this week there’s evidence its rate reductions are
beginning to take effect.  “There are a number of indications that the substantial
easing of  monetary policy  during late 2011 and 2012 is having an
expansionary effect on the economy,” Stevens said after the
April 2 decision to leave rates unchanged at 3 percent.
“Further such effects can be expected to emerge over time.”  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Australia’s largest retailer, said Feb. 28
that first-half earnings rose 19 percent as cheaper imports and
cost cuts helped wring more profit from sales. Australian
 consumer confidence  advanced last month to the highest level
since December 2010, a private report showed March 13.  “Consumers are getting their groove back,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney. “Rising
confidence and wealth are encouraging households to spend more
freely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  