-- Lawmakers Seek Ban for Ex-HBOS Executives After Bank Rescue
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-04-05T09:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/lawmakers-seek-ban-for-ex-hbos-executives-after-bank-s-rescue.html
British lawmakers  pushed for three
former top executives at HBOS Plc to be banned from working in
the financial industry after their “self-delusion” led the
lender to require a 28 billion-pound ($42 billion) rescue.  Regulators should consider barring former Chairman Dennis Stevenson, 67, and ex-Chief Executive Officers James Crosby, 57,
and Andy Hornby, 46, from the finance industry, a panel of
lawmakers said in a report today. The Financial Services
Authority was also criticized for inadequate oversight of HBOS.  Almost five years after the rescue, the committee singled
out the three for embarking on an aggressive expansion strategy,
“incompetent” lending and their failure to understand and
manage the risks they were taking. By focusing on risky
commercial real estate, leveraged loans and funding for
entrepreneurs, HBOS ran up bigger loan losses than any U.K.
counterpart, forcing it to be rescued, the panel said in a
report that branded the company as a “manual for bad banking.”  “We are shocked and surprised that, even after the ship
has run aground, so many of those who were on the bridge still
seem so keen to congratulate themselves on their collective
navigational skills,” the cross-party Parliamentary Commission
on Banking Standards said in London. “An apology is due for the
incompetent and reckless board strategy.”  So far, the only HBOS executive to be banned from the
industry for life is Peter Cummings, who ran the corporate unit
responsible for most of the bank’s losses. The lawmakers said
today responsibility for HBOS’s downfall can’t be assigned to
him alone after the FSA said it considered the chances of
establishing personal culpability against other individuals to
be very low. Cummings, 57, now a trustee of Ben View Resource
Centre, a Scottish charity, wasn’t available to comment.  Primary Responsibility  The lawmakers said primary responsibility for the bank’s
demise lies with Crosby, CEO from HBOS’s creation out of the
merger of Halifax Plc and Bank of Scotland Plc in 2001 until
2006, his successor Hornby, and Stevenson, who was chairman from
the creation of the Edinburgh-based lender until its bailout.  Hornby declined to comment through David Stevens, a
spokesman for Gala Coral, where he now runs the company’s Coral
bookmaking unit. Crosby, who today stepped down as an adviser to
private equity firm Bridgepoint Capital Ltd., didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Crosby apologized to the panel at a December hearing,
saying it would be “wrong” to disassociate himself from the
bank’s collapse. Hornby told lawmakers that he “bitterly”
regretted failing to foresee the seizure of the credit markets
that led to HBOS’s demise.  Facing Realities  Stevenson had told the committee that “mistakes were
made” at HBOS. He had earlier been criticized by the panel’s
chairman, Andrew Tyrie, for claiming he was a part-time non-
executive chairman even after he told the regulator in 2008 he
was executive chairman. Stevenson, who declined to comment,
relinquished his position on the FSA’s register of people
approved to work in the industry in 2012.  “Stevenson, in particular, has shown himself incapable of
facing the realities of what placed the bank in jeopardy from
that time until now,” the panel said today. “Simply allowing
approved-persons status to lapse is insufficient.”  HBOS’s assets more than doubled to 681 billion pounds
between 2001 and 2008 as the U.K.’s biggest mortgage provider
stepped up lending to entrepreneurs and real-estate developers
following the merger of Halifax and Bank of Scotland.  Brash Culture  “The strategy created a new culture in the higher echelons
of the bank,” the panel said. “This culture was brash,
underpinned by a belief that the growing market share was due to
a special set of skills which HBOS possessed and which its
competitors lacked.”  HBOS’s board lacked the expertise to oversee the expansion
and lending risk properly, the committee said. Executives argued
the bank was “a conservative institution” when it wasn’t.  The panel said the FSA had failed to follow through on
concerns that HBOS’s risk controls weren’t keeping pace with the
rapid expansion. It blamed the Basel II capital requirements for
giving regulators scope to allow banks to determine the risk
carried by their assets.  Much of the supervision of the bank was done by junior FSA
staff and without the engagement of senior managers, which led
to “box ticking” that missed the bigger forces that would lead
to the lender’s demise. The priorities of the FSA may even have
led to reinforce the “misplaced priorities” of HBOS’s senior
managers, the lawmakers said.  The Prudential Regulation Authority, one of the two bodies
that this month replaced the FSA, said in a statement it will
study the commission’s report to ensure lessons are “fully
learned.” The Financial Conduct Authority, the other successor
to the FSA, is preparing to publish the regulator’s report on
HBOS “at a later date,” it said.  ‘Incompetent Lending’  By 2011, HBOS’s corporate lending division had about 25
billion pounds of impaired loans. The international unit was
left with 15 billion pounds of impaired loans, mostly from
Australia and Ireland, the report said. The losses were down to
“incompetent lending” rather than the financial crisis of
2008, the lawmakers said.  “This was a traditional bank failure pure and simple,”
the committee said. “It was a case of a bank pursuing
traditional banking activities and pursuing them badly.”  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , which agreed to buy HBOS in 2008,
had to subsequently seek a 20 billion-pound bailout that gave
the government a 43 percent stake. The London-based lender
posted its third consecutive full-year loss in 2012.  “We continue to focus our efforts on rebuilding the group
for the benefit of our customers, employees and shareholders,”
Lloyds said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  