-- Lawyer for Martha Stewart’s Broker Takes Over SAC Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-04T19:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/lawyer-for-martha-stewart-s-broker-takes-over-sac-case.html
Richard Strassberg , the  New York 
lawyer who represented  Martha Stewart ’s broker Peter Bacanovic
in their 2004 criminal trial, will head a legal team defending
former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Mathew Martoma.  Martoma, 38, is charged in what prosecutors say is the
biggest insider-trading scheme in history. Strassberg, of the
800-lawyer firm Goodwin Procter LLP, will take over Martoma’s
case from  Charles Stillman  and his New York firm, Stillman &
Friedman, both firms said today.  “We wish Mathew Martoma all the best,” Stillman said
today in a statement.  Martoma is charged with conspiracy and securities fraud for
allegedly using inside information about a clinical drug trial
to make $276 million for SAC.  Prosecutors claim Martoma traded on tips from a physician
who was in charge of monitoring tests of bapineuzumab, or bapi,
a drug to treat Alzheimer’s disease. Martoma used the tips to
trade in Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC, the government said.  When Martoma learned the companies would report negative
data on the drug, he had a 20-minute phone call with SAC’s
founder,  Steven A. Cohen , according to the government.  Elan, Wyeth  SAC, based in Stamford,  Connecticut , began liquidating its
$700 million position in Elan and Wyeth the day after the call,
the government said. SAC then profited by taking short positions
in the stock, prosecutors said.  The fate of SAC’s Cohen may hinge on whether Martoma
chooses to plead guilty and cooperate with investigators or go
to trial and seek an acquittal.  Strassberg will lead a team of four Goodwin Procter
partners that also includes Roberto Braceras, John Farley and
Dan Roeser, according to Lee Feldman, a firm spokesman. The firm
will represent Martoma in the criminal case and in related SEC
and civil litigation, Feldman said.  Bacanovic, a former Merrill Lynch & Co. broker, was
convicted with Stewart of lying to investigators who were
probing the domestic diva’s sale of stock in a friend’s company.
Strassberg also represented Wegelin & Co., the Swiss bank that
pleaded guilty to helping U.S. taxpayers hide more than $1.2
billion from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Tyco CFO  Stillman represented Mark Swartz, the former  Tyco
International Ltd. (TYC)  chief financial officer who was tried with
former chief executive  Dennis Kozlowski  on charges of looting
the company through loans, bonuses and the sale of inflated
shares. The two men were convicted in 2005 after an earlier
prosecution ended in a mistrial.  Strassberg and Stillman were both in the Manhattan federal
courthouse on Jan. 3 representing clients entering pleas in
criminal cases. In U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s court,
Wegelin, represented by Strassberg, pleaded guilty. Martoma,
represented by Stillman, pleaded not guilty before Judge Paul
Gardephe.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 