-- Bafin Said to Open Probe of Alleged Deutsche Bank Losses
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-04-04T14:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/bafin-said-to-open-probe-of-alleged-deutsche-bank-losses.html
German financial watchdog Bafin in
cooperation with the Bundesbank is probing allegations of former
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  employees that the firm hid losses during the
financial crisis, three people familiar with the matter said.  Bafin, which is heading the probe, enlisted the help of the
Bundesbank and employees of the central bank will travel to New
York to interview witnesses, according to two of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t public. The
inquiry is at an early stage, one of the people said.  A former risk analyst for the lender accused Deutsche Bank
last year of masking paper losses and questioned the strength of
the firm, which navigated the global financial crisis without
direct state aid. The Bafin probe adds to investigations and
litigation Deutsche Bank and its peers face after alleged
wrongdoing by their bankers before and after the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The claims “have been the subject of a careful and
thorough investigation, and they are wholly unfounded,”
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. “We have and will continue to cooperate fully with our
regulators on this matter.”  Deutsche Bank  rose  0.1 percent to 30.81 euros at 3:50 p.m.
in Frankfurt. The shares are down 6.4 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 28.7 billion euros ($36.8
billion).  Bafin is also cooperating with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on the matter, one of the people said.  Valuing Assets  The former analyst, Eric Ben-Artzi, joined the bank in 2010
and is now suing Deutsche Bank for wrongful dismissal after he
lost his job in 2011, according to a statement last December
from Labaton Sucharow LLP, his New York-based law firm. Ben-
Artzi alleges that from 2007 to 2010 Deutsche Bank
misrepresented a portfolio with a notional value of as much as
$130 billion, Labaton Sucharow said.  Ben-Artzi is among the people Bundesbank investigators are
seeking to interview, according to one of the people.  The portfolio of collateralized insurance agreements, known
as leveraged super senior credit derivatives, was held in
Deutsche Bank’s so-called correlation book and protected against
the risk of corporate defaults.  “The probe looks to be a formal process the regulator has
to undertake,” said Christian Hamann, a Hamburg-based analyst
with Hamburger Sparkasse who recommends investors sell the
stock. “The impact on the stock is minimal as investors already
place their own discount on bank shares based on the volume of
such hard-to-value assets that they hold.”  Internal Probe  Deutsche Bank reduced the notional value of the correlation
book to 60 billion euros at the end of September from 200
billion euros at the end of 2009, according to slides published
on its website in December. The portfolio “substantially rolls
off within three years” and generated “no material losses,”
the company said at the time.  Deutsche Bank hired law firm Fried Frank Harris Shriver &
Jacobson LLP in March 2010 to conduct an internal probe after a
trader alleged the lender masked losses, Chief Financial Officer
Stefan Krause, 50, told analysts and investors on a conference
call in December. The bank reported the claims to the SEC, the
CFO said. The SEC hasn’t brought an enforcement action.  The world’s biggest banks are facing a series of regulatory
probes and lawsuits linked to the alleged manipulation of
benchmark interest rates as well as the mis-selling of products
such as interest-rate derivatives.  Deutsche Bank increased its reserves for legal costs by 33
percent to 2.4 billion euros last month, lowering  2012 profit 
after tax by about 400 million euros to 291 million euros.  Standard & Poor’s said last month that it may cut Deutsche
Bank’s  credit rating  because of the cost of legal risks as well
as slower growth in Europe and tighter regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  