-- Bank Indonesia Won’t Let Rupiah Break 10,000, BCA Chief Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-04-05T08:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/bank-indonesia-won-t-let-rupiah-breech-10-000-bca-chief-says.html
Indonesia’s central bank will let
foreign exchange reserves decline in order to prevent the rupiah
from falling below 10,000 per dollar this year, the president
director of  PT Bank Central Asia (BBCA)  said.  Jahja Setiaatmadja, leader of the nation’s biggest bank by
market value, said he’s confident Bank Indonesia will be able to
keep the rupiah below 10,000. The currency must stay below that
“psychological level” if the central bank wants to avoid a
panic in the market, he said in an interview yesterday.  “If Bank Indonesia doesn’t have the guts to pour the
market with dollars, the rupiah can get out of control,”
Setiaatmadja said.  Southeast  Asia ’s biggest economy is grappling with a
widening trade deficit that has dragged the rupiah to a three-
year low in January, contributing to faster inflation. A weaker
rupiah and rising  inflation  are pressuring  Bank Indonesia  to
tighten its monetary policy after more than a year of record-low
interest rates, prompting Setiaatmadja to predict a slowdown in
lending at his bank.  Bank Indonesia’s foreign-exchange reserves fell $7.6
billion in the first two months of 2013 to a two-year low of
$105.2 billion with the rupiah losing 6.2 percent over the past
year, the worst performer among Asia’s major currencies after
 India ’s rupee and the Japanese yen.  “If BI continues to intervene heavily, the $100 billion
threshold will likely be breached in April or May,” Hak Bin Chua, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in an
April 2 report, referring to Bank Indonesia by its acronym.
Still, “BI may be reluctant to deplete its FX reserves further
for fear of undermining confidence.”  Trade Deficit  The nation’s economy expanded 6.1 percent in the last
quarter, the slowest pace in more than two years, as exports
fell amid a decline in global commodity prices. With investment
inflows boosting imports, the nation’s trade deficit widened to
a more-than-expected $327.4 million in February, sustaining
demand for the dollar.  Imports may continue to rise as consumer demand from
Indonesia has lured companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to
boost investment in the country. Bank Indonesia has kept its
benchmark  interest rate  at 5.75 percent for 13 straight months
to support growth amid a slowdown in the global economy.  The number of middle class and affluent Indonesians may
double to 141 million in 2020, according to a March 6 report by
 Boston Consulting Group . Toyota, the world’s largest automaker,
said in November it would build a new engine factory in
Indonesia to more than double capacity.  Loan Outlook  Bank Central Asia’s  net income  rose 8.3 percent last year
to 11.7 trillion rupiah ($1.2 billion) bolstered by a 49 percent
jump in mortgage lending. Home loans by commercial banks as of
January rose 16 percent from a year ago to 213.13 trillion
rupiah, according to Bank  Indonesia  data.  While demand for borrowing looked strong in the first
quarter, Bank Central Asia’s loan growth may slow to 18 percent
to 20 percent this year from 27 percent in 2012, Setiaatmadja
said yesterday.  Mortgage lending growth at the bank may slow to 20 percent
to 30 percent this year as the property market consolidates,
Setiaatmadja said. He plans to focus on mortgages in big cities,
including Jakarta and Surabaya where demand for repossessed
houses in a downturn is likely to be high.  “We don’t set a high target for mortgages because of the
uncertainties,” he said. “If the likelihood is for interest
rates to rise, demand for mortgages will decline.”  Setiaatmadja expects corporate lending to consumer-staples
related industries such as food, cigarettes and retailers to
maintain growth.  The bank’s  shares  rose 0.5 percent to 10,900 rupiah in
Jakarta as of 2:14 p.m., bringing its gain this year to 20
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  