-- Bank of Italy Said to Fine Former Monte Paschi Managers
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-04-04T15:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/bank-of-italy-said-to-fine-ex-monte-paschi-managers-6-4-million.html
Italy ’s central bank is fining
former top executives of  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
about 5 million euros ($6.4 million) for their alleged lack of
controls over the lender’s risk management, said a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The Bank of Italy based in  Rome  has completed its inquiry
and the findings will be published in its supervisory bulletin
once the subjects have been informed, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter hasn’t been made
public. Former Chairman Giuseppe Mussari and former general
manager Antonio Vigni were fined about 500,000 euros, while
former head of finance Gianluca Baldassarri was fined about
400,000 euros, the person said.  Former managers of Italy’s biggest bank are being probed by
Siena prosecutors for a range of alleged crimes including false
bookkeeping, market manipulation and regulatory obstruction.
Baldassarri was arrested in February and the Siena, Italy-based
lender said in a report last week that Vigni and Mussari
colluded with securities firms to hide losses with derivative
transactions.  Baldassarri’s lawyer didn’t have a comment while lawyers
for Vigni and Mussari didn’t immediately return calls to their
mobile phones. The fines were first reported today by Italian
news agency Ansa.  The Bank of Italy has said that it sought daily liquidity
reports from Monte Paschi as early as 2010 as margin calls on
one derivative transaction, dubbed Santorini, drained funds. The
regulator also said Monte Paschi hid documents, impeding its
analysis of the “true nature” of the company’s dealings. It
followed up with more probes in 2011 and 2012.  Monte Paschi closed at 17 cents in Milan, down 2.9 percent
on the day. The shares have decreased 25 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 1.98 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  