-- Barclays Report, Bonus Limits, Bank Diversity: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-04T12:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/barclays-report-bonus-limits-bank-diversity-compliance.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest lender by assets, paid investment bankers bonuses
“incapable of justification” as employees focused on revenue
at the expense of clients, according to an internal report.  In the report commissioned by the bank after it was fined
290 million pounds ($428 million) for manipulating Libor in
June, Rothschild vice chairman Anthony Salz criticized the
lender for failings in its culture and urged it to improve its
openness and transparency. In parts of the company, there was
“a sense that senior management did not want to hear bad
news,” which “contributed to a reluctance to escalate issues
of concern,” according to the 236-page report published
yesterday.  “Based on our interviews, we could not avoid concluding
that pay contributed significantly to a sense among a few that
they were somehow unaffected by the ordinary rules” Salz wrote.  Antony Jenkins , 51, who replaced  Robert Diamond  as chief
executive officer in August, is seeking to rein in pay and boost
 profits  to shareholders to help restore investor confidence in
the wake of the Libor scandal. The London-based bank plans to
eliminate some 3,700 jobs this year after posting an annual loss
of 1.7 billion pounds.  Barclays paid its top 70 executives “consistently and
significantly above” the  industry norm , according to the
report.  “The report makes for uncomfortable reading in parts,”
Barclays Chairman  David Walker  said in an e-mailed statement.
“Our initial review of the report’s recommendations is that
they are substantially aligned with work already progressing.”  Jenkins and Walker both declined to be interviewed about
the report, John McGuinness, a London-based spokesman for the
lender, said by telephone.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Banks Try to Dodge EU Bonus Caps by Defining Risk-Taker  U.K. lenders are preparing to lobby the European Union’s
chief banking regulator to reduce the number of employees hit by
rules capping bonuses, two people familiar with the talks said.  The  European Banking Authority  will in the next 12 months
decide which employees will be covered by the curbs after the EU
said they would apply to risk-takers. Banks are trying to have
the rules apply to fewer workers by recommending that the
definition of a risk-taker be made stricter, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  The EU brokered a draft deal in February to outlaw banker
bonuses that are more than twice fixed pay, a move lawmakers
said would prevent excessive payouts and curb irresponsible
risk-taking. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
opposed the curbs, saying they would harm the competitiveness of
the nation’s finance industry.  The U.K. has 1,300 so-called code staff, who have received
Financial Services Authority approval and would be affected by
the cap as it stands,  Andrew Bailey , Britain’s top bank
supervisor, said on March 13. According to “back of the
envelope” calculations, employees may get as much as 500
million pounds ($756 million) more in base pay to offset the
limit, he said.  For more, click here.  Chilton Seeks End-User Enforcement Delay for CFTC’s Swaps Rules  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission should
refrain from sanctioning so-called end-users of swaps for six
months while the agency seeks to clarify its Dodd-Frank Act
rules, Commissioner Bart Chilton said yesterday.  Commercial and energy companies deserve a more transparent
rulemaking process that provides greater certainty, Chilton said
in comments prepared for a telephone news conference to propose
what he called an End-User Bill of Rights.  Chilton, one of three Democrats on the five-member CFTC,
said he won’t vote until Oct. 31 to approve enforcement action
against any end-user making an effort to comply with the rules
being imposed under Dodd-Frank, the 2010 regulatory overhaul.  Derivatives provisions of Dodd-Frank were enacted to give
regulators more oversight of the $639 trillion global swaps
market. The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission were
authorized to write rules requiring that trade information be
reported to so-called swap data repositories that function as
central record-keepers.  The rules are failing to give regulators a full picture of
the swaps market, the information isn’t usable in its current
form, and has overwhelmed the CFTC’s computer systems,  Scott
O’Malia , a Republican CFTC commissioner, said March 19.  The CFTC has set an April 10 deadline for reporting of
information about trades involving end-users. Chilton called on
the agency to give the firms a six-month delay for reporting
historical information. Lobby groups representing Barclays Plc,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have also
urged that the CFTC delay the reporting rules for their clients.  Covered Bonds Will Be Spared in EU Bail-In Rule, Lawmaker Says  European Union plans to impose losses on creditors of
failing banks will spare covered bonds and other secured debt,
said Gunnar Hoekmark, the lawmaker leading work on the measures
in the European Parliament.  Spanish newspaper Expansion reported today that the EU may
consider forcing losses on covered bond investors in future bank
rescues as part of legislation to lift the burden from
taxpayers. EU nations have injected 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2
trillion) into their banking systems since the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to European Commission
data.  Under proposals from Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial
services chief, regulators would have the power to impose losses
on a crisis-hit lender’s unsecured bondholders, or convert that
debt to equity, once the bank’s capital has been wiped out. The
writedown plans  excluded  debt “backed by assets or
collateral.”  Covered bonds are debt backed by pools of assets, usually
mortgages, that remain on the issuer’s balance sheet.  The EU faces a self-imposed June deadline to adopt
legislation for handling bank failures, which requires approval
from the parliament and national governments before it can take
effect.  Compliance Action  Hungary to Use FX Reserves for FX Swaps, Matolcsy Says  Hungary may cut central bank foreign currency reserves by 3
billion euros, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy
said at news conference in Budapest.  Hungary aims to cut the amount in two-week central bank
bonds by 900b forint, Matolcsy said.  The reduction of foreign currency reserves is within the
risk threshold, Matolcsy said.  Dutch to Seek EU Approval for SNS Reaal Bridge Bank for Property  The Netherlands pledged to seek European Union approval
before setting up a separate bank for unwinding  SNS Reaal NV (SR) ’s
property assets, regulators said in a letter.  SNS also pledged not to acquire stakes in any companies or
to advertise its state-ownership in return for temporary EU
authorization for the Dutch takeover of the country’s fourth-
largest lender in February, the European Commission said in the
 document  published on its website yesterday.  “The Dutch state informed the commission that it is
seriously considering a bridge bank to completely separate the
problematic property finance portfolio from the remaining
assets,” the Brussels-based EU authority said. The government
“indicated that it would only put the bridge bank in place
after having received approval of the commission.”  The EU must still grant final approval for a 300 million-
euro ($385 million) recapitalization and a 1.1 billion-euro
bridge loan for SNS Reaal as well as a 1.9 billion-euro
recapitalization for its SNS Bank unit.  Silvercorp Confirms It Received Subpoena From U.S. SEC  Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM)  said it recently received a subpoena
from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regarding  Muddy
Waters  and others. The company said it is cooperating fully with
the SEC.  Yesterday, Silvercorp fell 11 percent after the report of
the SEC probe on a “short-seller” fight.  Indonesia Plans to Set Up New Shariah Bank, Bisnis Reports  Indonesia plans to convert its existing state-owned banks
into an Islamic bank or to combine state-owned banks’ shariah
units, Bisnis Indonesia reported, citing State-Owned Enterprises
Minister Dahlan Iskan.  The government will make a final decision on the matter in
the next three months, according to the report.  Courts  Analyst Teeple Released on $200,000 Bond in Insider Case  Hedge fund analyst Matthew Teeple was released on $200,000
bond in New York in connection with what prosecutors call a $27
million insider-trading scheme.  Teeple, an analyst for an unidentified San Francisco-based
hedge fund, didn’t enter a plea yesterday before Magistrate
Judge Kevin Nathaniel Fox in Manhattan federal court to charges
of conspiracy and securities fraud.  David Riley , the former chief information officer for
Foundry Networks, was charged in March in a felony complaint
filed in Manhattan accusing him of tipping Teeple about
Foundry’s acquisition by  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD)  The
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also sued the two, as
well as a third man, John V. Johnson.  Eric Bruce , a lawyer for Teeple, declined to comment on his
client’s court appearance yesterday or name the hedge fund where
Teeple works or if he is still employed there.  As part of the bail requirement, Teeple’s travel is
restricted to New York and New Jersey and he must turn over his
passport. Teeple’s next hearing is set for April 25.  Riley, Teeple and Johnson are the latest to be charged as
part of a law enforcement initiative by Bharara’s office and the
FBI in New York against insider trading at hedge funds. The most
serious charge of securities fraud carries a sentence of as long
as 20 years in prison, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s
office said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Riley, 13-mag-00806, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Teeple, 13-
cv-02010, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  RBS Shareholders Sue for $6 Billion on 2008 Rights Offering  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and former Chief Executive
Officer  Fred Goodwin  were sued by 12,000 shareholders who said
the lender misled them in 2008 when it issued new shares months
before a government bailout.  The investors may seek as much as 4 billion pounds ($6
billion) in the class-action suit filed in London, the RBOS
Shareholder Action Group said yesterday in a statement. It’s the
second complaint in less than a week over the rights issue after
pension funds and investment firms sued on March 28.  RBS is 81 percent owned by British taxpayers after getting
the world’s biggest bank bailout -- 45.5 billion pounds -- in
2008 and 2009 at the height of the global financial crisis. The
lender had raised 12 billion pounds from investors in the share
sale before collapsing under the weight of bad loans.  Former RBS Chairman Tom McKillop, ex-head of corporate
markets Johnny Cameron and former finance director Guy Whittaker
were also named in the suit filed yesterday in London.  David Gaffney, a spokesman for Edinburgh-based RBS,
declined to comment and Cameron declined to comment.  New Century Media, a public relations firm that used to
represent Goodwin, said it no longer worked for him and wasn’t
able to provide details for his current spokesman. Evolva SA, a
Swiss company where McKillop is chairman, declined to provide
contact details. An RBS spokesman said the bank didn’t have
contact details for Whittaker. Numbers for the men couldn’t be
located on directory assistance.  A similar class action brought by pension funds against RBS
in New York was dismissed in 2011 when U.S. Judge  Deborah Batts 
ruled the court wasn’t the correct forum for the dispute. The
investors said they were misled about the risk from subprime
debt and the ABN Amro Bank NV acquisition.  Ex-Goldman Sachs Trader Admits to Hiding $8 Billion Position  Former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader  Matthew Taylor 
pleaded guilty to concealing an unauthorized $8 billion trading
position in 2007, causing the bank to lose $118 million.  Taylor, 34, pleaded guilty to a single count of wire fraud
at a hearing yesterday before U.S. District Judge William H.
Pauley in Manhattan federal court. Taylor, who has a plea
agreement with the government, told Pauley he took the position,
which was 10 times the amount he was permitted to take, and lied
to his employer when asked about it.  The judge set a July 26 sentencing date and released Taylor
on a $750,000 bond. The maximum sentence for wire fraud is 20
years in prison.  “We are very disappointed by Mr. Taylor’s unauthorized
conduct and betrayal of the firm’s trust in him,”  Michael
DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs, said in a
statement yesterday.  Taylor was accused Nov. 8 in a lawsuit by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission of concealing an $8.3
billion position.  Goldman Sachs cited “alleged conduct related to
inappropriately large proprietary futures positions in a firm
trading account,” in a so-called U-5 form, according to a
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority document.  The CFTC case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Taylor, 12-cv-08170, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  Jimmy Dunne Says He Wouldn’t Serve on a Bank Board  Jimmy Dunne, co-founder of Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP,
talked about the outlook for the banking industry, the role of
bank boards and financial regulation.  Dunne, who spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers,” also discussed Fed
policy.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC San Francisco Director Fagel to Leave Agency  Marc Fagel , director of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s San Francisco office, will leave agency later this
month for the private sector.  Fagel, 46, has been with the SEC for more than 15 years,
the agency said in an e-mailed statement. As head of the San
Francisco office, Fagel supervised a staff of more than 100
attorneys, accountants, and other professionals, according to a
statement on the SEC’s website.  The statement did not specify Fagel’s plans after his
departure.  Diversity Hiring Standards for Banks to Be Set by U.S. Agencies  U.S. regulators including the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau will seek public input on proposed standards to evaluate
workforce diversity at banks and other financial companies.  The agencies plan to develop a uniform standard to assess
companies’ efforts to hire women and minorities while “taking
into consideration differences such as entity size, capability,
and history,” according to a  report  by the CFPB’s Office of
Minority and Women Inclusion released this week.  The Dodd-Frank law that created the CFPB mandates the
creation of an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion in each
regulator. It directs the offices to develop standards for
encouraging diversity, promoting women- and minority-owned
contractors and assessing regulated institutions on diversity.  Other goals include coordinating between agencies, avoiding
“undue burden” on regulated companies, and using data that is
already readily available, according to the report. The work
involves the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Federal
Reserve, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 