-- Guggenheim Hires Barclays Investment Banker Taussig
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2013-04-04T13:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/barclays-investment-banker-taussig-departs-for-guggenheim.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC hired
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Andrew Taussig, the London-based bank’s head of
 investment banking  for retail companies, according to a
regulatory filing and people familiar with the move.  Taussig, who was also a vice chairman, left Barclays in
February and his employment at Guggenheim was effective by March
28, according to records on the  website  of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street’s self-funded
watchdog. Additional Barclays bankers also may join Guggenheim,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private.  Guggenheim, the asset manager that oversees $170 billion,
is hiring executives and expanding into businesses including
mergers advisory, digital media and hedge funds. Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Walter  brought in  Alan Schwartz , former CEO of Bear
Stearns Cos., in 2009 as executive chairman to help build
operations such as full-service investment banking.  Torie von Alt, a spokeswoman for Guggenheim, and  Kerrie
Cohen  at Barclays declined to comment. Taussig, 61, didn’t
respond to messages after normal business hours.  Guggenheim advised on $5.85 billion in deals last year,
ranking 80th among merger-and-acquisition advisers, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s biggest transaction was Walt
Disney Co.’s $4 billion purchase of Lucasfilm Ltd. The firm had
advised on $2.16 billion in deals this year through yesterday,
ranking 60th.  Lehman Brothers  Taussig joined a predecessor to Credit Suisse Group AG in
1982 and moved to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2005, Finra
records show. Barclays bought Lehman’s North American businesses
in 2008 after the New York-based firm collapsed. Todd Boehly,
Guggenheim’s president, and Scott Minerd, chief investment
officer, also worked at Credit Suisse.  Taussig has advised consumer and retail companies. In 2005,
he managed Toys “R” Us Inc.’s $7.5 billion sale to a group of
buyout firms and advised Reebok International Ltd. in its sale
to Adidas-Salomon AG for about $3.8 billion. Taussig has worked
with Home Depot Inc., Best Buy Co. and Staples Inc.  Guggenheim has been hiring. Henry Silverman, former chief
operating officer of Apollo Global Management LLC, joined last
year, then in March was named head of the real estate and
infrastructure business. The firm hired  Ross Levinsohn  this year
to oversee a newly formed digital media unit.  Walter and Guggenheim Baseball Management led the $2.15
billion purchase of the Los Angeles Dodgers, announced in 2012.
In September, Guggenheim, along with Mandalay Entertainment and
Mosaic Media Investment Partners LLC, agreed to buy Dick Clark
Productions, which produces “New Year’s Rockin’ Eve” and “The
Golden Globes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  