-- BDO Unibank Boosts Branches to Fend Off Rivals: Southeast Asia
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-04-05T03:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/bdo-unibank-boosts-branches-to-fend-off-rivals-southeast-asia.html
BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO) , the largest
Philippine lender by assets, plans to open more branches to tap
the 80 percent of households without an account as it prepares
for tougher regional competition, President Nestor Tan said.  BDO, controlled by billionaire  Henry Sy , wants to have
about 800 branches at the end of 2013 by adding 50 to its
network, Tan said in an interview in Manila yesterday. Net
income this year will rise, he said, declining to provide
details before a shareholder meeting on April 19.  “Competition is getting to be tougher and that’s why we
raised capital and strengthened our position here,” said Tan,
55. “Having a strong base here allows you to invest in your
strategy.” The stock sank for fifth day in Manila trading.  Competition is heating up in  Southeast Asia  as banks
including  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , the region’s biggest lender,
seek to expand. The  Philippines  has become more attractive to
overseas rivals because it posted the fastest growth in  Asia 
after  China  in 2012, won an investment grade credit rating last
week and has a low credit penetration, Tan said.  “It will be very difficult for Philippine banks to expand
outside and go into other markets because they need the scale
and resources for that,” said Charles Ang, an analyst at COL
Financial Group Inc. “BDO’s strategy is more to protect itself
from the entry of foreign banks into its home market than to go
abroad.”  Malaysia’s  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  agreed to buy a 60
percent stake in Manila-based Bank of Commerce last year, while
 Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  said in January it will invest $100 million
in the Philippines to boost branches. DBS has a 10 percent stake
in Bank of the Philippine Islands.  Sustainable Income  BDO’s profit this year may surpass its smaller rival Bank
of the Philippine Islands for the first time since 2008, when
the Sy-controlled lender became the nation’s biggest by assets,
Tan said. The bank’s profit last year rose 36 percent to a
record 14.3 billion pesos ($348 million), helped by trading
gains and loan growth.  Profit in 2012 exceeded BDO’s target on higher trading
gains, according to a Feb. 26 statement. The loan book grew 15
percent last year to 769 billion pesos as low  interest rates  and
accelerating economic growth boosted demand.  “We have a higher proportion of sustainable income, which
is net interest income and fees, compared to the others,” Tan
said. Those two account for about 80 percent of profit, compared
with 60 percent to 70 percent for rivals, he said.  Account Opportunity  BDO  shares  have risen 18 percent this year, surpassing the
Philippine Stock Exchange Index’s 16 percent gain and a 7
percent advance in  Bank of the Philippine Islands. (BPI)  The  stock 
fell 1.7 percent to 85.9 pesos as of 11:46 a.m. in Manila, while
the benchmark index declined 0.7 percent.  Eight in 10 Philippine households have no deposit accounts,
according to  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas ’ first consumer finance
survey published in April 2012.  “We see that as an opportunity to bring those outside of
the banking system in, and that is growth that we don’t have to
steal from other banks,” Tan said.  The lender ended 2012 with 763 branches, compared with 820
for Bank of the Philippine Islands and 828 for Metropolitan Bank
& Trust Co., according to data compiled by BDO and posted on its
website.  BDO sold shares in a $1 billion rights offer in June to
boost capital and meet corporate loan demand as economic growth
accelerates. The Philippines expanded 6.6 percent in 2012, the
fastest pace in two years, and growth is forecast by the
government to jump 6 percent to 7 percent this year.  Size Matters  Manila-based BDO has 1.24 trillion pesos  in assets , a 10th
of DBS Group’s. The Philippine bank is also less than a fifth
the size of Malayan Banking, Malaysia’s biggest lender by
assets, and less than half the assets of  Bangkok Bank Pcl (BBL) , the
largest in  Thailand .  BDO Chairwoman Teresita Sy-Coson, Sy’s eldest child, said
in May 2012 that funds from the share sale will help the bank
cut dependence on  consumer lending . She aims to tap rising
credit demand from the nation’s biggest companies, including
 Ayala Corp. (AC)  and  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , as they bid for $17 billion in
infrastructure projects backed by President  Benigno Aquino .  Chinese Immigrant  Sy, who emigrated from China at the age of 12, started
selling rice, sardines and soap in his father’s Manila store in
1936. He opened a shoe store in 1948, and eventually built his
business empire in the 1980s by opening malls that sold low-
priced  consumer goods .  He bought  Acme Savings Bank  in 1976 and renamed it as Banco
do Oro Savings and Mortgage Bank the following year. The lender
sold shares in an 1.8 billion-peso initial public offering in
May 2002.  SM Investments Corp. (SM) , Sy’s publicly-traded company and
the nation’s biggest by market value, owns about 46 percent of
BDO, according to its annual report.  Sy’s retail operations, which now include 202 department
stores, supermarkets, grocers and hypermarkets, provided BDO
with enough customers to surpass older and bigger rivals Bank of
the Philippine Islands and  Metropolitan Bank (MBT)  & Trust Co.  Nine acquisitions for $1.34 billion starting in 2001 made
BDO the nation’s biggest lender in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  BDO is 19 percent bigger than Metropolitan Bank & Trust by
assets, the second-largest Philippine lender with 1.04 trillion
pesos in assets, and 26 percent bigger than Bank of the
Philippine Islands, the nation’s oldest and No. 3 bank with 985
billion pesos in assets.  Still, BDO’s market value is 19 percent lower than  Bank of
the Philippine Islands , which has generated higher profit every
year, even after BDO overtook it in 2008 when measured by
assets.  Profitability Laggard  “Bank of Philippine Islands is getting a premium because
of its higher profitability,” said RJ Aguirre, an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Manila unit. “BDO, on the other hand,
had to absorb costs from its acquisitions in the past while its
spending on increasing market share is affecting margins.”  BPI’s net income grew 27 percent to 16.3 billion pesos last
year, while Metropolitan Bank, the nation’s No. 2 bank by
assets, posted a 40 percent jump in profit last year to 15.4
billion pesos. Both were higher than BDO’s earnings.  “We need a strong Philippine regional player, and we hope
to be one of those,” Tan said. “We need to have a very strong
base here before we’re able to use the Philippines as a
springboard for regional presence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  