-- Bertelsmann to Add Frankfurt Listing for RTL Broadcaster
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-04-04T07:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/bertelsmann-plans-to-add-frankfurt-listing-for-rtl-broadcaster.html
Bertelsmann  SE,  Europe ’s largest
media company, will add a Frankfurt listing for its  RTL Group SA (RTL) 
unit, seeking to appeal to a broader base of investors as it
prepares to cut its stake in the broadcaster.  The debut is expected before the summer break and will add
to listings in Luxembourg and Brussels, Bertelsmann said today
in a statement. Bertelsmann, based in Guetersloh,  Germany ,
reiterated a plan to cut its stake in RTL to at least 75 percent
from 92.3 percent.  The move will allow “a more diverse ownership base to
share in our success,” RTL co-Chief Executive Officers
Guillaume de Posch and Anke Schaeferkordt said in a separate
statement. “Bertelsmann is and will remain the majority
shareholder in RTL Group -– and will continue to support the
strategic development of our business.”  The stake to be sold is valued by the market at about 1.5
billion euros ($1.9 billion). Bertelsmann CEO Thomas Rabe said
last week the company plans to spend as much as 3 billion euros
on acquisitions over three years as it seeks to grow and limit
its reliance on Europe.  The company’s Random House publishing unit agreed in
October to merge with  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin division to create
by far the largest book publisher in the U.K. and the U.S. This
year, Bertelsmann reached a deal to buy out partner  KKR & Co. (KKR) ’s
stake in their BMG music rights venture.  Biggest Market  For RTL, whose revenue rose 4 percent last year to a record
6 billion euros, a listing in Germany means getting better
access to shareholders in its biggest market. The shares have
fallen 25 percent through yesterday in Brussels, including the
payment of a total 1.6 billion euros of  dividends  on March 7,
since Bertelsmann announced plans to cut the stake Jan. 31.  The stock fell 0.4 percent to 56.80 euros at 9:08 a.m. in
Brussels.  Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley will coordinate the
transaction, RTL said. The banks will also be bookrunners for
the deal, along with Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc.,
Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. BNP Paribas
and Societe Generale SA are acting as co-lead managers and
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is working as financial adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  