-- Billabong Bidders Said to Seek $250 Million Takeover Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-04-04T07:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/billabong-bidders-said-to-seek-250-million-takeover-deal.html
Private equity bidders for  Billabong
International Ltd. (BBG)  are seeking to buy  Australia ’s largest surf-
wear company for as little as 50 Australian cents a share, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Billabong is seeking a higher offer and talks are
continuing with the groups led by Altamont Capital Partners and
Sycamore Partners Management, said the people, asking not to be
identified as the talks are private. No offer at that price has
been made, a third person said, also asking not to be named.  Billabong today suspended its shares from trade to continue
talks, giving no timetable for how long that would take. A deal
at 50 cents a share would come in less than half the groups’
initial A$1.10 offers and value the owner of the DaKine and RVCA
brands at A$239 million ($250 million), about 77 percent below
the level that founder Gordon Merchant said last year he’d
reject if TPG Capital were to offer it.  “We have no comment in regards to the discussions,” Chris Fogarty, a spokesman for the Gold Coast, Australia-based
company, said by phone. “These are confidential negotiations.”  Michael Freitag , a New York-based spokesman for Sycamore
who works for Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher and
Christina Stenson, a spokeswoman for Altamont with Brunswick
Group LLP, declined to comment.  Process Costs  Billabong’s  shares  have been halted since April 2, and last
closed at 73 cents, a 34 percent discount to provisional bids of
A$1.10 a share which Sycamore and Altamont respectively made in
December and January.  Three takeover bids have already been rejected or canceled
since the start of 2012 and the company posted a record loss
Feb. 22 as it wrote down brands and breached terms on its  debt .  Billabong’s board has spent about 28 weeks since February
2012 dealing with takeover approaches, and laid out A$5.8
million in the six months through December on fees to investment
banks and due diligence costs associated with the process.
That’s more than it spent writing down inventory and funding bad
debts during the period.  Merchant cut Billabong’s first board-shorts on his kitchen
table in 1973 and sold them to  Gold Coast  surf shops with his
then partner Rena, according to the company’s  website .  Billabong Brand  A former surfboard-shaper and keen surfer, Merchant said in
February 2012 that he wouldn’t support an offer as high as A$4 a
share from TPG, the private equity group run by  David Bonderman ,
according to a letter from his lawyers  Minter Ellison  attached
to a regulatory statement at the time.  That would have valued the company at about A$1.02 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At its peak in May
2007, it was valued at A$3.84 billion.  Altamont has tied up with VF Corp., the largest U.S.
clothing company and owner of the Timberland and Vans brands,
while Sycamore is working with Paul Naude, Billabong’s Americas
head who took leave from the company to pursue the bid.  VF Corp. (VFC)  is mainly interested in the Billabong brand, the
Greensboro, North Carolina-based company said in a statement
Jan. 14. The label, valued at A$252 million at full-year results
last August, was written down to A$30 million at first-half
results in February amid falling orders in  Europe  and Australia.  Zero Value  A 50 cents-a-share offer would value the company at barely
more than the A$225 million it raised  selling new stock  to
shareholders last year. If bids are withdrawn, the company may
need to raise capital a second time, according to UBS AG and
Credit Suisse Group AG.  The company will post 80 percent of its assets and 85
percent of its earnings as security to its lenders after
writedowns to its brands put it in breach of terms on its debt,
Billabong said on Feb. 22, announcing its half-year results.  “Equity value is zero” if the company is unable to cut
costs by 2015, Credit Suisse analyst Grant Saligari wrote in a
March 20 note to clients. “There are several problem assets and
legacy issues, which are likely to be costly.”  Billabong was the  worst performer  in Australia’s benchmark
 S&P/ASX 200 index (AS51)  over the two-year period through December and
has lost 68 percent of its market value over the past 12 months.  Still, discretionary  consumer companies  have been the best
performers in Australia’s benchmark index since the start of the
year, as investors bet that  interest rates  at a  half-century low 
will stoke spending.  ‘Market Driven’  Australian retail sales rose four times faster than
economists forecast in February, climbing 1.3 percent to A$21.95
billion from a month earlier, the Bureau of Statistics said
today. A measure of local  consumer confidence , which returned
just two positive readings in the 12 months through October,
hasn’t slipped into negative territory since.  Billabong’s decline has been “largely market driven”,
UBS’s Ben Gilbert wrote in a note to clients dated March 25.
“There is clear scope to improve the performance of the
business over the medium term.”  TPG made two separate approaches for Billabong last year.
It made a series of bids valued up to A$3.30 a share in February
and returned in July with a A$1.45-a-share provisional offer,
which it dropped in October.  Another unnamed bidder that people familiar with the matter
identified as  Bain Capital  also carried out due diligence on a
A$1.45 bid before walking away in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  