-- Banks Say Stricter Securitization Rules May Hurt Lending
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-04-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/blackstone-profits-from-regulation-with-citigroup-deal.html
Banks are lobbying against
international plans to tighten rules on securitization claiming
they will tie up capital and starve the economy of credit.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Deutsche Bank AG
are among lenders that have  written  to the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision in Switzerland to voice concern about
reforms to be implemented from 2014. In a securitization, banks
re-package assets, usually loans, and sell them in slices to
outside investors.  Regulators are overhauling the rules after the widespread
use of the technique in the U.S. mortgage market contributed to
the financial crisis by spreading risk from lenders to the so-
called shadow banking sector. The firms say the plans, which
will force banks to hold more capital against any tranche they
keep, would make transactions prohibitively expensive.  “The imposition of rules that serve to materially increase
the capital requirements of securitizations could have the
unintended consequence of creating disincentives for banks to be
active in the securitization markets,” Rudolf Bless, Credit
Suisse’s deputy chief financial officer, and Brian Chin, head of
securitized products, wrote in a letter to the Basel group
published this month. That could undermine “credit supply and
overall liquidity of the global economy,” they wrote.  June Meeting  In recent months, banks have begun to look again at
securitizations as a way of meeting the higher capital targets -
- without cutting lending or raising fresh equity.  The committee at the  Bank for International Settlements  in
Basel will carry out an impact study of the securitization
proposals in the coming weeks, Bill Coen, the group’s deputy
secretary general, said in an telephone interview. The plans are
likely to be on the agenda for the June meeting, he said.  Spokesmen for Paris-based BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank in
 Frankfurt  and Zurich-based Credit Suisse declined to comment.  In traditional or so-called cash securitizations, assets
leave the bank’s balance sheet, freeing up capital and allowing
the lender to extend more loans. In so-called synthetic deals,
banks retain the assets and buy protection against some of the
potential losses from investors, often in the form of credit-
default swaps. That allows the lender to reduce the capital
regulators require it to set aside against the assets.  Buying Protection  Standard Chartered Plc,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
have all carried out synthetic deals since the financial crisis.  In 2011, Barclays bought protection on the first 300
million euros of losses on 6 billion euros of loans to an
undisclosed counter-party.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  the same year
sold the credit risk on $3 billion of trade-finance loans to
Asian companies. Citigroup last year bought insurance on a $1.2
billion of shipping loans from  Blackstone Group (BX)  Plc allowing the
New York-based bank to reduce how much it sets aside to cover
defaults by as much as 96 percent.  More than 40 lenders, trade bodies and financial firms have
responded to the Basel Committee’s request for feedback on its
 plan  to overhaul the market published Dec. 18. Proposals include
forcing banks to hold more capital against the retained portion
of a pool of assets which has been securitized, cutting the role
of credit-ratings companies, and making the capital requirements
more sensitive to the riskiness and maturity of assets.  ‘Severe Impact’  Banks argue the rules as drafted are too aggressive and
will undermine the economic incentive for banks to engage in
securitization.  If left unchanged, the proposal will “substantially reduce
the incentives for banks to participate in securitizations as
investors,” Andrew Procter, global head of compliance at
Deutsche Bank, wrote. It may also “have a severe impact on the
securitization market and the availability of affordable credit
to the wider economy,” he wrote.  The Basel Committee’s approach is based on the false
assumption that all securitizations performed badly during the
crisis, when most losses were confined to subprime mortgages,
BNP Paribas said in its submission.  That failure to differentiate between asset classes would
have the effect of disproportionately hitting higher-quality
assets, Credit Suisse, BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank wrote. If
prevented from securitizing assets, lenders would be forced to
continue to rely on central bank loans for funding, and deprive
companies and customers from access to loans, BNP Paribas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  