-- Blackstone Starts Loan ETF With State Street as Issuance Climbs
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-04-04T15:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/blackstone-starts-loan-etf-with-state-street-as-issuance-climbs.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, is joining  State Street Corp. (STT)  to
form an exchange-traded fund to buy speculative-grade loans as
demand for the floating-rate debt soars.  The SPDR Blackstone/ GSO Senior Loan ETF, which began
trading on the NYSE Arca today, will be managed by GSO Capital
Partners, the credit investing arm of Blackstone, and  State
Street Global Advisors , a unit of State Street, according to a
statement distributed by Business Wire. Leveraged-loan issuance
in the U.S. reached $278.9 billion last quarter, the most on
record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ETF, which is listed under the ticker SRLN, is the
third such fund to be created to buy loans, Bloomberg data show.
 Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ’s PowerShares Senior Loan  fund , started two years
ago as the first loan ETF, saw its market capitalization exceed
$3 billion last week as investors pour money into funds buying
bank debt as a shield against rising rates.  Loans, which are ranked higher up in the  capital structure 
in case of a bankruptcy, are better protected from rising
interest rates since they are generally pegged to floating-rate
benchmarks. The value of a fixed-rate security diminishes with
an increase in rates.  About $15 billion has been deposited into funds that
purchase leveraged loans this year, within $3 billion of the
record set in 2010, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The price
of loans at 98.33 cents on the dollar yesterday is the most
since July 2007, according to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index.  Rising Demand  Demand for loans is rising as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said last month in a news conference that the
central bank’s pace of asset purchases may be altered if the
economy continues to heal. The  jobless rate , which Bernanke said
the Fed wants to see at 6.5 percent before it starts raising
rates, fell to 7.7 percent in February, the least since 2008,
Labor Department figures showed March 8.  Leveraged loans are a type of junk-grade debt rated less
than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and below BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  