-- BlueCrest Binges on Wall Street Defectors in Bond-Market Bets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-04-04T15:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/bluecrest-said-to-hire-deutsche-bank-derivatives-trader-yearick.html
BlueCrest Capital Management LLP is
accelerating its hires from Wall Street’s biggest banks as the
hedge-fund manager takes advantage of compensation cuts to
strengthen its foothold in fixed-income markets.  William Yearick, an interest-rate options trader, left
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  last month with plans to join the $35 billion
fund manager, according to three people familiar with the
matter. John Roach, a mortgage-debt trader, and Matt Siravo, a
distressed-debt analyst, left  Germany ’s biggest lender for
BlueCrest this year, people familiar with those moves said
previously. They are joining at least four other debt traders
hired from lenders including Morgan Stanley and Bank of America
Corp. in the past two years.  BlueCrest has increased its assets by more than a quarter
since 2011 as it seeks to create an “investment-bank quality”
trading group, pushing traders to avoid big bets on the
direction of bond prices and instead profit from smaller market
anomalies, according to its  website . The firm, run by former
JPMorgan Chase & Co. proprietary trader Michael Platt, is
expanding as Wall Street reduces the amount of money it commits
to facilitate trading in the face of risk-curbing regulations.  “They can do things that the big firms are not focusing on
anymore or where they really can’t compete anymore,” said
 Jeanne Branthover , managing director at Boyden Global Executive
Search in New York. “If you have the right people and it
becomes the right environment, you’re going to see a firm take
market share.”  Curbing Risk  Four years after the depths of the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, the world’s biggest banks are
cutting thousands of jobs as they seek to comply with higher
global capital requirements and the Dodd-Frank Act, passed by
U.S. Congress in 2010 to limit the risks bank take with their
own money.  The 21 primary dealers that do business with the Federal
Reserve have reduced their corporate-bond  inventories  by 76
percent since the pre-crisis peak, to $57.3 billion on March 20
from $235 billion in October 2007, Fed data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Deutsche Bank has lost at least seven credit traders and
salesmen this year to money managers as it overhauls
compensation and cuts almost 2,000 jobs. That follows the
departures of at least 10 from its New York credit group since
the start of 2011.  Fed Stimulus  BlueCrest has boosted its assets by about $7 billion since
the end of 2011 as a fifth year of short-term interest rates
near zero and unprecedented bond buying by the Fed pushes
investors into riskier investments.  John Silvetz started at the firm in September 2011 from
Deutsche Bank’s securities unit in New York, where he traded
some of the most distressed bonds and derivatives in debt
markets. Last year, BlueCrest hired Stefano Galiani from
Deutsche Bank, Eugene Gokhvat from Morgan Stanley and John McNiff, who was co-head of trading in commercial-mortgage
securities at Bank of America.  Yearick, who joined Deutsche Bank from Goldman Sachs in
December 2008, didn’t respond to messages left on his mobile
phone seeking comment. Ed Orlebar, a BlueCrest spokesman,
declined to comment, as did  Renee Calabro , a Deutsche Bank
spokeswoman.  Roach departed Deutsche Bank as the firm shuttered a
proprietary trading group, the people familiar with those
decisions said last month, asking not to be identified because
the moves aren’t public.  Platt co-founded BlueCrest in 2000 with William Reeves
after leaving JPMorgan as managing directors. It operates with a
“specialist structure” that encourages “significantly less
concentrated risk and can allow the portfolio managers to focus
on smaller, more esoteric anomalies that are often overlooked,”
according to the website.  Corporate bonds globally have returned 1.04 percent this
year, following a 12 percent gain in 2012, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 