-- BOE Maintains QE as Inflation Concerns Override New Freedom
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-04T12:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/boe-keeps-qe-on-hold-as-inflation-concerns-override-new-freedom.html
Bank of England policy makers kept
their stimulus program on hold as concern about dislocating
 inflation expectations  overrode new freedoms given by a change
to their remit.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
Mervyn King maintained the target for asset purchases at 375
billion pounds ($565 billion) in London today, a move forecast
by 34 of 37 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The decision
may mark a third consecutive defeat for King if he kept up his
push for a 25 billion-pound increase.  Today’s meeting was the first since Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne expanded the MPC’s flexibility,
broadening its capacity to ease policy even with above-target
price gains. Still, a report today showed services unexpectedly
strengthened in March and some MPC members have raised concern
more stimulus could unhinge confidence in their  inflation 
commitment.  “Inflation is likely to remain at elevated levels in
coming months,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at ABN Amro
Holding NV in Amsterdam, who forecasts no further QE.
“Meanwhile, the economy is likely to emerge from a triple dip,
starting a modest but sustained recovery. The economy would need
to take a turn for the worse before a majority of the MPC will
vote for more gilt buying.”  Pound Lower  The MPC also left its  benchmark interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent, where it has been since March 2009. That
decision was predicted by all 50 economists in a separate  survey 
of economists. The central bank will publish the minutes of
today’s meeting on April 17.  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the
announcement and was trading at $1.5117 as of 12:55 p.m., down
0.1 percent. It’s fallen about 7 percent this year.  In  Frankfurt , the European Central Bank kept its benchmark
rate at a record low 0.75 percent, in line with the median of 56
economist estimates in a  survey . President Mario Draghi will
hold a press conference at 2.30 p.m. local time.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  decided today to increase monthly bond
purchases to 7 trillion yen ($73 billion) in a bid to reach 2
percent inflation in two years. At the first meeting led by new
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, it also temporarily suspended a cap on
bond holdings and dropped a limit on the maturities of debt it
buys. The central bank set a two-year horizon for achieving the
price goal under a “new phase of monetary easing.”  Carney’s Arrival  The BOE will have a new governor, Mark Carney, in three
months. In advance of that, Osborne announced on March 20 that
he will give the MPC more leeway to meet its 2 percent inflation
target amid strains in the economy. He also asked the BOE to
assess the benefits of forward guidance.  The remit change “hasn’t altered the outlook for monetary
policy,” ABN’s Beaumont said. “The BOE seems more inclined to
implement more targeted measures to stimulate the economy.”  The economy is showing limited signs that it has gathered
momentum after shrinking in the fourth quarter. While  services
growth  accelerated to the fastest pace in seven months in March,
according to Markit Economics,  manufacturing  and construction
both shrank. The combined gauges indicate gross domestic product
rose just 0.1 percent in the first quarter, Markit said. The
official GDP data is due on April 25.  U.K. Inflation  King said last month that more stimulus through asset
purchases would help foster a nascent recovery and that turmoil
in the euro area had hurt confidence. A report today showed
euro-region services contracted more than initially reported
last month.  Compass Group Plc (CPG) , the world’s largest catering
group, said conditions across  Europe  “remain difficult.”  Even with the weak U.K. economy, inflation remains a
concern for the BOE. It accelerated to 2.8 percent in February -
- above the MPC’s 2 percent target -- and the rate is forecast
to increase further in the coming months.  The pound and its impact on inflation appeared prominently
in the minutes of the MPC’s March meeting. The majority who
voted against more stimulus last month said such a move might
lead to an “unwarranted depreciation of sterling if it were
misinterpreted as a lack of commitment to maintaining low
inflation in the medium term.”  Sterling is the second worst performer this year among 10
developed-market currencies after the yen, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The British Chambers of Commerce said this week that the
economy will avoid another recession and the pound’s decline
will help boost exports. Its gauges of domestic and foreign
demand at manufacturers and services companies all rose last
quarter, with the export measures close to a record.  The services index points to “faint signs of life in the
economy,” said Martin Beck, an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London . “But with any expansion at all in the first
quarter still touch and go, we doubt the committee’s inaction
will last too long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  