-- Assad Says Turkey’s Erdogan Engages Israel Against Syria
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-04-05T18:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/bombs-hit-damascus-like-shooting-stars-as-battle-intensifies.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
accused Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  of lying
while harboring rebels fighting his government and cooperating
with Israel against Syria.  “ Turkey  is directly contributing to massacres in Syria,”
Assad said in a Damascus interview taped on April 2 and aired
today on Turkey’s Ulusal Kanal TV. “Turkey’s hands have been
stained with blood in Syria.”  Ties between Erdogan and Assad, who vacationed together
with their families in 2008, have deteriorated since the Turkish
leader urged Assad to stop massacring his own people and step
down. The downing of a Turkish reconnaissance jet by Syrian
forces in June and the deaths of five Turks from an errant
mortar round from Syria in October escalated tensions.  In the interview, Assad accused Turkey of harboring Syrian
rebels and allowing them to infiltrate his country. Turkey,
which has opened its doors to more than 300,000 Syrian refugees,
denies arming Syrian rebels.  A Syrian rebel group, the Battalion of the Martyrs of
Douma, at the end of March claimed to have killed Assad. Asked
about the sounds of shelling in Damascus, Assad said
“thousands, maybe tens of thousands of rebels infiltrate  Syria 
from neighboring countries, you can hear those sounds anywhere
in the country.”  Fighting’s Epicenter  In February, the insurgents stepped up their attacks on
Damascus to take control of the capital and topple Assad, who
said the war in Syria was over a country that’s refusing to bow
to the demands of the West.  The Syrian capital is now the epicenter of fighting that
has killed more than 70,000 people over the past two years,
displaced at least 5 million more and shattered the economy.  Assad was cited in the interview as saying that Erdogan
“is lying,” adding: “He hasn’t told a word of truth since the
Syrian crisis began” two years ago.  Israel ’s March 22 apology
to Turkey over the 2010 killing of nine Turks on
a Gaza-bound ship by Israeli commandos was proof that Erdogan
and Israel had struck an alliance against Syria, Assad said.  “The fire in Syria might burn Turkey as well,” he said.  The U.S.,  Germany  and the Netherlands have each deployed
two Patriot missile defense batteries near the Syrian border to
defend North Atlantic Treaty Organization member Turkey against
a possible missile attack from Syria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  