-- Citigroup’s Forecast Cut on ‘Anemic’ Growth Saps Bovespa
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-04-04T21:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/brazilian-stocks-fall-as-citigroup-cuts-bovespa-forecast.html
The Bovespa posted the worst
performance among major equity indexes in the Americas after
Citigroup Inc. lowered its forecast for Brazil’s benchmark
gauge, citing “anemic” economic growth and faster inflation.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, dropped as
metals fell and after Brazil’s  Supreme Court  postponed a tax
ruling that could benefit the company, Bank of America Corp.
said in a report.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) , the oil
producer controlled by the billionaire  Eike Batista , slumped the
most on the gauge after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its  credit rating 
one level to B-, or six steps below investment grade.  The Bovespa fell 1.6 percent to 54,648.15 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, the lowest since July 26. The decline
extended this year’s drop to 10 percent. Four stocks  dropped  for
every one that gained on the measure today.  Citigroup lowered its year-end forecast for the Bovespa to
65,000 from 70,000, according to a research note sent to
clients.  “The macro framework is indecisive and inflation too high;
growth is anemic,”  Stephen Graham , a Sao Paulo-based analyst,
and Nicolas Riva, based in New York, wrote in the note.
“Business reality on the ground is better than the prevailing
market mood, but the uphill struggle to change the mood keeps
getting steeper.”  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent last
year, the slowest pace among major developing nations, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation probably quickened to
6.60 percent in the year ending in March, topping the 6.5
percent upper limit of the central bank’s target, economists’
 forecasts  show.  ‘Under Pressure’  The Bovespa has retreated 14 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.  “It’s not just the stocks on the Bovespa index, the whole
stock market is now under pressure given some concerns investors
have about Brazil,” Marc Sauerman, who helps oversee 650
million reais at Curitiba, Brazil-based J Malucelli
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview.  Vale fell 4 percent to 32.36 reais, the biggest one-day
decline since July 24. OGX slumped 11 percent to 1.98 reais. MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA, Batista’s mining company, tumbled 7.3
percent to 1.90 reais.  Airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA dropped 3.6
percent to 10.86 reais after  Fitch Ratings  lowered its credit
ranking two levels to B-. Clothing retailer Cia. Hering climbed
1.6 percent to 37.13 reais after  Banco Santander  raised its
recommendation to buy.  Real Strengthens  The real gained 0.5 percent to 2.0150 per dollar. The
Brazilian currency strengthened amid speculation a $6 billion
initial public offering for the insurance unit of Banco do
Brasil SA, Latin America’s biggest lender by assets, will bring
more dollars into the country, according to Carlos Kawall, the
chief economist at Banco Safra SA in Sao Paulo.  The Bovespa  trades  at 10.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for the next four quarters, compared with 10.5 for the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21 developing nations’ equities,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 7.1 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.46 billion reais this year
through April 2, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  