-- Business Wire Calls SEC Stance a Disservice to Investors
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-04-04T17:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/business-wire-calls-sec-stance-a-disservice-to-investors-1-.html
Business Wire , the unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  that distributes press
releases, said the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
hurting investors by allowing the increased use of social media
sites for posting financial information.  Guidance from the SEC “poses a disservice to the
investment community, threatening increased fragmentation of
price-sensitive information,” Business Wire said in a statement
today. The stance also raises “privacy concerns as users are
required to register to gain access to material news, security
risks that may adversely affect market stability.”  The SEC said this week it will permit companies to use
social media sites including ones run by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
Twitter Inc. to communicate company announcements as long as
investors have been told in advance where to look. The guidance
came as part of a report detailing an investigation into Netflix
Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings , who in July posted
monthly viewership results on his Facebook page rather than in
an SEC filing or news release.  The SEC refrained from bringing an enforcement action
against Hastings or Netflix, which runs a subscription service
for watching television programs and movies, because rules
around using social media for company disclosures had been
unclear, the agency said.  Business Wire, founded in 1961 by Lorry Lokey, operates
more than 30 bureaus around the world and competes with UBM
Plc’s PR Newswire unit to help companies distribute news in
compliance with securities regulations. Berkshire bought the
company in 2006 after Business Wire CEO Cathy Baron Tamraz wrote
to Buffett, asking him to consider acquiring the company.  ` Unintended Consequences '  “Social media can be a valuable part of the investor
relations ecosystem, but it should not be the core,” she said
in today’s statement. “We are wary of unintended consequences
by limiting access to a single site that doesn’t have the
security, reliability, or interface to reliably serve the
entire investment community.”  Business Wire has 488 employees according to Berkshire’s
2012 annual report, which listed a total staff of about 288,000
across more than 80 units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  