-- Butchered Swan Disappears From German Menu After Protests
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-04-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/butchered-swan-disappears-from-german-menu-after-protests.html
Swan meat has disappeared from the
menu at a hotel restaurant on the Baltic island of Ruegen after
protests from environmentalists in German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s home constituency.  Axel Diembeck, the chef at  Gutshaus Kubbelkow , wrote in a
statement on the hotel’s website that he is no longer serving
the meat “out of respect for the feelings of swan-meat
opponents and to end the emotionally charged discussions.”  Shooting swans is permitted and regulated in the German
state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. About 600  mute swans  --
the only species that it is legal to hunt -- are killed each
year between November and February. Hunters say that the swans
damage crops, especially rape, by eating seeds. Local wildlife-protection activists question whether the hunting is necessary.  “I was astonished to find out that swan meat would be
offered in a restaurant,” said Manuela Heberer, a spokeswoman
for the Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania branch of the wildlife
protection agency  Naturschutzbund , based in Schwerin. “We don’t
see the need to shoot swans. There is also a danger hunters
could shoot protected species that look very similar.”  The regional Ostsee-Zeitung newspaper drew attention to the
unusual menu item with a front-page article headlined “Swan on
the Plate: Ruegen Restaurant Provokes Outrage.” A survey of
readers found that 46 percent were opposed to turning swan into
a delicacy, while 51 percent saw no reason why not.  Ruegen is part of Merkel’s electoral constituency, which
also includes the port of Stralsund. An employee at Merkel’s
regional office in Stralsund declined to comment on whether the
chancellor has visited the restaurant or eaten swan meat.  Local Produce  Diembeck’s cuisine at Gutshaus Kubbelkow is described by
Michelin Guide inspectors as “ambitious international
cooking.” The hotel’s website stresses the emphasis on local
ingredients, saying it uses “the best fresh produce that
Western Pomerania’s fishermen, hunters, slaughter-houses,
dairies, and fruit and vegetable farmers have to offer.”  The  April menu  includes dishes such as spring salad with
oysters, aubergine puree and tomato pralines, and Baltic cod in
a brioche crust with spinach and red-onion soubise. A three-course menu costs 39.50 euros ($51.11).  Swan no longer features.  “The swan is of course an elegant and beautiful
creature,” wrote Diembeck, who said he is also a hunter
himself. “A calf, a lamb, a duck, a deer is just as elegant and
certainly not worth less than the pure white bird. Hunted game
from our region is prized as a natural, healthy source of
nutrition and is eaten with pleasure.”  Rapeseed Threat  Kati Ebel, the general director of the regional hunting
association, said only cygnets are shot because swans mate for
life, and killing one of a pair is cruel to its mate.  “We have a problem with rapeseed -- swans feed on the
young plants,” Ebel said. “It is normal to eat hunted game. I
have eaten swan myself -- it tastes like duck or goose.”  According to the book “Swan” by Peter Young, roast swan
was a dish fit for a king at medieval banquets, served to  Henry
VIII , for instance, at his Hampton Court feasts, outside  London .  Potted swan became fashionable in the mid-17th century and
was still considered a delicacy in the late 19th century. The
British 19th-century cookery writer Mrs. Beeton included a
recipe for black swan, roasted or baked, in the Australian
section of her book “All About Cookery.”  In the U.K. today, swans are protected under the 1981
 Wildlife and Countryside Act  and it’s an offence to injure or
kill them.  “There are plenty of other nutritional options,” Heberer
said. “We should take this as an opportunity to question
whether swans should be hunted at all and whether this is
appropriate today. We don’t see the damage done to farmers by
swans as serious. This could be addressed with compensation.”  In German cultural history, swans have a mythical status
thanks to Lohengrin, the son of Parzival. A knight of the Holy
Grail, he arrives in a boat drawn by swans to rescue a maiden
who may never ask his true identity. The medieval story is the
subject of  Richard Wagner ’s 1848 opera “Lohengrin.”  Muse highlights include London and  New York   weekend guides ,
 Martin Gayford  on European art shows,  Lewis Lapham ’s podcasts
and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 