-- Buy CIMB, Sime Darby Shares Ahead of Malaysia Polls, BofA Says
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-04-04T03:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/buy-cimb-sime-darby-shares-ahead-of-malaysia-polls-bofa-says.html
Investors should buy  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  and  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  that are seen as shielded from
volatility ahead of Malaysia’s general election, according to
Bank of America Corp.  Prime Minister Najib Razak dissolved parliament yesterday
to prepare for the nation’s 13th general election. The  FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  closed little changed yesterday after
plunging as much as 3.1 percent while its 30-day volatility, a
gauge of price swings, rose to a one-month high.  “The upcoming election will be very close,” Melvyn Boey
and Angeline Ooi, analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
wrote in a report dated April 3. There are “buying
opportunities in this volatile period.” They favor “domestic-
oriented” stocks that have underperformed the  MSCI Asia Pacific
ex-Japan Index (MXAPJ)  this year, including CIMB and Sime.  The elections will determine whether Najib’s ruling
coalition can extend its unbroken hold on power since the
country won independence from the U.K. in 1957. His 13-party
 Barisan Nasional coalition , which won the 2008 national vote by
its slimmest margin, faces a resurgent opposition alliance led
by former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim.  Among Bank of America’s other picks are  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA) ,
 AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM) ,  Telekom Malaysia Bhd. (T) , SapuraKencana
Petroleum Bhd. and  Astro Malaysia Holdings Bhd. (ASTRO) , according to
the report.  CIMB Gains  CIMB, the nation’s second-biggest lender by market value,
advanced 0.5 percent at 11:06 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, poised for
its highest close since Oct. 10. SapuraKencana added 1 percent.
Sime Darby, the world’s biggest listed palm-oil producer, gained
0.4 percent to a two-month high. The KLCI rose 0.1 percent.  The prospect of the ruling coalition losing seats in the
election has helped make the KLCI index Southeast Asia’s worst
performing benchmark this year. The gauge has fallen 0.1 percent
in 2013, compared with the MSCI South East Asia Index’s 5.8
percent gain.  Najib’s approval rating slipped to 61 percent in February
from 63 percent in December, according to a survey of 1,021
voters conducted Jan. 23 to Feb. 6 by the Merdeka Center for
Opinion Research.  “Any predictions provided will probably lack conviction,
especially with the sharp 25 percent increase in first-time
voters,” according to the BofA report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  