-- Cameron Defends Trident as Clegg Party Mulls Replacement
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-04T09:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/cameron-defends-trident-as-clegg-party-mulls-replacement.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  warned
against any move to abandon the U.K.’s submarine-based nuclear
weapons, citing a growing threat from  North Korea  and  Iran  as
his Liberal Democrat coalition partners consider scaling back
the missile program.  Writing in the London-based Daily Telegraph newspaper
today, Cameron said it would be “foolish” to leave Britain
without defenses at a time when the “highly unpredictable and
aggressive” regime in North Korea is developing ballistic
missiles that might eventually threaten  Europe . In response to
recent North Korean threats, the U.S. said yesterday it will
deploy a missile-defense system to the Pacific island of  Guam  in
coming weeks as a “precautionary move.”  “We need our nuclear deterrent as much today as we did
when a previous British government embarked on it over six
decades ago,” the premier wrote. “Of course, the world has
changed dramatically. The  Soviet Union  no longer exists. But the
nuclear threat has not gone away. In terms of uncertainty and
potential risk it has, if anything, increased.”  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats are
coming to the end of their examination of the alternatives to
the missiles system, known as Trident, in order to save money
and regain supporters dismayed at the party’s alliance with the
Tories. Possible conclusions to the review, which may be
included in the party’s 2015 election manifesto, include sending
nuclear-armed submarines out on patrol only 100 days a year
instead of full-time.  Scottish Jobs  The two parties have already clashed over the replacement
of Trident. On Nov. 1, Conservative Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said an upgrade would be cheaper than alternatives being
examined by the Liberal Democrats.  Cameron is in Scotland today to emphasize the job benefits
of the defense industry before a vote next fall on whether the
nation should become independent from the rest of Britain.  The premier will welcome home a submarine crew from their
100th patrol and visit crew from HMS Victorious, one of the
Royal Navy’s Vanguard-class submarines, in the west of  Scotland ,
and hold a question-and-answer session at a local defense
contractor. He will tell workers the defense sector employs
12,600 people in Scotland, amounting to about 0.5 percent of the
working population.  Other possible alternatives to Trident being looked at by
the Liberal Democrats include using existing Astute-class
submarines to carry missiles, rather than replacing the four
Vanguard submarines, or an air-based nuclear deterrent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  