-- Canadian Dollar Reaches 6-Week High Before March Jobs Reports
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-04T21:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/canadian-dollar-strengthens-versus-yen-on-central-bank-stimulus.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened to
a six-week high versus its U.S. counterpart before employment
data tomorrow forecast to show job gains last month in the U.S.
and Canada.  The currency rallied to the strongest since 2008 against
the yen after Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda took
measures that would devalue the currency in his fight against
deflation. Canada created 6,500 jobs in March from 50,700 the
previous month, while the U.S. added 190,000 from 236,000 the
month before, according to separate Bloomberg surveys of
economists. U.S. weekly jobless claims exceeded forecasts last
week, fueling speculation the government figures may trail
projections as well.  “We see a little bit of further weakness in some oil
prices and gold, a little bit of further weakness in Toronto
equities and the currency has actually strengthened a little
bit,” said  Doug Porter , chief economist at Bank of Montreal by
phone from Toronto. “We’ve had the trauma in Cyprus and we have
the Bank of Japan trying to actively weaken the yen, and in a
world such as that, the Canadian dollar looks like a relatively
safe harbor.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.2 percent to
C$1.0127 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, reaching the
strongest level since Feb. 19. One loonie buys 98.75 U.S. cents.
The currency gained 3.7 percent to 95.12 yen, touching the most
since Oct. 6, 2008.  Yen Day  “This whole day has been about selling yen, and now you’ve
seen a lot of the other currencies start to play a part in the
move,” Matthew Perrier, managing director of foreign exchange
at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto. “It’s selling
of yen across the board on the back of the aggressive
quantitative easing measures that the BOJ delivered.”  Canada’s benchmark 10-year  government bonds  gained, pushing
yields down four basis points, or 0.04 percent, to 1.79 percent.
The 1.5 percent note maturing in June 2023 added 33 cents to
C$97.32.  Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 1.2 percent to
$93.36 per barrel in  New York , after reaching its lowest point
since March 22. The Standard & Poor’s Index of 500 U.S. stocks
gained 0.4 percent.  The loonie rose against the yen after the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
doubled its monthly bond purchases to 7.5 trillion yen ($77.8
billion) of bonds a month and double the monetary base, which
includes in Kuroda’s first policy meeting as governor today.  Market Momentum  “That upward momentum in the CAD/yen cross may have some
more legs moving forward, given that the BOJ is sounding even
more dovish than people assumed and will likely continue to be
very dovish in the months ahead,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities, said by
phone from Toronto. “Everyone’s just turning their attention
towards external events and we’re looking for any sort of
domestic catalyst to provide some direction on the Canadian
dollar and that’s likely to come from the employment tomorrow.”  Canada ’s jobless rate is forecast to hold at 7 percent, the
lowest level since December 2008, according to the median
estimate in Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists.  “Positions are being pared back ahead of the event risk
tomorrow, it’s going to be a very quiet, rangy day for the
Canadian dollar,” said Blake Jespersen, managing director of
foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto.
“In Canada, we think it could disappoint.”  The cost to insure against declines in the loonie rose
after reaching the lowest level in 10 weeks April 1. The three-
month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate rose to 0.93 percent
from 0.9 percent at the beginning of the week. Risk reversals
measure the premium on options contracts to sell Canadian
dollars versus buying U.S.  The Canadian dollar has gained 1.8 percent in the last
month against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The loonie’s gain has
only been outpaced by the currency of its fellow commodity-
exporting nation, the Australian dollar, which added 2.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  