-- Cheap Petrobras Gas Hurts Ethanol Investments: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-04-04T20:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/cheap-petrobras-gas-hurts-ethanol-investments-corporate-brazil.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-
run oil company, is boosting money-losing gasoline imports at
its fastest pace ever, holding down prices for alternative fuels
and hindering investments in ethanol.  Petrobras, as the oil producer is known, will import as
much as 25.5 billion liters (6.74 billion gallons) by 2020, or
about half of the nation’s gasoline, estimates  Adriano Pires ,
head of the Brazilian Center for Infrastructure. That’s an
almost sevenfold rise from the 3.68 billion liters, or 12
percent, the company imported last year, when its refining unit
lost $17.5 billion buying the fuel and reselling it below cost.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s policy to fight inflation by
capping gasoline costs at the pump is also limiting prices for
sugar-based ethanol, discouraging millers from investing in new
output and exacerbating the problem. Investments in new ethanol
production fell to $256 million last year from a peak of $6.4
billion in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “The ethanol sector is paralyzed, and the car fleet is
expanding every year,” Jose Roberto Della Coletta, director of
Della Coletta Bioenergia SA, which owns a sugar and ethanol mill
in Sao Paulo state, said in a telephone interview. “Mills will
provide what fuel they can, but the rest will have to come from
gasoline that will need to be imported.”  Gas Discount  Petrobras declined to comment on gasoline imports and the
effect on ethanol prices. The company sells gasoline at a 15
percent discount to international prices, Bank of America Corp.
and  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  said in reports last month.
Consumers typically expect ethanol prices at the pump to be at
least 30 percent less than gasoline because it delivers less
energy, Rabobank International said in a February note.  The average price for ethanol at the pump for the week
ending March 30 was 2.058 reais ($1.02) a liter, compared with
2.878 reais for gasoline, according to fuel regulator Agencia
Nacional do Petroleo, Gas Natural e Biocombustiveis.  Petrobras has slumped 9.2 percent this year, compared with
a 10 percent decline for the benchmark Bovespa index, amid
delays in developing some of Brazil’s largest-ever oil
discoveries. The shares slid 1.6 percent to 17.72 reais at the
close in Sao Paulo.  The stock traded yesterday at 7.2 times its estimated 2013
earnings, making it the eighth cheapest among the Americas’ 250
biggest oil and gas producers.  Hydrous ethanol, the version of the fuel that runs  Brazil ’s
fleet of flex-fuel cars, has sold below production costs almost
half of the time in the past six years, Arnaldo Correa,
executive director of Sao Paulo-based research company Archer
Consulting, said in a March 23 report.  Shuttered Mills  The economics are prompting some cane companies to close
facilities. About 14 mills were shuttered in the 2012-13 harvest
season, after 16 closures in the prior season, said Elizabeth
Farina, president of sugar-cane trade group  Unica .  “It’s a vicious cycle,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at Omar
Camargo Investimentos, said in a telephone interview. “The
sugar-cane industry says they won’t invest in new capacity until
they’re more confident” ethanol will play a large part in the
country’s energy supply.  Without new capacity, the country won’t achieve its goal of
tripling ethanol production through 2021, Maurilio Biagi Filho,
chief executive officer of ethanol producer Grupo Maubisa, said
in a telephone interview from Ribeirao Preto, Brazil.  ‘Paper’ Target  “This idea to triple production just exists on paper,”
said Biagi, whose company is the world’s second-biggest
individual sugar-cane grower. “Why would it increase? There
haven’t been any big policy changes. The sector isn’t making
money from ethanol.”  Brazil is the second-biggest ethanol producer after the
U.S. and the largest sugar maker. In Brazil, ethanol is made
from sugar cane.  Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3) , owner of the world’s largest cane-
processing plant, has declined 0.5 percent this year, and Cosan
SA Industria & Comercio, which jointly controls the world’s
biggest cane processor with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , increased 7.1
percent.  If the government raises gasoline prices in line with
international benchmarks next year, growers would build new
plants, Unica’s Farina said. The government last allowed
Petrobras to boost gasoline prices at refineries in January by
6.6 percent.  100 Mills  “We already built 65 mills in four years,” Farina said.
“I don’t see why we wouldn’t be able to build 100 mills”
through 2021.  Even if the government does revise its ethanol policies,
pressure on Petrobras to import more fuel will remain, said
Coletta, the director of ethanol maker Della Coletta Bioenergia.  “When the government wakes up and tells us we have to
start producing again, we won’t be able to because it takes time
to put together a workforce and get idle mills back online,” he
said. “That’s the risk: By the time they decide they need us
again it will be too late.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  