-- Chelsea, Benfica Win in Europa League as Spurs Rally to Tie 2-2
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-04T23:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/chelsea-benfica-win-in-europa-league-as-spurs-rally-to-tie-2-2.html
Chelsea, Benfica and Fenerbahce won
at home to take two-goal leads into the return matches of their
Europa League soccer quarterfinals, while Tottenham rallied for
a 2-2 draw with Basel.  Fernando Torres  scored twice to lead Chelsea to a 3-1 win
against  Rubin Kazan  last night, while Benfica beat Newcastle by
the same score. Fenerbahce defeated Lazio 2-0, scoring both
goals after Ogenyi Onazi was sent off early in the second half.  “Three-one is not bad, but it could be better,” Chelsea
interim manager  Rafael Benitez  told ESPN. “We have confidence
we can score in the away leg.”  Rubin, Newcastle, Lazio and Basel host the return matches
in the two-game series April 11, with the winners advancing to
the semifinals of Europe’s second-tier club competition.  Tottenham had to come from 2-0 down at White Hart Lane
against Basel and finished the game with nine men after losing
defender  William Gallas  and winger Gareth Bale to injuries near
the end having used all its substitutions.  In the other match in London last night, Torres opened the
scoring for Chelsea in the 16th minute as he held off Roman Sharonov and tucked the ball into the net as both players fell
to the ground.  Moses made it 2-0 in the 32nd minute before the visiting
team pulled a goal back when Bibras Natcho scored with a 41st-
minute penalty kick after a handball by  John Terry .  Spanish striker Torres clinched the victory with 20 minutes
left when he headed home  Juan Mata ’s cross, doubling his goal
tally in 2013 to four.  “Fernando needed to score a goal,” Benitez added. “We
could see today the confidence, that he can work hard.”  Cisse Strikes Post  In Portugal, Papiss Cisse’s 12th-minute goal gave Newcastle
the lead. The Senegal striker then hit the post and Benfica went
down the other end to tie the game on Rodrigo’s goal.  After Cisse hit the post again early in the second half,
Rodrigo Lima ran onto a back pass from Davide Santon and went
around goalkeeper  Tim Krul  to score in the 65th minute.  Oscar
Cardozo  converted a penalty kick six minutes later after  Steven Taylor ’s handball.  “If we had taken a 2-1 lead, you’d like to think we’d have
a fantastic chance,” Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  told ITV4.
“It’s an uphill chance now.”  Lazio went down to 10 men in Turkey after Onazi picked up
his second yellow card in the 48th minute. Fenerbahce went ahead
in the 79th minute on Pierre Webo’s penalty kick after Stefan
Radu’s handball and Dirk Kuyt made it 2-0 in stoppage time.  Tottenham Comeback  Goals from Valentin Stocker and Fabian Frei put Basel 2-0
up after 34 minutes in north London. Emmanuel Adebayor scored
for Spurs five minutes before half time and substitute Gylfi
Sigurdsson tied it with a deflected goal in the 58th minute.  Tottenham finished two players down as Gallas limped off in
the 89th minute and Bale, who’s scored 22 goals for Spurs this
season, was carried off on a stretcher after falling awkwardly
when challenging for the ball.  “He rolled his ankle,” Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas
told the British Broadcasting Corp. “At the moment there is a
lot of pain, but hopefully not as bad as it could have been.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 