-- China Towns Raise Growth Targets, Bucking Xi Mandate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-04T01:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/china-towns-raise-growth-targets-bucking-xi-mandate.html
Three towns in China’s export hub of
Guangdong province raised annual growth targets by as much as 5
percentage points as they seek to counter local weakness while
other regions aim for slower, more-sustainable expansion.  Dalang , about 100 kilometers (62 miles) north of Hong Kong,
will expand investment and pursue growth of 12 percent this
year, compared with a 7 percent target set in January, the
official Nanfang Daily reported on March 29. Neighboring Houjie
boosted its goal to 7.5 percent from 6 percent, while Nancheng
increased its target to 12 percent from 8.5 percent, the
official Dongguan Times reported April 2.  The towns, all part of Dongguan city in the Pearl River
Delta, are grappling with a local slowdown as labor costs rise
and export orders slow. Their stepped-up expansion goals
contrast with lower targets for the province as a whole and
across the nation, reflecting new President Xi Jinping’s call to
focus on “quality and efficiency” of growth.  “It shows the growth-above-all mindset of local Chinese
government officials hasn’t fully changed, and the central
government has to do more,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong and a former
researcher for the International Monetary Fund.  Guangdong, the largest regional economy, set an 8 percent
growth target for 2013, down from 8.5 percent in 2012 and the
nation’s second-lowest goal this year after 7.5 percent in
Shanghai.  Key Measurement  Growth is still the key measurement in cadres’ performance
reviews and it will take many years before China can change the
system, Zhang said. Dongguan, which has set a 7 percent goal for
gross domestic product growth in 2013, was among the slowest-
expanding regions in China with a rate of 6.1 percent in 2012.  Fourteen provinces have set lower targets for GDP expansion
this year than in 2012 and the other 17 left their goals
unchanged, according to Nomura. The weighted average target has
dropped to 9.9 percent from 10.3 percent, Citigroup Inc.
calculates.  Last month, then-Premier Wen Jiabao set a 7.5 percent
national growth target for 2013, unchanged from last year’s
goal. Wen’s successor, Li Keqiang, said at a March 17 press
briefing after taking office that China needs 7.5 percent annual
expansion to achieve the country’s 2020 goals.  Chinese provinces are known for reporting growth rates that
often exceed the national pace calculated by the central
government. The combined GDP released by Chinese provinces for
2012 was 5.8 trillion  yuan  more than the countrywide figure
published by the National Bureau of Statistics, according to the
state-run China Daily.  China’s economy, the world’s second-largest, expanded 7.8
percent last year, compared with the average 10.6 percent rate
over the previous 10 years. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News forecast a pickup to 8.1 percent in 2013, based on the
median estimate.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  