-- Chiquita Brands Sues SEC to Probe Documents’ Release
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-04T18:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/chiquita-brands-sues-sec-to-probe-documents-release.html
Chiquita Brands International Inc. (CQB) 
sued the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to block
disclosure of documents from a probe of payments to a Colombian
paramilitary group, saying their release would subject the
company to unfair criticism.  Chiquita, in a lawsuit filed today in federal court in
 Washington , said the SEC hasn’t properly assessed documents it
turned over to the government during the investigation of
payments made through its former Banadex unit to the United Self
Defense Forces of  Colombia , or AUC. The documents were sought
under the Freedom of Information Act by the National Security
Archive, a Washington-based nonprofit group.  Disclosure of the documents “will make them available to
the general public, including members of the press and
individuals and organizations that seek to distort the facts
surrounding the payments that Banadex made to the AUC under
threat of force,” Chiquita’s lawyer, James Garland of Covington
& Burling LLC, said in the complaint.  The Cincinnati-based company was fined $25 million after
pleading guilty in March 2007 to engaging in transactions with a
terrorist group for paying Colombian paramilitary militias
$1.7 million from 1997 to 2004. The company is defending
multiple civil lawsuits in federal court in  Florida  brought by
families who claim relatives were kidnapped and murdered after
the company paid the group.  Chiquita, in its lawsuit, alleges the National Security
Archive is allied with plaintiff lawyers in the Florida
litigation and seeks to influence those proceedings as well as a
criminal investigation of former employees in Colombia.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
lawsuit.  Thomas Blanton, executive director of the National Security
Archive, said his group has been making data requests about
Colombia human rights violations for about 14 years and will
continue to do so.  “There’s a lot of other interest in these materials than a
simple tort case in Florida,” he said.  The case is Chiquita Brands International Inc. v. U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, 13-cv-00435, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 