-- Coal Strike Looms as Workers Protest Stake Sale: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-04-05T12:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/coal-strike-looms-as-workers-protest-stake-sale-corporate-india.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) ’s employees plan to
go on an indefinite strike should the government proceed with a
plan to raise 200 billion rupees ($3.7 billion) selling shares
in the world’s biggest producer of the fuel.  The workers will “vehemently oppose” any such decision,
said S.Q. Zama, secretary general at the ruling Congress Party-
backed Indian National Mineworkers Federation, citing a memo to
Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal. A day’s strike in Coal India
may lead to a loss of about 1.2 million metric tons, worth about
1.7 billion rupees, based on the company’s  average selling price 
of 1,438 rupees a ton in the quarter ended Dec. 31.  The stoppage will squeeze supplies to Indian  power plants ,
cement and steel factories. Coal India, which missed its output
target for the year ended March 31, is battling law and order
problems, labor unrest and delays in acquiring land and mining
approvals to boost production and avoid resorting to imports to
meet contracts. A peak shortfall of 9 percent in electricity
supplies leads to outages that shave about 1.2 percentage points
off the $1.8 trillion economy, according to the government.  “The government has to win the support,” of the labor
unions, said Prasad Baji, an analyst at Edelweiss Financial
Services Ltd. in Mumbai, who  recommends  investors buy the stock.
“To make the share sale attractive, the government may allow
the company to raise prices and counter the increase in costs.”  The  shares  fell 0.5 percent to 309.25 rupees at the close
in Mumbai. The stock has lost 13 percent this year, compared
with a 5 percent decline in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  Price Increase  Coal  India  may raise prices this fiscal year, Macquarie
Capital Securities (India) Pvt. analysts Rakesh Arora and
Sumangal Nevatia wrote in a April 1 report. The company last
raised regular prices in February 2011, while a reclassification
of its products based on their heat value starting Jan. 1, 2012,
led to a 3 percent increase in selling prices. The Kolkata-based
company agreed to a wage increase starting in July 2011.  The government, which  owns 90 percent  in the miner, is
considering selling a 5 percent stake to the public and a
similar holding to Coal India, according to a finance ministry
draft proposal obtained by  Bloomberg News . A directive by the
market regulator to state-run companies to reduce the holding of
the government to 75 percent by August this year may be used as
a ground to convince the workers.  “Any further sale in Coal India will be a breach of
promise,” Zama said in a phone interview. “The government is
not a beggar. It can find other ways to bridge the deficit.”  NTPC, Oil India  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration sold stakes
in companies including NTPC Ltd., NMDC Ltd. and Oil India Ltd.
for about 240 billion rupees in the year ended March 31 to
shrink the widest  budget deficit  among major emerging economies,
pay subsidies and invest in public works. The divestment list to
raise 400 billion rupees this fiscal year also includes National
Aluminium Co., Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd., Indian Oil Corp.,
Power Grid Corp. of India, and  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL)   “Workers fear a stake sale will lead to privatization and
exploitation,” R. Mohan Das, director for personnel at Coal
India, said in an interview.  Five central worker unions, led by the Indian National
Trade Union Congress, opposed a 10 percent share sale in Coal
India in 2010, saying it would pave the path for privatization
of the company and jeopardize employee interests. The 152
billion rupee sale, India’s biggest until then, went ahead on
the then finance minister  Pranab Mukherjee ’s assurance that no
further stake would be sold.  ‘We Are One’  “All coal sector workers will go on a continuous strike
from the day this decision is announced by the government,”
said Jibon Roy, secretary at the  Centre of Indian Trade Unions ,
a unit of the opposing Communist Party of India (Marxist). “On
this matter, we are one.”  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram has asked cash-
rich state companies to use their surplus cash for projects, or
give it back to the government as dividend, or buy back shares.
Coal India has a cash reserve of  $12 billion .  “We anticipate some labor issues in going ahead with
further disinvestment in Coal India,” Coal Secretary S.K. Srivastava said in a phone interview. “We will do our best to
convince them.”  Coal India workers went on a one-day strike in Oct. 10,
2011, asking for higher bonus payments for the year, a demand
the company met. They threatened to go on strike again three
months later and won an increase in wages.  “Coal India has to improve its output and sales volumes to
boost investor sentiments,” said  Rahul Jain , an analyst with
CIMB Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai, who has an underperform
rating for the stock. “In absence of these, the company may see
a decline in earnings this fiscal year because of the increase
in costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  