-- Colombian Emerald Czar Carranza Dies of Cancer Aged 77
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-04-04T20:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/colombian-emerald-czar-carranza-dies-of-cancer-aged-77.html
Victor Carranza, who fought off 
Pablo Escobar’s Medellin cocaine cartel, Marxist
rebels and rival traders, to achieve a near-monopoly of
 Colombia ’s emerald trade, died of cancer at the age of 77.  The man Colombian newspapers referred to as “the emerald
Czar,” died at the  Santa Fe  de Bogota Foundation, according to
the hospital’s communications department.  In the late 1980s, thousands died when Gonzalo Rodriguez
Gacha, the Medellin cartel boss, attempted to wrest control of
the emerald zone in mountains six hours drive north of Bogota
from Carranza, who also survived several attempts to prosecute
him for crimes including kidnapping and forming private armies.
The emerald boss later managed the “metamorphosis” of his
image to a man of peace, according to his biographer and
opposition congressman Ivan Cepeda.  “When he ended up monopolizing the emerald business,
miraculously he started being presented not as a criminal, but
as a man of peace,” Cepeda said yesterday in an interview in
his office in Congress.  Since Carranza became sick, rivals have begun to fight over
his empire in the emerald region and in his other zones of
influence, including Colombia’s eastern plains, Cepeda said.  The Andean nation is one of the world’s three main emerald-
producing nations, alongside Brazil and  Zambia . Output has
“dropped substantially” in recent years after easily
accessible gems became scarce, said Ian Harebottle, chief
executive officer of  Gemfields Plc. (GEM)  in  London , which owns an
emerald mine in Zambia.  Carranza was “the glue” who held Colombia’s emerald
business together, Harebottle said today in a phone interview,
hours before Carranza’s death.  The fall in output is due to “mines having to go deeper
and deeper, often below the water table, to access emeralds -
thus entering into operating environments that require ever
increasing levels of formalized mining and capital investment,”
Harebottle said.  Emerald output  fell to 904,000 carats last year, from 3.4
million carats in 2011, according to Colombia’s Mines and Energy
Ministry. Harebottle said. Harebottle estimates that the
Colombian emerald business is worth less than $100 million per
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 