-- Connecticut Tightens Gun Laws After Newtown School Massacre
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-04-04T17:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/connecticut-tightens-gun-laws-in-bipartisan-post-newtown-accord.html
Lawmakers in  Connecticut , the site
of the Dec. 14 massacre that renewed a national debate over  gun
control , passed a bipartisan measure that increases background
checks for buyers and bans the sale of semiautomatic rifles like
the one used in Newtown’s Sandy Hook Elementary School.  The Senate passed the bill 26-10 yesterday, and the  House
of Representatives  approved it 105-44 early this morning. Both
chambers are controlled by Democrats. Six of 14 Republican
senators backed it, as did 20 of 52 Republican House members.
Both parties called it the toughest gun-control law in the U.S.  “This is a profoundly emotional day, I think, for everyone
in this room and everyone watching,” said Governor  Dan Malloy 
as he signed the bill in the Hartford statehouse before an
audience that included parents of the Newtown victims. “We have
come together in a way that relatively few places in our nation
have demonstrated the ability to do. I hope this is an example
to the rest of the nation.”  In addition to expanding an existing ban on assault-style
weapons to add more than 100 firearms, the bill requires
background checks for all purchasers and bars the sale of
ammunition magazines that hold more than 10 bullets. Gun owners
would need to undergo a background check to get a certificate
required to buy cartridges, while those with a banned model or
magazine would have to register with the state.  “It attacks law-abiding gun owners and makes them
victims,” said Robert Crook, the executive director of the
Coalition of Connecticut Sportsmen, the state’s largest gun-
rights group. He spoke to reporters before lawmakers voted.  Newtown Massacre  Passage came more than three months after gunman Adam
Lanza, 20, stormed into the Newtown school and mowed down 20
students and six edcuators. Connecticut joins  New York  and
 Colorado  in tightening firearms limits in the wake of the
tragedy. Maryland’s House of Delegates passed a similar measure
yesterday.  In  Washington , congressional action on the issue has been
stymied by opposition from the  National Rifle Association , the
nation’s biggest gun-rights lobby. President  Barack Obama  went
to Colorado yesterday to praise that state’s new restrictions,
and plans to visit Connecticut next week to pressure Congress.  “Colorado is proving a model of what’s possible,” Obama
said in Denver. “It’s now been just over 100 days since the
murder of 20 innocent children and six brave educators in
Newtown, Connecticut, an event that shocked this country.”  Lanza carried 10 30-round magazines into Sandy Hook, court
documents show. He reloaded six times and fired 154 bullets from
his Bushmaster AR-15-style semiautomatic rifle in less than five
minutes, according to the documents. The measure approved
yesterday bans sales of the weapon and similar models.  Lanza’s Victims  This week, some parents of Lanza’s victims handed out
pictures of their children to lawmakers who met April 1 to
review the limits proposed in an accord hammered out by
legislative leaders. Family members sought an outright ban on
possession of high-capacity magazines, rather than the
registration requirement that’s part of the final measure.  During one of the most emotional moments of the six-hour
Senate debate yesterday, John McKinney, the Republican leader
who represents Newtown, explained why he pins a green ribbon and
a guardian angel on his lapel.  “I try to put it on my jacket every day to remember those
that we’ve lost because I stand here, I stand here as their
voice,” McKinney, 49, said. He then read the names of each of
the Sandy Hook victims, his voice wavering a times. Six of the
14 Republicans in the chamber voted for the measure.  Before the voting began, activists on opposite sides of the
issue sparred verbally in the Capitol’s hallways.  Tighter Limits  “I don’t want 30-round magazines that can wipe out our
children,” said Dan Garrett, 53, of Hamden, speaking to a group
of men wearing Connecticut Citizens Defense League stickers.
Greg Kozeman, 44, of  New Britain  said improving mental-health
access is a better solution than tighter gun limits.  Earlier, gun-rights advocates filled statehouse lobbies.  “The vote on this bill will make everyone in this room a
criminal,” said Warren Stevens, 58, a Plantsville gun owner. He
wouldn’t say what type of guns he owns or how many.  “It is no business of the state what I own,” he said.
“Their authority does not extend into my house.”  Connecticut, with a long history of weapons production, is
still home to six gunmakers. The companies include  Sturm Ruger &
Co., (RGR)  Connecticut Shotgun Manufacturing Co., Colt Defense LLC,
Stag Arms, Charter Arms, O.F. Mossberg & Sons Inc., and
Ammunition Storage Components LLC, which makes 30-round
magazines. Some have threatened to leave if the new limits pass.  The industry employs about 7,300 people in the state and
contributed $119 million in  tax revenue  in 2011, according to
the Newtown-based National Shooting Sports Foundation, a trade
group. Charter Arms calls the region “the cradle of the
American firearms industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  