-- Copper Reaches Eight-Month Low as Services Contraction Worsens
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-04-04T09:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/copper-reaches-eight-month-low-as-services-contraction-worsens.html
Copper reached an eight-month low in
 London  as worse-than-estimated European economic figures and
slumping car sales fueled concern about demand prospects when
stockpiles of the metal are the highest since 2003.  Euro-area services output contracted more than initially
estimated in March,  Markit Economics  said today. Auto sales or
registrations of new vehicles dropped last month in Germany,
Poland and Argentina, reports showed yesterday. Markets in
China, the world’s biggest copper consumer, are shut today and
tomorrow for national holidays.  “The metals market is quiet and weak so far this morning
as China enters the first day of the long weekend,” Pengjiang “Richard” Fu, director for Asian commodities trading at
Newedge Group SA in London, said by e-mail.  Copper for three-month delivery lost 0.3 percent to $7,366
a metric ton by 10:23 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange. Prices
touched $7,331.25, the lowest since Aug. 3. May-delivery futures
fell 0.3 percent to $3.3245 a pound on the Comex in New York.  Prices also slid after the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index of U.S. service businesses, released
yesterday and covering almost 90 percent of the economy, fell
more last month than estimated by analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . The International Copper Study Group says an average
midsize car contains about 50 pounds of the metal.  A report tomorrow may show employers in the U.S., the
second-largest copper user, added fewer jobs for a third month
in four in March. An ISM measure of U.S. manufacturing for last
month released this week declined the most since July 2011.  Copper  inventories  tracked by the LME rose for a 34th
session to 579,175 tons, daily exchange figures showed. That’s
the most metal since October 2003.  “Stocks are fairly elevated, so matters will improve into
the second quarter, but not just yet,” analyst  Andrey Kryuchenkov  at VTB Capital in London said by e-mail.  Orders to remove copper from warehouses jumped 19 percent
to 143,975 tons on gains in  Singapore  and  South Korea . They more
than doubled since March 27 to the highest since February 2004.  Aluminum, lead and tin declined in London as zinc and
nickel rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  