-- Covered Bonds Will Be Spared in EU Bail-In Rule, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-04T10:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/covered-bonds-will-be-spared-in-eu-bail-in-rule-lawmaker-says.html
European Union plans to impose
losses on creditors of failing banks will spare covered bonds
and other secured debt, said Gunnar Hoekmark, the lawmaker
leading work on the measures in the European Parliament.  “Secured liabilities such as covered bonds shall not be
subject to bail-in,” Hoekmark said in an e-mail, referring to
the process of writing down lenders’ creditors.  Spanish newspaper Expansion reported today that the EU may
consider forcing losses on covered bond investors in future bank
rescues as part of legislation to lift the burden from
taxpayers. EU nations have injected 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2
trillion) into their banking systems since the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to European Commission
data.  Under proposals from  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services chief, regulators would have the power to impose losses
on a crisis-hit lender’s unsecured bondholders, or convert that
debt to equity, once the bank’s capital has been wiped out. The
writedown plans  excluded  debt “backed by assets or
collateral.”  The law must give “high legal certainty,” Hoekmark said.
“This means secured liabilities shall be secured and insured
depositors shall be protected.”  “Legal clarity is crucial in order to make the bail-in
tool applicable in crisis situations,” he said.  Covered bonds are debt backed by pools of assets, usually
mortgages, that remain on the issuer’s balance sheet.  The commission said last month that it is weighing the need
for “greater harmonization” of rules for covered bonds as part
of broader bid to boost investment in the bloc’s businesses.  Covered bonds “have proved relatively resilient during the
crisis,” the commission said. Still, “markets are fragmented
along national lines.”  The EU faces a self-imposed June deadline to adopt
legislation for handling  bank failures , which requires approval
from the parliament and national governments before it can take
effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  