-- Crash-Test Ratings May Include Senior-Citizen Protection
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-04-04T15:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/crash-test-ratings-may-include-senior-citizen-protection.html
Auto-safety regulators plan to
change the rating system for new cars sold in the U.S. to keep
up with advances in technology and better protect older drivers
and passengers.  The  U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  in
a Federal Register posting today said it may create a “silver”
rating system for how well vehicles protect older occupants in
crashes. It also may consider how rear-seat passengers and
pedestrians fare in crashes and is looking at new test
procedures for electric vehicles.  While brands such as  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac are
seeking younger buyers, NHTSA Administrator David Strickland
said he thinks a ’’silver’’ rating will be attractive to
automakers because of the purchasing power of the aging baby-
boom generation.  “They’re saying nobody wants to be the car for seniors,
but the baby boom is the largest generation in the history of
this country,” Strickland said after a press conference at the
National Press Club in Washington. “And they’re buying cars.”  Older drivers and passengers are more likely than their
younger counterparts to be injured or killed in vehicle crashes,
according to data compiled by NHTSA.  NHTSA performs the crash tests on new vehicles each year
and posts the results on its  website . The tests act as non-
regulatory incentives for automakers to make safety improvements
so they can use high ratings in their marketing.  “Safety is critical to automakers, and we welcome this
notice,” said  Wade Newton , a spokesman for the Alliance of
Automobile Manufacturers, a Washington-based group whose members
include  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and General Motors. “We’re reviewing
this and will be offering constructive comments.”  Three Years  The crash tests were most recently changed for the 2011
model year. Those changes took about three years to implement,
Strickland said when asked how quickly the potential alterations
being floated this week might be made.  The last changes added rating incentives for safety
technologies including forward-collision warnings and electronic
stability control. Because electronic stability control is now
required in new vehicles sold in the U.S., having it won’t give
a vehicle a higher rating after the crash-test program is
changed, Strickland said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  