-- Cyprus Economy May Shrink 13% in 2013, Government Spokesman Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2013-04-04T13:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/cyprus-economy-may-shrink-13-in-2013-government-spokesman-says.html
Cyprus’s economy might contract as
much as 13 percent this year under the weight of austerity
measures and a restructuring of the country’s banks as agreed in
return for a bailout, the government spokesman said.  “In 2013 the recession may not be 8.7 percent as is
estimated, it may reach 13 percent,” Christos Stylianides said
in comments carried on state-run CyBC today. The European
Commission predicted before the island’s financial rescue that
the economy would shrink 3.5 percent this year.  Cyprus’s government wound up talks this week with the so-
called troika of officials representing the commission, the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank  on the
terms for the country’s 10 billion-euro ($12.8 billion) bailout.
The accord was due to be discussed at a euro working group
meeting of finance officials in Brussels today.  The bailout includes public-sector wage cuts in 2014 and
some tax increases, according to Stylianides, who said that the
government didn’t have much room to maneuver in the
deliberations with the troika. Cyprus accounts for barely 0.2
percent of euro-area economy. The banking sector will be
reorganized in an orderly manner, Stylianides said.  Cyprus sought aid in June last year, becoming the fifth
euro-area nation to request outside help after  Greece , Ireland,
 Portugal  and  Spain . It fell to the government of Nicos Anastasiades, elected on Feb. 24, to complete talks with the
troika.  ‘Into the Abyss’  On March 25, Cyprus reached agreement with euro governments
to impose losses on uninsured depositors at the country’s two
biggest banks,  Bank of Cyprus Plc  and  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) ,
as part of negotiations for its bailout. Cyprus Popular Bank is
to be shut. Cyprus’s banks were closed for nearly two weeks to
avoid capital flight, reopening on March 28 with controls
limiting financial transactions.  Leaving the 17-nation euro region “would be like jumping
into the abyss” and is not an option for Cyprus, said
Stylianides.  With implementation of the right measures and investment,
Cyprus could see an economic turnaround in 2014, he said. “We
can create the conditions to have growth more quickly than the
troika expects,” Stylianides said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  