-- Czech Retail Slump Deepens as Cabinet Sticks to Austerity Drive
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-04-04T09:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/czech-retail-slump-deepens-as-cabinet-sticks-to-austerity-drive.html
Czech retail sales declined more
than analysts forecast in February, pointing to a continued lack
of domestic demand as the central bank debates whether it needs
to weaken the currency to stimulate the economy.  Sales fell 4.7 percent from a year earlier, compared with a
0.6 percent decline in January when shopping was boosted by New
Year’s discounts, the Statistics Office in Prague said in a
statement today. The reading was worse than the median forecast
for a 2 percent decline in a Bloomberg  survey  of 11 analysts.
Working-day adjusted retail sales fell 1.7 percent in February.  After cutting  borrowing costs  three times last year to
effectively zero, the Czech Republic is in uncharted territory
as the central bank debates whether to engage in currency
interventions amid a record-long recession. The $217 billion
 economy  is contracting as households and businesses spend less
due to  Europe ’s debt crisis and government austerity measures
that trimmed the fiscal deficit more than planned last year.  “While we keep our call that this year’s contraction in
the Czech household consumption will be much softer than the 3.5
percent fall seen in 2012, we see February retail sales as a
disappointment,” Radomir Jac, the chief analyst at Generali PPF
Asset Management AS in Prague, said in an e-mail. “Retail-
sales data are contributing to mounting downside risks to
outlook of Czech economy into 2013.”  Church Settlement  The public-finance  deficit  was 4.4 percent of economic
output last year, according to revised statistics office data,
less than the government’s initial estimate of a 5.2 percent
gap. The shortfall was influenced by a one-time operation to
include a 60 billion-koruna ($3 billion) settlement with
churches for property confiscated during communism.  The government of Premier Petr Necas has cut investment,
raised sales taxes and curbed public-wage growth to trim the
budget deficit since taking power in 2010. Necas credits
government policies with helping to cut borrowing costs to
record lows and trimming state spending on debt servicing.  The  yield  on five-year koruna notes fell 172 basis points,
or 1.72 percentage points, last year, touching a record-low 0.66
percent on Dec. 27. The rate stood at 0.88 percent today.  Fourth-quarter gross domestic product shrank 0.2 percent
from the previous three months, marking the fourth consecutive
quarterly decline. Output fell 1.7 percent from the final
quarter of 2011, the steepest decline in three years. Household
spending fell 3.5 percent in the full year of 2012, the first
decline since 1998, the statistics office has said.  Policy Loosening  The central bank, which targets inflation, left the two-
week  repurchase rate  at 0.05 percent for a third meeting on
March 28, almost three-quarters of a percentage point less than
the euro-area benchmark.  The bank’s forecasts signal a need for monetary loosening
“sometime near the end of the year,” Governor Miroslav Singer
said last week, reiterating the bank is ready to use currency
interventions if needed.  The  koruna  is at the center of the policy plans as its
depreciation helps boost competitiveness of Czech goods on
foreign markets and makes imports more expensive, thus limiting
deflation risks.  The Czech currency has lost 5 percent to the euro since
Sept. 17, a day before Singer first said the central bank may
sell the currency to meet its inflation goal. It was the fourth-
worst performance in that period among the 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  