-- TD’s Masrani Targets U.S. as Clark’s Successor: Corporate Canada
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-04-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/td-s-masrani-targets-u-s-as-clark-s-successor-corporate-canada.html
Bharat Masrani, who helped oversee
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s $25 billion U.S. expansion, is likely to
add to that business when he takes over next year as chief
executive officer of  Canada ’s second-biggest bank.  Masrani, 56, has been in charge of the bank’s U.S.
operations since 2007 and was named yesterday to succeed  Edmund Clark  when the 65-year-old CEO retires in November 2014. Masrani
will become operating chief in July, moving to Toronto from
Philadelphia to begin the transition.  Toronto-Dominion, which has a goal of becoming the third-
largest bank in  New York City  by number of branches, is betting
on U.S. growth as loan demand slows in Canada. The bank has a
network of 1,325 branches from  Maine  to  Florida , about 14
percent more than it has in Canada.  “At some point, TD will become a U.S. bank that is based
in Toronto,” said  John Aiken , an analyst at Barclays Plc.
“It’s just not going to happen overnight.”  The transition could happen under  Masrani , said Aiken, who
has an overweight rating on Toronto-Dominion shares. Born in
Uganda and a Canadian citizen, Masrani has been with the
Toronto-based lender since 1987, when he started as a commercial
banker trainee.  “It was actually quite a natural choice,” Clark said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “Bharat clearly has
enormous business acumen, enormous understanding” and has had
“experience throughout the bank.”  Consumer Slump  As Masrani prepares to take the top job at Toronto-
Dominion, Canada’s banks face a slowdown in  consumer lending ,
the result of a housing slump and record levels of  household
debt .  Standard & Poor’s  said last month it expects revenue and
loan growth for Canadian banks to reach “mid single-digit
levels” in 2013, down from 9 percent and 10 percent,
respectively, in 2012.  The bank is also confronted with a low interest-rate
environment, “anemic” growth and regulatory headwinds, Masrani
said yesterday during a telephone interview.  “These are the growth challenges that are faced by all the
banks,” Masrani said. “We are placed well in meeting those
challenges. We created a franchise that continues to grow during
good times and bad times.”  Toronto-Dominion has been the best performer of the five
largest Canadian banks over the past decade. The shares  gained 
239 percent including dividends since Clark became CEO in
December 2002 through the end of last year. That compares with
the 192 percent  advance  of the eight-company S&P/TSX Commercial
Banks Industry Index during the same period.  Dog Treats  Masrani has held a variety of roles at Toronto-Dominion
including chief risk officer. In 2002, he was given the job of
helping the bank exit about C$11 billion ($10.9 billion) in
corporate loans, which he reduced ahead of schedule.  “Ed provided me with the opportunity to do different
things in the bank,” Masrani said. “And he always put it under
the umbrella of ’Bharat, this is the next development role.’”  Under Masrani, Toronto-Dominion started a strategy in the
U.S. called “retail-tainment.” Each branch features coin-
counting machines, free pens, lollipops and piggy banks for
children, as well as water bowls and treats for dogs.  “In our view, Mr. Masrani’s experience positions him well
to maintain the strategic course set by Ed Clark, particularly
with regard to the bank’s U.S.” business, said  Peter Routledge ,
an analyst at National Bank Financial Inc. in New York.  U.S. Profit  Toronto-Dominion has become the 8th-largest deposit-taker
in the U.S. through  acquisitions , said Routledge, including
 Portland , Maine-based Banknorth Group Inc. and Commerce Bancorp
Inc. of Cherry Hill,  New Jersey .  U.S. consumer banking had  profit  of C$1.42 billion last
year, representing 20 percent of earnings. Toronto-Dominion has
said it will have profit of $1.6 billion from the U.S. for the
fiscal year that ends in October.  “The main challenge for Masrani is that of the key
employee from the United States adjusting to being head of what
is really a Canadian bank,” said  Michael Smedley , who helps
manage C$1 billion at Morgan Meighen & Associates in Toronto,
including bank shares.  While Toronto-Dominion maintains it doesn’t need to make a
U.S. acquisition, Clark told investors yesterday that the bank
is “capable” of doing so during the transition period.  Management Changes  Toronto-Dominion announced yesterday that Mike Pedersen,
52, head of  wealth management  and insurance, will take over
Masrani’s U.S. role.  Tim Hockey , 49, head of Canadian consumer
banking, will add wealth management to his current role, while
Riaz Ahmed, 50, will be in charge of insurance and credit cards.  Other executives including Chief Financial Officer Colleen Johnston, 54, will have added responsibilities, while management
of the TD Securities investment bank will remain unchanged.  “I’m fortunate and blessed that we have the team that we
do, because this team has delivered,” Masrani said. “We’ll
continue to do that going forward.”  Toronto-Dominion will explain the transition to investors
today during the bank’s annual meeting of shareholders in
Ottawa.  Toronto-Dominion fell 1.2 percent yesterday to close at
C$88.43 in Toronto. The shares have declined less than 1 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  