-- Daimler’s New Trucks Chief Sets Sights on No. 1 Spot
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-04-04T07:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/daimler-s-new-trucks-chief-sets-sights-on-no-1-spot.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s new trucks chief
Wolfgang Bernhard aims to beat rivals  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  Scania AB (SCVB)  in
more than just sales in a bid to secure the industry’s top spot.  “Our shared goal is to make Daimler Trucks and Daimler
Buses the number one in the commercial-vehicle sector -- in
every way,” Bernhard said in a one-page letter in German and
English e-mailed to staff and obtained by Bloomberg. It was his
first companywide message since taking over the position April
1. A Daimler representative declined to comment on the letter.  Closing the earnings gap to Daimler’s truck-making peers
would increase Bernhard’s chances of eventually succeeding
Dieter Zetsche as the Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker’s chief
executive officer. Zetsche, who turns 60 next month, received a
three-year contract extension in February.  Daimler, the largest maker of commercial vehicles by
revenue, is lagging behind Volvo and Scania in profitability.
The truck division scrapped plans last year to increase earnings
before interest and taxes to at least 8 percent of sales by 2013
after posting a 5.5 percent margin last year. Scania’s operating
profit margin was 14 percent, while Volvo’s was 5.8 percent,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To close the gap, Daimler’s trucks division began a program
in June to lower costs by 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion) by
the end of next year.  Management Swap  Bernhard, who was previously in charge of production and
purchasing at Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz car division, said in the
letter that he intends to continue his predecessor’s course. He
swapped responsibilities with Andreas Renschler this month.  “What I have seen so far has shown me just how much you
have set in motion in recent years,” he said, citing the new
heavy-duty Mercedes-Benz trucks, new engine generations and
steps to streamline costs and improve efficiency.  Ebit at Daimler trucks fell 9 percent to 1.71 billion euros
last year, even as revenue climbed 9 percent to 31.4 billion
euros. After selling 462,000 trucks in 2012, the manufacturer
targets more than 500,000 deliveries in 2015 and 700,000 vehicle
in 2020 by expanding in  India ,  Russia  and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  