-- Dallas-Fort Worth Downgrade Dismissed by Investors: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-04-04T01:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/dallas-fort-worth-downgrade-dismissed-by-investors-muni-credit.html
Dallas-Fort Worth International, set
to become the biggest hub for the world’s largest airline, is
embarking on a borrowing plan that will make it the nation’s
most-indebted airport.  The world’s eighth-busiest facility, which will benefit
from the pending merger of US Airways Group Inc. and American
Airlines, plans to issue $736 million of municipal bonds in
April and May, part of $3.1 billion of sales it has announced
for 2013. Moody’s Investors Service last month cut DFW to five
steps below AAA, citing the rising debt load.  Still, the yield penalty on some of its bonds has shrunk by
about a third since October. Investors such as Duane McAllister
at BMO Asset Management U.S. said they like the debt because the
facility provides an essential service to a growing region. The
Dallas-Fort Worth vicinity saw the largest population jump among
metro areas last year, according to U.S. Census data.  The region “is strong and growing, and people are moving
there,” said McAllister, who helps manage $4 billion of munis
in  Milwaukee . “They’re building for the future and for the
growth, and that’s what airports have to do.”  Renovation Plan  DFW, which opened in 1974, is borrowing to renovate four
terminals and refinance debt, according to an investor
presentation. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  last
week approved the merger between American parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and
Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways. (LCC)  AMR, based in Fort Worth,
Texas, filed for bankruptcy in 2011. The merger will probably
close in the third quarter, according to the presentation.  The DFW revenue bonds are backed by rental fees and charges
the facility collects from airlines. Airport debt is beating the
broader $3.7 trillion municipal market, earning about 1 percent
this year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
with an average rating of A1, fifth-highest. That compares with
about 0.55 percent for all munis. Airport bonds have outpaced
the market for two straight years, their best run since 2006.  Investors are buying the bonds, which tend to have credit
ratings four to six steps below top-rated munis, for their
higher relative yields, McAllister said. They’re also a bet that
traffic at airports will rise as the economy improves.  Economic Leverage  The U.S. gross domestic product will grow 2.7 percent in
2014, according to the median forecast of 83 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. It would be the strongest expansion since
2006. The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index of shares of 10 carriers
gained  35 percent  last quarter, the best start to a year since
at least 1999, Bloomberg data show.  “An improving economy means more people are traveling,
whether it’s personal, leisure-type travel or business travel,”
said John Bonnell, who helps manage $4.3 billion in munis in San
Antonio at USAA Investment Management Co.  Investors are looking to lower-rated securities as muni
yields remain below historical averages. Yields on general-
obligations maturing in 20 years were  3.99 percent  last week,
compared with the 52-year average of 5.89 percent, according to
a Bond Buyer index. The index set a generational low in
December.  Dallas-Fort Worth bonds maturing November 2029 traded in
the past two months with an average spread of 0.4 percentage
point, compared with 0.63 percentage point when the facility
sold the debt in October, Bloomberg data show.  Cost Competition  “It’s that demand for incremental yield that’s driving the
yield spreads down and compressing them,” Bonnell said.  Among US Airways and American Airlines hubs, Dallas-Fort
Worth has the most daily flights and the third-lowest cost for
each departing or arriving passenger, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. report dated Feb. 8.  Moody’s said it may lower the airport’s rating if American
were to reduce flights at Dallas-Fort Worth by 10 percent or
more, Kurt Krummenacker, an analyst at the company, wrote in a
March 22 report.  Michael Phemister, vice president of treasury management at
the airport, said he doesn’t see that happening, given the
facility’s central location in the U.S. and its status as
American’s most-profitable hub.  “We just don’t see any scenario where we will lose
traffic,” Phemister said.  Flight Path  The airport in north-central  Texas  is within a four-hour
flight of 95 percent of the U.S. population, according to bond
documents. Dallas-Fort Worth served 58.6 million passengers in
2012, according to Airports Council International.  Its largest current capital project is a $2 billion plan to
renovate four terminals, bond documents show. The facility will
have $5.7 billion of debt after the sales this month and next,
the documents say.  Moody’s downgraded Dallas-Fort Worth last month to A2 from
A1.  “Total debt outstanding, already among the highest in the
nation for airports, is expected to become the highest during
2013,” Moody’s Krummenacker wrote.  The airport’s 2013 bond sales include $1 billion of debt
that had been slated for 2014 and 2015. It is bringing the
issuance forward to secure lower interest rates.  “It’s surprising that they have continued to stay this
low, and it’s our plan to take advantage of them,” Phemister
said.  Terminal Appeal  Upgrading terminals will keep the airport competitive and
help attract carriers, BMO’s McAllister said.  “There’s plenty of demand for airport debt,” he said.
“Despite the near-term concerns by Moody’s, the market would
still look favorably upon this particular issue.”  Dallas-Fort Worth heads to market as states and cities have
already scheduled  $11.7 billion  of debt sales in the next 30
days, compared with the one-year average of about $9 billion.  At  1.95 percent , the interest rate on benchmark munis due
in 10 years compares with  1.81 percent  on Treasuries with a
similar maturity, Bloomberg data show. The ratio of the two is
about  108 percent , the highest since September. The higher the
figure, the cheaper munis are relative to federal debt.  Following is a pending sale:  GRAND PARKWAY TRANSPORTATION CORP., created to finance a
new toll road around Houston, plans to sell $3 billion of
revenue debt as soon as April 15. The offer would be the year’s
largest tax-exempt sale. Proceeds will help finance segments of
the Grand Parkway project to build a 180-mile (290-kilometer)
loop road. (Added April 4)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  