-- Denmark Vows to Protect AAA Rating Amid Stimulus Plan
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-04-05T05:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/danish-economy-shrank-less-than-estimated-in-fourth-quarter.html
Denmark’s government says plans to
stimulate the economy, which has yet to surface from the fallout
of a housing bubble that burst more than four years ago, won’t
put its top  credit rating  at risk.  “A key element in our growth plan is to link our recovery
to an upswing abroad, when that sets in,” Economy Minister
 Margrethe Vestager  said in an e-mailed response to questions
received yesterday. “We plan to do that by improving
competitiveness, but we’ll stick to our plan to conduct
responsible fiscal policies.”  Denmark’s house prices have slumped more than 20 percent
since their 2007 peak, dragging down at least a dozen regional
lenders and pushing the economy into a recession. The nation’s
banking crisis has made credit scarce for small and medium-sized
businesses, which employ about two-thirds of Denmark’s labor
force. The government, which has so far kept its debt load at
half the euro-zone average, has stable AAA ratings at Moody’s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch.  Gross domestic product shrank 0.7 percent in the fourth
quarter from the third, Statistics Danmark said yesterday.
Though that’s less than the 0.9 percent contraction estimated in
February, the revision was driven by faster government
expenditure. Exports sank more than first estimated. Public
spending rose 1 percent, sales abroad dropped 2.1 percent and
 consumer spending  fell 0.1 percent, the office said. Housing
investment slipped 0.2 percent.  ‘Very Weak’  “The picture is still of a very weak 2012,” Vestager
said. “That just underlines the need for our growth package.”  The $300 billion economy contracted 0.5 percent last year,
its worst decline since 2009. Danske Bank A/S, the nation’s
largest lender, warns the government’s spending growth may put
its finances at risk, while businesses fail to recover.  “The export drop was even bigger than feared, while growth
in public expenditure was revised up significantly,”  Steen Bocian , chief economist at Danske Bank in Copenhagen, wrote in a
note. The figures suggest  government spending  is “out of step
with what’s sustainable in the longer term and there is a need
to bring public expenditure under control,” he said.  The Social Democrat-led government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt in February resorted to corporate tax cuts to
boost demand. The measure will be financed through reduced
spending on the elderly, the unemployed and students.  Aid Competitiveness  Thorning-Schmidt has said she wants to cut business costs
and align Denmark’s corporate tax rate with Germany and  Sweden 
to aid competitiveness. Danish unemployment has more than
tripled since 2008, wiping out a third of the nation’s
industrial jobs.  The three-party coalition on Feb. 26 pledged to lift annual
economic growth to 2 percent on average from 2014 through 2020,
and unveiled plans to create 150,000 private jobs by 2020
through stimulus measures.  Still, yesterday’s GDP report showed the number of people
in employment was less than previously estimated in the fourth
quarter, having dropped by 0.3 percent. The February report
showed a 0.1 percent increase in people with jobs.  The “figures confirm the overall picture of a crisis in
the Danish economy,” Bocian said.  Budget Deficit  Denmark ’s budget deficit widened to 4 percent of GDP last
year, exceeding the European Union’s 3 percent limit, according
to the statistics office. The shortfall was 1.8 percent in 2011
and 2.5 percent in 2010, it said.  “This is the first time since the financial crisis hit
that the deficit has been on the wrong side of the EU’s budget
requirement,” said Jens Naervig Pedersen, an economist at
Danske.  The wider deficit follows a one-time state payment to cover
the phasing out an early retirement option.  “That expense won’t recur this year and should support
public finances in the longer term,” Pedersen said. Denmark
will probably keep its deficit within the EU’s 3 percent rule
this year, he said.  The yield spread between Danish two-year notes and similar-
maturity German bunds narrowed yesterday to 14.9 basis points,
its smallest since Jan. 9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 10-year spread to  Germany  was 19.2 basis points,
little changed from the day earlier.  Lost Jobs  Some indicators suggest the economy has started to pick up.
Industrial production grew 7.2 percent in January from December,
while Denmark’s purchasing managers’ index indicates the
manufacturing industry has expanded every month since August.
Unemployment, including people in vocational training programs,
held at 6 percent in February, compared with 6.1 percent at the
end of last year.  Vestager repeated the government’s forecast of economic
growth between 0.5 percent and 1 percent this year.  “We believe there’ll be an improvement in 2013, which the
latest indicators support,” she said. “But one needs to be
cautious when interpreting data from a single month.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ; 