-- David Lerner Wins Dismissal of Investors’ REIT Sale Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-04T19:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/david-lerner-wins-dismissal-of-investors-reit-sale-suit.html
David Lerner Associates Inc. won the
dismissal of a lawsuit by investors who accused the brokerage of
misrepresenting the value and returns of more than $6.8 billion
worth of holdings in real estate investment trusts.  Investors in the so-called Apple REITs couldn’t establish
that they had suffered a loss because the holdings are still
performing, U.S. District Judge Kiyo A. Matsumoto said in an
opinion filed yesterday in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York.
The possibility of changes in value, which occurred when the
real estate market slumped, was disclosed to investors, the
judge found.  “Plaintiffs’ belabored complaint appears only to confirm
that the Apple REITs are currently functioning in exactly the
manner that was anticipated and disclosed in the REITs’
prospectuses and other offering documents,” the judge said in
the ruling.  Apple REITs investors sued in 2011 alleging that the
broker, known for its founder’s “Take a tip from Poppy”
advertising slogan, misrepresented the holdings as appropriate
for conservative investors.  Shares of the REITs, which focused on hotels and other real
estate, were sold to retail investors and retirees for $11 each,
according to the complaint. The Syosset, New York-based firm has
collected more than $600 million in fees and commissions while
five Apple REITs have made more than $6 billion in proceeds,
according to the complaint.  ‘Appellate Options’  “We’re evaluating the decision and we’ll consult with our
clients in regard to their appellate options,” Daniel Girard, a
lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a phone interview.  A spokesman for David Lerner Associates, David Chauvin of
Zimmerman/Edelson Inc., said in a statement that the brokerage
is pleased with the decision.  “The court rejected each of the plaintiffs’ arguments that
there were misrepresentations in the offering materials for the
Apple REITs,” Chauvin said. He said the broker “will continue
its focus on serving its customers and the investing public.”  The investors claimed the brokerage never disclosed that
the REITs failed to generate enough income from their operations
and that investors were being paid “with their own money.”  October Settlement  In October, the firm was ordered to pay $14.3 million in
fines and restitution to settle an investigation by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority into alleged
overcharging of investors in Apple REITs, municipal bonds and
collateralized mortgage obligations.  The company’s founder, David Lerner, was ordered to pay
$250,000 and was suspended for one year from the securities
industry over allegations that he personally misled investors
about the prospects for the REITs. He was also suspended for two
additional years from acting as a securities firm principal.  “As the sole distributor of the Apple REITs, DLA solicited
thousands of customers, targeting unsophisticated investors and
the elderly,” Finra representatives said in an Oct. 22
announcement. At investment seminars and in letters to
customers, Lerner described the REITs as a “fabulous cash cow”
or a “gold mine” and made unfounded predictions, according to
Finra.  The brokerage and Lerner neither admitted nor denied the
allegations under the settlement.  The case is In re Apple REITs Litigation, 1:11-cv-02919,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  