-- Deutsche Telekom Risks U.S. Exit Without Boost: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-04T21:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/deutsche-telekom-risks-u-s-exit-without-boost-real-m-a.html
Unless  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  is
prepared to abandon another attempt to exit the U.S. market, it
has to sweeten the terms of its $33 billion deal to combine T-
Mobile USA Inc. with MetroPCS Communications Inc.  Deutsche Telekom agreed in October to the merger, which
gives MetroPCS investors $1.5 billion of cash and a 26 percent
stake in a new entity that’s taking on $15 billion of debt from
Deutsche Telekom. To win support from MetroPCS shareholders in
an April 12 vote, New Street Research LLP says Deutsche Telekom
may have to cut the debt component by $6 billion, while Nomura
Holdings Inc. says MetroPCS owners want a bigger equity stake.  MetroPCS has  rallied the most  among Standard & Poor’s 500
Index phone stocks in the past three months amid optimism the
offer will be improved, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The  shares  closed at a five-month high on April 1 after two
investor-advisory firms joined Paulson & Co., the biggest
MetroPCS holder, in opposing the deal terms. While Deutsche
Telekom could choose to walk away, that would represent another
failed attempt to exit the business, following a 2011 agreement
to sell T-Mobile to  AT&T (T)  Inc. that regulators blocked.  “Deutsche Telekom has a problem: It’s probably going to be
tough to get the votes it needs,” Keith Moore, an event-driven
strategist at MKM Partners LLC, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s highly unlikely that they do nothing and lose the
opportunity, especially if you think back to how long they’ve
been working to extricate themselves of T-Mobile.”  Latest Attempt  The deal is the latest attempt by Deutsche Telekom Chief
Executive Officer Rene Obermann to revive T-Mobile, the fourth-
largest U.S. carrier, more than a decade after the Bonn-based
company entered the American market. Combined, T-Mobile and
Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS will still have a smaller
market share than AT&T, Verizon Wireless and  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , though the transaction would narrow the gap at a time
when T-Mobile is trying to differentiate its service by offering
cellular plans without contracts.  In an interview  posted  on Deutsche Telekom’s website in
October, T-Mobile CEO John Legere said the MetroPCS deal is
“not do-or-die,” adding that it would merely “accelerate a
strategy that in and of itself will be successful.”  Andreas Leigers, a spokesman for Deutsche Telekom, said the
current deal is beneficial to shareholders of both his company
and MetroPCS. Representatives for MetroPCS and T-Mobile declined
to comment.  NYSE Listing  By combining T-Mobile with MetroPCS, which is listed by the
New York Stock Exchange, Deutsche Telekom will get the business
trading publicly without an initial public offering. Not only
that, it adds customers and airwaves to help rebuild the U.S.
business.  T-Mobile lost 13 percent of its contract customers between
2009 and 2012 as it lagged behind peers in constructing faster
networks and offering Apple Inc.’s iPhone. The decline continued
in the first quarter, with the company losing 199,000 contract
subscribers even as it gained lower-spending prepaid clients,
according to a statement today. The second issue is being
addressed on April 12, when the company begins selling the
iPhone 5 for $99.99 plus two years of $20 monthly payments.  Today, MetroPCS shares rose 1.5 percent to $11.12, the
highest closing level in more than five months. Deutsche Telekom
added 2 percent to 8.52 euros, the  second-largest advance  in the
 DAX Index. (DAX)   American Underdog  T-Mobile ranked No. 4 among carriers with about 9.2 percent
of 2012 U.S. wireless service revenue, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on firms that publicly disclose
information. Verizon Wireless was the leader at 34.1 percent,
AT&T followed at 31.7 percent and Sprint was third with 15.6
percent, said Joshua Yatskowitz, a Bloomberg Industries analyst.
Even with MetroPCS’s 2.4 percent market share, the combined
company would have had only 11.6 percent of the region’s
wireless business.  Deutsche Telekom has been the underdog in the U.S. since
2000, when it agreed to buy VoiceStream Wireless Corp. The
company was later renamed T-Mobile USA. Since then, Deutsche
Telekom has written down the value of T-Mobile, including a 7.4
billion euro ($9.4 billion) charge in November, after failing to
close the gap with Verizon Wireless and AT&T.  The company almost found its exit in 2011, when AT&T agreed
to buy T-Mobile USA. That deal was killed when AT&T withdrew its
offer in the face of opposition from U.S. antitrust regulators.  Proxy Advisers  While Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, the second-biggest
 owner  of  MetroPCS (PCS) , backed Deutsche Telekom’s October 2012
takeover agreement, opposition to the transaction has gained
momentum.  Paulson & Co., MetroPCS’s top shareholder with a 9.9
percent stake, said in a Feb. 28 letter to the board that it
will vote against the merger. John Paulson, the hedge fund’s
billionaire founder, said the new company will have too much
debt at too high an interest rate and that MetroPCS is worth
more on its own. P. Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, which owns
2.5 percent and is leading the proxy fight, has asked
shareholders to vote against the deal.  Even more pressure was placed on Deutsche Telekom to offer
better terms last week when two of three investor-advisory firms
that analyzed the deal came out against it.  Glass Lewis & Co., one of the three, said the current terms
undervalue MetroPCS’s contribution to the merged entity.
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. recommended against the
merger because of unfavorable terms and the potential for
MetroPCS to thrive as an independent company.  Appeasing Shareholders  “The ISS report was the final straw,” Jonathan Chaplin, a
New York-based analyst at New Street Research, said in a phone
interview. It pushed the likelihood that management will get
enough votes to complete the deal “from unlikely to highly
unlikely territory,” he said.  The release of the Glass Lewis and ISS reports helped
accelerate  gains  in MetroPCS shares, amid speculation Deutsche
Telekom will be forced to improve the deal’s terms.  Deutsche Telekom could appease MetroPCS shareholders by
rolling over just $9 billion of  debt  onto the new company
instead of $15 billion, according to Chaplin.  “If they adjust the terms enough to win support, it will
still be a good deal for Deutsche Telekom,” Chaplin said,
citing future costs savings -- from items such as shutting down
one of the networks run by T-Mobile and MetroPCS -- that have a
net present value of $6.5 billion.  Lowering the debt would create more value for the combined
company, said Roy Behren, who co-manages the $4.5 billion  Merger
Fund (MERFX)  at Westchester Capital Management LLC in Valhalla, New
York.  ‘Main Concern’  “Our main concern is that the combined company would
emerge with too much debt,” Behren said in a phone interview.  The Merger Fund along with a group of plaintiffs that own
12.5 million MetroPCS shares asked a federal court in Manhattan
last week to delay the April 12 shareholder vote. The group said
the deal represents “a windfall to Deutsche Telekom at the
expense of MetroPCS shareholders,” according to the complaint.  The interest rate Deutsche Telekom will charge for the $15
billion intercompany loan may need to be lowered, and MetroPCS
investors may also want a larger cash dividend or a bigger stake
in the new company, said Michael McCormack, a New York-based
analyst at Nomura.  “Most shareholders believe that the intercompany loan
interest rate is fairly high,” he said in a phone interview.
With those changes, “the deal can definitely get done.”  Higher Rate  The loan is composed of two sets of notes with maturities
of six to 11 years, with rates of either 8.16 percent or 7.28
percent, according to the merger agreement. Similar-maturity
junk bonds yielded 6.24 percent on average as of yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. MetroPCS,
which has $5.5 billion of  bonds  outstanding, is  ranked  four
levels below investment grade at B+ by Standard & Poor’s.  Heike Pauls, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt,
said reducing the amount of debt and boosting the cash component
of the deal are among options Deutsche Telekom has to appease
MetroPCS shareholders.  “They should be able to make some concessions without
upsetting their own shareholders too much,” she said.  Adjusting the terms won’t drastically increase the upside
for shareholders, according to David Barden, an analyst at Bank
of America Corp. in New York. MetroPCS would be valued at $7.65
a share, based on its owners getting a 26 percent equity stake
in the new entity and Barden’s estimate that it will have $20
billion of net debt in 2014, he said in an April 2 report.  Value Range  The scenarios Barden examined valued MetroPCS at between
about $7 and $13 a share, depending on how much the debt and
equity stakes were adjusted. The shares closed at $10.96
yesterday.  During negotiations, MetroPCS had requested a 27.5 percent
stake, before the companies settled on 26 percent, according to
regulatory filings.  P. Schoenfeld Asset Management argued in a March 18  report 
that MetroPCS would be worth more without T-Mobile. In one so-
called harvest scenario, the asset-management firm said MetroPCS
would be valued at $13.27 a share based on the spectrum it could
sell while continuing to operate by using another carrier’s
network.  The investment firm hosted a conference call today to
highlight its criticism of the deal, arguing that the debt
component should be cut by $4 billion to make the transaction
fair for MetroPCS shareholders. Other options to make the merger
palatable include lowering the interest rate and boosting the
equity stake for MetroPCS owners, PSAM said.  ‘Uphill Battle’  “We believe collecting a majority vote against the T-
Mobile merger remains an uphill battle and that any efforts at
this point by dissident shareholders should be focused on
extracting improved” merger terms, Louis Meyer, a special
situations analyst with Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., wrote in a March
26 note to clients. He said MetroPCS shareholders may
reluctantly vote in support of the deal even if Deutsche Telekom
doesn’t sweeten the offer.  While small changes to improve the deal may not satisfy
Paulson and PSAM, it could be enough to get the rest of the
shareholders on board, said MKM’s Moore.  “I don’t think it’s going to take a lot to get the vote,”
he said. “The most likely outcome is that they’re going to
alter the terms, possibly by reducing the debt at the surviving
company to basically make the MetroPCS stock they receive a bit
more valuable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  