-- DIB Set to Gain Most Since 2010 Amid Tamweel Bid: Dubai Mover
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-04-04T09:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/dib-set-to-gain-most-since-2010-amid-tamweel-bid-dubai-mover.html
Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  headed for
the biggest advance in more than two years amid speculation the
Shariah-compliant bank will obtain approval to acquire the stake
it doesn’t already own in mortgage lender  Tamweel PJSC. (TAMWEEL)   Shares of the lender known as DIB surged 4.3 percent,
poised for the biggest jump since October 2010, to 2.17 dirhams
at 12:58 p.m. in Dubai. Around 16 million shares were traded,
the second most on the  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which gained 1.5
percent. Dubai-based Tamweel fell 1.9 percent to 1.06 dirhams
after soaring 9.1 percent yesterday.  DIB, which owns 58 percent of Tamweel, in January offered
the mortgage lender’s shareholders 10 DIB shares for every 18
they hold for the remaining stake. The bid, which received
approval from United Arab Emirates regulatory authorities and
DIB shareholders, is awaiting a nod from Tamweel’s minority
shareholders.  Fitch Ratings  placed Tamweel on credit watch
positive on April 2 and affirmed DIB at A, its sixth-highest
investment grade. Nobody was available from DIB to comment.  The bank’s advance is a combination of Fitch maintaining
its credit rating and “expectations” that Tamweel shareholders
will approve the bid, said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset
management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital PSC. “In addition, the
stock lagged the U.A.E. stock market’s recent rally with no
justification. The stock is trading at very attractive multiples
compared to Islamic banks regionally.”  DIB shares  trade  at 7.6 times estimated earnings compared
with 10.8 times for  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares have gained 8.5 percent this
year, underperforming the Dubai measure’s 16 percent surge.  DIB is on ratings watch for a possible cut at Moody’s
Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  