-- Dollar Index Approaches Highest Since August Before Payroll Data
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-05T11:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/dollar-poised-for-weekly-declines-versus-majors-before-jobs-data.html
The  Dollar Index (DXY)  approached the
highest level since August before a U.S. report forecast to show
payrolls increased in March, underpinning optimism the world’s
biggest economy is recovering.  The yen rose against most of its major counterparts amid
speculation its slide yesterday when the  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded
monetary stimulus was too rapid. The euro weakened after retail
sales in the 17-nation area dropped in February, adding to signs
the region is struggling to recover from recession. South
Korea’s won fell to a seven-month low against the dollar as the
risk of conflict with North Korea spurred capital outflows.  “The dollar is becoming more of a pro-cyclical currency,”
said Ian Stannard, head of European currency strategy at Morgan
Stanley in  London . “If we get a positive surprise from U.S.
payrolls we are likely to see the dollar regaining ground and it
could be the catalyst for a move higher against the yen.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, gained 0.1 percent to 82.769 at 7:05 a.m. in
New York after rising to 83.494 yesterday, the highest level
since Aug. 2.  The dollar rose 0.1 percent to $1.2921 per euro after
rising to $1.2746 yesterday, the strongest level since Nov. 21.
The yen gained 0.1 percent to 96.27 per dollar, after slumping
3.4 percent yesterday.  Japan ’s currency appreciated 0.2 percent
to 124.40 per euro.  Payrolls Increase  U.S. employers added 190,000 workers last month after
taking on 236,000 in February, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before the Labor Department reports the number at 8:30
a.m. in  Washington . The jobless rate held at 7.7 percent, the
lowest level since December 2008, a separate survey showed.  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said yesterday
she was encouraged by recent progress in the U.S. economy.  There are “signs that the economy is improving and healing
from the trauma of the crisis,” she said in a speech in
Washington. “Housing is really beginning to recover in a way
that I think is very convincing.”  The yen rallied today after tumbling at least 3 percent
versus all 16 of its major counterparts yesterday when the BOJ
said it would double the monetary base by the end of 2014.
Policy makers also temporarily suspended a cap on some bond
holdings and dropped a limit on debt maturities at the two-day
meeting in  Tokyo .  ‘Jittery Markets’  “It’s just jittery markets overall but with the BOJ having
delivered much more than most had expected, the bias short-term
in dollar-yen is higher,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong.  The yen has slumped 18 percent in the past six months, the
worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 1.2
percent and the dollar gained 2.3 percent.  The euro pared weekly gains versus the yen and dollar after
the European Union’s statistics office said retail sales in the
currency bloc fell 0.3 percent in February from the previous
month and 1.4 percent versus a year earlier.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said yesterday
officials “stand ready to act” to bolster the flagging
economy, while keeping borrowing costs at a record-low 0.75
percent at a policy meeting in  Frankfurt .  ‘Very Weak’  “Data-wise things are still going to be very weak within
 Europe  and that is going to keep the ECB in a dovish mode,”
Morgan Stanley’s Stannard said. “In the longer term we are
bearish and think the weak data will catch up with the euro.”  The won declined for a second day after North Korea said
yesterday it passed a law authorizing “counter-actions” against
U.S. aggression including a nuclear strike.  “Geopolitical risks have been significantly magnified this
week, triggering selloffs of South Korean assets as investors
were unsure how the situation would develop under the new leader
of the communist state,” said Han Sang Soo, a money manager at
Samsung Asset Management Co., which oversees about $114 billion.  The won slid 0.7 percent to close at 1,131.69 per dollar in
 Seoul  after falling to 1,131.73, the weakest since Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  