-- Draghi’s Introductory Remarks at ECB Press Conference: Text
-- B y
-- 2013-04-04T12:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/draghi-s-introductory-remarks-at-ecb-press-conference-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the introductory remarks of European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today.  ECB policy makers left the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.75 percent.  Mario Draghi, President of the ECB
Vitor Constancio, Vice-President of the ECB
Frankfurt am Main, 4 April 2013  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on
the outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council.
Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided
to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. HICP inflation
rates have declined further, as anticipated, and price
developments over the medium term should remain contained.  Monetary and loan dynamics remain subdued. Inflation
expectations for the euro area continue to be firmly anchored in
line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but
close to, 2% over the medium term. At the same time, weak
economic activity has extended into the early part of the year
and a gradual recovery is projected for the second half of this
year, subject to downside risks. Against this overall background
our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long
as needed. In the coming weeks, we will monitor very closely all
incoming information on economic and monetary developments and
assess any impact on the outlook for  price stability . It is
essential for governments to intensify the implementation of
structural reforms at national level and to strengthen euro area
governance, including the implementation of the banking union.
They should also build on progress made in fiscal consolidation
and proceed with financial sector restructuring.  We are also closely monitoring money market conditions and their
potential impact on our monetary policy stance and its
transmission to the economy. As said on previous occasions, we
will continue with fixed rate tender procedures with full
allotment for as long as necessary.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis. The outcome for real GDP in the
fourth quarter of 2012 was weak, with Eurostat’s second estimate
indicating a contraction of 0.6% quarter on quarter. The decline
was largely due to a fall in domestic demand but also reflected
a drop in exports. Recent data and indicators confirm that the
economic weakness extended into the early part of the year.
Looking forward, euro area export growth should benefit from a
recovery in global demand and our monetary policy stance should
contribute to support domestic demand. Furthermore, the
improvements in financial markets seen since last summer should
work their way through to the real economy, notwithstanding
recent uncertainties. Together, this should help stabilise euro
area economic activity and lead to a gradual recovery in the
second part of the year. At the same time, necessary balance
sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors, and the
associated tight credit conditions, will continue to weigh on
economic activity.  This economic outlook for the euro area remains subject to
downside risks. The risks include the possibility of even weaker
than expected domestic demand and slow or insufficient
implementation of structural reforms in the euro area. These
factors have the potential to dampen the improvement in
confidence and thereby delay the recovery.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 1.7% in March 2013, down from 1.8% in February.
The ongoing decline in annual inflation rates mainly reflects
the energy component of the  price index . Looking ahead, price
developments over the medium term should remain contained in an
environment of weak economic activity in the euro area.
Inflation expectations are firmly anchored and in line with
price stability over the medium to long term.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be
broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside risks
relating to stronger than expected increases in administered
prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher  oil prices , and
downside risks stemming from weaker economic activity.
Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. The annual growth
rate of M3 moderated to 3.1% in February, down from 3.5% in
January. The annual growth rate of the narrow monetary
aggregate, M1, increased to 7.0% in February, from 6.6% in
January. At the same time, MFI deposits in a number of stressed
countries strengthened further in February.  The annual growth rate of loans (adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation) to non-financial corporations and households
remained broadly unchanged in February, at -1.4% and 0.4%
respectively. To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflect
the current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk
and the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector
balance sheets. At the same time, available information on non-
financial corporates’ access to financing indicates tight credit
conditions, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises
in several euro area countries.  In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential
that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets is reduced
further and the resilience of banks strengthened where needed.
However, considerable progress has been made since last summer
in improving the funding situation of banks, in strengthening
the domestic deposit base in stressed countries and in reducing
reliance on the Eurosystem as reflected in repayments of the
three-year LTROs. Further decisive steps for establishing a
banking union will help to accomplish this objective. In
particular, in the light of recent experience, we must emphasise
that the future Single Supervisory Mechanism and a Single
Resolution Mechanism are crucial elements for moving towards re-
integrating the banking system and therefore require swift
implementation.  To sum up, taking into account today’s decision, the economic
analysis indicates that price developments should remain in line
with price stability over the medium term. A cross-check with
the signals from the monetary analysis confirms this picture.
As regards fiscal policies, euro area countries should build on
their efforts to reduce government budget deficits and continue
to implement structural reforms, thereby mutually reinforcing
fiscal sustainability and economic growth. Fiscal policy
strategies need to be complemented by growth-enhancing
structural reforms. Such reforms should be ambitious and broad-
ranging, encompassing product markets, including network
industries, labour markets and the modernisation of public
administration. To support employment, wage-setting should
become more flexible and better aligned with productivity. These
reforms will help countries in their efforts to regain
competitiveness, set the foundations for sustainable growth and
support the return of macroeconomic confidence.  We are now at your disposal for questions. 