-- Draghi Says EU Needs Bank-Loss Rules Earlier, by 2015
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-04T14:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/draghi-says-eu-needs-bank-loss-rules-earlier-by-2015.html
European Union regulators need the
power to force losses on bank investors no later than 2015,
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said, endorsing a
push from Germany and like-minded nations to speed the process.  “We would like to see these rules enter into force not in
2019, 2018, but way way earlier, like 2015,” Draghi said at a
press conference in Frankfurt today. He said it’s “very
urgent” that the EU adopt a framework for restructuring or
shutting down banks so governments will no longer need to take
“ad hoc” actions, as they did in imposing losses on depositors
in Cyprus.  EU leaders have set a June deadline for governments and the
European Parliament to agree on legislation setting out how
authorities should handle bank failures, including through so-
called creditor bail-ins. In the absence of such a system,
nations have injected 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) into
their banking systems since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., according to European Commission data.  Germany, Finland, the Netherlands and Denmark say the rules
should be phased in by 2015 along with other parts of the law,
rather than in 2018, as the European Commission has proposed,
according to a briefing paper prepared last month. The four say
investors are anticipating the new regime and delays could
interfere with that process.  Nations are weighing a proposal as part of this effort that
would allow regulators to require banks to hold a minimum amount
of a new class of convertible debt specifically designed to
absorb losses if needed. This should be considered separately
from the rules to facilitate writedowns, the paper from Germany,
Finland, the Netherlands and Denmark said.  Pecking Order  Draghi said today that regulators should be able to tap
senior bank bondholders and other bank investors before
resorting to large depositors. As a condition of receiving 10
billion euros in aid, Cyprus is imposing big losses on uninsured
depositors in its two biggest banks, which did not have enough
of creditors to tap.  “The existence of buffers of bail-in-able assets is
essential,” Draghi said.  EU lawmakers and national governments agreed on March 19 to
a provisional deal to turn the ECB into a supervisor for banks
in the euro zone and other willing nations. The EU is working on
proposals to standardize procedures for insuring deposits and
shutting down banks, and proposals for a common bank resolution
framework are due later this year.  The European Parliament lawmaker managing the bloc’s bank-
resolution bill has pushed back against the effort to speed
rules on creditor writedowns when lenders fail.  “Markets and investors need time to adjust,”Gunnar Hoekmark, a Swedish legislator in charge of the Brussels-based
assembly’s work on a draft law handling bank failures in the 27-
nation bloc, said March 28 in a post on Twitter. Rules imposing
creditor writedowns will be most effective if they are
implemented after other parts of the law have already come into
force, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  