-- Draghi Says Euro-Area Inflation Risks Are ‘Broadly Balanced’
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-04-04T13:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/draghi-says-euro-area-inflation-risks-are-broadly-balanced-1-.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi comments on inflation, the economic outlook for the
euro area and the developments in Cyprus.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
today after policy makers kept interest rates unchanged at a
record low of 0.75 percent.  On importance of the euro:  “People underestimate the amount of political capital
invested in the euro. They vastly underestimate the amount of
political capital that’s been invested in the euro. It’s a very
important thing, it’s a project in the European Union. There is
no plan B.”  On rates:  “The discussion was extensive, all in all, the consensus
was for the time being not to look at rates.”  On inflation:  “Based on our regular economic and monetary analysis, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. HICP
inflation rates have declined further as anticipated and price
developments over the medium term should remain contained.
Inflation expectations for the euro are continue to be firmly
anchored.”  “The ongoing decline in annual inflation rates mainly
reflects the energy component of the price index.”  “Price developments in the medium term should remain
contained in an environment of weak economic activity in the
euro area.”  “Inflation expectations are firmly anchored and in line
with price stability over the medium term.”  “Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to
be broadly balanced. Underlying monetary expansion continues to
be subdued.”  “Price developments should remain in line with price
stability over the medium term.”  On economic development:  “Weak economic activity has extended into the early part
of the year and a gradual recovery is projected for the second
half of the year subject to downside risks. Against this
backdrop our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative as
long as needed.”  “We will monitor all incoming information and assess the
outlook for price stability. It is essential for governments to
intensify structural reforms at national level.”  “As said on previous occasions we will continue with fixed
rate tender procedures with full allotment as long as
necessary.”  “Recent data and indicators confirm that the economic
weakness extended into the early part of the year. Looking
forward euro area export growth should benefit from a recovery
in global demand.”  “The improvements in financial markets since last summer
should work their way into the real economy, notwithstanding
recent developments. This should help stabilize euro-area
economic activity and lead to a gradual recovery in second part
of the year.”  “Tight credit conditions will continue to weigh on
economic activity. Risks include the possibility of weaker than
expected domestic demand and slow or insufficient implementation
of structural reforms in the euro area.”  “This economic outlook for the euro area remains subject
to downside risks, including even weaker than expected domestic
demand and slow or insufficient implementation of structural
reforms.”  “Annual growth rate of loans to non-financial companies
and households remained broadly unchanged in February. Subdued
loan dynamics reflect the current stage of the business cycle,
heightened credit risk, and the ongoing adjustment of balance
sheets.”  “It’s essential that the fragmentation of financial
markets is reduced further.”  “Further decisive steps for establishing a banking union
will help accomplish this objectives.”  “As regards fiscal policies, euro area governments should
build on their efforts to reduce deficits and implement
structural reforms. Fiscal strategies need to be accompanied by
growth enhancing reforms to support employment wage setting
should become more flexible and better aligned with
productivity.”  “On the standard side, we acknowledge that the
continuation of last year fourth quarter has extended into this
year and shows weakness. Second we have now the confirmation
that HICP is edging down well below 2 percent though with some
volatility and certainly dependent on energy prices and also
exchange rate developments.”  “We see now that this weakness is extending to countries
where fragmentation is not an issue, although tentatively we see
signs of reducing fragmentation at least on the funding side,
also in the stressed countries, our monetary policy will remain
accommodative.”  “Don’t forget Eonia is 6.7 basis points, almost zero. We
will assess all the incoming data and will stand ready to act.
As far as nonstandard measures, we are looking at various
instruments, various tools, we will take into account other
countries experiences. We will see which ones are either
feasible or effective in out specific institutional context.”  “On the other hand the role of national central banks in
assessing credit quality becomes important. We will have to rely
on other actors, and the role of national central banks in
assessing credit quality becomes important.”  “I acknowledge the weakness that has been transferred into
the first part of this year, that HICP has been edging down, and
that the weakness has been spreading to countries where there’s
no fragmentation.”  “Even in stressed countries, we see some diminishing
fragmentation on the funding side.”  On Cyprus:  “The ECB had presented a proposal where no bail in of
insured depositors was foreseen. All the proposals by commission
and IMF. had the same feature. Then it started a prolonged
negotiation. The outcome of which was what you saw. That was not
smart, to say the least, and was quickly corrected the day after
in a Eurogroup teleconference.”  “What was wrong with the Cyprus economy doesn’t stop being
wrong if they’re outside the euro. The restructuring of the
banking system would be needed anyway, whether you’re in our
out. To be out doesn’t preserve the country from the need for
action. Exit entails many risks, big risks.”  “My sense is that a country would find itself having to
pursue the reforms in a much more difficult environment.”  “We acted exactly within our mandate. We would have been
acting politically if we had not done this. ELA could be
extended only to solvent and viable banks. In the absence of a
program, these bans would not have been solvent and viable, and
at that time the governing council assessed there was no program
in place. On all other occasions, there was a program in
place.”  “I don’t think that the view that we are acting
politically is actually correct. We have a mandate that has been
given to us by the legislators and we are acting within that
mandate.”  “We view positively any measure that cuts the link between
sovereigns and banks.”  “Cyprus events show that we are ready to act within our
mandate. When the governing council objected to ELA, it did that
within its mandate. It did not replace what could have been
fiscal action.”  “Cyprus is no template. I am absolutely sure --we didn’t
have a chance to talk -- that the chairman of the Eurogroup had
been misunderstood.”  “It was not a smart move, it’s been corrected.”  On funding:  “We have addressed fully” issue of lack of funding.  “It so happens that this measure works beautifully in some
countries and doesn’t work at all in other countries. The issue
is to understand why it doesn’t work in certain peripheral
countries.”  “One should always be mindful of what the ECB can do and
cannot do. We cannot replace lack of capital in banking system,
we cannot compensate lack of action by governments. In many
countries the most powerful measure is to pay back the arrears.
The ECB cannot replace governments on that front. The ECB cannot
replace the lack of action by governments on structural reforms.
Not all experiences are encouraging, some of these programs have
been undertaken, but we’ve seen very little action on the credit
side.”  “We will continue thinking about this issue in really a
360 degrees way. In the coming weeks, we will monitor very
closely all incoming information on economic and monetary
developments and assess any impact on the outlook for price
stability. Our institutional setup and the experiences of other
countries tell us we need to think deeply.”  “If anything, the events on Cyprus, have reinforced the
governing council’s determination to support the euro while
maintaining price stability and acting within our mandate.”  “Thanks to OMT and what I’ve called positive contagion in
the financial markets, we are now in a position to cope with
serious crises without them becoming existential or systemic.”  “There is a very large liquidity surplus. After the Cyprus
events, and these are today’s data, we see that target 2
balances continue to decline, and slightly less than 50 percent
of the net amount injected by the LTRO has been repaid.”  “Cyprus is no template, Cyprus is no turning point in the
euro policy. We have to be able to resolve banks without using
taxpayers money and without disrupting the payment system.
That’s why we have to have a resolution framework in place.”  On exchange rates:  “Our exchange rate is not a policy target. But our
exchange rate is important for growth and for price stability we
take  into account foreign exchange developments. Like we take
into account other developments in the formulation of our
policy.”  “We don’t precommit on interest rates.”  “The exchange rate is not a policy target but its
important for growth and price stability.”  “The reason for its movements are several. Look what
happened to the exchange rate in the past two months, it went
up, in the context of high confidence, and then it went down. So
we always look at the complete picture, there are many factors
that affect the exchange rate level.”  On bail-ins, SSM:  “The entry into force and implementation of the single
supervisory mechanism is absolutely essential. There is no
better way to prevent this crisis than shedding light of the
situation of the banking systems by this oversight that will be
in place with the single supervisory mechanism.”  “Any delay on this front is extremely disappointing.”  “We should also ask the question, what makes a bail-in a
problem. A bail-in by itself is not a problem. It’s the lack of
ex ante rules known to all parties that can make a bail-in a
disorderly event.”  “The existence of buffers of bail-in-able assets is
essential. We would like to see these rules enter into force not
in 2019, 2018, but way, way earlier, like 2015. Its very urgent
that we have in place a European framework for resolution,
restructuring, and recap of the banking system. These are the
lessons I would draw from the Cyprus event.”  “There are different inclinations about mutualizing
potential losses stemming from banking systems. The SSM wouldn’t
actually call for a mutualization so it could actually speedily
proceed.”  “The council is now called to sign these two measures so
that they can enter into force as soon as possible.”  “You have a pecking order, ideally uninsured depositors
should be the very last category to be touched. There is a
specific distinction between different categories of bondholders
in the draft directive. Where banks are properly supervised
where their size will not outsize the economy where they reside,
but they have enough buffers.”  “You want to make sure that there’s a situation where
banks are properly supervised, but that they have enough
buffers, be that capital or other bail-in-able assets. To a
great extent when you look at the other jurisdictions of
resolution mechanisms there’s not much of a difference.”  “The FDIC has an explicit distinction between uninsured
depositors and bondholders. One wants to make sure the same
distinction is going to be present in the commission draft
directive.”  On ELA:  “There’s nothing in the market that says ELA is senior,
but if you want to remain as a monetary policy counterparty,
you’d better be good to that.”  On countries with big banking sectors:  “The recent experience shows that countries where the
banking sector is several times bigger than the economy are
countries that on average have more vulnerabilities. We’ve seen
this everywhere, beginning with U.K. You have to run your
country and your banking system in a more conservative way than
you would do otherwise.”  “One thing to do is downsize, but you have to run your
banking sector  in more conservative way than you’d do
otherwise. Namely don’t have budget deficits.”  “You realize a country has a wrong business model only
when a crisis erupts.”  On monetary policy:  “You also had progress, 2012 has been an extraordinary
year in the progress that’s been made at the level of euro-area
governments. The buck doesn’t stop with the ECB, it’s really a
three pillar construction.”  “It’s important that progress continues.”  “We said we are considering both standard and non standard
measures and we are thinking 360 degrees on the non-standard
measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  