-- Drummond’s Coal Workers Begin Voting on Wage Accord Renewal
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2013-04-04T19:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/drummond-s-coal-workers-begin-voting-on-wage-accord-renewal.html
Workers at  Drummond Co. ,  Colombia ’s
second-biggest thermal coal producer, began voting on demands
for a three-year labor accord, a union official said.  Workers will set their demands for a wage increase and
improved health benefits by April 16, Drummond union negotiator
John Mendoza said. The union will have as long as 60 days to
reach an agreement with the company.  “We’ve held the first of three assemblies,” Mendoza said
today in an e-mailed response to questions. “We’ll present the
list of demands agreed to by the workers at the end of April.”  Miners in March ended a monthlong strike at the Cerrejon
mine owned by  BHP Billiton Plc (BLT) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo American
Plc (AAL)  after signing a labor accord that included annual pay rises
and better health insurance. A drop in coal exports curbed
economic growth in the first quarter, according to Finance
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas , prompting the central bank to cut
its benchmark rate by a half point to 3.25 percent on March 22.  An armed group bombed and fired bullets at the
Sintramienergetica union office in the northern city of
Valledupar on April 2, hours before the workers’ vote, Mendoza
said. Mendoza said he and other union officials received death
threats from a paramilitary group in telephone calls.  “The situation isn’t good,” Mendoza said. “But despite
this, I will remain at the forefront of this negotiation.”  Guerrilla attacks  Paramilitary groups which have battled the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, for decades, accuse union
officials of supporting guerrilla activities. Rebels have
attacked Cerrejon four times this year.  Drummond, based in Birmingham,  Alabama , restarted coal
exports last month after the government lifted a three-week ban
on its loading operations March 1.  The government is investigating a Jan. 12-13 incident in
which Drummond dumped what it described as water mixed with coal
into the Caribbean to prevent a barge from sinking.  Drummond controls more than 2 billion tons of reserves and
shipped about 29 million tons of coal in 2011, according to its
 website . Paulo Gonzalez, a Drummond spokesman, didn’t respond to
telephone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  Thermal coal for delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp in 2014 rose 0.7 percent to $93.65 a ton today,
according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  