-- Meat Industry Renames Beef, Pork Cuts Before U.S. Grill Season
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-04T22:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/meat-industry-renames-beef-pork-cuts-before-u-s-grill-season.html
The U.S. meat industry is renaming
about 350 cuts of meat to make labels more consumer-friendly and
less anatomically-focused, marking the first major overhaul of
industry nomenclature in 40 years.  Two years of consumer research by industry groups showed
that the labeling of certain cuts in the grocery store were
confusing to shoppers, said Trevor Amen, director of market
intelligence for the  National Cattlemen’s Beef Association  in
Denver. Under the old naming model, established in the 1970s,
package labels were lengthy and anatomically-based, he said.  The changes are “about eliminating some of those meat-
industry butcher terms that may be confusing or unappealing,”
Amen said in a telephone interview today. “We just really want
to make it simplified for the consumer when they’re shopping.”  For example, the cut of meat previously called “beef
bottom round heel side boneless” will be labeled “merlot
steak” under the new order. A “pork loin center rib sliced
bone-in” will be called a “ribeye roast.”  The new  labeling  recommendations include a common name
first, such as “porterhouse steak,” followed by characteristics,
such as “beef, loin bone-in,” and then preparation instructions,
including “grill for best results.” Consumers may see the new
labels in stores within the next several months, Amen said. Meat
demand tends to rise in the warmer summer months of June, July
and August as consumers grill outdoors.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and
Inspection Service and Agriculture Marketing Service were kept
informed of the changes.  Government Support  “USDA is definitely in support of this new standard
because it should equate to more consumer-friendly names for the
meat,” Sam Jones-Ellard, a spokesman for the USDA AMS, said in
a telephone interview.  The updated  nomenclature  to the Uniform Retail Meat
Identification Standards, known as URMIS, were approved by the
Industry-Wide Cooperative Meat Identification Standards
Committee, a board of professionals in the retail, meat and
packing sectors, on March 27, Amen said. While the naming is
voluntary, the majority of food retailers use the method, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  