-- ECB Data Show Possible Jump in Borrowing by Cypriot, Greek Banks
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2013-04-04T22:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/ecb-s-data-show-possible-increase-in-borrowing-by-cypriot-banks.html
A 26 percent jump in a line item on
the European Central Bank’s balance sheet is pointing to a rise
in emergency borrowing by banks in Cyprus and  Greece .  “Other claims on euro-area credit institutions” rose to
almost  89 billion euros  ($114 billion) for the week ended March
29, up from a 12-month low of 70 billion euros two weeks
earlier. The balance-sheet item, published yesterday on the
ECB’s website, includes Emergency Liquidity Assistance, or ELA,
provided by national central banks when a country’s lenders
don’t have enough collateral to borrow directly from the ECB.  Cyprus agreed March 16 to a bailout from the European Union
that included a tax on all bank deposits, a condition that left
politicians racing for almost two weeks to revise the aid
package and exempt insured funds from losses. Some money
transfers from the banks were allowed while the firms were
closed during the talks. The banks opened last week with capital
controls limiting withdrawals and overseas transfers.  “Even if this increase is not all due to ELA, most of it
probably is,” said Giuseppe Maraffino, a fixed-income
strategist at Barclays Plc in  London  who tracks the numbers.
“This could be showing that deposits are flowing out of Cyprus
and being replaced by central-bank funds.”  Irish, Greek and Cypriot banks were the ELA facility’s main
users until February, when Ireland liquidated a bank relying on
the funds and transferred the liability to another part of its
balance sheet. Greek banks had 21 billion euros of ELA
assistance and Cypriot banks held 9 billion euros by the end of
that month, the latest for which national central banks’ data is
available.  Spain, Portugal  In addition to ELA funds, the other claims item includes
transactions such as repos related to another balance-sheet item
and legacy lending by central banks of new euro members. The
difference between the amount of other claims and total ELA
lending has changed little in the eight months through February.
The ECB doesn’t disclose a breakdown by country.  Spanish and Portuguese central banks’ balance sheets also
show signs that their domestic institutions are using ELA funds,
though neither country has acknowledged it. Other claims on
credit institutions stood at 2 billion euros for the Bank of
Spain in February and 1 billion euros for Bank of  Portugal .  All 17 member central banks’ balance sheets are
consolidated in the ECB’s. While the ECB releases the eurosystem
financials weekly, member institutions publish their figures
monthly. The true extent of ELA borrowing by Greek, Cypriot,
Spanish or Portuguese banks won’t be clear until the national
balance sheets are revealed later this month or in May.  Deposit Flight  Under a final agreement with the EU, Cyprus is imposing
losses of as much as 60 percent on uninsured deposits at two of
its largest banks, while sparing insured funds. The decision to
burn some depositors and restrict money movements will hurt
confidence in other weak economies and banking systems of the
euro zone, ratings company DBRS said in a report last week.  “During the current period of low-to-no growth in  Europe ,
it is certainly possible that a run on Cypriot deposits could
spread, in spite of existing or future controls on capital,”
wrote Fergus McCormick, head of sovereign ratings at DBRS in New
York.  A total of 378 billion euros was pulled from the banks in
Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Greece and  Italy  in the 13 months that
ended in August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
flight was reversed after the ECB pledged to buy government
bonds of countries that apply for aid and agree to reforms.  Euro-zone banks’ direct borrowing from the ECB fell last
week by 2 billion euros to 904 billion. That figure has declined
since June, when it peaked at 1.26 trillion euros.  Spanish and Italian banks have been the biggest borrowers
of ECB cash. In February, Spanish banks were borrowing 272
billion euros from the central bank, and Italian banks had 281
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  