-- ECB Policy Debate Said to Skirt Loan Plan for Small Businesses
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-04-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/ecb-talks-today-said-to-skirt-lending-plan-for-small-businesses.html
European Central Bank policy makers
skirted a debate on how to boost lending to small and medium-
sized companies at their meeting yesterday because officials
haven’t yet drawn up a proposal, said three people with
knowledge of the deliberations.  Five months after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said he wasn’t
satisfied with funding conditions for small companies in some
countries, officials are only now beginning to examine their
options, the people said on condition of anonymity, because the
talks are private. The Governing Council recently tasked
committees to develop proposals, one of the people said.  Draghi said yesterday that financing conditions for small
and medium-sized enterprises remain tight in several of the 17
euro-area nations. With the economy in its second year of
 recession  and a fumbled Cypriot bailout rattling confidence
among investors and entrepreneurs, policy makers are looking for
new ways to foster  economic growth .  The ECB is prepared to cut interest rates if the economy
deteriorates further, Draghi said, without giving more guidance.
The ECB kept the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record
low of 0.75 percent, as predicted by all but two of 56
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “We will assess all the incoming data in the coming weeks
and we stand ready to act,” Draghi said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt .  Next Decision  At the same time, the ECB’s next course of action is
uncertain. The central bank is wary of introducing measures
which, like the Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme,
might have only limited success in boosting credit supply for
companies, one of the people said.  “We will see which ones are either feasible or effective
in our specific institutional context,” Draghi said. “One
should always be mindful of what the ECB can do and cannot do.”  In November, Draghi drew attention to a lack of credit
access for small and medium-sized companies.  “When we are asked whether we are satisfied with the
financing conditions, the answer is: no, we are not satisfied at
all,” he said then. “We are observing a fragmentation of the
euro area, a re-nationalization of the banking systems,
differences in the cost of funding that go beyond the
fundamentals.”  Small and medium-sized companies account for about half of
all employment in  Italy  and  Spain , compared with about a third
in  France  and  Germany , and those companies have seen their
borrowing costs rise relative to rivals in Germany since the
beginning of the sovereign debt crisis.  In Italy, 75 percent of SMEs reported higher financing
costs and 47 percent said banks were less willing to lend, the
ECB’s latest survey of companies released in November showed.
Spanish companies cited similar conditions, while in Germany and
France the number of smaller companies that saw borrowing costs
fall outweighed those facing steeper interest rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  