-- Egypt Women’s Groups, Secularists Attack New Election Rules
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-04-04T14:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/egypt-women-s-groups-secularists-attack-new-election-rules.html
Egyptian secularists and rights
groups criticized election laws approved by parliament that
allow parties to use religious slogans in campaigns and drops a
requirement to put women candidates high on their lists.  The Islamist-led Shura Council, the upper house of
parliament and the only one functioning after courts shut down
the lower chamber, yesterday approved a political rights law
that dropped a ban on religious slogans. It was replaced by a
clause that prohibits slogans involving “gender and religious
discrimination.”  The council also gave initial approval for amendments to
election laws that could give women lower positions on electoral
lists. The assembly’s Legislative and Constitutional Affairs
Committee agreed that each candidate list should include at
least one woman, without stipulating how high she should be
placed. The previous version required at least one female
candidate in the top half of the list.  The changes may add ammunition to critics of President
Mohamed Mursi who say he’s seeking to impose an Islamist agenda
on  Egypt  and subject women to religiously motivated
restrictions. Protests against Mursi, who is from the Muslim
Brotherhood, have frequently turned violent in recent months,
especially after he pushed an Islamist-drafted constitution
through a referendum in December.  ‘Disastrous Effects’  “Allowing religious slogans in campaigns will have
disastrous effects and will deepen the current political
polarization,” said Gamal Eid, a human rights lawyer, in a
phone interview. “This is a cheap attempt by the regime of the
Muslim Brotherhood to take the political battle in a religious
direction.”  The assembly is reviewing election rules after a court
blocked Mursi’s plan to hold a vote this month, and said
amendments to the laws require judicial scrutiny. The president
has said October is a possible date.  “The constitution states Islam is the religion of the
state, and at the same guarantee the freedom of beliefs,” Essam el-Erian, vice chairman of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
Party and a member of the Shura Council, said on April 2 during
a session to debate the election rules.  “You can’t ban anyone from expressing their religious
views,” El-Erian said. “If we’re going to ban religious
slogans, then let’s ban all ideological slogans.”  The passage of the draft law triggered a walkout by liberal
and leftist parties, which accused the legislative body of
working in favor of Islamists, the state-run Ahram gate
reported.  Mervat Tallawy, head of the National Council for Women,
criticized the proposed change over female candidates. “The
situation of women is going from bad to worse,” she said. “The
president says he wants to protect  women’s rights , but then when
it comes to actual lawmaking, women are being set back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  