-- Egyptian Net Foreign Reserves Fell to $13.4 Billion in March
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-04-04T11:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/egyptian-net-foreign-reserves-fell-to-13-4-billion-in-march.html
  Egypt ’s foreign currency reserves
fell in March to $13.4 billion as the country pushed ahead with
talks for an International Monetary Fund loan.  The drop from $13.5 billion in February was the smallest
monthly decline since December. Reserves are more than 60
percent lower than their end-2010 levels, before the uprising
that ousted longtime leader  Hosni Mubarak  and ushered in
turmoil that has deterred tourists and foreign investors.  Egypt’s effort to decrease imports of non-essential items
may have helped to slow the decline, Mohamed Abu Basha, an
economist at investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Cairo,
said by phone today. Still, “the idea that it’s difficult to
boost reserves back to comfortable levels without the IMF shows
the urgency to strike the deal,” he said.  Planning and International Cooperation Minister Ashraf El- Arabi has told Al Arabiya satellite channel that the country
hopes to raise its reserves to about $16 billion by the end of
June. El-Arabi separately said Egypt would reach a final
agreement with the IMF on a $4.8 billion loan within the coming
two weeks, state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported today.  Previous rounds of loan talks have been delayed amid
political bickering and unrest in Egypt that have made it harder
for the government to push through IMF-linked measures such as
tax increases.  Central Bank Governor Hisham Ramez told reporters this week
that Egypt’s priority was meeting the basic needs of its
population and that his job was to monitor inflation and
“preserve the reserves as much as possible.”  Allies including  Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia  and  Turkey  have given
Egypt billions of dollars in financial support since the
uprising. The central bank said late last month it didn’t
receive any such deposits in February and March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  