-- Telecom Italia Board Is Said to Consider M&A Options Soon
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-04-05T07:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/telecom-italia-s-board-said-to-evaluate-merger-options-next-week.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s board plans to
evaluate measures at a meeting next week to bolster the
company’s mobile-phone business, including potential mergers and
acquisitions, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  One option that will be discussed at the April 11 gathering
is a potential combination with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s
wireless unit H3G SpA, one of the people said, asking not to be
named because the deliberations are private. While Telecom
Italia could be interested in eliminating a competitor, the
Milan-based company doesn’t want to spend cash, and offering
stock would dilute investors’ interest, the person said.  H3G is the smallest of Italy’s four network carriers with
9.5 million customers at the end of last year. Based on its
 reported  earnings and multiples of publicly-traded European
carriers compiled by Bloomberg, the Hutchison unit could be
valued at about 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) without a
premium.  “Consolidation in the Italian market would have strong
industrial logic and going from four to three operators via in-
market consolidation would create value for all remaining
operators,” said Luigi Minerva, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc
in  London , who rates Telecom Italia’s stock neutral.  Since 2011  Spokesmen for Telecom Italia and H3G declined to comment. A
Hutchison spokesman in Hong Kong didn’t return phone calls and
an e-mail seeking comment.  A representative for Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  Telecom Italia jumped 7.8 percent yesterday in Milan
trading after Bloomberg News reported the scheduled board
meeting and the discussions over a potential H3G deal. The stock
rose as much as 9.9 percent for its biggest intraday increase
since August 2011.  Today, the shares slipped 2.9 percent to 56.2 cents at 9:19
a.m. in Milan. Hutchison fell 2.6 percent to HK$79.90 on the
Hong Kong exchange.  Telecom Italia Chief Executive Officer Franco  Bernabe (BNBC)  has
repeatedly called for consolidation in Italy’s 40 billion-euro
telecommunications industry. The former monopoly holds the
largest share of the country’s wireless market, followed by
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) ’s Wind unit and H3G.  Antitrust Issues  Hutchison held discussions in 2010 over a sale of the
business to Telecom Italia, and the talks didn’t result in a
deal because of differences in valuation, people with knowledge
of the matter said at the time.  H3G’s revenue rose 10 percent last year to 1.97 billion
euros, while earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization climbed about 3 percent to 264 million euros,
according to Hong Kong-based Hutchison’s  annual results .  Western European phone companies trade at an average
enterprise value, which includes debt, of about 5.8 times
Ebitda,  data  compiled by Bloomberg showed.  A combination of Telecom Italia with HG3 would create an
operator with about 45 percent of Italy’s wireless subscribers,
based on  data  compiled by regulator Agcom for the third-quarter
of 2012. Antitrust scrutiny would have the potential to stop a
deal or impose significant remedies, UBS AG analysts wrote.  “While the pay-off is potentially large, the actual odds
of this deal are low in our view because of antitrust control
and fiscal issues,” Andrea Devita, an analyst at Banca Akros
SpA, said by phone.  Sweden, Ireland  Hutchison is working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
examine the possibility of merging H3G with Telecom Italia, la
Repubblica reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information.  As Asia’s biggest investor in mobile-phone networks in
Europe, Hutchison’s Three division also operates in the U.K.,
 Sweden ,  Denmark , Austria and Ireland.  Telecom Italia is selling assets and cutting jobs as it
looks for ways to reduce debt and raise money for investments.
The company is considering spinning off its fixed-line network,
an asset estimated by Findim Group SA, the carrier’s second-
largest shareholder, at about 13 billion euros to 15 billion
euros.  Telecom Italia is controlled by Telco SpA, an investment
group that includes  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  and  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  