-- Electronics Industry Upheaval Accelerates as PC Sales to Drop
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-04-04T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/electronics-industry-upheaval-accelerates-as-pc-sales-to-drop.html
Consumer-electronic shoppers are
increasingly favoring tablets and smartphones at the expense of
personal-computer sales, according to a report from research
firm Gartner Inc.  Shipments of tablets are estimated to jump 70 percent in
2013 as more lower-priced models are released, while smartphones
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Samsung Electronic Co.’s Galaxy
S4 will advance 48 percent, according to Gartner.  By contrast, desktops, full-size laptops, lightweight
notebooks and computers that are convertible into tablets will
fall 3.5 percent, Gartner said. Excluding the newer slimmer 
models, shipments of traditional PCs will drop 7.6 percent.  Customers are using mobile devices for a broader array of
computing needs. The shift has benefited Apple and Samsung,
whose sales and profits have grown, while revenue at companies
dependent on personal computers such as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Microsoft Corp. have slumped.  “For PC vendors, this is bad news,”  Carolina Milanesi ,
research vice president at Gartner, said in an interview. “The
decline is happening in a much sharper way than what we
initially anticipated.”  The drop in traditional computer shipments indicates that
Microsoft’s redesign of the  Windows operating system  hasn’t
created the kind of demand computer and chipmakers like Hewlett-
Packard and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  had hoped for, Milanesi said. PC sales
fell 3.5 percent last year, according to Gartner.  “The hope was that everybody was going to get excited
about Windows 8 and upgrade their devices, but they are
struggling,” Milanesi said.  Microsoft, Apple  Further challenging Microsoft is that as consumers spend
more time on smartphones and tablets, the ecosystem around those
devices, such as Apple’s  App Store  and Google’s Play, becomes
more important, Milanesi said. The sale of software applications
through those digital storefronts threatens Microsoft’s Office
software business, she said.  “If you’re doing your tax returns you don’t need to have
an Excel spreadsheet,” she said.  Dell, once the top seller of personal computers, is another
victim of the switch. Founder  Michael Dell  is attempting to take
the company private as part of an effort to adjust to the
changing dynamics away from the scrutiny of the public stock
market.  While the PC business is struggling, the overall consumer-
electronics industry is growing. When combining shipments of
phones, tablets and personal computers, device shipments will
increase 9 percent in 2013 to 2.41 billion, up 9 percent from
last year, Gartner said.  Google’s Android operating system will account for 36
percent of those devices, Microsoft’s Windows software 14
percent, and Apple’s iOS and Mac software 12 percent, Gartner
said.  Total device shipments are projected to hit 2.96 billion by
2017, Gartner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 