-- Emerging Stocks Slip on Korea as U.S. Jobless Claims Rise
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-04T21:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/emerging-stocks-fall-to-two-week-low-as-korean-tensions-escalate.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped for a
fourth day, dragging the benchmark index to its lowest level in
two weeks as an increase in U.S. jobless claims and tensions on
the Korean peninsula muted the global economic outlook.  The won sank to a six-month low as the risk of conflict
with North  Korea  curbed demand for South Korean assets.  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  tumbled after recalling vehicles
for electronic defects. OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest
lender, drove gains on the BUX Index.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa index 
fell to the lowest since July as oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA slumped after its credit rating was cut by
Standard & Poor’s.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.8 percent to
1,017.06 in New York, bringing its decline this week to 1.7
percent. North Korea stepped up threats against the U.S,
authorizing its military to conduct a potential “smaller,
lighter and diversified nuclear strike.” Claims for jobless
benefits in the U.S. rose more than economists estimated last
week, data released today showed.  “Concern over the unpredictability in Korea is part of the
problem,” Christopher Orndorff, who helps oversee $450 billion
as a senior portfolio manager at Western Asset Management Co. in
 Pasadena ,  California , said by phone. The jobless claims data
“raises the stakes for the nonfarm payroll number tomorrow,”
he said.  U.S. employers probably added a net 200,000 workers to
their payrolls last month, after taking on 236,000 in February,
according to the median of 58 economists surveyed before
tomorrow’s data from the Labor Department.  ETF Slips  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.3
percent to $41.71. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, jumped 4.6 percent to
19.20.  Nine of the 10  industry groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index dropped, led by a gauge of consumer discretionary
companies. The broader index has lost 3.6 percent this year,
compared with a 6.3 percent advance in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades at
10.6 times  estimated  earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 1.2 percent, the most since
Nov. 15. Trading volumes in the Kospi were 17 percent higher
than the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Volumes for  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex were 33 percent lower.  ‘Negative Catalysts’  Kim Jong Un’s regime, which hasn’t demonstrated it is
capable of putting a nuclear device on a ballistic missile,
didn’t specify what kind of weapon could be used in a potential
strike, according to today’s statement carried by the official
Korean Central News Agency.  “Tensions on the Korean peninsula act like negative
catalysts to pull markets down,” Attila Vajda, an analyst at
ACB Securities Co., said in Ho Chi Minh City. “Any event
causing uncertainties leads to a correction.”  The won weakened 0.6 percent to the lowest level since
Sept. 13.  Brazil’s Bovespa dropped 1.6 percent as Citigroup Inc.
lowered its forecast for the benchmark equity gauge, citing
“anemic” economic growth and quickening inflation. OGX slumped
11 percent, leading declines in the  emerging markets  gauge after
S&P cut its rating and reduced the outlook to negative from
stable.  Hungary Rallies  Hungarian stocks rallied as central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said he will use foreign-currency reserves as part of a
500 billion-forint ($2.1 billion) program to boost lending and
support the economy. OTP advanced 2.3 percent.  The central bank may cut its foreign-currency reserves by 3
billion euros, keeping the reduction within its risk threshold,
Matolcsy told reporters in Budapest today. The forint reversed
earlier losses, gaining 1 percent against the euro, the most
since Jan. 17.  Russia’s Micex Index fell 0.1 percent. Surgutneftegas
advanced as much as 4.2 percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised
it to overweight from neutral yesterday, citing expectations it
will boost earnings visibility.  JPMorgan equity-derivatives strategist Bram Kaplan
recommended buying the emerging market  ETF (EEM)  versus S&P 500 call
switches to play a potential mean-reversion of the
outperformance of the U.S. benchmark.  Vietnam ’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  dropped 1.7 percent, the steepest
decline since March 4. The Sensex sank 1.6 percent. Markets in
 China , Hong Kong and  Taiwan  are closed for holidays.  Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.1 percent to a two-month high on
speculation fund inflows will quicken in the run-up to national
elections. Prime Minister Najib Razak dissolved the legislature
yesterday, paving the way for polls within 60 days.  Automakers Slip  Hyundai Motor, South Korea’s largest automaker, fell 5.1
percent, its biggest loss since Nov. 5. Kia Motors dropped 3.3
percent, the most since Jan. 25. The companies recalled more
than 1.7 million vehicles from for electronic defects.  Thailand ’s  SET Index (SET)  erased an earlier decline of as much
as 2.6 percent after the nation’s anti-corruption agency
dismissed a case against Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and
the central bank ruled out the possibility of property-price
controls. The benchmark gauge added 0.5 percent.  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest producer of the fuel,
rose 3 percent in Mumbai, the most since April 19. India plans
to raise 200 billion rupees ($3.7 billion) selling part of its
stake in Coal India and narrow the widest budget deficit among
major emerging economies.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 301 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  