-- Energy Financier Hannon Armstrong Seeks $250 Million in IPO
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-04-04T23:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/energy-financier-hannon-armstrong-seeks-250-million-in-ipo.html
Hannon Armstrong Sustainable
Infrastructure Capital Inc., which filed plans Feb. 15 for an
initial public offering, more than doubled the amount its
seeking to raise from investors.  The  finance company , based in Annapolis,  Maryland ,
increased the “proposed maximum aggregate offering price” to
$250 million from $100 million, according to a filing today. It
plans to offer 13.3 million shares for $14 to $16 apiece, and
its common stock has been approved for listing on the  New York 
Stock Exchange under the symbol HASI. Underwriters will have the
option to purchase nearly 2 million additional shares.  The deal would be the biggest for a U.S. business focused
on renewable energy and energy efficiency since 2010, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst Stefan Linder.  “This would be the largest U.S. clean energy IPO in three
years,” Linder said by e-mail.  The company plans to qualify as a real estate investment
trust, or REIT. It’s an entity created in November for that
purpose by Hannon Armstrong Capital LLC, which is the largest
financier of energy efficiency projects for the U.S. federal
government, according to the filing.  The company may become the first in the industry to tap
into the REIT structure, which may provide a cheaper source of
capital for projects in need of funding, he said.  “Hannon Armstrong is aiming to pass through income from
renewable energy and energy efficiency loans to shareholders,”
Linder said. “They’re the first company we know of to get the
stamp of approval from the IRS,” he said.  The unit pursuing the IPO would provide debt and equity
financing for projects that “increase energy efficiency,
provide cleaner energy sources, positively impact the
environment or make more efficient use of natural resources,”
it said. Hannon Armstrong Capital would become part of that unit
following the IPO.  Bank of America Corp .,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are
managing the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  