-- Enron’s Skilling in Talks With U.S. on Possible New Term
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/enron-s-skilling-in-talks-with-u-s-on-possible-new-term.html
 Jeffrey Skilling, the former Enron
Corp. chief executive officer, is in talks with the U.S. Justice
Department to possibly reduce his 24-year sentence for helping
mastermind the fraud that brought down the world’s biggest
energy-trading company.  The U.S. issued a notice April 3 to thousands of former
Enron employees and shareholders asking them to alert
authorities by April 17 if they wish to express their views in
court on a possible new sentence. The  notice  didn’t provide any
details about the basis of the talks, though a person familiar
with the matter said a resolution may speed payment of
restitution to victims.  “On occasion, the U.S. Department of Justice enters into
agreements with defendants to resolve certain disputed matters
concerning sentencing,” the department said. The U.S. “is
considering entering into a sentencing agreement with the
defendant in this matter.”  The talks were disclosed 11 months after Skilling’s lawyer,
Daniel Petrocelli, said his client would seek a retrial based on
what he called newly discovered evidence. Last month, U.S.
District Judge Sim Lake in Houston, where Enron was based, gave
the 59-year-old Skilling until May 28 to file a request for the
new trial, according to court records.  Patrick Stokes and Robert Heberle, two of the government
lawyers on the case, didn’t immediately return calls for comment
on the notice.  ‘Substantially’ Jeopardize  While a federal appeals court in April 2011 upheld
Skilling’s conviction, the judges ruled he still needs to be
resentenced because the trial court incorrectly applied a
sentencing enhancement used when defendants “substantially”
jeopardize a financial institution.  Skilling has delayed the resentencing with his bid for a
new trial, and a sentencing deal could speed up the court-
ordered restitution to victims that hinges on the case being
resolved, according to the person familiar with the matter, who
asked not be identified because the talks are private. The
restitution amounted to as much as $45 million at the time of
Skilling’s conviction in 2006.  The U.S. may have entered into negotiations with Skilling
to avoid a new trial that could highlight problems with the way
it handled evidence in the case, said Matt Orwig, a white-collar
defense lawyer at Jones Day in  Dallas , who served as U.S.
Attorney in the city from 2001 to 2007.  ‘Routine Housekeeping’  The talks could also be a “routine housekeeping matter”
or a tactical decision “to speed up sentencing and put this
whole issue behind them,” Orwig, who wasn’t involved in
Skilling’s prosecution, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Skilling, imprisoned at a low-security facility in
Littleton,  Colorado , was convicted by a Houston jury in 2006 of
misleading investors about Enron’s financial condition. He was
also convicted of lying to auditors and insider trading.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Prisons, he’s scheduled to be
released on Feb. 21, 2028, when he will be 74.  Enron, once the world’s largest energy trader, filed for
bankruptcy in 2001 after revelations that it was using off-
balance-sheet vehicles to hide billions of dollars in losses and
inflate the company’s stock price. More than 5,000 jobs and $2
billion in employee retirement funds were wiped out, while
investors sued to recover more than $60 billion in losses.  Lay Conviction  Kenneth Lay, Enron’s founder and chairman, was convicted of
leading the fraud alongside Skilling. Lay’s conviction was
erased when he died six weeks after the verdict, before he had a
chance to appeal.  If Skilling reaches a sentencing deal with the U.S. and
it’s approved by the court, a judge will schedule a new
sentencing hearing and the government may be barred from
appealing a final order, the Justice Department said in
yesterday’s notice to victims.  Last year’s court filing about a bid for a new trial didn’t
give details of new evidence. Petrocelli didn’t immediately
return a call for comment yesterday on the U.S. notice.  Skilling has been challenging his conviction for five
years. The U.S. Supreme Court agreed that he had been convicted,
partly, on an improper legal theory. The high court sent his
case to the federal appeals court in New Orleans for further
review.  The appellate court in turn upheld the verdicts, finding
that evidence against Skilling was sufficient to convict him
regardless of the improper legal theory.  Skilling, who is from Pittsburgh, studied at Southern
Methodist University in Dallas and Harvard Business School. He
joined Enron in 1990 and oversaw its expansion from a pipeline
company to a broad-based trading and energy-services concern.  The case is U.S. v. Skilling, 04-cr-00025, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  