-- Henry Paulson Says Fannie Mae’s Profits Shouldn’t Deter Overhaul
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-04-04T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/henry-paulson-says-fannie-mae-s-profits-shouldn-t-deter-overhaul.html
Henry Paulson , who took  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  into federal conservatorship in 2008, said he’s
worried that the companies’ return to profitability may be seen
as reason to scrap an overhaul of U.S. mortgage finance.  “I had to pinch myself,” the former Treasury secretary
said of his reaction to news that Washington-based Fannie Mae
generated record profits last year. “I could hardly believe
what I was reading.”  Paulson, who made the comments in an interview airing this
weekend on Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ,” said the turnaround shouldn’t deter Congress and
President Barack Obama’s administration from making changes that
may include unwinding the government-sponsored enterprises.  Fannie Mae, which was seized along with  Freddie Mac  in
September 2008 amid soaring losses on risky loans during the
credit crisis, reported net income of $17.2 billion for 2012 in
an April 2 statement. McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac said in
February that it earned $11 billion last year.  The change in fortune for the two companies reflects
recovery in the housing market and is a good thing for taxpayers
because the government’s losses may end or be less than
projected, said Paulson, 67, who was chairman and chief
executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc (GS)  before serving as
Treasury secretary under President  George W. Bush .  ‘Can’t Afford’  “Today, the government is guaranteeing 90 percent of the
mortgages,” he said. “If the government keeps doing this, and
markets aren’t allowed to work, we’ll be right back where we
were in 2007 and 2008. We’ll have people buying houses that they
can’t afford to buy.”  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buy mortgages from lenders and
package them into securities on which they guarantee payments of
principal and interest. They have drawn $187.5 billion in
Treasury aid since they were taken into conservatorship in 2008
and have sent back $65.2 billion in dividends, which count as a
return on the government’s investment and not as a repayment.  Paulson also said he was concerned by reports that the
Obama administration is encouraging banks to lend to borrowers
with lower credit scores.  “How crazy is that?” he said. “You know, I was hearing
the same thing in 2005 and 2006.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  