-- Heritage Says Arbitration Over Uganda Tax Claims Not Over
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-04-04T16:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/heritage-oil-says-arbitration-over-uganda-tax-claims-not-over.html
Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL) , a U.K. oil and gas
exploration company, rejected press reports that it had lost an
arbitration case over tax claims by the government of  Uganda .  The company is at odds with Uganda over potential tax
liabilities from the sale of oil and gas assets in 2010. The
$283.4 million placed in escrow in  London  in July of that year
remains in place, the London-based company said today in a
statement.  Heritage slumped 7.1 percent to 165 pence, its steepest
drop since August 9, after the New Vision newspaper earlier
 reported  the company lost the arbitration case.  “Heritage is concerned to note that press comments
attributed to the Ugandan authorities regarding the arbitral
decision are inaccurate as well as being breaches of the
requirement of confidentiality imposed upon both parties to the
proceedings,” it said in the statement.  The monies were deposited with  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  bank
as part of a settlement to allow  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  to complete the
acquisition of Heritage’s assets in Uganda. Tullow paid about
$1.5 billion to Heritage for its interests in Block 1 and 3A in
the Lake Albert basin. The African state withheld final approval
of the deal until the capital gains tax issue was resolved.  Heritage is also involved in an appeal in the Ugandan
courts after depositing $121.5 million with the African nation
government also in July 2010.  Tullow in 2011 paid the Ugandan government $313 million,
which the African nation believes it was owed by Heritage as
capital gain tax. Tullow has been trying to recover the money in
a separate arbitration case, which started in London last month,
George Cazenove, a spokesman for Tullow, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  