-- Europe's Banks Will Continue Relative Decline
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-04-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/europe-s-banks-will-continue-relative-decline.html
Europe’s biggest banks will fall
further relative to a gauge of euro-area shares because a
measure comparing the two has dropped below a long-term trend
line, according to a technical analyst at ING Groep NV.  A weekly price chart showing the  ratio  between the  Euro
Stoxx Banks Index (SX7E)  and the Euro Stoxx 50 Index has crossed a
downward trend line that connects highs from October and
November 2009, and July 2010. That suggests shares of lenders
have yet to bottom, according to a report by Roelof-Jan van den Akker, a senior technical analyst at ING in Amsterdam. The
measure also closed below its 40-day exponential moving average
in March for a second bearish signal, he wrote.  “The banking relative chart is disappointing and suggests
that the recent recovery could be followed by further
underperformance in the coming weeks and months,” Van den Akker
wrote in the note dated yesterday.  The Euro Stoxx Banks Index dropped 2.6 percent to 101.91
yesterday. The gauge slumped 11 percent in March, its biggest
decline in 10 months. It has tumbled 9.3 percent so far this
year, while the benchmark of the euro area’s biggest companies
has gained 0.1 percent.  Lenders will probably extend their decline relative to the
Euro Stoxx 50. A break below the July 2012 low in the
relationship between the two indexes would confirm further
losses by bank shares relative to the Stoxx 50, Van den Akker
wrote in the note.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of price, volume and other trading data to predict changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  