-- Euro-Area March Services Output Contracts More Than Estimated
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-04-04T08:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/euro-area-march-services-output-shrinks-more-than-estimated-1-.html
Euro-area  services output  contracted
more than initially estimated in March as the economy struggled
to pull out of the recession.  An index of services activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers in the industry declined to 46.4 last month
from 47.9 in February, London-based Markit Economics said today.
That’s below an initial estimate of 46.5 published on March 21.
A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  A  composite index  for the services and manufacturing
industries fell to 46.5 from 47.9, matching the initial
estimate, Markit said. The composite gauge has been below 50 for
14 straight months.  The euro area was plunged into turmoil again in March after
finance ministers decided to impose losses on depositors at
Cypriot banks in exchange for a 10 billion-euro ($12.8 billion)
bailout. While the economy has contracted for five straight
quarters, recent data suggest  Germany  may help lead the currency
bloc to a recovery. Still, economists predict the European
Central Bank probably will keep its  benchmark rate  at a record
low 0.75 percent today.  “The recession has definitely eased, as there has been
progress, led by Germany,” said Christian Schulz, senior
economist at Berenberg Bank in London and a former ECB official.
“But the political uncertainties will weigh on  confidence , and
thus growth. Now with Italy and Cyprus the recovery will be a
bit more wobbly.”  Central Bank  The ECB will maintain its key interest rate at 0.75 percent
at the Governing Council’s meeting in Frankfurt, according to
the median of 56 economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The
central bank has held its key rate at that level since July and
just two of the economists polled forecast a cut this time. The
decision is due at 1:45 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Concerns about the bailout for Cyprus last week helped push
the euro to a four-month low against the U.S. dollar. The
European currency, which traded as low as $1.2751 on March 27,
the weakest since Nov. 21, was at $1.2804 at 8:55 a.m. in
London, down 0.4 percent on the day.  With the debt crisis still plaguing  Europe , the ECB last
month cut its economic forecasts, predicting a euro-area
contraction of 0.5 percent this year and growth of 1 percent in
2014. Draghi repeated the scenario that expansion would
eventually return to  Europe’s economy  in the second half of this
year. The ECB president will hold a press conference after
today’s rate decision.  All-Time High  The recession has pushed euro-area unemployment to an all-
time high of 12 percent. A record 19.1 million people were out
of work in February, up 33,000 from the prior month, data showed
this week.  German chemical maker Lanxess AG last month forecast a
bigger-than-estimated drop in profit for the current quarter on
weak demand in the tire and automotive industries. Dublin-based
Accenture Plc, the world’s second-largest technology-consulting
company, last week forecast quarterly sales that fell short of
analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  