-- Europe to Shut 10 Refineries as Profits Tumble
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-04-05T12:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/europe-to-shut-10-refineries-as-profits-tumble.html
Oil refiners in Europe will shut 10
percent of their plants this decade as fuel demand falls to a
19-year low.  Of the region’s 104 facilities, 10 will shut permanently by
2020 from France to Italy to the Czech Republic, a Bloomberg
survey of six European refinery executives showed. Oil
consumption is headed for a fifth year of declines to the lowest
level since 1994, the International Energy Agency estimates.
Two-thirds of European refineries lost money in 2011, according
to  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) , owner of the U.K.’s second-largest plant.  “Purely from the falling European demand point of view,
one bigger refinery or two smaller plants would have to shut in
Europe every year,” David Wech, who helps advise oil companies
and governments as managing director at researcher JBC Energy
GmbH, said in a phone interview from Vienna. “And it’s not even
assuming any negative impact from more competitive refining
markets in other regions.”  A 50 percent jump in three years in U.S. diesel exports
coupled with waning demand for imports of European fuels, as
well as two recessions in five years in the euro region, have
curbed profit from oil products at companies from Italy’s  Eni
SpA (ENI)  to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  Refining margins dropped to $7
this month, from a peak of about $20 a barrel in 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The losses are being compounded by the configuration of
Europe’s refineries. Most of the plants, more than 50 percent of
which were constructed in the wake of World War II, are geared
toward gasoline production, though  diesel  now accounts for 75
percent of the region’s motor fuel needs.  Legacy Sites  At the same time, newer facilities in the Middle East and
Asia are refining cheaper crude grades into high-value fuels.
Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil producer, is building
three refineries each the size of Shell’s Pernis plant in the
Netherlands, Europe’s largest facility with a capacity of
400,000 barrels a day.  “Brand new Middle Eastern and Indian refineries are just
shiny, beautiful, latest technology,” said Volker Schultz,
chief executive officer of Essar Oil U.K., the British unit of
Essar Energy that runs the Stanlow plant near Liverpool,
England. They are “world class, world scale, you name it,” he
said.  Refiners in Europe are also falling behind because U.S.
competitors have access to cheaper crudes and natural gas, while
Russian companies benefit from a more favorable export-tax
regime, according to Schultz. European fuel demand is on course
to drop to 13.6 million barrels a day this year, from 15.4
million in 2008, according to the IEA. Brent crude was trading
today at $105.10 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange and
is poised for a 4.5 percent drop this week.  No Money  “Not many companies have money to invest as the refining
market has collapsed,” said Tomasz Kasowicz, a Warsaw-based
analyst at Bank Zachodni Wbk SA who has sell recommendations on
Polish refiners Polski Koncern Naftowy Orlen SA and  Grupa Lotos
SA. (LTS)  “I don’t think current owners of European refineries will
make decisions to invest in this circumstance, and they would
probably rather exit” if their business can’t make profit.  Greece’s  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE) , Portugal’s  Galp Energia
SGPS SA (GALP)  and Grupa Lotos are among the few European refiners that
invested more than 1 billion euros ($1.28 billion) each in
boosting plant profitability. A three-year project that cost
Grupa Lotos 1.5 billion euros turned its Gdansk facility into a
“pro-diesel refinery,” according to Marek Herra, a Gdansk-
based production director  Expensive Upgrades  Hellenic Petroleum spent 1.4 billion euros upgrading its
Elefsina refinery, a multi-year project started before the
recession.  Without that investment “we would be in trouble now, with
only one refinery generating cash for the entire group,” Harry
Panitsidis, a project director at Hellenic, said in an interview
in Amsterdam on March 5. “And it’s a big question if people
would start today” on a similar project, he said. “You need to
be very big and very robust to do that now.”  Since 2008, refining capacity in northwest Europe has
fallen in line with shrinking fuel demand, while a decline in
consumption in the Mediterranean region outpaced a slide in
capacity by 1.1 million barrels a day, according to Facts Global
Energy’s Annual World Refining Outlook for 2013. This is five
times the size of the Coryton refinery in the U.K., which closed
last year after its Swiss-based owner, Petroplus Holdings AG,
filed for bankruptcy.  Petroplus was among independent refiners that bought plants
from major international oil companies including BP and Shell
that were reducing their exposure to Europe’s refining industry.  Continental Drift  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
controls about 40 percent of the world’s oil supply, also
acknowledges the continent’s weakness.  “There’s no demand, Europe has been flat since 2005,”
OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla el-Badri said yesterday at a
conference in Paris. “The growth is minus 0.2 percent, so the
European economy is the only risk we have in our forecast.”  Italy, where diesel demand dropped in February to the
lowest level in almost 10 years, will probably see refinery
closures, according to analysts and refiners surveyed by
Bloomberg. There are no signs of recovery this year in the
country’s fuel consumption, which may still decline by a further
10 percent, said Marco Schiavetti, director of supply and
trading at oil-refiner  Saras SpA. (SRS)  “This is a very depressing
situation,” he said.  Italy, France  The Mantova refinery in Italy, owned by  MOL Hungarian Oil
and Gas Plc (MOL) , is among those at risk of closure, according to
Kasowicz of Bank Zachodni. Domokos Szollar, head of
international communications at MOL, said in an e-mail the
company doesn’t plan to close any of its refineries and has
initiated “a wide efficiency measure project.”  Petroplus’s Petit Couronne facility in France is struggling
to find a buyer and remains closed for now. Other French
refineries face a high risk of shutting permanently, according
to the poll of refinery executives and analysts including Gemma
Parker at Facts Global Energy.  Total SA (FP) ’s Feyzin and La Mede plants,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s
Fos facility or the Lavera refinery part-owned by Ineos Group
Holdings SA are all potentially at risk since they compete in
the same market amid low demand for gasoline, Parker said.  An Exxon media official, who declined to be identified
citing company policy, said the company had no comment. An Ineos
official in Lavera didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Total Pledge  Total will honor its pledge, made when it decided to shut
the Dunkirk plant in 2010, not to close any other refineries
until 2015, Victoria Chanial, a Paris-based spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. “In the European market, our strategy is to adapt
capacities to demand evolution and optimize the industrial
system by focusing investments to position the best performing
sites among the leaders and maximizing synergies,” she said.  Eastern Europe also has a substantial surplus of refining
capacity, with several plants there already operating at low
utilization rates, according to JBC Energy’s Wech. Ceska
Rafinerska AS’s Litvinov plant in the Czech Republic is among
those at risk of closure, Kasowicz said.  “This refinery should change the production mix, and a
major shareholder may not do it this year,” Kasowicz said.  A Ceska Rafinerska official said the company isn’t
authorized to comment on the refinery itself, saying questions
should be posed to shareholders.  Unipetrol AS (UNIP)  is the majority
shareholder. Mikulas Duda, Unipetrol’s press department manager
in Prague, said in an e-mail that “despite the challenges, we
believe that our refineries, including the Litvinov plant, will
continue operations in the foreseeable future.”  Essar Energy’s Schultz said he was struck by the differing
fortunes of cash-strapped European refiners versus their
competitors elsewhere when he attended a conference in New York
earlier this year. At that event, small U.S. refineries
discussed multi-billion-dollar cash reserves and how they should
invest, “and you just sit back and think ‘this is not real’,”
Schultz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  