-- Levi’s to Zara Egypt Suppliers at Risk From Ratings: Arab Credit
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-04-04T06:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/levi-s-to-zara-egypt-suppliers-at-risk-from-ratings-arab-credit.html
Mohamed Talaat Khalifa says if
trucks carrying his company’s garment exports manage to avoid
unrest at Egyptian ports and secure scarce diesel, he can’t
escape banks charging more money to do business.  Six credit rating cuts at Moody’s Investors Service and
five at  Standard & Poor’s  since the 2011 uprising have prompted
global banks to demand more to finance imports of raw material,
said Khalifa, chief investment officer at Al Arafa Investments &
Consulting, which counts Zara and  Banana Republic  among clients.
Magdy Tolba, head of exporter Cairo Cotton Center, says his
suppliers now demand payments in advance.  Higher costs for everything, from import financing to fuel
and insurance, are offsetting gains from a 6.6 percent drop in
the Egyptian pound this year amid the worst slide in foreign
reserves in at least 15 years. The country’s credit risk has
surged the most in the world after  Argentina  in 2013, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, as violence, political unrest and
a currency crisis shattered the initial optimism that followed
the June election of President Mohamed Mursi.  “As an exporter I am in a better shape, but you can’t be
happy in your apartment if the building is not fine,” Khalifa
said by phone from Cairo. “If the country doesn’t start to show
signs of recovery, all manufacturers will come under pressure
and at risk of losing customers.”  Limited Supply  The cost of insuring  Egypt ’s dollar-denominated debt
against default for five years has jumped 188 basis points, or
1.88 percentage points, this year to 698 yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The government’s local-currency
borrowing costs for one year climbed 78 basis points in the last
debt sale to almost 14.5 percent, the highest since September,
according to central bank data on Bloomberg.  The most-populous Arab country, which imports fuel and
wheat, is rated Caa1 at Moody’s, the fifth-lowest junk score.
The nation is rated B- at S&P.  The central bank started to limit dollar funding to banks
at the end of December to conserve dwindling reserves, which
have plunged more than 60 percent since the uprising to $13.5
billion in February, enough to cover less than three months of
imports.  Essential Imports  “My job is to preserve the reserves as much as possible,”
central bank Governor Hisham Ramez told reporters at a
conference in Dubai April 2. The regulator’s focus is to secure
“essential” imports while the government attempts to obtain a
loan agreement with the  International Monetary Fund , he said.
“Once things start moving, the market will go back to normal
and supply and demand will meet.”  The dollar shortage has led to the emergence of an
unregulated  currency market , where the gap with the official
 exchange rate  is as wide as 17 percent, according to a dealer in
Cairo who asked not to be named because his trade is illegal.
The crisis has forced some companies, such as carpets exporter
 Oriental Weavers (ORWE) , information technology company  Raya Holding (RAYA) 
and private equity firm  Citadel Capital  to switch part of their
debt into pounds, paying higher  interest rates .  Oriental Weavers shares dropped 22 percent last year even
as the benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  soared 51 percent. Al Arafa’s
dollar-denominated shares have slumped 21 percent in 2013,
compared with a 10 percent slide in the index.  ‘Boost Margins’  Ramez and Egyptian officials are counting on the IMF loan
to lock in about $10 billion in support from lenders including
the  World Bank  and the  African Development Bank . The currency’s
weakness will also “boost margins,” Oriental Weavers said in a
statement on March 6. “Oriental Weavers is positioned as a net
exporter with substantial U.S.-dollar-denominated revenues,” it
said.  Trading in  non-deliverable forwards  shows investors expect
the pound to weaken about 7 percent in three months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the meantime, the “credit rating of Egypt and Egyptian
banks is affecting in a big way,” Khalifa of Al Arafa said.
“This is reflected in the costs of the letters of credit and
the letters of guarantees. The import activity is difficult.”  For textile companies to benefit from the currency
weakness, the percentage of imported raw materials must not
exceed 40 percent, compared with the current level of as much as
70 percent, said Tolba, head of Cairo Cotton Center.  ‘Granting Discounts’  After the uprising, the company lost two of its biggest
clients, Macy’s Inc. and Calvin Klein Inc. “Macy’s for me was
an account of $12 million a year. I was a supplier to them for
19 years,” Tolba said in an interview at his office in Cairo.
He shifted his focus to  Europe  and opened a factory with a
Turkish partner supplying Levi’s jeans, he said.  More than two years after the uprising, Al Arafa has
managed to keep all clients “at the expense of our margins,
granting discounts and offering promotions, delivering by air,”
Khalifa said.  “Our strategy is retaining our customers at any cost,
because if you lose your margins, you still have a future, but
if you lose your clients, you don’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net  