-- Ex-Im Bank Chief Defends Boeing Aid Delta Seeks to Block
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-04T17:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/ex-im-bank-chief-defends-boeing-aid-delta-seeks-to-block.html
U.S. Export-Import Bank Chairman
Fred Hochberg defended backing  Boeing Co. (BA)  after  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL)  sought to block the lender’s financing for foreign carriers
that buy the manufacturer’s planes.  Airlines “have a choice, they can fly Boeing-built
airplanes or Airbus-built airplanes,” Hochberg said today in an
interview in Washington, referring to Boeing’s European
competitor. “We’re not going to stand down and step back and
put U.S. jobs at jeopardy.”  Hochberg declined to comment on a lawsuit Delta filed
yesterday in federal court in Washington to block more than $100
million in loan guarantees for carriers including Emirates
Airlines and  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)  to buy Boeing aircraft.
Atlanta-based Delta, joined by Hawaiian Airlines Inc. and the
Air Line Pilots Association, said the bank didn’t properly
analyze the impact on U.S. jobs of financing foreign
competitors.  The lender, which provides assistance to purchases of U.S.
products by foreign entities, survived a lobbying campaign last
year to end its authorization. The bank’s charter expires in
September 2014, setting the stage for another debate.  Domestic carriers led by Delta have said the Export-Import
Bank supports foreign competitors at the expense of the U.S.
airline industry. Opponents such as the Club for Growth, which
favors smaller government, have said the lender meddles in
private enterprise.  Hochberg, who is hosting the bank’s annual conference in
 Washington , has rebuffed the criticism, saying the bank helps
U.S. exporters deal with competitors backed by foreign
governments.  Congress last year raised the Export-Import bank’s lending
limit to $140 billion through September 2014. While the bank has
authorized $110 billion in export financing, Hochberg said he
isn’t concerned about breaching the cap before the charter
expires because loans are continuously repaid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  