-- Ex-Omega Advisors Official Gets Time Served for Scheme
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-04-04T20:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/ex-omega-advisors-official-gets-time-served-for-scheme.html
A former executive at Omega Advisors
Inc.,  Leon Cooperman ’s $6 billion hedge fund, was sentenced to
time he already served in prison for joining in an international
bribery scheme 15 years ago.  Clayton Lewis, who previously served six days behind bars,
won leniency from U.S. District Judge Naomi Buchwald in
 Manhattan  for agreeing to cooperate with the U.S. government’s
probe of the case. He was ordered to pay $100 in court costs,
Buchwald said today in Manhattan federal court.  “I made a terrible decision 15 years ago,” Lewis, who now
lives in  Australia , told the judge. “This case has been a dark
cloud for 10 years now.”  Lewis, 48, pleaded guilty in 2004 to federal charges that
he conspired with Czech-born promoter  Viktor Kozeny  to pay
massive bribes as part of a 1998 scheme to buy the state oil
company in  Azerbaijan . Soon after his 2003 arrest, he agreed to
cooperate with U.S. prosecutors in building a bribery case
against other investors.  Omega wasn’t prosecuted and has denied wrongdoing. In 2007,
the firm agreed to pay $500,000 to resolve a U.S. criminal
investigation. The hedge fund subsequently sued Lewis for
inducing it to invest more than $100 million in the deal while
hiding the illegal bribes.  The lawsuit settled on confidential terms in 2010. Omega
recovered a portion of his losses.  Cooperman declined to comment today on Lewis’s sentence.  Provided Evidence  The Azerbaijan probe led to the conviction of Frederic Bourke, co-founder of handbag maker Dooney & Bourke, for joining
in the scheme. Bourke, who hasn’t yet served his one-year prison
sentence, is asking the U.S. Supreme Court to reverse his
conviction. U.S. prosecutors point to the case as one of their
top victories under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, an anti-
bribery law.  Lewis didn’t testify at Bourke’s 2009 trial. He provided
evidence for the government against Kozeny and against ex-
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  director David Pinkerton, who
was indicted with Bourke in 2005.  Prosecutors dismissed the Pinkerton case in 2008. Kozeny,
who was also charged by the U.S., has successfully fought
extradition from the Bahamas, where he lives. He made his
fortune in the  Czech Republic  in the early 1990s.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Harry Chernoff said in court that
Lewis played an “important” role in building a case against
Kozeny and that he was “ready and willing” to testify against
Bourke had Lewis been called by the government.  Another Cooperator  Defense attorney Gerald Krovatin read from the government’s
letter seeking leniency for Lewis. Prosecutors called Lewis
“detailed and truthful” and of “great importance to the
government’s anti-corruption enforcement,” Krovatin said.  Another government cooperator, Swiss lawyer Hans Bodmer,
was sentenced last month to time already served in prison and
ordered to pay a $500,000 fine.  Lewis previously pleaded guilty to  New York  state charges
that he perjured himself in front of a grand jury probing the
transaction.  The case is U.S. v. Clayton Lewis, 03-cr-00930, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  