-- Ex-Thomson Reuters Employee Claims Insider Survey Leaks
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-04-04T17:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/ex-thomson-reuters-employee-claims-insider-survey-leaks.html
A former  Thomson Reuters  Corp.
employee filed a lawsuit claiming he was fired for telling the
FBI that the company’s “tiered release” of a consumer survey
violated insider-trading laws.  Mark Rosenblum said in his complaint, filed today in
Manhattan federal court, that he was fired on Aug. 3, soon after
complaining to U.S. authorities that the company gave some
customers an advantage by releasing the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers to them
first. He said he told company executives about his complaint to
the federal agents.  “Mere weeks after the report, Rosenblum’s employment with
Thomson was terminated with no severance,” the plaintiff, a
former redistribution specialist selling financial data, said in
his complaint.  Rosenblum, who lives in New Jersey, is seeking unspecified
damages for alleged violations of a U.S. whistle-blower law.  “We believe the accusations from the complaint against
Thomson Reuters to be unsubstantiated and without merit,” Alan Duerden, a spokesman for New York-based Thomson Reuters, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
competes with Thomson Reuters in providing financial news and
information.  Consumer Attitudes  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan survey measures
consumer attitudes and expectations about the U.S. economy.
According to Rosenblum, the company releases the survey in three
tiers.  At two seconds before 9:55 a.m., it goes to “ultra low-
latency subscribers”; “desktop” subscribers get it at 9:55
a.m.; and at 10 a.m. it goes out to the general public, he said.  “By releasing the product to ultra low-latency subscribers
two seconds early, those subscribers have a two-second head
start to make transactions,” he said in the complaint.  The case is Rosenblum v. Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC, 13-
cv-02219, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  