-- Exxon Seeks Brazil’s Oil, Bidding Against BHP, Mitsui, Shell
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-04-04T18:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/exxon-seeks-brazil-s-oil-bidding-against-bhp-mitsui-shell.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is seeking to
acquire oil blocks in  Brazil  two years after drilling three dry
wells.  Exxon, based in Irving,  Texas , will join 70 other
companies, including  Australia ’s  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, and Japanese commodities trader  Mitsui &
Co. Ltd. (8031) , to register for an oil block auction scheduled for May
14 and 15, according to a copy of the list seen by Bloomberg
News.  Other companies that will seek to start producing oil in
Brazil include  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  Premier Oil Plc (PMO) , JX Nippon Oil & Gas
Exploration Corp,  Panoro Energy ASA (PEN) ,  Hess Corp. (HES) ,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  and
Petroliam Nasional Bhd., according to the list.  Brazil hasn’t auctioned oil blocks since 2008. While the
country is home to the world’s largest oil discoveries this
century after finding the so-called pre-salt reserves under the
Atlantic ocean in 2006, the blocks being auctioned in May are
not part of the same geological formation.  The blocks that will be made available for the companies
are located off Brazil’s northeastern and northern coasts, while
the pre-salt finds are off the coasts of the southeast states of
Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Espirito Santo.  Exxon quit its only Brazilian block last year after
drilling three dry holes in deep waters.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , BP Group Plc and  Statoil ASA (STL)  are
among companies that already have production operations in
Brazil that are also competing, as are  Total SA (FP)  and Repsol SA,
according to the list. Nineteen Brazilian companies will seek
blocks, including  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA. (OGXP3)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  