-- Fed’s Lockhart, Evans Want More Job Growth Before QE End
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s ,   K a t h l e e n   H a y s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-04T17:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/fed-s-lockhart-evans-looking-for-more-job-growth-before-qe-end.html
Two Federal Reserve officials said
they need to see stronger job growth before backing a slower
pace of bond purchases as they sought to clarify improvements
they want in the labor market.  Several months of  job creation  exceeding 180,000 and
declining unemployment would mean “in the second half of the
year or in early 2014 it would be appropriate to consider the
tapering off,” Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said today
during a panel discussion in Dayton,  Ohio . Chicago’s
 Charles Evans , speaking on the same panel, said he’d like to see
payrolls at “200,000-a-month increases for like six months.”  The presidents’ numerical objectives help clarify a pledge
by the  Federal Open Market Committee  to press on with record
bond buying until the labor market improves “substantially.”
While Fed officials set different goals, they agree they’ve
fallen short of their mandate to ensure full employment. Evans
is an FOMC voter this year, while Lockhart is not.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in December policy makers
haven’t specified a numerical goal that would prompt the end of
asset purchases because “we have a number of different things
that we need to look at as we go forward.”  Bernanke’s deputy, Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , has said
that in addition to the  unemployment rate  and pace of payrolls
growth, she’ll track hiring, job loss and her forecasts for
spending and economic growth.  Evans said to reporters after the panel he wants 200,000
payroll growth “month after month for at least six months, and
a rising profile for that would be extremely welcome.”  ‘Good Sign’  Some months with a 250,000 increase in payrolls “would be
a good sign,” Evans said. “I don’t want to be complacent. I
want to make sure I have enough confidence in the improvement in
the labor market outlook.”  “I would hope that we can conclude these purchases as soon
as possible because that would mean that the economy is ramping
up in a very substantial way,” he said during the panel.  The Fed has expanded its balance sheet to a record $3.2
trillion by buying $85 billion a month in Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities to boost economic growth and reduce
7.7 percent unemployment.  Stocks were little changed and Treasuries advanced after a
report from the Labor Department showed more Americans than
forecast filed first-time claims for  unemployment benefits . The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent to
1,553.74 at 1:22 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.76 percent from 1.81 percent late
yesterday.  The  U.S. economy  this year probably won’t exceed the modest
growth of recent years, Lockhart said at the University of
Dayton during a panel moderated by Kathleen Hays of  Bloomberg
Radio .  ‘Break Out’  “I have not seen enough evidence yet to convince me that
2013 is going to break out of that pattern that we’ve seen,
really over the last four years,” Lockhart said. He predicts
“a modest pace of growth, inflation that is pretty well
contained and a very gradual reduction in unemployment.”  Evans said the economy will probably expand 2.5 percent or
“maybe a little bit more” this year and that “2014 will be
much stronger.”  Growth could “reach escape velocity by 2014 so the economy
can grow without the really strong support that monetary policy
is giving,” he said.  Fed officials will know more about the state of employment
when the Labor Department releases its monthly report on job
growth at 8:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington . The median estimate
from economists in a Bloomberg survey predicts an increase of
190,000 jobs in March. The unemployment rate is forecast to
remain unchanged at 7.7 percent.  Remain Divided  Policy makers said after a meeting last month that their
purchases will remain divided between $40 billion a month of
mortgage bonds and $45 billion a month of Treasuries. The FOMC
repeated that it will hold the main  interest rate  near zero as
long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and inflation is
projected not to exceed 2.5 percent.  The FOMC will be in no hurry to slow its asset purchases
this year with inflation below its target, St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard  said yesterday.  “It is full steam ahead right now,” Bullard said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview. “I think that is exactly what the
committee is doing.”  Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo said yesterday that while some
economic data have exceeded expectations, he wants more
consistent job growth before he can support curbing bond buying.  “At the very least what I’d like to see is some good
healthy peaks that have job creation well above the rate of new
entrants into the labor market,” followed by a “plateau that
can be the basis for some more peaks later,” Tarullo told CNBC.  Lockhart, 66, was a banking executive and Georgetown
University professor before he was appointed to lead the Atlanta
Fed in 2007. Evans, 55, became president of the Chicago reserve
bank in 2007 after serving as its director of research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Dayton, Ohio at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  