-- Fed’s Fisher Says BOJ Stimulus Won’t Pressure U.S. Policy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-04T18:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/fed-s-fisher-says-boj-stimulus-won-t-pressure-u-s-policy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s unprecedented
stimulus doesn’t put pressure on U.S. monetary policy makers to
continue with their bond-buying program.  The BOJ plans to purchase 7.5 trillion yen ($78.6 billion)
of bonds a month and double the monetary base, which includes
cash in circulation, in two years, the central bank said in
 Tokyo  today. That exceeded economists’ median estimate of 5.2
trillion yen a month and is the biggest move since quantitative
easing began in 2001.  “Does it put pressure on us to continue?” Fisher
responded on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” program
when asked whether the Japanese move will pressure the Fed to
continue its quantitative easing program. “No, we have to
conduct monetary policy according to what we feel is best to get
our economy moving.”  Fisher said it’s not the Fed’s role to “approve or
disapprove” of the BOJ action, saying “they have to conduct
policy the way they want to conduct it.”  Fisher, who does not vote on monetary policy this year,
also reiterated his call to taper off Federal Reserve asset
purchases during today’s TV interview with  Erik Schatzker  and
 Stephanie Ruhle .  $85 Billion  The FOMC in March said it would continue buying securities
at a rate of $85 billion per month, and will keep buying until
the labor market improves “substantially.” The purchases have
expanded the central bank’s balance sheet to about $3.2
trillion.  “You can condition the behavior and motivate the behavior
by applying that kind of drug,” he said. “It doesn’t go on
forever, because otherwise you will kill the patient.”  Fisher said that Cyprus’ banks are imperiling the
Mediterranean nation, demonstrating the danger of overly-
dominant financial institutions.  “Cyprus is a great example, once again, as we saw in
Iceland, of banks that jeopardize their whole country,” Fisher
said. “We just can’t let that happen.”  Fisher said Cyprus faces a different situation from the
 United States  because it is contending with issues such as
Russian crime. Still, it could serve as a lesson, according to
the Dallas Fed chief.  “The reason I mentioned Cyprus is only because again, you
have an economy that’s held hostage to bank failure and
institutions that are too big to fail,” he said. “We can’t let
that happen here in the United States, ever again.”  Fisher, 64, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. His district includes Texas, northern  Louisiana  and
southern  New Mexico .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  