-- Fed Says Demand for Mortgage-Bond Finance Rises on More Risk
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-04-04T18:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/fed-says-demand-for-mortgage-bond-finance-up-as-funds-risk-more.html
The  Federal Reserve  said Wall Street
dealers saw increased demand to finance purchases of mortgage-
backed securities and a rise in the risk appetite of hedge funds
in the three months through February.  About 64 percent of dealers reported increased demand by
their clients for funding of residential mortgage-backed
securities, while 39 percent said funding requests for
commercial mortgage securities rose, the central bank said today
in its quarterly survey of senior credit officers. Two-fifths of
dealers surveyed reported an increase for agency debt.  Since the beginning of this year, the risk that the
dealers’ most-favored hedge funds are willing to take on has
increased, according to 11 of 22 firms surveyed, the Fed said.
About 32 percent of other  hedge funds  have increased their risk
exposure, according to the survey from Feb. 19 until March 4.  Thirteen of 22 dealers said the amount of resources and
attention they are devoting to manage their exposure to central
counterparties or other financial utilities has “increased
considerably” or “increased somewhat,” the survey showed. The
U.S. Dodd-Frank Act began requiring dealers, major swaps users
and other active funds to use central counterparties, or
clearinghouses, to process swaps trades since March 11.  The survey asked dealers about client demand to finance
commercial real estate loans that will be securitized. About 55
percent of dealers said that demand has increased from the
middle of 2012. Client demand to finance syndicated bank loans
under the same process rose about 58 percent, The Fed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  