-- Fed’s George Says Years of Stimulus Risk Future Instability
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-04-04T18:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/fed-s-george-says-years-of-stimulus-risk-future-instability.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas  City
President Esther George said the central bank’s record stimulus
for more than four years may create financial instability that
could hurt employment over time.  “We should not underestimate the risk of an extended
period of zero  interest rates  and the accompanying incentives
that may lead to future financial imbalances,” George said
today in remarks prepared for delivery in El Reno, Oklahoma.
“Such imbalances could unwind in a disruptive manner and cause
the labor market recovery to stumble.”  George’s comments reflect her dissents this year in her
first votes as a Federal Open Market Committee member. Since
becoming the leader of the Kansas City Fed in October 2011, the
former bank regulator has expressed worry that excessive central
bank stimulus may be creating financial imbalances or could
raise inflation expectations.  “I support an accommodative stance of monetary policy
while the economy recovers and unemployment remains high,”
George said at Redlands Community College. “But I view the
current policies as overly accommodative, causing distortions
and posing risks to financial stability and long-term inflation
expectations with the potential to compromise future growth.”
In response to a question, George said “I believe that we will
have the tools” to deal with inflationary pressures. “Part of
the judgment is when, then how quickly, you have to respond and  what the effects will be.”  Bank Supervision  While Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has advocated using
regulation to address any financial instability, George said in
her speech that it was “not realistic” to expect that banking
supervisors could “single-handedly identify and contain the
risks.”  Elaborating in response to a question, she said “we should
not become too confident” that regulatory tools “don’t have to
work in conjunction with monetary policy.”  “My interest in being realistic is about the connection
between monetary policy and supervision, and how they have to
work together,” she said.  The Kansas City Fed leader said she expects growth this
year of about 2 percent, and that unemployment will continue
“to decline modestly.”  Consumer spending  has held up and
confidence has rebounded in part because of a recovery in the
housing sector, she said.  Lockhart, Evans  Her colleagues this week said the policy group should press
on with asset purchases. Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart 
said today that U.S. growth may not exceed the modest growth of
the past few years, while Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans 
said he would like to see payrolls rise with “200,000 a month
increases for like six months” before curtailing purchases.  Employers added 190,000 jobs in March, according to the
Bloomberg survey median before Labor Department data is released
tomorrow. Unemployment probably held at 7.7 percent.  Consumer prices rose just 1.3 percent in February from a
year earlier, according to an inflation gauge favored by the
Fed, and growth has been too weak to generate jobs for millions
of fired workers.  George was the Kansas City Fed’s No. 2 official under
 Thomas Hoenig , who retired and was named vice chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. She joined the Fed in 1982 and
spent much of her career in bank supervision. The Kansas City
district represents  Colorado , Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma,
 Wyoming , northern  New Mexico  and the western third of  Missouri .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  