-- Fees on Structured Notes Tied to Stocks Climb to Three-Year High
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-04-04T17:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/fees-on-structured-notes-tied-to-stocks-climb-to-three-year-high.html
Banks charged almost 2 percent in
average fees on U.S. structured notes tied to stocks in the
first quarter, the most for any three-month period in at least
three years.  Issuers and underwriters earned $137.7 million in disclosed
fees, or 1.95 percent of the $7.08 billion of equity-tied
securities that paid a commission, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from offering documents. Non-fee paying notes were
excluded because they’re generally sold to financial advisers
who charge for their services separately.  Investors are paying more to buy the assets, which can
involve complex bets and tie up funds for 20 years, as the
 Federal Reserve  holds its benchmark interest rate between zero
and 0.25 percent for a fifth year. Equity-tied notes account for
almost 70 percent of U.S. structured note sales, their highest
proportion since at least January 2010.  “Generally speaking, the more mainstream a product
becomes, the lower the fees,” said Lori Schock, director of
investor education and advocacy at the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in a telephone interview. “The fact that
the fees are going up, it calls into question why and what’s the
driver for that.”  Longer-dated notes, which usually have larger fees than
securities that mature earlier, helped pushed the average higher
last quarter, said Deryk Rhodes,  executive director  at Incapital
LLC in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , in a telephone interview.  “You’re not going to see the same fees in a one-year that
you are in a ten-year,” he said.  Longer-Dated Notes  Banks sold $494.2 million of the notes tied to stocks with
maturities of 10 years or more last quarter, more than five
times the $84.6 million sold during the same period last year,
Bloomberg data show. Fees for the longer-dated notes this year
averaged 3.58 percent, or almost twice the 1.82 percent for
securities with shorter maturities.  While investors paid 1.65 percent for fees overall on
structured notes last year, an increase from 2011, the ratio was
lower than the 1.83 percent in 2010, when Bloomberg first began
collecting comprehensive data on U.S. SEC-registered securities.
Still, not all fees embedded in notes have to be disclosed, and
how issuers report them varies, making it challenging to arrive
at an accurate figure.  “The issue is the incentives that are created in the
system to steer people into these things,” said Marcus Stanley,
policy director of the nonprofit organization Americans for
Financial Reform, in a telephone call from his office in
 Washington , D.C. “These just seem like the wrong incentives for
brokers to have when giving advice to people.”  Value Disclosures  Banks have been legally obligated to say how much
underwriters charge for handling most registered securities
since the  Securities Act  of 1933 was signed into law by
President  Franklin Delano Roosevelt . Other expenses don’t have
to be listed though.  Determining the amount of embedded fees may become easier
now that the SEC has told issuers they must start disclosing the
estimated initial value of the securities to investors. The
agency sent banks a letter in February, giving them 10 days to
indicate whether they would comply with the rules. Banks usually
don’t include their estimated profit in offering documents,
Bloomberg data show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  issued the two notes this year with
the highest disclosed fees, at 7 percent. The larger of the two,
$2 million of six-year callable securities, is linked to the
worst-performing of the Euro Stoxx 50 Index and the Russell 2000
Index, according to a  prospectus  filed with the SEC.  The commission includes a distribution fee as well as
projected profits related to hedging risks, according to the SEC
document.  Elizabeth Seymour, a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to
comment on the note.  Second-Highest  The average fee on U.S. structured notes that pay a
commission rose to 1.87 percent in the first quarter, the
second-highest figure in similar periods going back to 2010,
Bloomberg data show.  Notes with fees are usually sold through broker-dealers,
private banks, or networks of advisers.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  