-- Fekter Said to Ask EU for More Time to Sell Austrian Bank Assets
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-04-04T17:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/fekter-said-to-ask-eu-for-more-time-to-sell-austrian-bank-assets.html
Austrian Finance Minister Maria
Fekter will ask the European Union’s competition chief for more
time to find buyers for the assets of nationalized lenders Hypo
Alpe-Adria Bank International and Kommunalkredit  Austria  AG,
said two people familiar with the talks.  Fekter will seek to extend the June deadline for the sale
of Kommunalkredit and to win more time for Hypo Alpe-Adria,
according to the people, who asked not be identified because
they aren’t authorized to talk about the issue in public. Fekter
is meeting Joaquin Almunia tomorrow in Brussels, according to
the EU competition commissioner’s diary published on his
website.  Hypo Alpe was nationalized in 2009 after former owners
including  Bayerische Landesbank  walked away and has been
supported by Austrian tax money with 1.76 billion euros ($2.3
billion) of capital and with bond guarantees since. It has hired
banks to sell its viable parts based in Austria,  Italy  and the
former  Yugoslavia .  Hypo Alpe-Adria, based in Klagenfurt, faces potential
losses of as much as 6 billion euros should the European
Commission force disorderly asset sales, Chief Executive Officer
Gottwald Kranebitter said last month. An EU-imposed fire sale
would mean that the “Austrian state would face further capital
injections,” he said.  Kommunalkredit, a municipal lender whose bailout has cost
taxpayers more than 2 billion euros so far, has attracted
potential buyers including  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG. Austria had until the end of
March to report about its progress with the sale.  Finance Ministry spokesman Gregor Schuetze declined to
elaborate on the subject of the meeting with Almunia, as did
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
commission.  Kommunalkredit’s June deadline was set when the commission
approved the state aid it received. The Austrian government’s
support for Hypo Alpe has yet to be approved. The lender filed a
new restructuring plan in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  