-- Finnair Swaps Executives With Cargotec as Vauramo Named CEO
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-04-04T11:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/finnair-swaps-executives-with-cargotec-as-vauramo-appointed-ceo.html
Finnair Oyj (FIA1S)  hired Pekka Vauramo as
its new chief executive officer from  Cargotec (CGCBV)  Oyj, five weeks
after previous chief Mika Vehvilaeinen travelled in the other
direction to take charge of the crane and forklift manufacturer.  Vauramo joins Finnair on June 1, the Vantaa-based carrier
said in a statement today. The 55-year-old currently works in
 Hong Kong  as chief operating officer of Cargotec’s MacGregor
unit, a supplier of loading and access gear for ships and ports.  Finnair snapped a four-year run of annual losses last year
as its focus on Asian traffic begins to pay off. The carrier
said Vauramo’s knowledge of the continent was a factor in his
appointment as it builds Helsinki into a hub for travel between
 Europe  and destinations in  Japan ,  South Korea  and China.  “We were not trying to find an aviation specialist,”
Chairman Klaus Heinemann said at the press briefing. “The most
important thing was to find somebody who’s a good leader, a good
change-and-process manager, and who understands  Asia  well.”  Vauramo, who has a master’s degree in mining from Helsinki
University of Technology, began his managerial career at  Sandvik
AB (SAND)  of Sweden, the world’s biggest maker of metal-cutting tools,
in 1985. He joined Helsinki-based Cargotec in 2007, working in
roles including deputy CEO before moving to Hong Kong in 2010.  ‘New Equipment’  “Finnair has a desire to grow, we have a good strategy and
we know where the growth potential is,” Vauramo said at the
briefing in Vantaa. “Investing in new equipment is essential to
improving competitiveness amid increasing fuel costs.”  The new CEO will also take charge of a cost-cutting drive
begun in 2011 which aims to pare expenses by 140 million euros
($180 million) through 2013 and 200 million euros by the end of
next year. He’ll be paid a base salary of 51,500 euros a month,
plus an anticipated 30 percent bonus.  Vehvilaeinen, aged 52, left Finnair to head up Cargotec on
March 1. The airline’s CEO for three years, he had previously
worked in executive posts at phone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  from 1992.  The Finnish government will seek parliamentary approval
this spring to lower its 56 percent stake below the current
legal minimum of 50.1 percent, Heidi Hautala, minister for state
shareholdings, said March 27, according to broadcaster YLE.  “The government taking a more flexible position would
enhance our options to grow,” Heinemann said today. “Finnair
also has to convince the financial markets that its ability to
perform financially will be better and less volatile.”  Finnair traded 0.4 percent lower at 2.71 euros as of 1:05
p.m. in Helsinki, paring gains this year to 14 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  