-- France’s Moscovici Tells Schaeuble Germany Must Boost Demand
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-04-04T11:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/france-s-moscovici-tells-schaeuble-germany-must-boost-demand.html
French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici , sitting next to his German counterpart, said Germany
should inflate its economy to spur euro-area growth.  Wolfgang Schaeuble, speaking today with Moscovici to
university students in Strasbourg, France, didn’t directly
respond, instead focusing his comments on the need for greater
political union in Europe.  “Right now, all countries are consolidating, which means
hitting the budgetary brakes, even in countries running
surpluses,” Moscovici told students at government and
management school ENA. “If we all hit the brakes together, we
all get stuck together.”  The  budget deficit  in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy,
will be near balance next year and the country runs a  trade
surplus . The French government has said it won’t hit its target
of bringing its deficit down to 3 percent of gross domestic
product this year because the cuts would push the country into
recession;  France  ran a 67 billion-euro ($86 billion) trade
deficit last year.  Schaeuble said that “in Germany we don’t call it
austerity, we call it deficit reduction.”  Moscovici called for ending the “sterile” debate between
austerity and growth.  “No one can deny that there’s a link between austerity and
unemployment,” Moscovici said. “What this government asks for
is a re-balancing of policies toward growth.”  The German minister said that countries had to restore
financial order before closer political ties were possible.
“I’d prefer a parallel process but we need time for
constitutional changes that take much time, so we need to act
first on the economic and financial crisis,” he said.  Monetary policy  can only “buy time to act, but can’t solve
the problems,” Schaeuble said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  