-- Free Egypt’s Jon Stewart
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-04T22:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/free-egypt-s-jon-stewart.html
Calling the comedian Bassem Youssef
“the Egyptian  Jon Stewart ” has misled people as to why he is
important -- and why he’s being attacked by his government.  Youssef is a U.S.-trained heart surgeon whose satirical
skits on YouTube during Egypt’s 2011 Arab Spring revolt became
an overnight sensation. The clips were so popular that a
satellite TV channel signed him up for a regular show, “The
Program,” arguably the biggest draw now on Egyptian television.  This week, Youssef turned himself in after he was charged
with insulting President Mohamed Mursi and defaming Islam. He
was granted bail, but the arrest made waves: The U.S. State
Department  condemned  it as an attack on free speech. That
triggered an  accusation  from the ruling Freedom and Justice
Party of “blatant interference” by the U.S. And when Jon Stewart
 pilloried  the arrest on his “The  Daily Show ” on  Comedy Central ,
the U.S. Embassy in Cairo put the clip on Twitter, before
pulling it in response to an angry response from Mursi’s
official Twitter account, denouncing U.S. “propaganda.”  Like Stewart, Youssef will take on anyone, but he has a
special gripe with a particular tribe of politicians. In
Stewart’s case, Republicans are the preferred target. For
Youssef, it’s Islamist politicians and clerics. He described his
approach at the German Marshall Fund’s Brussels Forum last
month: “My goal is to show that these guys aren’t holy when they
are talking about politics, that they can be criticized, they
can be wrong.”  Divine Mandate  Stewart derided Mursi for being threatened by a comedian,
even though the government has all the power, including tanks.
Yet Youssef really does present a danger to the emerging
Islamist establishment in  Egypt  by directly challenging the idea
that certain politicians have a divine mandate.  Take a recent show, where Youssef addressed the issue of
sexual harassment in Egypt. He broadcast a series of film clips
that showed Salafist clerics making absurd defenses of sexual
abuse. One preacher is seen declaring that women had themselves
to blame for rapes, because God endowed them with strong thighs
to prevent assault.  Politicians who spout similar nonsense can be found in many
other countries. In Egypt, however, the targets of Youssef’s
mockery are clerics who claim authority derived from the  Prophet
Muhammad  and the Koran. An attack on these clerics is, in their
view, also an attack on Islam. This is the crux of the
accusation that Youssef defamed Islam. He denies the charge and
says it is Islamists who defame his religion, by abusing it for
political gain.  Mursi and the Muslim Brotherhood have reason to feel
insecure. Incompetence, political overreach and  economic  failure
have  eroded support  for the group since Islamists swept 73
percent of parliamentary seats in the country’s first democratic
elections after the fall of President  Hosni Mubarak . By June
2012, Mursi took just 51.7 percent of the vote to win the
presidency against 48.3 percent for Mubarak’s last prime
minister, Ahmed Shafik. In the first round of national student-
council elections last month, Brotherhood candidates won less
than 30 percent of the vote.  Rather than trying to improve its appeal to voters, the
Brotherhood is attacking opponents and trying to stifle critical
media. This week, another comedian, Ali Qandil, was arrested on
charges of defaming religion.  According to   Amnesty
International , he was one of 33 journalists, bloggers and
activists arrested in the past two weeks alone. At the same
time, the Brotherhood is driving through legislation that would
restrain non-profit organizations (especially those with foreign
support) and purging the government of non-Brotherhood members.  Popular Dictators  Mursi should remember that Egypt’s dictators were once
popular, too. There were times in their careers when Gamal Abdel Nasser,  Anwar Sadat  and even Mubarak could have won free
elections, had they deigned to allow them. It was their behavior
toward opponents that made them unpopular.  Mursi can still avoid this mistake, but only if he and his
fellow Islamists focus on what Egyptians want: an improved
economy. This means enacting the reforms that the International
Monetary Fund demands in order to release a $4.8 billion loan.
Investments, from both foreign and domestic sources, won’t
proceed until an IMF program is in place.  The Freedom and Justice Party remains the favorite to win
the parliamentary elections. To do well, it will need to revive
Egypt’s foundering economy. Suppressing free speech, arresting
comedians and prosecuting imagined insults, whether against
themselves or their particular understanding of Islam, won’t do
it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 