-- Gazprom Neft to Bring Shell Into Shale Oil, Offshore Projects
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-04-04T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/gazprom-neft-to-bring-shell-into-shale-oil-offshore-projects.html
OAO Gazprom Neft, the oil arm of
 Russia ’s natural gas exporter, plans to expand its partnership
with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to develop shale oil in Siberia and
Arctic offshore blocks, according to a Kremlin official.  Gazprom Neft and Shell will sign agreements next week
during President  Vladimir Putin ’s visit to the Netherlands, the
Kremlin official said, asking not to be identified because talks
are continuing. OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas
producer, will also sign an accord with Nederlandse Gasunie NV,
the official said without elaborating.  Putin is overseeing ventures with international oil
explorers to help tap billions of barrels of unconventional oil
resources in Russia and maintain output at more than 10 million
barrels a day, a post-Soviet record. Gazprom Neft and Shell have
begun exploring for tight oil in Siberia within their Salym
Petroleum Development project, while state-run competitor OAO
Rosneft has brought in Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and Eni
SpA to develop shale and offshore projects.  Putin is leading a business delegation to the Netherlands
April 8 that includes billionaires  Viktor Vekselberg  and
Vladimir Evtushenkov and businessman Ziyavudin Magomedov, whose
Summa Group is building an  oil terminal  in Rotterdam, as well as
Gazprom Neft Chief Executive Officer Alexander Dyukov, Gazprom
CEO Alexei Miller and  OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  CEO Vagit Alekperov, according
to the Kremlin.  Gazprom Neft is seeking to operate exploration licenses for
its parent company in the Kara, Pechora and Chukotka Seas and to
begin exploration drilling at the offshore Dolginskoye deposit
this year, Deputy Chief Executive Vadim Yakovlev said Feb. 26.  Julia Dudley, a spokeswoman at Shell, declined to comment.
Gazprom Neft didn’t immediately comment by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  