-- Germany Urges Data on Offshore Tax Accounts to Be Surrendered
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-04-04T15:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/germany-urges-data-on-offshore-tax-accounts-to-be-surrendered.html
Germany’s  Finance Ministry  urged
media in possession of information on  tax havens  to make the
documents available, saying that it assumes they will want to
help authorities investigate possible tax evaders.  German newspaper  Sueddeutsche Zeitung   reported  today that
it was among international media to be leaked tax data from an
anonymous source on about 130,000 people in more than 170
countries. The files comprising 2.5 million documents, which
were first handed over to the International Consortium of
Investigative Journalists, contain “hundreds” of German names,
the newspaper said.  “We assume and would welcome if the relevant documents are
sent to the competent tax authorities of the states now so that
they can quickly start their investigations and subsequently
their proceedings,” Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus
said in an e-mailed statement.  One of the biggest leaks on possible tax dodgers puts the
spotlight on offshore financial centers including the Virgin
Islands, the Cook Islands and the Bahamas and may accelerate
international efforts to clamp down on tax havens.  “The Finance Ministry has sharpened its focus on the issue
of tax havens and tax-avoidance strategies in recent years,”
Kotthaus said, citing accords with countries such as Singapore
and efforts made within the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development together with the U.S., the U.K. and
France.  Fighting  tax evasion  is beyond the means of individual
governments and requires internationally agreed rules and
standards, Michael Meister, deputy caucus leader of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The pressure on tax havens must be further increased,”
Meister said. “Chance discoveries aren’t enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  