-- German Stocks Fall as Draghi Warns on Risks to Recovery
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-04-04T16:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/german-stocks-climb-as-bank-of-japan-expands-stimulus.html
German stocks  slid for a second day
as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he sees
risks to the region’s economic recovery and warned that monetary
policy cannot compensate for lack of government action.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest cement
maker, and  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, led
losses on the DAX Index.  Kuka AG (KU2) , a maker of assembly-line
robots, fell the most in more than five months after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. downgraded the shares. Fresenius Medical Care
AG climbed to a five-month high as the biggest provider of
 kidney dialysis  announced a buy-back program.  The DAX lost 0.7 percent to 7,817.39 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , after earlier rising as much as 0.7
percent. The equity benchmark has still advanced 2.7 percent
this year amid speculation that central banks will maintain
their stimulus measures. The broader HDAX Index decreased 0.9
percent today.  “The ECB is running out of bullets to deal with the
European crisis,” Ion Marc Valahu, co-founder and  fund manager 
at Clairinvest in Geneva, wrote in an e-mail. “Markets will
have to enter a period of consolidation after one year of
gains.”  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt today kept the  benchmark
rate  at a record low of 0.75 percent, as forecast by 54 of 56
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . In a press conference
following the decision, Draghi said a recovery in the second
half is subject to “downside risks,” including weaker growth
and consumption. He also said the central bank couldn’t
compensate for a lack of government action.  HeidelbergCement Slips  HeidelbergCement slid 3.8 percent to 55.08 euros and
ThyssenKrupp fell 3.3 percent to 14.50 euros. The stocks led
losses among companies with earnings tied to economic growth.  Kuka sank 4.4 percent to 31.87 euros, the largest drop
since Oct. 23. Goldman Sachs downgraded the shares to neutral
from buy and Morgan Stanley cut its recommendation to equal
weight, the equivalent of hold, from overweight.  Fresenius Medical gained 2.9 percent to 55.60 euros, the
highest price since Oct. 30. The company said it will begin a
six-month program to buy back shares worth as much as 385
million euros ($492 million).  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  added 2 percent to 8.52 euros.  T-Mobile
USA , the U.S. wireless unit of  Europe ’s second-biggest
telecommunications company, said subscriber numbers and customer
loyalty improved in the first quarter as it cut prices and
prepared to offer Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  Fraport Gains  Fraport AG, the owner of Frankfurt airport, climbed 1.9
percent to 44.33 euros after HSBC Holdings Plc upgraded the
shares to neutral from underweight. HSBC said it hopes Fraport
will suffer from no more traffic-related downgrades and has been
encouraged by the airport owner’s recent comments on growth,
signaling a positive momentum.  Hamburger Hafen & Logistik AG, which handles containers in
the port of Hamburg, added 1.8 percent to 17.26 euros. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. upgraded the company to overweight from neutral,
citing its position to serve regional trade needs where economic
growth will accelerate this year.  EON SE,  Germany ’s biggest utility, advanced 1.1 percent to
14.05 euros as a gauge of utilities posted the only gain among
19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  