-- GFI Group Files With Regulator to Create Derivatives Exchange
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-04-04T22:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/gfi-group-files-with-regulator-to-create-derivatives-exchange.html
GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , the broker that
matches trades between Wall Street dealers, has asked the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission for approval to create a
derivatives exchange.  The company, which arranges transactions in fixed-income,
equity and commodity markets, has a  pending application  for its
GFI Futures Exchange LLC with the CFTC that was received March
19, according to the regulator’s website. While GFI Group lists
information on trading levels allowed for  interest-rate swaps ,
it doesn’t specify which contracts it may offer in its rulebook.  “The exchange shall determine the contracts which shall be
listed for trading on the trading platform,” according to the
 rulebook , which is posted on the CFTC’s website.  Firms in the $639 trillion  over-the-counter derivatives 
market are adjusting to regulations under the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act. New York-based GFI Group has said it intends to register as
a swap-execution facility under the CFTC rules, though those
regulations for how swaps can be traded haven’t been completed.  “The difference between the ultimate regulatory treatment
of futures and swaps is unclear and we at GFI want to be
prepared to be able to serve our clients’ needs across all
markets,” Patricia Gutierrez, a spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , has also said
it plans to register as a swap-execution facility and could
compete with GFI Group for transaction business. Other firms
that have said they plan to register as SEFs include Tradeweb
LLC, ICAP Plc, and Creditex, a unit of Intercontinental Exchange
Inc.  GFI Group named Colin Heffron chief executive officer on
Feb. 15, replacing Michael Gooch, who will remain the company’s
executive chairman of the board.  The Wall Street Journal reported the filing earlier today
on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 