-- Gillard Urges Aussie Firms to Emulate German Deutschmark Success
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-04T03:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/gillard-urges-aussie-firms-to-emulate-german-deutschmark-success.html
Australia  must face up to the
challenge of a strong currency, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
said as she prepares for talks with the new leadership of her
nation’s biggest trading partner, China.  “The sustained strength of our dollar is now a feature of
the economic landscape,” Gillard told a forum in Sydney today.
“But like  Germany  under the towering Deutschmark in the days
before the euro, a high currency need not be a barrier to making
products and services of such quality that our partners still
want to buy them.”  Gillard begins a five-day visit to China tomorrow that will
promote trade, investment and education, and will meet with
President Xi Jinping at the Bo’ao Forum and Premier  Li Keqiang 
in Beijing. She said today the trip reflects “our high-level
political oversight of that relationship” and comes on the 40th
anniversary of the first visit to  China  by an Australian prime
minister, her Labor predecessor Gough Whitlam.  The Australian currency has averaged about 30 U.S. cents
higher in the past two years than in the prior decade, and
remained above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for more than nine
months, its longest stretch over the threshold since the Aussie
was freely floated in 1983. The appreciation has been driven by
Chinese demand for Australian raw materials and investors
fleeing fiscal and financial crisis in Europe.  Yuan Conversion  Gillard plans to sign a deal next week to allow direct
conversion of the Australian dollar into the Chinese currency,
according to an Australian government official, who asked not to
be identified before the announcement.  Currently, companies exporting goods to China have to
convert the Australian dollar into U.S. currency or yen, and
then into  yuan , incurring extra charges. The Australian
newspaper on March 30 first reported news of the planned deal.  The Aussie’s strength “may persist for some time given
Australia’s status increasingly as something of a safe haven
currency,” Gillard said today.  While the resources boom has made Australia one of the
fastest-growing economies in the developed world, Gillard’s
government isn’t getting a lift in opinion polls as the
currency’s resilience bankrupts manufacturers, discourages
international tourism and hurts retailers as consumers shop
online.  The ruling  Labor party ’s support was 42 percent on a two-
party preferred basis, while the opposition Liberal-National
coalition’s was 58 percent, the biggest gap in almost a year, a
Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper March 26 showed.  “While the high dollar has put significant competitive
pressure on many industries, the answer to this is not low
wages; in a high-skill advanced economy, it should never be,”
Gillard told the Foreign Correspondents’ Association.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered borrowing costs by
1.75 percentage points in the 14 months through December to 3
percent, partly to offset the currency’s drag on the economy.
The reductions benefit households in a nation where almost 90
percent of mortgages have variable rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  