-- Gilts Little Changed After BOE Maintains Asset-Purchase Target
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-04-04T11:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/gilts-little-changed-after-boe-maintains-asset-purchase-target.html
U.K. government bonds were little
changed after the  Bank of England  left its asset-purchase target
at 375 billion pounds ($565 billion) and kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent.  Sterling fell versus the dollar as the Monetary Policy
Committee said it would keep its so-called quantitative-easing
program unchanged. The decision was  forecast  by 34 of 37
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The remainder predicted
increases to 400 billion pounds. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  and two colleagues were outvoted by the other six MPC
members in February and March in a push for a 25 billion-pound
increase in so-called quantitative easing.  “It seems policy makers are still divided over the
efficacy of the quantitative-easing program,”  John Stopford ,
head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management in London
which oversees $105 billion, said before the decision was
announced. “It’s likely that gilt yields will remain low in the
near term given the economic backdrop, but as an investor we see
little value in gilts at these levels.”  Ten-year gilts yielded 1.76 percent at 12:06 p.m. in
London. Rates rose six basis points when the MPC announced no
change in policy at its previous meeting on March 7.  Gilts have returned 0.9 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds have gained 0.4 percent and Treasuries have risen 0.1
percent.  Sterling dropped 0.3 percent to $1.5082 and was little
changed at 84.92 pence per euro.  The U.K. currency has dropped 5 percent this year, the
second-worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro is little changed and the dollar has gained 3.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
aworrachate
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  