-- GM Board Plans Quarterly Meeting in Germany in Opel View
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-04T10:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/gm-board-plans-quarterly-meeting-in-germany-in-opel-view.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s board will hold
its quarterly meeting in  Germany  as the U.S. carmaker looks at
the Opel brand’s efforts to become profitable.  The GM directors will meet next week to review the
division’s “progress on its 10-year strategy” amid a
continuing contraction in the European car market, Ulrich Weber,
an Opel spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement.  GM’s European operations, which consist primarily of
Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Opel and its British sister brand
Vauxhall, have accumulated losses of $18 billion since 1999. The
Detroit-based company has a target for the division to break
even by 2015.  The board doesn’t plan to discuss the fate of Opel’s plant
in Bochum, Germany, Weber said. Bild newspaper reported today
that the GM executives would include the pending shutdown of the
Bochum factory in their discussions at a two-day emergency
meeting starting April 9.  Labor representatives at the Bochum site, which is
scheduled to lose its carmaking operations at the end of 2014,
haven’t been invited to the GM board meeting, said Rainer Einenkel, the works council leader at the plant.  “We want to participate in discussions and not be treated
as spectators in decisions that actually concern us,” he said.  Employees at the Bochum factory, which makes Opel’s Zafira
minivan, rejected a plan in March that would have included wage
freezes in exchange for job guarantees while production would
have been extended through 2016. Opel’s other four German
facilities, which don’t face a shutdown, agreed to pay freezes.  Opel’s car sales in Germany last month dropped 17 percent
from a year earlier, in line with the market’s contraction,
according to figures released yesterday by the country’s  Federal
Motor Vehicle Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  