-- GM Reviews South Korea Operations Amid North Tensions
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-04-04T14:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/gm-reviews-south-korea-operations-as-tensions-with-north.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson said the company is making backup
arrangements for its operations in  South Korea  as tensions with
 North Korea  heighten.  “We are making contingency plans for the safety of our
employees to the extent that we can,” Akerson said in an
interview on CNBC today. “Beyond that it’s difficult to shift
production.”  While GM can’t change production quickly, Akerson said the
company would think about moving work as part of its long-term
planning if tensions continue to escalate. GM has five plants in
South  Korea , where it builds 145,000 vehicles for domestic sales
and 1.3 million for export, Akerson said.  North Korea stepped up threats against the U.S, authorizing
its military to conduct a potential “smaller, lighter and
diversified nuclear strike.” It also transported a missile to
its eastern coast, possibly for training and test-firing,
marking a further escalation over the regime’s nuclear weapons
program and United Nations sanctions against it.  GM has “got to start to think about where you have the
continuity of supply and safety of your assets and employees,”
Akerson said. The Detroit-based company is seeking advice from
consultants on the crisis, Akerson said.  Employee Safety  “Anything that goes on in Korea is critically important to
our global production and how we view the world,” said Akerson,
who made the comments during a wide-ranging interview that
touched on the weakening yen and GM’s improving U.S. sales.  Beyond manufacturing, GM’s Korea operations have taken the
lead in developing the Chevrolet Cruze and other small cars,
helping fuel an improvement in the company’s product offerings.  GM’s shares rose less than 1 percent to $27.85 at 9:34 a.m.
in  New York . They’ve declined 3.6 percent this year through
yesterday compared with an 8.9 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  His interview came after  Japan ’s central bank said today it
will double bond purchases in a bid to end 15 years of
deflation. The announcement of the unprecedented easing caused
the yen to weaken immediately, driving its biggest slide since
2011.  “You have to be suspicious of what they’re doing and
why,” Akerson said, regarding the central bank’s strategy.  The yen’s rally after Japan’s natural disasters in 2011 and
its current weakening as the economy is doing “quite well,” is
“odd,” Akerson said in the interview.  “The Japanese have had a history of currency
manipulation,” Akerson said.  Currency Excuses  Still, the automaker shouldn’t “make excuses about foreign
currency,” and must build vehicles where it sells them to
lessen the risk of foreign currency changes.  “We’ve got to compete,” Akerson said.  In the U.S., Akerson said the improving housing market and
 energy industry  are driving truck demand. While the average age
of vehicles in the U.S. is 11 years, that will shorten, he also
said.  “I have a feeling that there’s this underpinning strength
that may go for the next four or five years until we get it back
into the eight, nine range,” he said.  The automaker increased its share of the U.S. market to 18
percent in the first quarter from 17.5 percent a year earlier,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. GM sold 9.3 percent more
cars and light trucks in the first three months, ahead of the
industrywide gain of 6.4 percent. All four of GM’s brands posted
sales gains in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  