-- GM to Invest $332 Million at Four Powertrain Factories
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-04-04T20:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/gm-to-invest-332-million-at-four-powertrain-factories.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , planning to
invest $1.5 billion in  North America  this year, said it will
spend $332 million at four factories to prepare for new, more
fuel efficient engines and transmissions.  The investments are part of GM’s efforts to build a new V-6
and small engine called the Ecotec, which will include three-and
four-cylinder variants and could reach production of 2 million
annually by decade’s end, Detroit-based GM said today in a
statement. The spending also involves preparing for production
of an eight-speed transmission to be used in GM vehicles by the
end of 2016.  The automaker is introducing about 20 new vehicles in the
U.S. this year to freshen its product lineup following the
company’s 2009 bankruptcy reorganization, and rebound from a
market share that fell to an 88-year-low in 2012. GM increased
its market share during the first quarter.  “We are investing in technologies and manufacturing
capabilities that produce high-quality, fuel-efficient vehicles
and components for our customers,” Diana Tremblay, vice
president of GM North American manufacturing, said in the
statement.  The investment follows announcements this year to spend
$200 million to expand a  Michigan  powertrain complex and $600
million to expand its Fairfax Assembly Plant in  Kansas City ,
 Kansas , which employs about 3,900 people and builds the
Chevrolet Malibu and Buick LaCrosse sedans.  Flint Factory  GM fell 0.2 percent to $27.74 at the close in  New York . The
shares have declined 3.8 percent this year compared with a gain
of 9.4 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Today’s investment includes $215 million at a Flint,
Michigan, factory for the new small Ecotec gasoline engine, GM
said. Its Toledo, Ohio, transmission factory will get $55.7
million to increase capacity and for tooling for a new eight-
speed automatic transmission and the existing six-speed
transmission.  GM’s Bay City, Michigan, powertrain factory will get $31.7
million to make parts for new V-6 and Ecotec engines. The
company’s casting factory in Bedford,  Indiana , will get $29.4
million.  GM also said it was going to increase its already announced
investment of $600 million at plants in Romulus and Saginaw,
Michigan, to $646 million.  Market Share  The automaker increased its share of the U.S. market to 18
percent in the first quarter from 17.5 percent a year earlier,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. GM sold 9.3 percent more
cars and light trucks in the first three months, better than the
industrywide gain of 6.4 percent. All four of GM’s brands posted
sales gains in the first quarter.  Arvin Jones, a GM North America manufacturing manager,
declined to say when the new powertrains would go into use or in
which vehicles. The effort does not create new jobs, he said.  Mark Reuss , president of GM North America, in January
provided the $1.5 billion figure for the company’s 2013 North
American investment plans. GM has announced more than $10.2
billion in investments since July 2009, Reuss said at the
Automotive News World Congress in  Detroit .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Bill Koenig  at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  