-- Golden First Mortgage Accused of Fraud in Government Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-05T00:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/golden-first-mortgage-accused-of-fraud-in-government-suit.html
Golden First Mortgage Corp. and its
owner, David Movtady, were sued by the U.S. for allegedly
defrauding a federal mortgage insurance program.  The company, which underwrote about $707 million worth of
loans since 2002, falsely certified that it conformed to Federal
Housing Administration lending standards, according to a
complaint filed today in  Manhattan  federal court.  In fact, the New York-based lender failed to impose a
quality-control program and accepted fabricated pay stubs and
other false documents from loan applicants, the government
alleged. More than 60 percent of all loans it has underwritten
since 2002 have gone into default, according to the complaint.  “The defaults were not happenstance, but rather resulted
from Movtady’s and Golden First’s intentionally fraudulent
practices,” lawyers in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara  wrote.  Under the FHA program, overseen by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development, the government pays claims to
lenders when homeowners fail to make payments on their
mortgages. The FHA has paid more than $12 million in claims for
loans underwritten by Golden First, according to the complaint.  ‘Inevitably Defaulted’  “Golden First and David Movtady churned out bad loans and
lied about their compliance with HUD requirements, leaving
taxpayers on the hook for millions of dollars when the loans
inevitably defaulted,” Bharara said in a statement.  The government is seeking compensatory damages, triple
damages and civil penalties.  Golden First appeared to have stopped underwriting
mortgages in 2010, the U.S. alleged. A phone listed for Movtady
in Great Neck,  New York , was disconnected.  In 2009, Manhattan prosecutors filed criminal charges
against a former Golden First loan officer, Mark Barnett, as
part of a coordinated mortgage and real estate fraud takedown
called “Operation Bad Deeds.” Prosecutors brought charges
against 41 individuals, alleging they had engaged in mortgage
schemes totaling more than $64 million.  Barnett was found not guilty of conspiracy and false
statements charges, according to court records.  The civil case is U.S. v. Movtady, 13-cv-02227, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in New York at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in federal court in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  