-- Goldman Sachs Says Stephen Friedman to Retire From Bank’s Board
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-04-05T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/goldman-sachs-says-stephen-friedman-to-retire-from-bank-s-board.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
largest U.S. bank by assets, said Stephen Friedman will retire
from its board of directors on May 22.  Friedman, 75, who led the board’s risk committee, is
leaving as required by the investment bank’s age-based
retirement policy, according to a regulatory filing yesterday by
the New York-based firm. Adebayo O. Ogunlesi, chairman of Global
Infrastructure Partners who joined Goldman Sachs’s board in
October, will head the risk committee.  “Steve has made invaluable contributions to Goldman Sachs
over the last five decades,” Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein said in an e-mailed statement. “He’s been an
outstanding director whose counsel and judgment we’ve depended
on greatly.”  Friedman resigned as chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York in 2009 to avoid the appearance of a conflict over
his ties to Goldman Sachs, which became a bank holding company
and received Fed support in 2008. Blankfein, 58, rejected calls
at the time to remove him from the bank’s board.  Friedman was hired by Goldman in 1966, rising to senior
partner and co-chairman in 1990. He ran the firm alone from 1992
to 1994 after Robert Rubin left to join the Clinton
administration. Friedman was previously in charge of the mergers
unit and served as co-head of investment banking.  He joined Goldman’s board in 2005, and also served on the
audit, compensation and nominating committees. His departure
will leave the firm with 12 directors, nine of which are
independent. The firm added Ogunlesi and Mark Edward Tucker, CEO
of  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , to the board in 2012 and the firm’s former
CFO David Viniar joined this year.  Goldman Shares  Friedman’s decision to step down from his New York Fed
position followed controversy about his role on Goldman Sachs’s
board and purchases of the firm’s shares, which had been
criticized by U.S. Senator Richard Shelby, an Alabama
Republican. Friedman said at the time that he bought the shares
“because I thought Goldman Sachs stock, under tangible net
worth, was at a very attractive price.”  John H. Byran, the former chairman and CEO of Sara Lee
Corp. who joined Goldman Sachs’s board six months after the
company went public in May 1999, stepped down last year after
reaching the age limit.  David Wells, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment
on whether the bank planned to replace Friedman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  