-- Grohe Owners Said to Mull IPO or Sale of Faucet Maker
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-04-05T09:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/grohe-owners-said-to-mull-ipo-or-sale-of-faucet-maker.html
Buyout firm TPG Capital and a  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  unit are considering an initial public offering
or sale of German bathroom-fixtures maker Grohe Group, according
to people familiar with the deliberations.  The two owners may exit Grohe, which they bought in 2004
and may be worth about 2.2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) based on
analyst estimates, as early as the second half after boosting
earnings at the company, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as talks are private. Banks are pitching ideas to TPG
and Credit Suisse, which haven’t made a final decision yet, they
said.  TPG, the private-equity firm run by David Bonderman and
James Coulter, and the Credit Suisse unit purchased Grohe, which
calls itself  Europe ’s largest provider of sanitary fittings, for
a reported $1.84 billion from BC Partners Ltd. Private-equity
firms are tapping low borrowing costs and rising equity markets
to exit investments made before the financial crisis in 2007.  Buyout transactions rose to $112 billion in the first
quarter, up from the fourth quarter last year and the first
quarter of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. IPOs
in Europe, the Middle East and Africa have raised $5.8 billion
this year, about 80 percent more than companies sold in the same
period in 2012, according to Bloomberg data.  Faucets, Showerheads  “It is the nature of being owned by private-equity firms
that such steps are always a possibility, but there are at
present no concrete plans,” Grohe spokeswoman Ulrike Heuser- Greipl said by telephone. Representatives at TPG and Credit
Suisse declined to comment.  Grohe, which was founded in 1936, produces plumbing
fixtures ranging from faucets to showerheads and toilet-flushing
mechanisms. The Dusseldorf-based company employs about 9,000
people and operates in more than 130 countries. According to
preliminary figures, Grohe had earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 270 million euros ($349
million) last year. Final figures will be reported at the end of
April.  Companies in the segment usually trade at about eight times
Ebitda, according to analysts Robert Eason of Goodbody
Stockbrokers and Credit Agricole’s Oliver Girakhou. That would
value Grohe at about 2.2 billion euros. Neither analyst covers
the company.  The median value of the 123 takeovers in the building and
construction products segment announced globally in the past
year was 8.7 times the companies’ Ebitda, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Grohe in 2011 started buying  Joyou AG (JY8) , the Chinese maker of
bathroom and kitchen fixtures, to gain wider access to Asian
markets. Grohe now owns 72 percent of Joyou. TPG and the Credit
Suisse unit hold equal stakes in Grohe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  