-- MHI, Areva to Win $22 Bln Turkish Nuclear Deal, Nikkei Says
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-04-04T09:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/mhi-areva-to-win-22-bln-turkish-nuclear-deal-nikkei-says-1-.html
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  of
Japan and  Areva SA (AREVA)  of France are set to win a $22 billion
project to build an atomic power plant in Turkey, the Nikkei
newspaper said.  The group will build four reactors with combined capacity
of about 4,500 megawatts in Sinop on the Black Sea coast, the
Nikkei said, citing unidentified people familiar with the
matter. The first unit is scheduled to begin operations by 2023
following the start of construction in 2017, the Nikkei said.  Turkish Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz , speaking in an
interview with CNBC-e television today from Ankara, said Turkey
had not yet reached the final phase of talks.  South Korea  and
Canada were dropped from competition, leaving China and Japan in
contention, he said.  Though all but two of Japan’s 50 nuclear reactors remain
shut for safety tests following the Fukushima disaster, the
Japanese government has pledged to keep promoting nuclear
infrastructure exports as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe tries to
revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  Turkey picked Russia’s Rosatom Corp. and ZAO
Atomstroyexport for its first facility at a cost of $20 billion.
Turkey imported more than $60 billion in energy last year and is
seeking ways to improve  energy efficiency , Finance Minister
 Mehmet Simsek  said at a conference in Istanbul today. A single
nuclear plant would reduce Turkey’s current-account deficit, the
third-largest in the world last year, by about $3 billion, he
said.  Shares Gain  Mitsubishi Heavy shares rose 4.6 percent to 545 yen at the
close of trading, compared with a 2.7 percent gain on the Topix
Index in Tokyo, where the company is located. Mitsubishi Heavy
shares have advanced 31 percent since the beginning of the year.
The shares of Paris-based Areva climbed 5 percent to 12.03 euros
at 10:40 a.m. in Paris.  The Turkish government has asked Japan to hold a meeting
between Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and Abe in early
May, the Nikkei said. Turkey plans to officially award preferred
negotiation rights to the Mitsubishi-Areva group after the two
leaders agree to cooperate on the project, the Nikkei said.  Hideo Ikuno, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Mitsubishi Heavy,
declined to comment on the report. Naoko Kato, a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman at Areva’s  Japan  unit, also declined to comment.  Japan’s trade minister, Toshimitsu Motegi, told reporters
on Jan. 15 that he wants to see Japan promote exports of safe
nuclear infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  