-- Hidden Price-Fixing Signaled by Revolving Door: Cutting Research
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   K e v i n   H a m l i n
-- 2013-04-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/hidden-price-fixing-signaled-by-revolving-door-cutting-research.html
Companies that fix prices and hide
it may be easier to spot than you think, according to
researchers Tanja Artiga Gonzalez, Markus Schmid and David Yermack.  Their analysis of 216 U.S. companies that between 1986 and
2010 attempted to obscure strong cash flows from “regulators,
analysts, customers, and at times, even their own boards of
directors” found consistent patterns, the three wrote in a
March  working paper  published by the National Bureau of  Economic
Research  (NBER).  In a cartel, a group of firms join together with the intent
of jointly increasing profits, often by controlling prices or
restricting supply. The companies in the sample were selected
from a  database  of businesses that had been discovered,
disclosed and sanctioned by regulators. The report didn’t say
whether cases that were settled involved any admission of
wrongdoing.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  was involved in 13 cartels, the most of
any company in the sample, followed by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , in
nine, the report said.  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH)  was involved in a
marine hose cartel for 22 years, the researchers said in their
paper.  Several consistent red flags emerged in each case.  Directors resigned or retired more frequently from cartel-
involved firms and were less likely to be replaced, helping
companies avoid taking on new members who could expose or
obstruct their conspiracies. These companies were also more
likely to retain busy directors -- those sitting on three or
more boards -- and foreign directors, both of whom are less
likely to be available to scrutinize operations.  Companies in cartels changed auditors “far less
frequently,” were more likely to reclassify business segments
to make year-to-year comparisons more difficult and were 50
percent more likely to restate financial filings, according to
the researchers’ findings.  The risky actions paid off: Cartel firms’ sales grew 4.6
percent faster and their market capitalization rose 3.6 percent
faster than similar companies that stuck to the rules.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , the New York-based drug maker
accused of participating in three cartels from 1998 and 2005,
adopted many of the deceptive actions, they found.  Artiga Gonzalez and Schmid work for the  Swiss Institute of
Banking and Finance  in  St. Gallen , Switzerland, and Yermack
works for the Stern School of Business at  New York  University.  * * *  China ’s policies to reduce risk in the financial system
work better when transmitted via small banks than through large
ones, a sign that more market opening is needed, according to
researchers Bin Wang and Tao Sun.  Their analysis of 171 banks found that increases in the
portion of deposits lenders must hold as reserves was least
effective in containing housing prices through the nation’s five
largest banks, according to a March working paper published by
the  International Monetary Fund .  “All the evidence indicates that improving policy
transmission through the large banks is vital to fend off
systemic risk,” they wrote. “Further commercialization of the
large banks should be on the policy makers’ agenda.”  Smaller banks respond better to policies because they are
more market-oriented, the researchers said in their paper. They
found an increase in deposit requirements was most effective in
containing  house prices  via foreign banks that operate in China,
then smaller banks, and lastly the large banks.  China’s unprecedented surge in credit between 2008 and 2010
in response to the global financial crisis indicates the nation
“is in a risky position,” according to the researchers.  The credit expansion was one of the greatest among housing
booms the researchers tracked in the U.S., U.K.,  South Korea  and
 Hong Kong  in the five years before prices peaked, they said.
Credit and asset price growth are “powerful signals” of rising
systemic risk as early as two to four years before a crisis
erupts, the researchers said in their report, citing an earlier
IMF working paper.  While the growth rates of lending and house prices at small
and medium-size banks was linked to provincial economic
expansion, that wasn’t the case at large banks, the research
found.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd .,  Bank of China Ltd .,  Bank
of Communications Co. Ltd. (3328) ,  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , and
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd . are China’s five
largest banks.  “This further reflects the fact that small banks are more
market-oriented than the large ones,” the report said.
“Further commercialization of the large banks would help
improve the effectiveness of macroprudential policies.”  Bin Wang works at the People’s Bank of China, the central
bank, and was a special appointee at the IMF. Tao Sun is a
senior economist at the IMF in  Washington .  * * *  The U.S. labor market, which shrugged off the government
dysfunction that threatened the world’s largest economy in the
past several months, isn’t yet healthy enough to convince
Federal Reserve officials it no longer needs their help,
according to Sven Jari Stehn at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Monthly payroll growth averaged about 200,000 from November
to February. Broader measures of job market health, the kind
tracked by the  Federal Open Market Committee , suggest payroll
growth should have only averaged about 150,000 in that period.
That buttresses the economist’s view that “improvement needs to
be more broad based before the FOMC concludes that the labor
market outlook has improved substantially.”  To reach his assessment in the March 27 report, Stehn
created a composite indicator using 24 monthly and weekly
figures that the Fed staff typically reviews. The components
could be grouped into five categories:  unemployment , which
includes the jobless rate; employment, which includes payroll
growth; layoffs, which includes weekly  jobless claim  filings;
hiring; which includes labor market flows; and surveys, which
includes Conference Board measures on work availability.  The index, which yielded the projected 150,000 gain, showed
that most of the recent gains in the nation’s employment
situation have been driven by declining layoffs and lower
unemployment rather than “meaningful contributions” from
hiring or labor market surveys.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said he and fellow policy
makers will “be looking for sustained improvement in a range of
key labor market indicators.”  * * *  Foreign direct investment does little to boost productivity
or economic growth in its host countries, according to an NBER
working paper published last month.  The conclusion suggests that governments that use tax
incentives and subsidies to attract foreign companies may be
getting poor returns on their money.  “The last two decades have witnessed an extensive policy
push for more FDI from governments and international
organizations,” wrote authors Christian Fons-Rosen, Sebnem
Kalemli-Ozcan, Bent E. Sorensen, Carolina Villegas-Sanchez and
Vadym Volosovych. “There is no systematic evidence that
supports the notion of substantial growth effects from FDI.”  Culling data from 1.42 million companies from 40 countries
in Europe drawn from the  Orbis  database, the researchers found
that even when FDI doubled it resulted in an increase of so-
called total factor productivity of just 0.01 percent in
developed countries and a drop of 0.01 percent in emerging ones.  The perception that multinational companies outperform
domestic ones and that economic growth is correlated with FDI
inflows may be driven mainly by foreign companies “cherry-
picking” the buying of domestic firms that already had high
growth potential, the authors wrote.  “Structural policies have been designed to attract FDI,
ranging from sectoral subsidies to lower taxes for
multinationals -- all under the assumption that more FDI will
bring more growth,” the authors said in their report. “We find
that foreign-owned firms are hardly more productive than other
firms.”  The authors do say that FDI may generate employment and
capital, generate competition in labor markets, and have growth-
enhancing benefits via influencing economic policies in host
countries.  Fons-Rosen works at the Universitat Pompeu Fabra in
Barcelona, Kalemli-Ozcan at the  University of Maryland  in
 College Park , Sorenson at the  University of Houston , Villegas-
Sanchez at ESADE Business School in Barcelona, and Volosovych at
Erasmus University Rotterdam in Holland.  * * *  That pocket money you’re giving your kids may be doing more
harm than good.  According to Sarah Brown and Karl Taylor, economists at the
 University of Sheffield , people’s propensity to save money as
adults is influenced by the income they received as children. In
particular, kids who earned pocket money through jobs such as
babysitting or paper routes were more likely to save than those
who were simply given a weekly allowance.  The research, an update of a 2011 paper, was presented to
the  Royal Economic Society  conference this week.  Using the British Household Panel Survey, a poll of about
10,000 individual interviews from 1991 to 2008, the researchers
found a 1 percent increase in an allowance was associated with a
21.8 percentage point decrease in the probability the child
saves. The weekly pay from part-time work, by contrast, was
positively linked to savings.  The authors undertook research in this “relatively
unexplored” area with an eye toward influencing public policy.
British households now have high levels of debt and low levels
of savings and there’s “widespread concern” that people aren’t
saving enough for their retirement, they said.  Brown and Taylor also found the amount of monthly savings
of the parents was statistically insignificant relative to
children’s savings.  “Different sources of income received by children appear
to influence their saving behavior in contrasting ways,” Brown
and Taylor wrote. “Parents may thus be able to instill certain
attitudes toward finances in their children, which consequently
may be taken by children into adulthood.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net 
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  