-- Immigrants See Chance to Be ’Real’ Americans: House Bill
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-04-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/immigrants-see-chance-to-be-real-americans-house-bill.html
A group of U.S. House members will
propose steps to legal status for undocumented immigrants, who
shouldn’t be living here permanently without a chance to become
“real Americans,” said Representative Mario Diaz-Balart.  Bringing many of the 11 million undocumented immigrants in
the U.S. “out of the shadows” and improving the immigration
system would be “great” for businesses, Diaz-Balart said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for “Capitol
Gains” airing April 7. The Florida Republican is a member of a
bipartisan House group negotiating a plan.  “Imagine if you legalize folks who are already here,”
said Diaz-Balart. “You bring them out of the shadows,” he
said, “so that they can become an integral part of the
economy.”  “For business, this is a win-win,” he said.  Diaz-Balart said the House group won’t allow “amnesty”
for those who are unlawfully in the U.S.  “There will be no
amnesty in this bill,” he said.  “It’s not good public policy to have a group of people who
are in the  United States  permanently” that could “never aspire
to become real Americans,” he said. “The flip side of that,
however, is you want to make sure that folks who broke the law
do not have rights” that others who have done things legally
don’t have.  The House group has been holding closed-door talks on an
immigration-law rewrite for about four years and has “95
percent” of the bill drafted, said Diaz-Balart. A bipartisan
group of senators plans to introduce their bill next week.  No Rush  The Republican-led House is taking a slower approach to
changing immigration law than the Democratic-led Senate. The
House probably won’t take up a measure until June.  “We’re not in a rush,” Diaz-Balart said. “We don’t have
deadlines that we have imposed on ourselves, other than the fact
that we want to fix what’s broken.”  “Most of the really thorny issues we’ve been able to
hammer out and reach agreement on,” he said. “We’re more
concerned about getting it right than doing it quickly.”  The Senate immigration effort is centered on creating a 13-
year path to U.S. citizenship for undocumented immigrants.  House
Republicans  may be more open to allowing legal residency rather
than citizenship.  Republican opposition to providing a citizenship path, a
stumbling block in past efforts, has lessened since the November
election, when President  Barack Obama  won 71 percent of Hispanic
votes cast. Republican leaders have said the party needs to do
more to court the fast-growing voter bloc.  ‘Successful Tool’  Republicans need to resolve the immigration issue because
it’s been a “good, successful tool” for Democrats and
“political suicide for the Republicans,” Diaz-Balart said.  “Until we can get immigration off the table, we can’t even
approach that community,” he said, referring to Hispanic
voters. “It’s essential. Until that time, we’re in deep
trouble.”  Diaz-Balart said a March 29 agreement between business and
labor leaders on allocating visas to low-skilled foreign workers
may not be part of an immigration plan.  “I don’t think those deals are necessarily going to be the
final” part of any legislation, he said, adding that such
accords are “guidelines.”  Under an agreement negotiated by business and labor to be
included in the Senate plan, the new low-skilled worker program
would start with 20,000 visas in the first year, 35,000 in the
second, 55,000 in the third and 75,000 in the fourth. In year
five, the number would increase or shrink based on a formula
taking into account the  unemployment rate , the number of job
openings and other factors.The number would never exceed more
than 200,000 a year.  ‘Pro-Labor’ Program  The guest-worker program being negotiated in the Senate is
a “more pro-labor, Democratic-controlled solution that is never
going to pass muster in the  House of Representatives ,” said
Idaho Representative Raul Labrador, one of the Republican
negotiators on an immigration-law rewrite.  “The labor unions are asking for a guest-worker program I
don’t think is workable” because the deal taking shape in the
Senate would impose numerical caps that are too restrictive for
people with particular job skills, he said in a telephone
interview.  A guest-worker program must be more flexible to meet labor-
market needs, he said. “If we don’t have a guest-worker program
that works,” only a handful of Republicans are “going to vote
for immigration reform,” he said.  Farmworker Visas  The House group is seeking agreement on future visas and
mobility for farmworkers who harvest the bulk of U.S. fruits and
vegetables, according to two congressional aides who asked not
to be identified because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Also, the group is looking for backing from members of the
Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees, the two panels that
would consider a rewrite of immigration law.  House leaders are hosting “listening sessions” in the
office of House Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy , a California
Republican. Two sessions have been held so far with three more
scheduled.  The last time the  U.S. Congress  considered a broad revision
to immigration laws was in 2007, when more than half of today’s
House Republicans weren’t in office. That lack of experience
explains why House leaders are taking a slower approach than
Senate lawmakers on the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  