-- India Ends State Controls on Sugar Producers After Four Decades
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-04-04T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/india-scraps-four-decade-old-state-controls-on-sugar-producers.html
India, the world’s second-biggest
sugar producer, ended state controls on sugar mills, allowing
them to freely sell the sweetener in the local market for the
first time in four decades.  The cabinet at a meeting headed by Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh also decided to stop buying sugar from producers at below
market price to supply to the poor, Food Minister K.V. Thomas
told reporters in New Delhi today. The government will still
subsidize sales to the poor through September 2014, he said.  Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH)  and  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM) , the
nation’s biggest mills, and other producers may earn about 30
billion rupees ($546 million) annually with the abolition of
state purchase of sugar at below market price, the Indian Sugar
Mills Association said in an e-mailed statement. A government
panel in October recommended scrapping state controls including
limits on sales by the mills, first introduced in 1972.  “These much awaited reforms will reduce the cost of
production and improve liquidity with millers which, in turn,
will ensure better and timely payment of the cane price to the
farmers,” the association said. “These two important reforms
will go a long way in improving efficiencies both at farm and
mill level and make Indian sugar competitive in the
international market.”  Sugar Policy  Sugar makers were curbed by a policy that set limits on
sales by each mill to cap prices, while states fixed cane rates
to help 50 million farmers. Factories in Uttar Pradesh, set to
be the nation’s biggest producer, owed 54.6 billion rupees to
growers, Thomas told parliament on Feb. 26, after cane prices
rose to a record for the 2012-2013 crop.  The government will spend about 53 billion rupees in
subsidies in the year ending Sept. 30 for selling sugar at below
the market price to the poor, Thomas said. It will buy 10
percent of the country’s output at 32 rupees a kilogram (2.2
pounds) from the mills and sell the commodity for as much as
13.50 rupees a kilogram, he said.  Shares of sugar producers rallied in Mumbai before the
cabinet decision. Bajaj Hindusthan surged 7.3 percent to 21.3
rupees, Balrampur Chini rose 3.8 percent to 47.85 rupees,  Shree
Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) , the top refiner, advanced 7.1 percent to 25
rupees, while  Dhampur Sugar Mills Ltd. (DSM)  climbed 6.8 percent to
45.85 rupees.  Production in India, the world’s largest consumer, will
fall to 23 million tons in the season beginning Oct. 1 from 24.6
million tons a year earlier as drought in Maharashtra and
Karnataka, which together account for 45 percent of output,
curbs planting, a Bloomberg survey published March 28 showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  