-- India’s Rupee Declines to One-Month Low on Slower Equity Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-04-04T04:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/india-s-rupee-declines-to-one-month-low-on-slower-equity-inflows.html
India ’s rupee fell to the lowest
level in almost a month on concern slowing capital inflows will
leave the currency more vulnerable to a current-account deficit.  Overseas funds  bolstered  holdings of Indian stocks by $1.9
billion in March, exchange data show, after adding more than $4
billion in each of the previous three months. The  shortfall  in
the broadest measure of trade was $32.6 billion in the quarter
through December, a central bank report showed March 28. India
needs a plan to tackle the deficit and the government will take
steps to boost investment from abroad, Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh said in New Delhi yesterday.  The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 54.6350 per dollar as of
9:55 a.m. in Mumbai, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That is
the weakest level since March 7. One-month implied volatility in
the rupee, a gauge of expected moves in the exchange rate used
to price options, fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 7.81 percent.  “The rupee will likely re-test the 55 level in the coming
three or four weeks,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  Singapore . “However, a lot of bad news
is already in the price and the currency will strengthen
slightly later in the year.”  Capital flows into  emerging markets  may be diverted to the
U.S. as a recovery in the world’s largest economy gathers
momentum, said Cavenagh. Gross domestic product in the U.S. rose
at a 0.4 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, up from a
0.1 percent prior estimate, a report showed last week.  The rupee will be “less sensitive” to a potential
slowdown in fund flows because the Indian government will sell
stakes in state-run companies to improve public finances and
offset the current-account gap, said Cavenagh.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.71 per
dollar, compared with 55.49 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.69 versus 55.43. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  