-- India Plans to Raise $3.7 Billion Selling Coal India Shares
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-04-04T11:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/india-plans-to-raise-3-7-billion-selling-shares-in-coal-india.html
India plans to raise 200 billion
rupees ($3.7 billion) selling part of its stake in  Coal India
Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest producer of the fuel, and narrow the
widest budget deficit among major emerging economies.  The government, which owns 90 percent in the monopoly coal
miner, plans to sell a 5 percent stake to the public and a
similar holding to the company, according to a finance
ministry’s draft proposal obtained by Bloomberg News.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration sold stakes
in companies including NTPC Ltd., NMDC Ltd. and Oil India Ltd.
for about 240 billion rupees in the year ended March 31 to
shrink the deficit, pay for subsidies and invest in public
works. Coal India  shares  had their biggest gain in almost a year
adding 57 billion rupees to their market value.  “The success of the share sale will depend a lot on the
mood of the market,” said Rahul Jain, an analyst with CIMB
Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai, who has an underperform  rating 
for the stock. “The timing of the share sale should also be
right. It should not be clubbed with three or four other share
sales in a short period of time.”  The stock gained 3 percent to 310.75 rupees in Mumbai, the
most since April 19. The shares have declined 12 percent this
year,  compared  with a 4.7 percent drop in the benchmark BSE S&P
Sensex index.  Labor Unions  The Disinvestment department has asked the coal ministry to
take the company’s worker unions into confidence and gather
support for the share sale, according to the document. The
unions were assured at the time of the company’s initial public
offering in 2010 by the then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee
there would be no further disinvestment.  “We anticipate some labor issues and we will do our best
to take them into confidence,” Coal Secretary S.K. Srivastava
said in an interview.  The government plans to raise 400 billion rupees this
fiscal year selling stakes in National Aluminium Co., Rashtriya
Ispat Nigam Ltd., Indian Oil Corp., Power Grid Corp. of  India ,
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. and Coal India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net  Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
   ssingh283@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  