-- India’s Nifty Futures Decline as Funds Sell on Growth Concerns
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-04-04T01:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/india-s-nifty-futures-decline-as-funds-sell-on-growth-concerns.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures dropped
as overseas investors sold the nation’s shares amid concerns
economic growth is weakening.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for April delivery fell 0.6
percent to 5,639.5 at 9:27 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  index slumped 1.3 percent to 5,672.90 yesterday, its
steepest decline since March 19. The S&P BSE Sensex index lost
1.3 percent to 18,801.64. The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India  ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares slumped 1.8 percent, the biggest
loss since March 12.  Foreign funds sold a net $5.5 million worth of local shares
on April 2, only the fourth day of net sales this year,
according to data from the market regulator.  India’s economy 
grew at the slowest pace in a decade in the year ended March 31,
according to government forecasts.  “Overseas investors are selling Indian stocks amid worries
that the economic slowdown will worsen,” Nilesh Karani,
assistant vice president of research at Magnum Equity Broking
Ltd., said in a phone interview yesterday. “Automobile and
cement sales numbers are pointing towards a protracted phase of
low growth.”  Most automakers reported a decline in March sales from last
year, according to figures reported by companies this week.
Sales at  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of Jaguar and Land Rover
luxury brands, slumped 28 percent from last year to 72,712 units
in March, the company said on April 1. Motorcycle maker  Bajaj
Auto Ltd. (BJAUT)  reported on April 2 that March sales dropped 10
percent. India’s manufacturing growth slowed to a 16-month low
in March, according to a private report this week.  Cement Sales  Cement demand dropped for the first time in 12 years in the
quarter ended Dec. 31 and earnings at producers may decline as
much as 52 percent this year, Deutsche Bank wrote in a report
last week.  The Sensex has dropped 3.2 percent this year and is valued
at 12.7 times  projected 12-month profits , compared the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.4 times.  The 30-stock Indian gauge plunged 5.3 percent in the past
two months amid concern over slowing  growth , a record current-
account deficit and the highest  inflation  rate among major
emerging nations. The gauge last week completed its first
quarterly loss since the three months ended December 2011.  The statistics bureau predicts annual gross domestic
product expansion of 5 percent in the year through March, after
the economy grew 4.5 percent from a year ago in the final three
months of 2012, the weakest  quarter  in almost four years.  ‘Difficult Times’  India’s current-account deficit widened to a record $32.6
billion in the three months ended Dec. 31, data showed on March
29. Meanwhile, inflation that has stayed above the central
bank’s 5 percent “comfort level” has limited  Reserve Bank of
India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao’s ability to slash borrowing
costs to revive economic growth.  “We’re passing through difficult times,” Raamdeo Agrawal,
joint managing director at  Motilal Oswal Financial Services Ltd. (MOFS) 
in Mumbai, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV India
yesterday. There isn’t “enough energy in the markets and mid-
cap stocks have taken a serious beating.”  The S&P BSE Mid-Cap Index has plunged 12 percent this year,
while the S&P BSE Small-Cap Index has tumbled 18 percent.  Still, overseas investors have bought a net $10.38 billion
of Indian stocks this year, a record for the period, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Inflows last year totaled $24.5
billion, the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  