-- Littlejohn Said to Consider Sale of Prepared-Foods Maker CTI
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/littlejohn-said-to-consider-sale-of-prepared-foods-maker-cti.html
CTI Foods Holding Co.’s owner,
private-equity firm Littlejohn & Co., is exploring a sale of the
prepared-foods supplier that may fetch about $500 million, two
people familiar with the matter said.  Littlejohn is working with  Morgan Stanley (MS)  on the potential
sale of Wilder, Idaho-based CTI, which makes fajita meat,
burgers, soups and sauces for restaurants, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the discussions are private.  Littlejohn declined to comment on a potential sale or the
value of a deal. Akhilesh Raina, a Morgan Stanley spokesman,
declined to comment. CTI Chief Executive Officer Bobby Horowitz
didn’t return calls and declined to comment through an
assistant.  CTI has expanded in the U.S. after Littlejohn, based in
Greenwich, Connecticut, recapitalized the company in 2010. Last
year, CTI  acquired  a ground-beef plant in Pennsylvania and
bought Custom Food Products LLC to add plants in California and
Kentucky, according to the company’s website. CTI also runs
facilities in  Texas .  CTI generated more than $700 million in sales in the year
through Sept. 8, according to a Dec. 14 report from Moody’s
Investors Service.  Moody’s in December maintained its rating for CTI at B2,
five levels below investment grade, while boosting the outlook
to positive from stable partly because CTI’s volumes are rising
and the new products and distribution it has gained from recent
acquisitions will help it expand on the U.S. East Coast.  U.S. meat processors such as  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  and
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  have made deals to expand their packaged-meat
and prepared-foods businesses to smooth out volatility from
livestock and feed costs.  In February Smithfield, the world’s largest hog producer,
announced a joint venture with Kansas City Sausage Co., and
Tyson, the largest U.S. meat processor, said it would  buy
tortilla maker Don Julio Foods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  