-- J&J Wins Reversal of $482 Million Patent Verdict Over Stents
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-04-04T16:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/j-j-wins-reversal-of-482-million-patent-verdict-over-stents-1-.html
Johnson & Johnson, the world’s
largest seller of health-care products, didn’t infringe a
doctor’s patent on heart devices, a U.S. appeals court ruled
today in throwing out a $482 million jury verdict the man won.  The trial court erred in its interpretation of the patent
owned by Bruce Saffran and, under the correct definition of key
terms, J&J’s Cordis unit wasn’t using his invention, the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said
today in an  opinion  posted on its website.  Saffran’s patent deals with ways to treat injured tissue
with the use of a permeable barrier. While Saffran’s invention
focused on broken bones, he argued the invention also was used
in stents, the tiny mesh tubes that prop open heart arteries
after they are cleared of fat. The Cordis stents, sold under the
name Cypher, were a metallic mesh with a coating of the drug
sirolimus that slows the regrowth of plaque.  The January 2011 jury award was the ninth-largest patent
verdict in U.S. history, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. With more than $111 million in interest, the total
amount J&J was told to pay reached $593.4 million.  The appeal focused in part on whether Saffran’s invention
was limited to a continuous sheet that contains the bone
fragments and can be configured to deliver a drug to the
treatment site. J&J said that its drug-coated stents weren’t
made that way.  The drug layer “is akin to paint on a chain-link fence,
not a continuous sheet wrapped around the mesh, and open holes
remain between the struts of the accused devices,” the three-
judge panel ruled.  Stent Business  J&J, the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company that
pioneered the market for heart stents, exited the business in
2011 after losing ground to  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and Abbott
Laboratories and amid falling prices for the devices.  Saffran had won a $431 million verdict against Boston
Scientific over the same patent, which later increased to $501
million with interest. That case was later settled for about $50
million. Abbott, which had also been sued by Saffran, filed
court papers urging the federal circuit court to overturn the
J&J verdict. In its filing, Abbott said that if the appeals
court adopted the patent interpretations requested by Cordis,
“Saffran’s infringement case cannot proceed against Abbott.”  The case is Bruce Saffran v. Johnson & Johnson, 12-1043,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Saffran v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , 07cv451, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of  Texas  (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  