-- Japan Stock Futures, Australian Shares Advance on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-04T23:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/japan-stock-futures-australian-shares-advance-on-stimulus-bets.html
Japanese  stock futures  and
Australian equities rose as investors speculated that so-called
quantitative easing measures from central banks across the world
will stimulate economic growth.  American Depositary Receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker, soared 5.7 percent as the yen weakened
against the dollar since the close of Japan’s equity markets
yesterday. ADRs of Canon Inc., a camera maker that gets 80
percent of sales outside Japan, advanced 4.8 percent. BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, climbed 1.8
percent in Sydney, leading gains among firms with earnings
closely tied to economic growth.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June closed at 13,015 in Chicago yesterday, up from 12,720 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
13,000 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index (AS51)  advanced 0.2 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell
0.2 percent. Markets in  Hong Kong  reopen today while China and
Taiwan remain closed for holidays.  “Now you have the  Federal Reserve  doing open-ended
quantitative easing, the Bank of Japan doing QE until they get 2
percent inflation and European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  using rhetoric as has his QE tool,” said  Jack McIntyre ,
a Philadelphia-based fund manager who helps oversee $45 billion
in assets for Brandywine Global Investment Management LLC.
“This should help global growth.”  BOJ Stimulus  The Bank of Japan yesterday boosted its stimulus program,
saying it will double the monetary base within two years. Draghi
yesterday signaled the ECB will keep monetary policy loose for
an extended period and that further easing is possible if
economic conditions deteriorate. The Fed last month said it will
continue buying U.S. securities at a rate of $85 billion per
month, and will keep buying until the labor market improves
“substantially.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the regional benchmark gauge,
climbed the past five months as Japanese shares increased on
speculation the nation will deploy more stimulus and amid signs
the U.S. economy is recovering.  That left the gauge yesterday trading at 13.3 times average
estimated earnings compared with 14.1 for the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  and 12.5 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed. The gauge added 0.4 percent yesterday as central banks
in Japan and Europe reassured investors that they will keep
economies awash in cash to bolster growth.  A U.S. government report today is forecast to show a gain
of 190,000 in U.S. payrolls last month, following a 236,000
advance in February, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The jobless rate probably probably remained at 7.7
percent.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.2 percent in New York
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  