-- Japan Seen Boosting Imports of U.S. Corn Amid Bear Market
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2013-04-04T06:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/japan-may-boost-u-s-corn-imports-next-quarter-amid-bear-market.html
Japan , the largest corn buyer, will
probably boost U.S. imports after cutting its reliance on
American grain to the lowest-ever level, as Chicago futures
entered a  bear market , industry officials said.  Purchases for the three months through September may jump
41 percent to 2.6 million metric tons from this quarter, said
 Nobuyuki Chino , president of Continental Rice Corp. in Tokyo.
U.S. prices are becoming competitive against South American and
European supply, leading to a recovery in demand, Mitsuyoshi
Haruno,  executive director  for Japan Feed Trade Association,
said in an interview in Tokyo.  Purchases from the U.S., the biggest exporter, slumped 25
percent to 1.85 million tons for shipment this quarter,
representing 50 percent of Japan’s total imports, said Chino,
who has traded grains for more than three decades. Higher prices
last quarter, coupled with the yen’s 8.6 percent drop against
the dollar, boosted costs for feed mills, spurring them to seek
cheaper alternatives from Brazil,  Argentina  and Ukraine.  “A sharp retreat in  Chicago  prices is likely to revive
demand from Japanese buyers for U.S. supplies,” said Tetsuo
Hamamoto, director for the Tokyo office of the U.S. Grains
Council. “Compared with other exporters, the U.S. has an
advantage in terms of the reliability of supply, and it can
offer crops of better quality to customers.”  Japan raised spending on corn reserves by 18 percent this
fiscal year after some shipments from  South America  and  Europe 
were delayed, forcing feed mills to draw on stockpiles, the
Agriculture Ministry said in January.  Bear Market  Corn plunged the most in 24 years and entered a bear market
on April 1 as bigger-than-expected U.S. stockpiles and increased
planting signal ample supplies. Farmers will plant 97.282
million acres this year, the most since 1936, after last year’s
drought cut U.S. output by 13 percent and boosted futures to a
record, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said on March 28.  Japan needs 2.7 million tons of corn next quarter for
livestock feed and 1 million tons for food, sweeteners and other
purposes, Chino said in an interview. Buyers may source about 70
percent of the total from the U.S., he said.  Japan bought half of its requirement for this quarter from
the U.S., Chino said. The country also bought 700,000 tons from
Brazil, 500,000 tons from Argentina, 100,000 tons from  South
Africa , and the rest mainly from the  Black Sea region , he said.  In the first two months of this year, U.S. corn represented
410,425 tons, or only 26 percent of Japan’s total imports of the
grain for feed, data from the  Finance Ministry  showed. That’s
the lowest-ever ratio, said Hamamoto at the U.S. Grains Council.
Brazil was the largest supplier to Japan with 1.1 million tons.  Cheaper Alternatives  Japan cut corn imports by 2.5 percent to 14.9 million tons
last year, the lowest level since 1986, as local feed mills
sought wheat and so-called DDGS as cheaper alternatives. U.S.
exports of dried distillers’ grains with soluble, a byproduct
from ethanol processing, jumped 35 percent to 452,801 tons last
year as the high-nutrient material also helps Japanese feed
makers cut consumption of soybean meal, a source of protein for
livestock, according to Hamamoto.  Japan’s imports of feed wheat may stop expanding this year,
as corn has become more affordable than wheat to Japanese buyers,
Chino said. Wheat in Chicago traded at $6.9575 a bushel at 3:49
p.m. in Tokyo, while corn traded at $6.41 a bushel.  The  Agriculture Ministry  reduced the ceiling on feed-wheat
imports by 12 percent to 1.07 million tons for this fiscal year
from a year earlier. Japan’s imports of feed wheat more than
doubled to 900,000 tons in the year ended March 31, the highest
level in 15 years, according to the ministry.  Corn fell more than 20 percent since last year’s closing
high of $8.3875 on Aug. 21, meeting the definition used by some
investors to identify a bear market. Prices rallied to an
intraday record of $8.49 on Aug. 10 as the worst U.S. drought
since the 1930s scorched crops. Since then, farmers in South
America have boosted output and Midwest growers are planning to
expand production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  