-- Just When Swiss Say Chocolate Is Safe Cyprus Hits Franc
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-04-04T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/just-when-swiss-say-chocolate-is-safe-cyprus-hits-franc.html
Swiss companies from toilet
manufacturer  Geberit AG (GEBN)  to chocolate maker  Lindt & Spruengli AG (LISN) 
are anticipating the franc will weaken and boost earnings this
year.  Europe ’s latest debt crisis flare-up may spoil the bet.  While the Swiss currency reached a 20 month-low of 1.2569
per euro in January, it has since strengthened to 1.2154 as
Cyprus sought a bailout and political deadlock in  Italy 
prevented a government from being formed. Options indicate the
franc will trade closer to the central bank-imposed 1.20 per
euro cap by year-end than 1.25.  A weaker franc would help Swiss companies sell more
products abroad and compete with cheaper offerings from
neighboring countries such as  Germany . Geberit,  Bucher
Industries AG (BUCN) ,  Belimo Holiding AG (BEAN)  and  Daetwyler Holding AG (DAE)  are
budgeting for 2013 exchange rates as weak as 1.25 francs per
euro. Recent economic and geopolitical events in Europe are a
threat to those assumptions, according to Credit Suisse AG.  “It’s definitely a risk if we have significant contagion
spreading due to the Cyprus crisis,” said Bernd Berg, a
currency strategist at  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank.  Defending Cap  Economic crises increase short-term demand for currencies
seen as a refuge, pushing up the value of the franc, Berg said.
He added that there is a concern savers in Italy and  Spain  may
withdraw money from local lenders, leading to a “bank run in
the  euro zone ” after  capital controls  were instituted limiting
depositors’ access to their funds in Cyprus.  It’s critical for Switzerland to keep the franc from rising
and damaging the economy. The  Swiss National Bank  said last
month that growth is expected to be 1 percent to 1.5 percent
this year. That compares with 2.35 percent for the global
economy, according to surveys of economist by Bloomberg.  The franc rose to as high as 1.008 per euro in August 2011,
from as low as 1.6828 in 2007, before the SNB imposed the 1.20
per euro ceiling in September 2011 to help exporters and fend
off deflation.  The central bank’s campaign to defend the cap has led to
foreign currency holdings ballooning to more than 400 billion
francs ($425 billion), or almost three-quarters of annual
output. It spent 188 billion francs intervening last year, 10
times the 2011 amount.  Options Contracts  Options contracts betting the franc will weaken are about
to the cheapest since January. There is also a greater chance of
the franc appreciating to 1.20 per euro than weakening to 1.25
by year-end, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  At the same time, the current median estimate by
strategists and economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for franc to
trade at 1.25 to the euro by year-end and 1.30 in 2014. Credit
Suisse’s Berg predicts the franc will depreciate once the euro-
zone economy recovers.  The assumptions of Swiss companies and economists for a
weakening franc also stem from successful efforts by the SNB to
discourage speculators by defending the cap. The franc ranged
from 1.2007 to 1.2189 per euro in 2012. The central bank
reiterated March 14 its willingness to spend unlimited amounts
to keep the ceiling from being breached.  The central bank did a “great job” defending the franc
cap and there is “no reason to believe” it will change policy,
Thomas Aebischer, the chief financial officer of Jona,
Switzerland-based  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s largest cement maker,
said in an interview in February.  ‘Clear Line’  Lindt, the world’s largest maker of premium chocolate, said
March 15 there are signs of a weaker Swiss currency, which may
boost exports. Syngenta, the world’s biggest producer of crop
chemicals, isn’t expecting losses from the franc this year after
losing about $220 million in operating profit in 2012, mostly
because of Swiss currency movements, CFO John Ramsay said Feb 6.  The 1.20 per euro level is “a clear line which should not
be crossed, and gives us security that things stay as they
are,” said Roland Iff, the CFO of Geberit, which gets more than
90 percent of its sales from Europe. “If nothing happens we
could see levels at 1.25 again,” Iff said in an interview on
March 12, adding that the company benefited from the
strengthening euro in the first quarter.  Iff’s comments show why predictions for the franc may prove
difficult. Within a week of his comments, euro-area leaders
agreed on a plan to impose losses on deposits in Cypriot banks.
The franc since has strengthened 1 percent against the euro.  Swiss ‘Homework’  Scenes of Cypriots lining up at cash machines raised the
specter of capital flight elsewhere and threatened to disrupt a
market calm that settled over the currency bloc since the
 European Central Bank ’s pledge in September to backstop troubled
nations’ debt. The euro-zone economy has contracted for five
straight quarters and the ECB predicts gross domestic product
will shrink 0.5 percent in 2013.  Most Swiss companies, which employ Europe’s highest-paid
workforce, are able to operate under the ceiling as currency
losses in recent years prompted them to cut costs, said Martin Lehmann, a  money manager  at 3v Asset Management in Zurich.  “Most of the companies did their homework and adapted
their cost base well to the new level,” he said.  Bucher Chief Executive Officer Philip Mosimann said in a
March 14 interview that, while many bigger Swiss companies such
as his maker of agricultural machinery and street sweepers with
annual  sales  of 2.6 billion francs are able to live with the
current  exchange rate , smaller companies are desperate for the
currency to weaken as they can’t move production abroad and
depend on sales to Europe.  Since 2008, Bucher probably lost at least 400 million
francs in sales because of the currency’s gain versus the euro,
a figure that would be difficult to stomach for other companies,
according to Mosimann.  “If you ask the CEO of a small or medium-sized company,
he’ll tell you, ‘I just can’t live with 1.20,’” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  