-- Kenyan Stocks Retreat Second Day on Speculation Gains Overdone
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-04-04T14:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/kenyan-stocks-retreat-second-day-on-speculation-gains-overdone.html
Kenyan shares dropped for a second
day amid speculation that a rally that made the nation’s stock
index the world’s second-best performer this year is overdone.  The Nairobi Securities Exchange All-Share Index retreated
0.8 percent to 120.45 points by the 3 p.m. close in the capital,
Nairobi, according to e-mailed data provided by the bourse. The
gauge slid 0.2 percent yesterday, after closing at a record high
on April 2.  “Based on price to earnings ratio, most stocks are
overvalued and we expect a correction,” said Faith Atiti, a
research analyst at Nairobi-based NIC Securities Ltd.  The index gained 12 percent since the March 4 presidential
election, boosting its year-to-date climb to 27 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, bettered only by the
Ghana Stock Exchange Composite Index.  Uhuru Kenyatta, the son of  Kenya ’s first president, Jomo Kenyatta, took 50.07 percent of ballots cast on March 4, enough
to avoid a runoff. Outgoing Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , whose
father was the elder Kenyatta’s vice president, got 43.3 percent
and challenged the election at the  Supreme Court , which on March
30 upheld the outcome of the poll.  Among the top laggards in trading today were  Pan Africa
Insurance Holdings Ltd. (PAIL) , the Kenyan unit of South African
insurer Sanlam Ltd., which slid 7.8 percent, and Centum
Investments Co., the largest publicly traded investment group,
which dropped 6.1 percent.  AccessKenya Ltd. (ACCESS) , the best performing
Kenyan stock this year, lost 3.7 percent today.  “There are some stocks which are overvalued, not the
entire market,” Eric Musau, a research analyst at Nairobi-based
Standard Investment Bank Ltd. said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  