-- Kenya’s February Tea Output Doubles on Good Weather, Tea Agency
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-04-04T13:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/kenya-s-february-tea-output-doubles-on-good-weather-tea-agency.html
Tea production in  Kenya , the world’s
biggest exporter of the black variety of the leaf, more than
doubled in February due to favorable weather conditions.  Output rose to 38.5 million kilograms (84.9 million pounds)
in February compared with 18.4 million kilograms a year earlier,
the Nairobi-based Tea Board of Kenya said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “Higher production was largely attributed to less severe
hot and dry weather conditions and light rainfall conditions
experienced in tea growing areas,” Managing Director Sicily
Kariuki said in the statement.  Kenya, East Africa’s largest economy, expects to produce
410 million kilograms in 2013, the highest amount in at least 10
years, Peter Kimanga, chairman of the East African Tea Trade
Association, said by phone from Mombasa on April 2.  Production for the first two months rose to 83.8 million
kilograms versus 54.6 million kilograms recorded a year earlier.
Last year’s output was 369.2 million kilograms, according to the
tea board’s website.  “The average price for February was $3.13 per kilo against
$2.95 for the corresponding period last year,” Kariuki said.
“Higher prices were due to improved demand by most
markets in anticipation of supply shortfall in the first
quarter.”  Kenya exported 42.9 million kilograms in February compared
with 44.7 million kilograms a year earlier. The country made
$1.2 billion last year from overseas tea sales, accounting for a
fifth of export earnings, according to  Central Bank  of Kenya
data. Shipments to  Egypt  accounted for 23 percent and other
major buyers were  Pakistan , the U.K., Afghanistan and  United
Arab Emirates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  