-- KKR to Carlyle Target $3.6 Trillion in 401(k)s Accounts
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-04-04T17:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/kkr-to-carlyle-target-3-6-trillion-in-401-k-s-accounts.html
Private-equity firms, the exclusive
money managers overseeing $3 trillion worldwide for the
wealthiest investors, are discovering a new type of client:
ordinary people.  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR) , which
usually open their doors only to clients willing to commit at
least $5 million, are lowering that threshold or offering
investments directly to individuals, an effort to attract fresh
cash amid lackluster fundraising. Their ultimate goal: a slice
of the $3.57 trillion Americans have accumulated in their 401(k)
retirement plans.  The firms are looking for ways to move down-market as a
growing number of workers are pushed out of public and corporate
pension funds, which guarantee an income after retirement, and
into 401(k)-style plans, where they are responsible for
investing their savings. While private-equity funds are a staple
of many large pension plans, a sale to individuals poses dangers
because they’re hard to understand, can be illiquid and their
fees are higher than those of traditional mutual funds, said
David John, deputy director of the Retirement Security Project
at the Brookings Institution in Washington.  “Should this start to take hold,” said John, “there
needs to be either a licensing, a seal of approval or some level
of higher oversight so people don’t find that they are investing
in something that really isn’t suitable for their stage of
life.”  Locked Up  Private-equity firms lock up investor money for about a
decade with a mandate to buy companies, improve their value, and
sell them with a profit. The firms use debt to finance the deals
and amplify returns, typically charge an annual management fee
equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed funds and keep 20
percent of profits from investments. That compares with expense
ratios of 1.27 percent on average for U.S. mutual funds and 0.65
percent for exchange-traded funds, according to researcher
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The biggest firms, seeking to evolve into broader asset
managers because buyouts are less profitable than before the
financial crisis, have added funds to invest in real estate,
credit, hedge funds and other asset classes. Expanding their
client base to include retirement savers has proved to be
harder.  “We definitely would like to be part of 401(k)
platforms,” Michael Gaviser, a managing director responsible
for individual investor products at KKR, which oversees $76
billion, said in an interview at the firm’s New York
headquarters. “We think about it every day because there’s so
much demand.”  Sophisticated Products  Among the most-sophisticated investment products available,
private-equity funds under U.S. rules can only be sold to
accredited investors, defined as individuals with a net worth of
more than $1 million or annual earnings of more than $200,000,
or institutions with more than $5 million in assets. Some 401(k)
plans may qualify, though employers must ensure the investments
offered have fees, risk, transparency and liquidity that are
appropriate for plan participants.  Defined-contribution plans such as 401(k)s let workers and
employers contribute to a retirement account that’s run by the
employee. The individual’s investing decisions directly affect
his or her retirement income. Traditional pension plans, known
as defined-benefit plans because they promise a lifetime
payment, pool large amounts of money and usually have
professional managers to invest it in a variety of assets.  Fundraising Woes  Traditional  pensions  -- the California Public Employees’
Retirement System is the largest in the U.S. -- are among the
biggest investors in private equity, though they have become
more selective after losses during the 2007-2009 financial
crisis. Private-equity funds raised $312 billion globally last
year, less than half the $669 billion gathered in 2007,
according to data from London-based research firm Preqin Ltd.
Fundraising closed after an average of 17 months in 2012,
compared with 12 months in 2007, according to Preqin.  With traditional investors reluctant to commit new money,
firms are getting more serious about accessing individual
retirement plans, which have been a reliable source of growth
for traditional asset managers such as Boston-based Fidelity
Investments.  $5 Trillion  Assets in 401(k)-type plans will grow about 6 percent a
year to $5.03 trillion by 2016, surpassing the $4.9 trillion
projected for public pensions and widening their edge over
private pensions, according to Boston-based research firm
Cerulli Associates.  KKR last year started two debt funds for individual
investors. The  Alternative High Yield Fund (KHYKX) , which became
available in November, is an open-end fund with a $2,500 minimum
investment and the option to withdraw money daily. The
 Alternative Corporate Opportunities Fund (XKCPX)  is an unlisted closed-
end fund with a minimum investment of $25,000 and quarterly
liquidity. The funds, which will invest in assets such as high-
yield bonds and bank loans, are the first pools managed by KKR
that are structured like mutual funds.  The firm, founded in 1976 by Jerome Kohlberg and cousins
Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , is close to being able to add
the high-yield fund to its own 401(k) plan through Fidelity,
according to a person familiar with KKR’s plans. KKR views that
as a step toward offering the investments to other Fidelity
401(k)-plan participants, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Nicole Goodnow, a spokeswoman for Fidelity, declined to
comment. Fidelity is the nation’s largest provider of 401(k)s.  Blackstone ETF  “We’re seeing a great level of interest by investment
managers who have never worked in the defined-contribution space
to find a way for their products to fit,” said Lori Lucas,
defined-contribution practice leader at San Francisco-based
Callan Associates Inc.  Blackstone, the world’s largest manager of alternative
assets such as private equity, real estate and hedge funds, is
seeking to develop products that would be suitable for
individual investors, according to a separate person who asked
not to be named because final decisions on such products haven’t
been made yet.  Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, declined to comment on the plans.  The firm last year partnered with Boston-based  State Street
Corp. (STT)  to create an exchange-traded fund for speculative-grade
loans. The fund, SPDR Blackstone/GSO Senior Loan ETF, started
trading today under the ticker SRLN.  Carlyle’s Plan  Carlyle is starting a fund with New York-based investment
firm Central Park Group LLC that will accept as little as
$50,000 from individual investors, according to a January
regulatory filing. Central Park Group will allocate money from
the pool, called CPG Carlyle Private Equity Fund, to a variety
of Carlyle-managed funds, with the aim of putting as much as 80
percent of the investors’ capital in buyouts.  The minimum commitment to Carlyle’s funds is typically $5
million to $20 million.  Carlyle, which is based in Washington and oversees $170
billion of assets across 113 funds and 67 funds-of-funds,
expects its investment products may eventually reach 401(k)
plans, said a person with knowledge of the firm’s strategy.  Pensions have benefited from the ability to access a wider
array of asset classes, said Alan Glickstein, senior retirement
consultant at  Towers Watson & Co. (TW) , a New York-based
professional-services company. Defined-benefit pension plans
outperformed 401(k)-type accounts by an annual average of 93
basis points from 1995 through 2008 after adjusting for fees,
according to Towers Watson’s latest data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Excess Return  “A 1 percent per year difference compounds to a huge
differential over a person’s working and retirement lifetime,”
Glickstein said. A saver investing $100,000 over a decade at an
annual rate of 8 percent, for instance, would earn $19,177 more
than he would at a rate of 7 percent.  Private-equity funds returned an average of 14 percent from
2002 through 2012, according to Seattle-based researcher
PitchBook Data Inc. U.S. stock funds gained an annualized 8.4
percent and bond funds rose 5 percent a year, according to
Morningstar.  Investments that private-equity firms ultimately bring to
401(k)s may not mirror what they’ve offered to traditional
pension plans and wealthy clients, said Laura Pavlenko Lutton,
director of fund-of-funds research at Morningstar. A diluted
version that fits in 401(k)s may not generate the returns that
justify higher fees, she said.  Entry Point  The likely entry point for private-equity firms seeking
access to 401(k)s are target-date funds, the most common default
option for employees joining the plans, said Callan’s Lucas. The
funds usually are structured as  mutual funds  and hold a mix of
assets that becomes more conservative as employees near
retirement age.  The funds could add an alternative product -- such as a
private-equity, real estate or hedge fund -- as part of the
asset allocation with other sources of liquidity, Lucas said.
Large employers increasingly are using formats such as
 collective trusts  or creating customized versions, which are
regulated differently from mutual funds and may allow for more
illiquid investments such as private equity or real estate, she
said.  Assets in target-date funds will more than double to $1.1
trillion by 2017, according to Cerulli.  Finding Returns  “As that custom target-date world continues to develop,
consultants are going to want to bring more sophisticated
investments to their clients,” said KKR’s Gaviser. “They’re
trying to find greater returns, but they can’t access the same
investments that defined-benefit plans can yet.”  U.S. Senator Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat and chairman of
the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, is
pursuing changes to 401(k) plans. Harkin has said he will
introduce legislation this year that would create so-called USA
Retirement Funds blending features of pensions and 401(k)s to
improve worker outcomes.  “Because of the frequency of withdrawals, it’s much harder
for 401(k)s to take advantage of the types of investments that
pension plans, with their long time horizons, use to diversify
their holdings,” Harkin said in an e-mail, citing asset classes
such as real estate and private equity.  Slow Speed  Employers can take years deciding on 401(k) investment
choices because they’re liable under Department of Labor
regulations as fiduciaries of such plans, which means they must
act in the best interest of their workers and select suitable
funds with reasonable fees.  The spread of alternative assets to 401(k)s will be slow
because of “the nature of the market,” said Kevin Chisholm,
associate director at Cerulli.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Fidelity, T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and
Vanguard Group Inc., four of the largest providers of target-
date funds in 401(k)s, said they have no imminent plans to add
private equity or hedge funds.  The added cost and complexity of alternatives have kept  T.
Rowe Price (TROW)  from including them in its target-date series, said
Richard Whitney, director of asset allocation at the Baltimore-
based firm. Still, over time, there will be a convergence of
practices seen in pensions with those in 401(k)s, he said.  “I believe in the future non-accredited investors will
ultimately be able to invest in private equity,” Carlyle co-
founder David Rubenstein said in a September interview. “It
will be possible in the future where 401(k) check-off plans will
be able to say, you can take a certain amount of your money a
year and go into an illiquid private-equity fund.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  