-- Knicks ’73 Champions Say Current Team Must Ignore Egos
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-04T04:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/knicks-1973-title-team-warns-egos-stand-in-way-of-champio.html
The  New York Knicks , poised to
capture their first division title since 1994, are working
toward the bigger milestone of the club’s first  National
Basketball Association  championship in 40 years.  The 1972-73 Knicks will be honored tomorrow night in a
halftime ceremony at Madison Square Garden. Every living member
of the team is scheduled to return for the Knicks’ game against
the  Milwaukee Bucks , including Earl Monroe, Walt “Clyde” Frazier, Willis Reed,  Bill Bradley  and Dick Barnett, whose
numbers hang in the rafters at the arena alongside their
championship banner.  Past and present Knicks say that while the structure of NBA
teams has changed in four decades, there is an important legacy
from the ’73 squad, which balanced the egos and personalities of
seven future Hall of Famers.  “If there’s a lesson to be learned, it’s that everyone has
to sacrifice to win,” Monroe, 68, said in an interview. “But
times have changed. This current team is built around the star
system.”  Led by All-Star forward  Carmelo Anthony , New York has a
five-game lead in the  Atlantic Division  with eight games
remaining, after a 95-82 win last night over the  Atlanta Hawks 
gave it a 10th straight win, its longest winning streak since
1994.  The Knicks have been overshadowed by Eastern Conference
teams like  Michael Jordan ’s  Chicago Bulls ,  Kevin Garnett ’s
 Boston Celtics  and now LeBron James’s  Miami Heat  since 1994, and
haven’t won a playoff series since 2000.  No Ego  Henry Bibby, a rookie guard on the 1972-73 Knicks, said he
never saw selfishness among his teammates. Now an assistant with
the NBA’s Memphis Grizzlies, Bibby said the championship team
was unique because “everyone threw their egos out the window.”  “Who were the stars?” Bibby, 63, said in a telephone
interview. “They say Walt Frazier was the star, well so was
Willis Reed. So was Earl Monroe. So was  Phil Jackson  coming off
the bench. This group was just a different group who played
together to win.”  Anthony is the unquestioned star of the current Knicks. He
scored 50 points two days ago against the Heat, 40 last night
against the Hawks and is the only Eastern Conference player
averaging over 27 points per game this season.  Marv Albert, who called Knicks games on radio and
television from 1967 to 2004, said Anthony could learn from the
1973 team, specifically the backcourt of Monroe and Frazier.  “I think he could adapt and cut back on his offense,”
Albert said. “He’d fit right in as a weapon if he took the same
approach to it as Earl and Clyde.”  Stock Boost  The Knicks’ success this year couldn’t have come at a
better time for its owner,  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) , which is
in the middle of a $1 billion, privately financed arena
renovation and has local competition from the Brooklyn Nets.
Shares of MSG, which has sports, entertainment and media
divisions, closed yesterday at $56.15, up 63 percent from the
$34.43 price a year ago.  Richard Tullo, director of research at  Albert Fried & Co. ,
said most of that gain was from increased revenue in the sports
division, and that the Knicks’ success this year has significant
long-term value for the company.  “Getting into the playoffs for the third year in a row,
and maybe getting into the second or third round, that would be
great for future ticket prices,” Tullo, who doesn’t own MSG
shares, said in a telephone interview. “They’d be able to raise
ticket prices between 5 and 10 percent and still sell out.”  The average Knicks ticket is listed at a league-high
$428.01 on the secondary market, according to aggregator  TiqIQ ,
a 48 percent increase from the start of the season.  Long-Term Legacy  Kurt Thomas, one of two current Knicks who was alive when
the 1972-73 team won its title, said he’s seen video of that
team and knows what they sacrificed individually to win a
championship. A member of the most recent Knicks team to make
the NBA Finals in 1999, Thomas said there’s inherent pressure in
New York to live up to that legacy.  “New York fans, all they want is a championship, nothing
short of it,” Thomas, a 40-year-old forward, said in an
interview.  The window for satisfying that demand is closing for the
Knicks, according to Monroe. New York, which added Thomas, 40-
year-old  Jason Kidd , 39-year-old Marcus Camby and 35-year-old
Kenyon Martin in the past year, is the oldest team in the NBA at
an average age of more than 31.  “They didn’t get these veteran players for two years from
now, they got them for this year,” Monroe said. “They’re not
necessarily built for our approach, but going into the playoffs,
if they can get themselves healthy, they’ll be a dangerous
team.”  -- With assistance from Anna Edgerton in Miami. Editors: Larry Siddons, Dex McLuskey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  