-- Kospi Drops Most in 4 Months on North Korea Threats
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-04T06:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/kospi-drops-most-in-five-months-won-falls-on-north-korea-threat.html
South  Korea ’s  stocks  tumbled the
most in more than four months and the won sank to a half-year
low as the risk of conflict with North Korea curbed demand for
the nation’s assets. The cost of protecting sovereign bonds
against default climbed to the highest since September.  North Korea ratified a law this week authorizing plans for
“counter-actions” against U.S. aggression including a nuclear
strike, official media reported today. The communist nation in
the past week said that a “state of war” exists with the
South, announced plans to restart a mothballed nuclear plant and
prevented South Korean workers from entering a jointly run
industrial park at Gaeseong, on its side of the border.  “North Korea is heightening its threats day by day and
that risk factor is having a negative impact on South Korean
financial markets,” said Jeon Seung Ji, an analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc. in  Seoul . “Rising tension is prompting foreign
investors to sell more Korean stocks, weakening the currency. In
the meantime, exporters are likely to look for a point to sell
dollars.”  The  Kospi index  fell 1.2 percent to 1,959.45 at the close
in Seoul, its steepest loss since Nov. 15. The won dropped 0.5
percent to 1,123.71 per dollar, after touching 1,125.50 earlier,
the weakest since Sept. 13. The currency slumped 5.3 percent in
the past three months, Asia’s second-worst performer, as
tensions with North Korea escalated.  Bond Risk  The North detonated a nuclear device in February, prompting
a tightening of United Nations sanctions, and the U.S. and South
Korea began military exercises last month that included flights
over the Korean peninsula by U.S. stealth bombers. The South’s
Defense Ministry said today it sees no unusual North Korea troop
movements or signs of imminent attack.  North Korea for the second day restricted entry for South
Koreans to the special economic zone in Gaeseong, allowing only
those already staying in the park to leave. The North yesterday
notified South Korean businesses to leave Gaeseong by April 10,
Yoo Dong Ok, a spokesman for Gaeseong companies said by phone
today. The South’s Unification Ministry said that claim is a
“misinterpretation” of North Korea’s regular request for the
South to submit its plan for cross-border movements.  The cost of insuring South Korea’s debt against non-payment
with credit-default swaps rose four basis points to 86
yesterday, the highest since September, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Government bonds were steady. The yield on South Korea’s
2.75 percent notes due March 2018 was unchanged at 2.56 percent,
according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc. The  five-year yield 
reached 2.51 percent last week, the lowest according to data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 2000.  Defense Stocks  South Korea’s presidential office yesterday denied
pressuring the central bank to lower interest rates, after chief
presidential adviser for the economy Cho Won Dong told reporters
that a cut would be beneficial since the government may need to
issue bonds to finance a supplementary budget.  The Bank of Korea’s policy makers next meet on April 11 to
review the benchmark rate, which has been kept unchanged at 2.75
percent since a 25 basis-point cut in October.  More than 120 South Korean companies including apparel
company  Shinwon Corp. (009270) , underwear manufacturer  Good People Co. (033340) 
and watchmaker  Romanson Co. (026040)  employ more than 53,000 North Korean
workers at Gaeseong, located about 10 miles (16 kilometers)
north of the demilitarized zone. Shinwon’s shares slumped 4.2
percent in Seoul today, while Romanson declined 2.6 percent.  Victek Co., a maker of electronic warfare equipment, jumped
15 percent, pacing gains among South Korean defense stocks.
Firstec Co., a maker of components for helicopters and armored
vehicles, rose 10 percent, while  Speco Co. (013810)  surged 15 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  