-- N.J. Needs 10% Tax Jump to Hit Christie Goal, Rosen Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-04-04T19:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/n-j-needs-10-tax-jump-to-hit-christie-goal-rosen-says.html
New Jersey’s revenue must increase
10 percent over the rest of this fiscal year in order to meet
Governor  Chris Christie ’s budget target, according to the
legislature’s chief fiscal analyst.  The state may miss revenue projections by as much as $302
million in the current budget and $335 million in the fiscal
year that begins July 1,  David Rosen  of the nonpartisan Office
of Legislative Services told lawmakers today in Trenton. The
combined $637 million shortfall “substantially” exceeds
Christie’s estimated $300 million ending balance, Rosen said.  “The significance of the differences are magnified” by
the size of Christie’s projected  surplus, Rosen said.  The governor, a 50-year-old Republican seeking a second
term, is counting on a 4.9 percent revenue gain to balance his
budget for next fiscal year. That’s a smaller increase than he
projected last year, when his forecast for more than 8 percent
growth was challenged by Democrats and  Standard & Poor’s .  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said that he anticipates
a slight sales-tax bump from  Hurricane Sandy  recovery and
improving income levies. The state has logged rises in payrolls,
car sales and the stock market, he said.  “ New Jersey ’s economy is clearly growing,” Sidamon-
Eristoff told the Assembly Budget Committee. “In light of the
improving economy and ongoing Superstorm Sandy recovery efforts,
we are confident.”  Supplemental Spending  State-tax collections have beat Christie’s targets for four
straight months after missing projections for five in a row. For
the fiscal year through March, collections of all major taxes
are above projections by about $25 million, or less than 1
percent, the treasurer said yesterday.  Rosen said that while he expects income and corporate-tax
collections to improve this fiscal year, the recovery won’t be
as robust as Sidamon-Eristoff is predicting.  Christie’s administration has identified $512 million in
spending that would need to be added to the current budget to
cover Medicaid and employee benefits as well as snow removal and
costs associated with Sandy, Rosen said.  The governor’s $32.9 billion spending proposal for fiscal
2014 is “structurally imbalanced” for a second year because
it’s based on revenue goals that may not be met even after
recent revisions, S&P said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  