-- New York Assemblyman Stevenson Charged With Taking Bribes
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y ,   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-04T22:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/n-y-state-assemblyman-eric-stevenson-charged-with-bribe-taking.html
New York  Assemblyman Eric Stevenson
was charged with taking bribes from developers of adult day care
centers in exchange for proposing a bill limiting their
competition, the second corruption case involving a state
lawmaker unveiled this week.  Stevenson, a Democrat who was elected in November to his
second term as an assemblyman from the Bronx, was arrested and
charged with five counts of conspiracy, bribery and fraud. He
was accused in a complaint unsealed today in federal court in
 Manhattan  of taking $22,000 in bribes.  “For the second time in three days, we unseal criminal
charges against a sitting member of our state legislature,”
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement. “It
becomes more and more difficult to avoid the sad conclusion that
political corruption in New York is indeed rampant and that a
show-me-the-money culture in  Albany  is alive and well.”  The defendant, 46, was arrested at 6 a.m. and released on a
$250,000 bond after an appearance today in Manhattan federal
magistrate court. He didn’t enter a plea. Leaving the
courthouse, his lawyer, Murray Richman, said he had “no doubt
he will be exonerated.”  On April 2, State Senator Malcolm Smith, a Queens Democrat,
was among six people, including a Queens city councilman,
charged in a separate bribery scheme designed to let him run as
a Republican for mayor of  New York City .  Nelson Castro  Assemblyman Nelson Castro, a Bronx Democrat, has been
cooperating with federal authorities in the Stevenson case,
according to the complaint. He agreed to resign from the
Assembly and an indictment against him will be dismissed,
prosecutors said.  “I deeply regret my misconduct while campaigning before I
was elected to office,” Castro said in an e-mailed statement.
“It is my sincere hope that my constituents remember me for the
good I have done as their representative rather than for the
poor example I set as a candidate.”  Castro said he agreed to cooperate with the Bronx district
attorney and the U.S. attorney in “various investigations aimed
at rooting out public corruption.” The agreement came after he
was indicted by a Bronx grand jury in 2009 for committing
perjury in a civil matter, he said.  Moratorium Proposed  Charged along with Stevenson are four people who planned to
open two adult day care centers in the Bronx districts
represented by the assemblymen. They gave Stevenson cash on
several occasions in exchange for a legislative proposal that
would impose a moratorium on new centers, thus reducing
competition, the U.S. said.  “The allegations illustrate the corruption of an elected
representative’s core function -- a legislator selling
legislation,” Bharara said in his statement.  New York Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan
Democrat, encouraged Stevenson to resign his office.  “Given the evidence that has been presented, he should
seriously consider whether he can continue to maintain the
public trust,” Silver said in an e-mailed statement.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  also weighed in on the
recent arrests.  “The allegations of public corruption by city and state
officials this week are appalling,” Cuomo said in a statement.
“Any time the public’s trust is violated, we must act quickly
and aggressively to hold the guilty parties accountable.”  Gas Line  The four other defendants in today’s case are Igor
Belyansky, Rostislav Belyansky, Igor Tsimerman and David Binman.
While planning to open day care centers on Jerome Avenue and
Westchester Avenue in the Bronx, they first sought Stevenson’s
help in getting Con Edison to install a gas line, recruiting
elderly people for the center and obtaining necessary permits.  The developers named one of the centers after Stevenson’s
grandfather, who also served in the Assembly, prosecutors said.  U.S. prosecutors, with the aid of a cooperating witness who
wasn’t identified by name, recorded and sometimes took video of
the defendants meeting in restaurants and discussing the scheme.  According to one recorded conversation in the complaint,
Stevenson talked about the proposed legislation with the
cooperating witness, telling him, “You can write down the
language, basically what you want.” Then he added, “Are Igor
and them putting together a nice little package for me, huh?”  At a steakhouse in the Bronx in September, Belyansky handed
Stevenson an envelope with $10,000 cash, according to the
complaint. Stevenson declined it at first, warning of
surveillance cameras in the restaurant. They went outside where
a video shot by  law enforcement  shows Stevenson taking the
envelope, stuffing it in his front pants pocket and then pulling
his shirt down over it, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Stevenson, 13-00873, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  