-- NII Gains on $400 Million Sale of Peru Division to Entel
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-04-05T20:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/nii-holdings-to-sell-nextel-peru-to-entel-for-400-million.html
NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , which offers
mobile-phone service under the Nextel brand in  Latin America ,
rose to the highest price in more than a month after agreeing to
sell its Peru unit for $400 million.  NII, based in Reston,  Virginia , will use the proceeds of
the sale to Chile’s  Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones SA  to
invest in Mexico and Brazil, its two largest markets, the
company said yesterday in a statement. The transaction is
expected to close in the second half of this year, it said.  The company is also considering selling businesses in Chile
and Argentina, as well as assets such as its wireless towers, to
focus on the larger countries. Peruvian service revenue fell 2.3
percent last year to $289.8 million as competition pushed
customers’ monthly bills lower.  NII  rose  21 percent to $5.48 in  New York , the highest
closing price since Feb. 22. Before today’s gain, the shares had
fallen 36 percent this year, compared with a 9.4 percent
increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The transaction values the Peru business at 25 cents per
megahertz of capacity for each person covered,  Chris King , a
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst, said in a research note last
night. Assuming a similar value for NII’s other networks, the
company should be worth $23 a share, he said.  “This asset sale is a key data point which validates what
we believe to be the strong physical asset value of the company,
which remains well above the company’s current enterprise value
of approximately $4 billion,” he said. He advises buying the
shares.  The transaction allows Entel, as the Chilean phone carrier
is known, to build on its investments in its sole operation
outside its home country. The Santiago-based company has a
landline  network  and a call center in  Peru .  Entel fell 3.2 percent to 9,489 pesos in Santiago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  