-- Norges Bank’s Olsen Sees Krone as Challenge to Rate Policy
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-04-04T13:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/norges-bank-s-olsen-sees-krone-as-challenge-to-rate-policy-1-.html
Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen
said conducting monetary policy in Norway is “challenging” as
the country needs to avoid an appreciation of the krone even as
household debt surges.  “A higher key policy rate might have curbed debt growth
and demand pressures in the Norwegian economy,” Olsen said
today in prepared remarks to diplomats in a speech in Oslo.
“But in an environment of persistently low external interest
rates, such a policy would likely have led to a sharp
appreciation of the krone, resulting in too low levels of
inflation and economic activity.”  The krone reached a record on a trade-weighted basis in
February and has surged about 22 percent against the euro since
early 2009. Its strength has kept inflation below the bank’s 2.5
percent target since 2009 and is hurting exporters.  Olsen, who held the benchmark at 1.5 percent last month,
signaled on March 14 that the bank was ready to cut rates
further should the ascent continue.  The krone gained 0.2 percent against the euro to trade at
7.4539 as of 3:56 p.m. in Oslo. The krone has slid 2.7 percent
since the trade-weighted high in February.  Weak global growth has prompted central bankers in the euro
area, the U.S. and Japan to resort to additional stimulus
measures. The Swiss central bank has pledged to keep its defense
of the franc cap after almost doubling its currency holdings to
shield the country from the fallout caused by the euro area’s
crisis. Olsen has said that he is reluctant to widen the rate
gap to the rest of Europe and the U.S.  ECB Holds  The European Central Bank kept its benchmark at a record
low of 0.75 percent today and President Mario Draghi signaled
that policy makers stand ready to ease policy further if the
economy deteriorates.  “The crisis in Europe and weak growth in the U.S. are also
contributing to keeping interest rates in Norway at a low
level,” Olsen said today.  Near record low interest rates have pushed private debt
levels in Norway to all-time highs as property prices have
surged. Home prices jumped 7.7 percent last year, and the
financial regulator and the government are tightening capital
and mortgage lending rules to cool the market. Wage increases of
about 4 percent, fueled by a boom in the country’s petroleum
sector, have also contributed to increased consumer spending in
western Europe’s largest crude exporter.  Still, the economy is now feeling the pain from Europe’s
debt crisis. Growth in exports will slow to 0.5 percent this
year, down from 2.9 percent in 2012, the central bank estimates.
Weaker economic growth prospects are feeding through to the
labor market, pushing  unemployment  to the highest level since
2010. The joblessness rate stood at 3.6 percent in the January
quarter, Statistics Norway data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  