-- Understanding Kim Jong Un’s Tantrums
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-04-04T21:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/nuclear-kim-games-bipolar-north-korea-politics.html
Can the world just take a long, deep
breath about North Korea? This isn’t a trick question, but a
plea for a moment of sobriety amid Kim Jong Un’s tantrums.  Rather than obsess over his nuclear capabilities, the
firepower of his adjectives or the amount of foam at his mouth,
let’s consider what Kim is up to. After barely a year running
the family business, the  Kim Dynasty , the Swiss-educated 30-ish
dictator still has a bunch of trigger-happy generals looking
over his shoulder. He’s showing them he’s every bit as macho as
his dad, the now-deceased Kim Jong Il, if not more.  I’m not defending Kim’s actions; if anyone needs to
discover yoga or decaffeinated coffee, it’s him. I’m just
pointing out that he’s under intense pressure to wow his
military in order to cling to power, and that means lashing out
at the world, and the U.S. and  South Korea  foremost.  He has certainly grabbed the attention he needs,
considering how many headlines he’s generating and how many
questions world leaders are getting about the threat that North
Korea poses. It’s worth considering how much the outside world
is enabling him with its fevered news coverage and Cold War
intrigue.  Perhaps it’s best to view this week’s theatrics as Kim’s
version of the Cuban missile crisis. Back in 1962, U.S.
President  John F. Kennedy  came out of his confrontation with the
 Soviet Union  with enhanced political capital. Later this month,
after the U.S. and South Korea end their military drills, Kim
can tell his people that the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea stared down the Great Satan and its sidekick, and both of
them blinked. That’s his best-case scenario and probably what
he’s angling for. It also gives him cover to advance his nuclear
and missile ambitions, including restarting the mothballed
Yongbyon reactor.  Going Mental  It is always possible that Kim has suicidal tendencies. But
what has the Kim Dynasty, through three generations, spent every
waking moment doing? Staying in power and keeping the world out.
The idea that Kim and his cronies see any upside to squeezing
off a missile, knowing it would spell the end of  North Korea , is
the stuff of Tom Clancy novels, not realpolitik.  The vibe on the ground in South Korea is instructive. In
 Seoul , do you know how many people seem to be panicking? None.
Folks go to work, kids head to school, buses run on time,
newspapers are delivered each morning. There’s no run on banks,
and supermarket shelves are full. There’s no  bull market  in bomb
shelters and the hotel where I’m staying isn’t giving out iodide
pills. Life goes on.  My impressions are shared by Moody’s Investors Service,
which said in an April 2 report that “during this ongoing
episode of heightened tensions, optimism over the new President
Park Geun Hye administration’s economic policies evidently
surpasses fears over Pyongyang’s saber rattling.” South  Korea ’s
stability is ensured by deterrence inherent in its U.S.
alliance. The U.S. has sent F-22 Raptor fighters and B-2 and B-
52 bombers to the Korean peninsula.  It’s always possible that Kim will lose his mind and attack
South Korea’s 50 million people or even the U.S. Yet there may
be a good explanation for Kim’s Jekyll-and-Hyde behavior. Rather
than cracking up, Kim may fear losing political control.  Fretting over his real or imagined rivals might explain
Kim’s bipolar behavior -- one moment yucking it up with former
basketball star Dennis Rodman, threatening a “sea of fire” and
an “arc of destruction” the next.  At the same time that he’s ratcheting up military tensions,
Kim is redoubling efforts to reform his impoverished economy.
Just consider his move this week to name economic reformist Pak Pong Ju as premier, while  China  expressed support for a shared
economic zone on the North Korean border. Kim’s failure to
embark on fundamental economic reform has been disappointing. Is
he suddenly trying to make amends?  Likes Mike  When  Kim Jong Il  chose his youngest son as his successor,
there was reason for hope. Pundits and policy analysts wondered
if the new supreme leader would take North Korea in a more
inspired direction. Now, that seems doubtful.  Looked at another way, Kim’s reckless provocations probably
are aimed at appeasing an impatient military. The only
difference is that this is happening in a 24/7 news-cycle world
that didn’t exist in 1994 when Kim’s father was building his
strongman bona fides. This time around, we in the news media
amplify North Korea’s megaphone by breathlessly reporting Kim’s
every jingoistic utterance. We are playing into his hands.  The spinmeisters at the slickest public relations firms
have nothing on this guy. Kim knows North Korea’s isolation
makes its relationship with the outside world asymmetric, giving
him a huge advantage. We know little more than what he wants us
to.  We can’t ignore Kim, and President Park and U.S. President
 Barack Obama  are right to try to rein him in. The risks of cyber
attacks from North Korea, for example, are real, as South Korean
broadcasters and banks can attest. But we need to understand
Kim’s motives while not indulging in hype and exaggeration.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Seoul at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  