-- Obagi Bidding War Seen Pushing Premium to 99%: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-04-05T20:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/obagi-bidding-war-seen-pushing-premium-to-99-real-m-a.html
Traders are betting that a bidding
war for anti-aging cream maker  Obagi Medical Products Inc. (OMPI)  isn’t
over yet.  The producer of prescription skincare products rose to
$25.44 yesterday, 6 percent above a sweetened $24-per-share
proposal from  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  That
stock increase signals investors expect closely held Merz Pharma
Group to come back with a higher offer after the German company
said this week it’s “resolute” in its aim to buy Long Beach,
California-based Obagi, according to Cuttone & Co.  Valeant’s latest bid is already 70 percent more than
Obagi’s average 20-day stock price before the takeover fight
began, the highest premium for a U.S. drug-industry deal in four
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Valeant could be
willing to pay as much as $28 a share to top any new offer from
Merz, said Royal Bank of Canada, pushing the premium as high as
99 percent.  Merz “is not done,” Sachin Shah, a New York-based special
situations and merger arbitrage strategist at Cuttone, said in a
telephone interview. For Valeant, “they know what their top or
ceiling offer is and, for me, it’s probably not $24. Now they’re
just going to have to wait and see what Merz does.”  Kenny Juarez, a spokesman for Obagi, declined to comment
beyond the company’s April 3 statement that its board had
unanimously approved the latest offer from Valeant.  Obagi’s skincare products include Nu-Derm, which made up 52
percent of its $121 million in  sales  last year, and wrinkle
reducer  Elastiderm .  Activist Push  The company, which went public in 2006, has faced pressure
to sell itself since activist investor Voce Capital Management
LLC acquired shares and last year criticized the board’s
unwillingness to consider offers.  On March 20, Montreal-based Valeant said it agreed to buy
Obagi for $19.75 a share in cash, a 40 percent premium to its
20-day average stock price before the announcement.  Merz, which said it had been holding takeover discussions
with Obagi at the time Valeant’s proposal was disclosed,
countered with a $22-a-share cash bid on April 2. Valeant then
boosted its offer to $24 a share a day later, valuing Obagi at
$418 million.  The latest deal price represents a 70 percent premium to
Obagi’s unaffected shares, the biggest for a U.S. pharmaceutical
deal valued at more than $250 million since 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘It’s On’  Shares of Obagi have traded above Valeant’s offer since it
was announced two days ago, closing yesterday at record high of
$25.44.  Today, Obagi shares fell 2 cents to $25.42.  Investors are “betting that the other team could come
back,” Keith Moore, an event-driven strategist at MKM Partners
LLC in New York, said of Merz.  Merz, the Frankfurt-based maker of  Mederma  scar cream, said
this week when announcing its counterbid that it was surprised
by Obagi’s agreement with Valeant given the ongoing negotiations
and remained “resolute” in its efforts to acquire the company.  “When someone says ‘resolute,’ to me, that means it’s
on,” Shah said. He estimated the German drugmaker would need to
boost its bid to at least $25.25 a share to get the Obagi board
to consider it.  Representatives for Merz didn’t immediately respond to
phone messages or an e-mail seeking comment.  Cost Savings  Acquiring Obagi would give both Valeant and Merz the chance
to trim costs by integrating the company’s products with their
existing lines of skin treatments and wrinkle creams, according
to  David Amsellem , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  “Both Merz and Valeant have infrastructure in the
aesthetic space,” Amsellem said in a phone interview from New
York. “You can basically take a bludgeon to Obagi’s costs.”  Given annual cost savings that may even exceed the $40
million projected by Valeant, the company has room to increase
its own bid for Obagi if needed to fend off a sweetened offer
from Merz, Amsellem said.  Valeant’s swift response to the Merz bid signaled that
management was prepared to fight for Obagi, Douglas Miehm, a
Toronto-based analyst at RBC, wrote in an April 3 note to
clients. Valeant could be willing to pay as much as $28 a share,
a 99 percent premium that would imply a multiple of about 4
times Obagi’s sales, Miehm wrote.  Laurie Little, a spokeswoman for Valeant, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message or e-mail seeking
comment.  Deal History  While Valeant has said it typically prefers to pay no more
than 2.5 times sales in a deal, that hasn’t stopped it from
offering higher multiples before, according to Miehm.  When the company purchased Aton Pharma Inc. in 2010, the
price tag represented a multiple of about 3.5 times sales, while
a deal for Lithuanian drugmaker AB Sanitas in 2011 carried a
multiple of about 3.6 times sales, he said.  Still, Valeant also has a history of walking away from
takeover fights. The company dropped a hostile bid for Cephalon
Inc. in 2011 after its $5.7 billion offer was topped by Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  “They don’t like getting involved in bidding wars,”
Raghuram Selvaraju, a New York-based analyst at Aegis Capital
Corp., said in a phone interview. “They specifically structure
their M&A strategy to avoid getting involved in a bidding war.
If Merz comes back and tops their bid, they’re going to say,
‘I’m out.’”  Valeant may be more willing to increase its offer this time
because of the potential cost savings and profitability boost
tied to integrating Obagi’s products, Shah said.  “The reason why they are going to continue to participate
in this essentially public auction or bidding process versus
when they haven’t in the past is because they know that it’s
still accretive,” he said. “The valuation is extremely
compelling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  