-- Obama Talks Up Climate Agenda at Keystone Foe’s Home
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-04-04T16:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/obama-talks-up-climate-agenda-at-keystone-foe-s-home.html
President  Barack Obama  told a group
of Democratic donors, including an opponent of the Keystone XL
pipeline, that his administration needs to do more to sell its
second-term agenda on climate-change legislation.  The top challenge is to convince the public that measures
to contain climate change can be pursued without harming the
economic welfare of low- and middle-income Americans, Obama said
yesterday at a $5,000 per-person fundraiser for House Democrats
in  San Francisco .  “This notion that there’s a contradiction between our
economy and our environment is a false choice,” the president
said. The main task, he said, is showing middle-income families
that he’s “working just as hard for them as we are for our
environmental agenda.”  Obama spoke at the Pacific Heights home of Thomas Steyer,
the founder of Farallon Capital Management LLC and a Keystone
opponent, as his administration considers whether to approve the
$5.3 billion cross-border pipeline proposed by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)   The project, under State Department review, would carry
heavy crude from Canadian tar-sands fields to U.S. refineries
near the  Gulf of Mexico . Last year, Obama denied a permit for
the line, citing concerns tied to  Nebraska ’s drinking water, and
Calgary-based TransCanada resubmitted its plan with a new route.  While the president made no reference to Keystone in his
public remarks at Steyer’s home, the project shadowed Obama’s
stay in San Francisco. On its way to his second event yesterday,
a dinner at the home of Ann and Gordon Getty at a cost $32,400
per seat, the presidential motorcade passed a group of
environmental activists protesting Keystone.  California Fundraisers  The events were among four California fundraisers on the
president’s schedule over two days as Obama tests his ability to
replenish Democratic campaign accounts without the threat of his
defeat to motivate donors. The reception and dinner brought in
$3.25 million for the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee, which assists Democratic candidates running for House
seats, according to the party.  Today, Obama is scheduled to raise money for the  Democratic
National Committee , which had $21.9 million in debt at the end
of February, with a $32,400-per-person brunch at the Atherton
home of Liz Simmons and Mark Heising, the founder and managing
director of Medley Partners, according to a person familiar with
the matter. His final event, also in Atherton, south of San
Francisco, is at the residence of Levi Strauss heir John
Goldman. Tickets there range in price from $1,000 to $20,000.  Obama is expected to raise $1.8 million at the two DNC
events, and has committed to a total of six fundraising trips
before June 30, said the person, who asked not to be identified
in discussing the plans.  ‘Tough’ Politics  “We’ve got more work to do in terms of dealing with
 climate change  and making sure we’ve got an economy that is
energy efficient, that is productive, that is cutting edge,”
the president said at Steyer’s home. “The politics are tough.”  Environmentalists view the Keystone decision as a test of
Obama’s sincerity about making climate change a priority in his
second term after failing to advance legislation to cap carbon
dioxide emissions in his first.  A draft State Department analysis of Keystone, released
last month, said the project posed no significant risks to the
environment, though it made no recommendation as to whether the
pipeline should be built.  Environmental groups have said the State Department study
underplayed Keystone’s potential effect on greenhouse-gas
emissions. Environmentalists oppose the project in part because
extracting oil from  tar sands  releases more carbon dioxide than
most forms of conventional drilling.  Signaling Approval  The initial State Department analysis said the tar sands in
 Alberta  would be developed with or without Keystone, so the
pipeline’s effect on total emissions would be negligible.
Supporters of the project view that conclusion as an indication
Obama will eventually give his approval.  The State Department, which has authority over Keystone
because it crosses the U.S.-Canadian border, is expected to make
a recommendation to Obama by September.  U.S. crude-oil output in the fourth quarter this year will
exceed imports for the first time since 1995, as booming fields
in  North Dakota  and  Texas  put the nation on track to surpass a
record set a quarter-century ago, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said last month. Meanwhile, domestic natural-gas
output is forecast by Bloomberg New Energy Finance to increase
25 percent by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  