-- Obama Brain Trust Aids Long-Shot Silicon Valley Congress Hopeful
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2013-04-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/obama-brain-trust-aids-long-shot-silicon-valley-congress-hopeful.html
Rohit “Ro” Khanna isn’t a member
of Congress yet, but people who encounter him might think
otherwise. He’s outgoing and amiable. He wears dark suits and
polished shoes.  When we met for pizza in Palo Alto recently, he had already
adopted the politician’s habit of speaking in the royal “we.”
As in: “The old model of politics is to run against someone and
point out their deficiencies. We want to try a new model -- run
a campaign that is excellent in substance, in execution, in
figuring out how to get people involved and win on excellence,
as opposed to tearing people down.”  Khanna, 36, is campaigning to represent California’s 17th
District, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 8 issue.
The district includes much of Silicon Valley;  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  all have headquarters there.  On paper, he’s the Platonic ideal of a candidate for 2013:
He’s a first-generation Indian-American, an Ivy League-educated
technology lawyer, and already a veteran of the Obama
administration, having done a stint as a deputy assistant
secretary at the U.S. Department of Commerce.  Still, the odds of his representing anyone in Congress next
year look awfully long. Khanna is vying to unseat incumbent
Democrat Mike Honda, a seven-term congressman. In March, Honda’s
campaign released a poll showing him with a 52-point lead over
Khanna, who drew a meager 5 percent support.  Dream Team  What makes Khanna more interesting than your typical
underdog is who else he has in his corner. On April 2, when he
announced that he would challenge Honda, he also revealed that
the people who will be running his campaign are many of the same
ones who just got  Barack Obama  re-elected.  Even though Khanna has never been elected to anything, he
has managed to sign up one of Obama’s top-three fundraisers,
Steve Spinner, as his campaign chairman; Obama’s national field
director, Jeremy Bird, as his chief strategist; and the
president’s media firm, pollster, and data-analytics team, along
with assorted other veterans of the re-election.  Their aim is to build at the congressional level the same
type of campaign they ran for Obama. It’s as if Bill Belichick
and the staff of the New England Patriots decided to coach a
high school football team.  One of the big questions after Obama’s re-election was how
his campaign, widely viewed as the most sophisticated in
presidential history, would influence American politics going
forward.  ‘Secret Sauce’  Much of the machinery has been redirected to Organizing for
Action, a group run by Obama’s campaign manager, Jim Messina,
that pushes the president’s agenda. Yet the billion-dollar
question politicians and analysts are pondering is whether the
techniques honed in last year’s race against Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  can produce the same results
with candidates other than Obama.  They want to know whether, as Spinner puts it, “you can
take the secret sauce of the Obama campaign and apply it down
the ticket.”  Khanna is the first test case. He might seem an unlikely
choice not only because Hillary Clinton, or a promising
gubernatorial candidate, or one of the many vulnerable
Democratic senators up for re-election in 2014 all seem like
more natural beneficiaries of this state-of-the-art campaign
firepower.  Larger Vision  Khanna is taking on a fellow Democrat. Still, the merit of
challenging a popular establishment figure is ingrained in the
people who inhabit the president’s inner orbit. They see
themselves as loyal to something larger and purer than party
alone.  That was the rationale for challenging Clinton in 2008.
It’s also the reason they give for supporting Khanna.  “In 2007, we saw a guy who most people didn’t know and
didn’t give much chance to be president,” says Larry Grisolano,
a strategist and ad maker for Obama. “But we thought we could
build a movement around his personal story and vision for the
future. That’s what attracted us to Obama. These people don’t
come around every day. But we all have an excitement about races
that have that possibility. I think that in Ro, there’s the
sense that he’s that kind of candidate.”  The race will be as much a test of the Obama apparatus as
it will be of Khanna. And it could clarify the answer to a
running debate in politics: whether Barack Obama is a once-in-a-
generation talent or whether he’s the talented beneficiary of
new insights and strategies that will outlast him.  Even with Khanna’s upstart status, chief strategist Bird
predicts, “He should win.”  Immigrants’ Son  Khanna grew up in Bucks County,  Pennsylvania , the son of
Hindu immigrants, and earned degrees from the University of
 Chicago  and Yale Law School before heading West. He credits his
grandfather, a freedom fighter in the Indian independence
movement alongside Mahatma Gandhi, with orienting him toward
public service.  “When I was young,” he says, “we would visit him and he
would tell stories of his four years in jail, which shaped my
interest in human rights, current events, and international
relations.”  His first brush with electoral politics has the same
Hollywood gloss as Bill Clinton’s encounter with John F. Kennedy
as a teenager.  “When I was a student at Chicago, a guy named Will Burns,
now an alderman, was my boss at a volunteer organization where I
tutored African-American kids in math and science,” Khanna
recalls. “One day, he told me, ‘You’ve gotta go walk precincts
with this guy.’” It turned out to be Obama, who, at 36, was
running his first campaign for the Illinois Senate.  ‘Lot of Buzz’  “He was probably the first politician I’d met,” Khanna
continues. “My recollection is that he was an exceedingly
decent, gracious person, and that there was a lot of buzz around
him as the future mayor. At the time, people talked about Obama
as the next Harold  Washington  -- who was, to be clear, viewed
with extreme reverence. They thought Obama could be the next
black mayor of Chicago. That got me interested in politics.”  In 2003, having finished law school and moved to the San
Francisco Bay Area, Khanna, then 26, launched an impromptu
challenge to the beloved local congressman, the late Tom Lantos,
to protest the then 11-term Democrat’s support for the Iraq war.  Democratic Mentor  “It was completely unstrategic and probably the most
idealistic thing I’ve ever done in my life,” he says. Khanna
lost the race yet acquired a mentor. Lantos introduced him to
U.S. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and other local
Democratic bigwigs.  He began organizing the Bay Area’s large Asian-American
community and raising money for Democratic politicians,
including Honda. These patrons helped steer him to a job as
deputy assistant secretary of Commerce in the Obama
administration, which allowed him to travel the country for two
years, meeting with manufacturers and helping them figure out
how better to export products, overcome trade barriers, and open
up foreign markets.  Khanna left the Commerce Department in 2011, wrote a book
valorizing American manufacturing, “Entrepreneurial Nation: Why
Manufacturing Is Still Key to America’s Future,” and formed a
committee to explore a run for Congress in 2012.  Marquee Names  It raised a staggering $1.2 million, much of it from
Silicon Valley’s marquee names -- including Google Inc. Chairman
 Eric Schmidt , venture capital investors Vinod Khosla and Marc Andreessen, and John Doerr, a partner in Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers.  He had his sights set on Representative Pete Stark, the
cantankerous and increasingly unpopular congressman running in
the new 15th District in the East Bay, who was 80 years old and
seemed ripe for defeat.  Then Khanna did something distinctly un-Obama-like: He
balked. “I felt I needed more time to settle back into the Bay
Area,” he says. Stark wound up losing to a 31-year-old Alameda
County prosecutor, Eric Swalwell, shutting off Khanna’s clearest
path to Congress.  In 2010, California redrew its congressional map and
abolished party primaries in a bid to open up the process.
Honda’s old district vanished, yet he won a seat representing
the new 17th District.  Were someone to scour the country for the district most
amenable to the Obama toolkit, they couldn’t do better than
 California ’s 17th. Its population is highly educated, wealthy,
and wired, as well as diverse.  Reliably Democratic  It’s the only mainland U.S. district where the voting-age
population is majority Asian-American and, as such, it’s
reliably Democratic. It also happens to be the country’s second-
largest manufacturing district, after Wichita,  Kansas .  “It’s the perfect district to run the kind of race we want
to run,” says Bird.  Honda isn’t exactly out of sync here. A Japanese-American
imprisoned in a U.S. internment camp during World War II, he’s a
former educator and admired party fixture.  “People know me,” he says. “My mom was born here. I’ve
touched two-and-a-half generations of folks through my
teaching.”  Still, he isn’t a perfect fit. At 71, he’s a white-haired
embodiment of the old guard in a district where everything
trends toward the new.  “I don’t think anyone would characterize him as a mover
and a shaker,” says John Kupper, a partner in ex-top Obama
adviser David Axelrod’s former firm who is working for Khanna.  Honda’s Response  While recognizing the imperative to groom a new generation
of Democrats, Honda says “it needs to be done in an appropriate
way that isn’t going to offend someone who can defeat you. I
guess he feels pressure to spend all his money.”  Honda may hold a massive lead in the polls, yet Khanna has
his attention. Trying hard to sound like a mover and shaker,
Honda salts his conversation with tech buzzwords like “risk
taker” and “angel investor” that are plainly foreign to him.  He was sufficiently rattled to secure early endorsements
from Obama, Pelosi, and the head of the Democratic National
Committee, although these are pro forma for a sitting member not
mired in scandal.  Looking ahead, Honda says he’ll emphasize his
“preparation, experience, and seniority” while drawing on his
ties to labor, teachers’ unions, and local nonprofits. In other
words, he’ll run the kind of campaign that Democratic incumbents
have been running for decades yet in a district that
increasingly looks, sounds, and acts more like his rival.  New Arena  As Khanna’s race against Honda plays out -- not only as a
clash between young and old, insurgent and establishment --  it
will test Obama’s brand of politics in a new arena.  While most traditional Democratic interest groups are
lining up behind Honda, early indications are that the new
coalition that emerged to elect Obama is going to side with
Khanna, including many tech titans whose support was
instrumental when Obama first took on that same establishment as
a long-shot presidential candidate in 2007.  In Washington, Obama’s idea of a post-partisan America has
gone stale. Khanna and his advisers say its power endures. His
own flourish is recasting that idea as the pathway to economic
salvation.  “There are ways of cutting past some of the ideological
logjams in Washington when it comes to issues of American
economic competitiveness and a pro-growth agenda,” he says.  By implication, Honda, the reliable party man, is part of
the problem -- a message that doubles as an appeal to the
independents and Republicans who will vote in the open primary.  ‘Obama-Like’  “The Obama vision is still in demand,” Grisolano says.
“You’ll hear candidates across the country trying to meet it.
When you listen to Ro, you’ll hear it. It’s very Obama-like in
its echoes of challenging Hillary.”  What will be more intriguing is the attempt to build a new
network modeled on the one that delivered such a resounding
victory to Obama.  “The goal in bringing together the best talent from the
Obama team,” says Spinner, “is to run a campaign in a strong
Democratic district that operates like a battleground state in a
presidential election.”  That entails a paired focus on grassroots organizing and
technology in a district primed for both.  Data-Driven  “We’re going to be driven by analytics,” says Bird.
“That means everything from building models to having really
smart feedback on what we’re doing and being able to track it
and base our decisions on metrics. We’ll be very digitally
sophisticated where it makes sense -- to get votes, get
volunteers, and raise money.”  By law, Khanna’s campaign is forbidden from using Obama’s
database of donors, staffers, and volunteers. They are richly
concentrated in Silicon Valley, where the residents’ wealth,
liberal opinion, and online activism were a big help to Obama,
even though the nearest battleground state was many miles away.  Lacking access to that database doesn’t mean Khanna will
lack access to those volunteers. Leah Cowan, Khanna’s campaign
manager, estimates that 1,000 veterans of the Obama campaign
reside in the 17th District and likens them to sleeper cells
that can be activated for Khanna. All of them operated under
Bird, and many already know each other. Khanna has been
traversing the district to enlist them in his cause.  No Guarantees  There’s no guarantee they’ll go along, or, if they do, that
Khanna will win. Other candidates in other parts of the country
became causes célèbres among liberal Net-roots activists and
still lost -- former Representative Tom Perriello in  Virginia ,
Senate candidate Scott Kleeb in  Nebraska . Yet none was funded or
organized as well as Khanna will be, nor were they backed by the
Obama brain trust.  While Bird and his staff dismiss the notion that the Obama
campaign was “magic in a box” that can be franchised like some
sort of Applebee’s, that’s exactly what they’re attempting to do
in Silicon Valley.  If anything, their expertise may be more valuable at this
level. “Data is more important in House races than in
presidential races,” Messina says, “because midterm elections
are all about turnout and data makes that easier.”  If the experiment works, it could be a harbinger of things
to come, and an important part of institutionalizing Obama’s
influence over the party.  “There’s a whole generation of Democrats inspired by the
Obama campaign who will go run for office,” says Bird. “Not
just candidates, but managers and field directors that know how
to do this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  