-- Obama Calls California’s Attorney General ‘Best Looking’
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-04-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/obama-calls-california-s-attorney-general-best-looking-.html
President  Barack Obama , who won re-
election with majority support from women, singled out one of
his female supporters for her brilliance and dedication.  “She also happens to be by far the best-looking attorney
general in the country,” the president said of California
Attorney General  Kamala Harris  during a fundraiser yesterday in
Atherton, California. “It’s true, come on.”  The crowd laughed, and the comments prompted a flurry of
reaction on social media sites such as Twitter. Speaking to
donors at the home of Levi Strauss heir John Goldman, Obama’s
remarks about Harris’s appearance were preceded by praise for
her qualifications.  “You have to be careful to, first of all, say she is
brilliant and she is dedicated and she is tough, and she is
exactly what you’d want in anybody who is administering the law,
and making sure that everybody is getting a fair shake,” Obama
said, adding that she “is a great friend and has just been a
great supporter for many, many years.”  Obama faced criticism for selecting men to lead the State,
Treasury and Defense departments at the outset of his second
term in January. Those choices have been balanced more recently
by the nominations of women for three cabinet-level positions.  Last month, he appointed Sylvia Mathews Burwell of the Wal-
Mart Foundation as director of the Office of Management and
Budget, and Gina McCarthy to lead the Environmental Protection
Agency, where she’s been an assistant administrator. In
February, he announced his pick of Sally Jewell, chief executive
officer at outdoor retailer Recreation Equipment Inc., as the
next Interior secretary.  Harris Career  Harris, 48, worked on Obama’s re-election campaign and has
been mentioned by Democratic Party officials as a possible
nominee to the  Supreme Court  should a vacancy open. She’s been
attorney general of the most populous U.S. state since 2011.
Before that, she was elected to two terms as the  district
attorney  in  San Francisco .  Harris is the first woman to hold the job in California and
is among eight female attorneys general in the nation.  “It was a bit cavalier of Obama, unprofessional and
unbefitting of his high office and expensive threads, to turn
the attorney generalship into a beauty pageant,” James Wolcott,
a Vanity Fair contributing editor, wrote yesterday on the
magazine’s website of the president’s comment.  Obama’s opponent in the 2012 presidential election,
Republican  Mitt Romney , drew ridicule from Democrats last year
when he said during a debate that his staff brought him
“binders full of women” when he was looking to fill top state
jobs as governor of Massachusetts.  Republicans suggested yesterday that Obama benefits from a
double standard. A Twitter account of the  Republican National
Committee  sent out the message: “Not awkward and perfectly fine
for him to say, right?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  