-- Moody’s CDO Grades in S&P Lawsuit Almost ‘Identical,’ Study Says
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-04-04T22:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/moody-s-cdo-grades-in-s-p-lawsuit-almost-identical-study-says.html
Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , the second-largest
credit rating firm, issued “virtually identical” grades on the
same structured products that compelled the Justice Department
to sue its main competitor, Standard & Poor’s, according to
researcher Height Analytics LLC.  “Given that the ratings between S&P and Moody’s were
identical, a loss by S&P would create significant uncertainty
for Moody’s regarding whether the Department of Justice would
take action against it also,” Edwin Groshans, a managing
director, at the Washington-based equity research firm, wrote in
a report yesterday.  Moody’s, which hasn’t been sued for fraud, has been under
investigation by the Justice Department since at least July
2011.  The Justice Department sued S&P, the world’s largest credit
ratings company, Feb. 4 alleging it inflated ratings on
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations
to win business from Wall Street banks. The U.S. is seeking $5
billion in penalties, or the equivalent of more than five years
of profit.  For the CDOs listed in the lawsuit, S&P and Moody’s rated
every tranche of collateralized debt obligations the same,
according to the report. Both companies’ initial downgrades of
the securities took place no more than a month apart from each
other, the report said.  CDOs pool assets such as mortgage bonds and package them
into new securities with varying risks in which revenue from the
underlying bonds or loans are used to pay investors.  ‘Similar Claims’  “We don’t have any knowledge of any pending complaint by
the Department of Justice raising similar claims against
Moody’s,” Raymond McDaniel, Moody’s chief executive officer,
said on a Feb. 8 conference call.  Michael Adler, a spokesman for Moody’s, and Ed Sweeney, a
spokesman for S&P, declined to comment on the Height report.  “The S&P ratings for the CDOs at issue in this lawsuit are
identical to the ratings issued by other rating agencies. So we
don’t have an explanation and you’ll have to ask the Department
of Justice,” Kenneth Vittor, McGraw-Hill’s general counsel,
said during a Feb. 12 conference call.  Shares of McGraw Hill, which have lost 12 percent in value
since the lawsuit, are “uninvestable” given the uncertainty
surrounding the case, Groshans wrote. They closed at $51.37 in
U.S. composite  trading  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  