-- Top Copper Union Threatens Strikes as Chile Shipments Restricted
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-04-04T22:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/top-copper-union-threatens-strikes-as-chile-shipments-restricted.html
Workers at Chilean copper mines
owned by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  are preparing
protests to push for greater  job security , a union leader said.  “These protests are a warning,” Gustavo Tapia, president
of the Mining Federation of  Chile , an  umbrella organization 
known as FMC representing 11,000 workers, told reporters today
from the city of Antofagasta. “We haven’t been listened to.”  The FMC’s proposal echoes measures announced March 15 by a
union representing workers at state-owned Codelco. Both unions
are seeking limits on the use of subcontractors in Chilean mines
and said the protests will include strikes. Tapia didn’t
elaborate on the timing or duration of planned strike action.  The announcement comes as a strike by port workers in the
No. 1 copper-producing nation restricts more than half of its
shipments of the metal as well as more than $50 million in fruit
exports. Codelco is using more than 30,000 contract workers to
run and maintain mines as well as carry out about $30 billion of
expansions.  The port strike, which began March 16 at the Angamos
terminal and spread to other ports in the country, is also
restricting imports of materials such as sulfuric acid used by
mines and may lead to the halting of some operations, Mining
Minister Hernan De Solminihac told reporters in Santiago today.  World’s Biggest  Angamos handles copper cathode shipments from Codelco’s
Chuquicamata, Gaby and Radomiro Tomic mines as well as some
supplies from BHP’s Escondida, the world’s biggest copper mine.
China accounted for 64 percent of Chile’s copper exports in
February, according to data compiled by the central bank.  The planned industrial action by miners threatens to
disrupt operations as copper trades near an eight-month low and
the cost of production and development escalates.  Any  strike action  by mine workers in Chile would be outside
of normal contract negotiations and, as a result, illegal, said
Cesar Perez-Novoa, head of research at BTG Pactual in Santiago.  “Not only would you have a bad precedent for Chile, which
accounts for 30 percent of global supply today, but that’s then
extrapolated for the rest of the Pacific,” Perez-Novoa said by
telephone. “Maybe there’s an element of politics. Because it’s
an election year people think they may get away with demands.”  Chile holds presidential elections in November.  “This is an warning to the presidential candidates that
they need to get with the program,” Agustin Latorre, a union
spokesman, said today. “These themes aren’t going to go away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  