-- Oryx Seeks C$350 Million in Canada IPO
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-04-04T21:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/oryx-seeks-c-350-million-in-canada-ipo.html
Addax & Oryx Group Ltd., the energy
firm established in 1987 by billionaire Jean Claude Gandur,
plans to raise about C$350 million ($346 million) in a Canadian
initial public offering for its oil exploration business in
 Africa , according to two people familiar with the sale.  Oryx Petroleum Corp. Ltd. plans to sell shares next month,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
terms aren’t public. The Calgary-based company filed documents
with Canadian regulators last month for the IPO, which is led by
Royal Bank of  Canada , Barclays Plc and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch.  Oryx Petroleum holds stakes in license areas in  Iraq  and
West Africa, according to a March 13 filing. The company was
founded in 2010 by Addax & Oryx and members of the former senior
management team of Addax Petroleum Corp., an exploration and
production unit sold to  China ’s Sinopec Group in 2009.  Gandur said in a February interview that he planned to sell
shares to the public for Oryx Petroleum and list on the Toronto
Stock Exchange.  An e-mail message to Craig Kelly, chief financial officer
of Oryx Petroleum, wasn’t immediately returned.  Gandur worked in the Zug, Switzerland, office of Philipp
Brothers before setting up a Geneva oil-trading firm named after
two types of African antelope, the addax and oryx.  Oryx Petroleum would be the largest IPO of Canadian-listed
energy company since  Gibson Energy Inc. (GEI)  raised C$500 million in
June 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies raised $509 million in IPOs in the first quarter
in Canada, the slowest start since 2011. Initial share sales of
energy firms and mining companies have slumped while IPOs for
real estate investment trusts surged on investor demand.  The three-month period had only one mining IPO,  Loma Vista (LOV) 
Capital Inc.’s $245,000 sale, making it the slowest quarter for
mining IPOs since at least 2008, Bloomberg data show.  Energy IPOs have also been scarce, with just two oil-and-
gas companies with initial sales in Canada last year, including
 Argent Energy Trust (AET-U) ’s C$212.3 million offering in August.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Energy  Index (STENRS)  has dropped 4
percent in the past two days as oil capped its biggest two-day
drop since October on concerns of slowing U.S. growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  