-- Osborne Questions U.K. Welfare Payments as Killer Jailed
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-04T15:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/osborne-questions-u-k-welfare-payments-as-killer-jailed.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne questioned whether Mick Philpott, who was sentenced to
life imprisonment today for killing six of his 17 children, was
motivated by state-funded welfare payments, entering a debate
that’s dividing the U.K.  Philpott, 56, was told he would serve at least 15 years in
prison after starting a fire at his house in order to frame a
former mistress who was trying to gain custody of some of his
children. The court in Derby, central England, heard that one of
the reasons he wanted the children to live with him in the
three-bedroom, state-owned home was to convince the local
authority he should be entitled to a bigger house and to claim
the state-funded welfare payments for children.  The sentencing came in the same week as curbs to welfare
payments come into force, amid a broader public debate on the
rights of benefits claimants over workers as Britain teeters on
the  brink of a triple-dip recession . Osborne said last month
that government spending cuts will continue for five more years.  “It’s right we ask questions as a government, a society
and as taxpayers, why we are subsidizing lifestyles like
these,” Osborne said when asked about the case at a porcelain
factory in Derby today. “It does need to be handled.”  ‘Vile Product’  The Daily Mail newspaper called Philpott the “vile product
of welfare U.K.” on its front page yesterday, a sentiment
echoed by the biggest-selling tabloid, The Sun. The Mail
described Philpott as a “drug-taking layabout, who embodies
everything that is wrong with the welfare state.”  Osborne told supermarket workers in a speech two days ago
that the welfare overhaul, which caps annual increases in
benefits at 1 percent a year for three years and introduces
curbs on housing subsidies, is intended “to make the system
fair on people like you, who get up, go to work, and expect your
taxes to be spent wisely.”  The opposition Labour Party was critical of Osborne’s
comments.  “Mick Philpott’s crimes were terrible,” Labour’s welfare
spokesman, Stephen Timms, said in an e-mail. “Everyone should
be clear that responsibility for these evil acts rests with him
and the others sentenced today. It is wrong to link those acts
with the debate about welfare and George Osborne should not be
doing so, even implicitly.”  “Millions of people including pensioners and the disabled,
people in work and out of work, receive benefits and tax
credits” Timms said. “The government needs to recognize that
they are as shocked and disgusted by the callous killing of
these children as anyone else in Britain.”  Philpott was convicted of manslaughter along with his wife
Mairead and friend Paul Mosley, who were told they would serve
at least half of their 17-year sentences.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  