-- Toure Negotiates $17 Million Man. City Salary: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-04T08:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/toure-negotiates-17-million-man-city-salary-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Toure to Sign  Yaya Toure is set to sign a new four-year contract with
Manchester City worth more than 11 million pounds ($16.6
million) a year the  Sun reported .  The Ivory Coast midfielder, who had become disillusioned
after contract talks had stalled for six weeks, has been in
talks with City officials since returning from international
duty last week, the newspaper added.  Kompany Fallout  City captain  Vincent Kompany  is on the radar of Barcelona,
Real Madrid and  Bayern Munich  following his club-versus-country
row with manager  Roberto Mancini , the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The trio are all prepared to explore whether the central
defender’s fallout with Mancini for disobeying an instruction to
pull out of Belgium’s World Cup qualifier with Macedonia last
week has any long-term consequence, the newspaper added.  Carroll Chance  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  is ready to offer Andy Carroll, who’s currently on loan at West Ham, another chance at
Anfield if the striker is prepared to accept a role as a so-
called impact substitute, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Carroll also would need to undertake pre-season work
designed to improve his mobility and help him adapt to the
demands of Rodgers’s high-tempo passing game, the Mirror added.  Liverpool still intends to sell Carroll at the earliest
opportunity and West Ham may yet try to make his move permanent
by signing him for 17 million pounds, the  Telegraph reported .  Intense Season  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  said  Robin Van Persie  may be feeling the effects of an intense debut season
with the Premier League leader, the  Daily Express reported .  Dutch striker  Van Persie  has scored once in his past 12
matches for United having played 45 games for club and country
this campaign, the newspaper added.  “We have to monitor it because we still don’t know all
about Robin and the kind of seasons he has had,” the Express
cited Ferguson as saying. “I don’t think he had a season of
such intensity during his time at Arsenal.”  Ibrahimovic Urges Rooney  Zlatan Ibrahimovic urged  Wayne Rooney  to join him at Paris
Saint-Germain, which is considering an offseason move for the
 Manchester United  forward, the  Sun reported .  “If he wants to be part of the best project in football
then there is only one club to sign for,” the Sun cited
Ibrahimovic as saying. “We are not content with being the
dominant force in France, we want to be the top club in Europe
as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  