-- How Republicans Once Championed the Federal Income Tax
-- B y   H e a t h e r   C o x   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2013-04-04T15:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/how-republicans-once-championed-the-federal-income-tax.html
The government has the right to
“demand” 99 percent of a man’s property when the nation needs
it.  That was the argument made by a Republican congressman in
1862 to introduce a novel idea: the  federal income tax .  The Civil War was then costing the Treasury $2 million a
day. To pay for uniforms, guns, food, mules, wagons, bounties
and burials, Congress had issued hundreds of millions of dollars
of bonds and paper money. But Republicans had a horror of debt
and the runaway inflation that paper currency usually caused.  Taxes were the obvious answer. A conservative Republican
newspaper declared: “There is not the slightest objection raised
in any loyal quarter to as much taxation as may be necessary.”  Until then, taxes in the U.S. had always been apportioned
by state according to population, and were generally levied on
land holdings. But when it came to the huge sums necessary to
fight the Civil War, such direct taxes would ruin farmers.  Instead, Republicans turned to what they called “indirect
taxes,” which were essentially sales taxes of 3 percent on all
manufactured goods. These, however, wouldn’t be sufficient to
raise the needed revenue without making basic necessities
prohibitively expensive for most Americans.  ‘All Classes’  So what could Congress do to ensure, as Republican Senator
William Fessenden of  Maine  put it, that tax burdens would “be
more equalized on all classes of the community, more especially
on those who are able to bear them?”  The answer was a  federal tax  on incomes. “It would be
manifestly unjust to allow the large money operators and wealthy
merchants, whose incomes might reach hundreds of thousands of
dollars, to escape from their due proportion of the burden,”
said Thaddeus Stevens, a House Republican leader and wealthy
iron manufacturer. The staunchly Republican  Chicago Tribune 
agreed: “The rich should be taxed more than the poor.”  After experimenting with a 3 percent tax on incomes of more
than $800 in the summer of 1861, Congress expanded the income
tax in 1862. It placed a tax of 3 percent on incomes exceeding
$600 and of 5 percent on those of more than $10,000. “The weight
must be distributed equally,” Representative Justin Morrill, a
Vermont Republican, explained, “not upon each man an equal
amount, but a tax proportionate to his ability to pay.” There
was little debate.  Republican congressmen not only imposed an income tax, but
also shifted tax collection from the states to the federal
government. A new national system would be cheaper to institute
than a variety of state systems, the measure’s Republican
sponsor argued. There was an additional benefit: If Americans
paid taxes to the national government, they would have a
personal stake in its survival and stability. In 1862,
Republicans created the Internal Revenue Bureau in the Treasury
Department, the precursor to the  Internal Revenue Service .  The new system worked so well that it was expanded after
two years. As the national debt climbed toward $1.5 billion,
Americans clamored for Congress to raise money. “What do the
people of the  United States  ask of this Congress?” demanded a
New Hampshire Republican. “To take off taxes? No, sir, they ask
you to put them on. The universal cry of this people is to be
taxed.”  Congress obliged. In 1864, taxes on manufactured goods rose
to 5 percent. Rates increased to 5 percent for incomes from $600
to $5,000; 7.5 percent for incomes from $5,000 to $10,000; and
10 percent for those of more than $10,000. Days after President
 Abraham Lincoln  signed the new law, Congress passed a joint
resolution imposing a 5 percent surtax on all three brackets.  Higher Tariffs  Civil War income taxes expired in 1875. They were no longer
necessary because the government had an alternative source of
revenue. During the war, Republicans had raised tariff rates to
about half a product’s value, arguing that if manufacturing was
going to be taxed, industry had to be protected from foreign
competition. Tariffs brought the Treasury more money than it
spent every year from 1875 to 1893.  A national depression began in 1893, under a Democratic
Congress. In 1894, Democrats tried to combat the economic
turmoil by lowering tariff rates. Then, to make up for lost
revenue, they enacted a tax on incomes of more than $4,000.  But Republicans had changed in the years since the Civil
War. Where the party previously had worried about protecting
equality, its Gilded Age members worried about protecting
property. Although Civil War Republicans had invented the
federal income tax, their Gilded Age counterparts assailed the
levy as “communism.” And while Civil War Republicans celebrated
an income tax that would rally Americans behind the government,
those of the Gilded Age insisted that it was unconstitutional
and that taxing power belonged to the states.  In 1895, the pro-business  Supreme Court  declared the income
tax unconstitutional. Congress could only impose direct taxes,
it said, meaning levies that would fall on farmers rather than
manufacturers, on poor southerners and westerners rather than
wealthy easterners. Four justices dissented, pointing out that
the majority decision overturned 100 years of precedent,
including the Civil War legislation.  The court, one justice lamented, had ignored the great
principle that “in the imposition of taxes for the benefit of
the government, the burdens thereof should be imposed upon those
having most ability to bear them.”  (Heather Cox Richardson is a professor of history at  Boston
College  and the president of the Historical Society. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Heather Cox Richardson at  heather.richardson@bc.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  