-- Pentagon to Keep Buying Russian Helicopters, Carter Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-04T00:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/pentagon-to-keep-buying-russian-helicopters-carter-says.html
The Pentagon has decided it’s in the
national interest to keep buying MI-17 transport helicopters for
the Afghan military from a Russian company that’s been
scrutinized by Congress over its arms sales to  Syria .  The Defense Department “has an urgent, near-term need to
purchase an additional 30 new military-use MI-17 helicopters”
to equip  Afghanistan ’s counter-terrorism forces, Deputy Defense
Secretary  Ashton Carter  wrote today to U.S. lawmakers in a
letter obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Carter outlined steps the Pentagon took to reevaluate
purchases from Rosoboronexport,  Russia ’s state-run arms trader,
in the letter sent to lawmakers including Republican
Representative Bill Young of  Florida , chairman of the House
defense appropriations subcommittee, and Democratic Senator
 Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , who heads his chamber’s defense
appropriations panel.  Lawmakers raised concerns last year that the company
supplied arms to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  The Pentagon decided to keep buying from Rosoboronexport
after the U.S. Army canvassed other helicopter makers and failed
to find an alternative that would meet the Afghan military’s
requirements, Carter said. Afghan personnel have flown the MI-17
since the 1980s and are deeply familiar with their operation,
Pentagon officials have said previously.  “Careful consideration of all the information available to
the department” after the Army evaluation “confirms it would
be in the public interest to procure the MI-17s needed” from
the Russian firm, Carter wrote.  Funding Ban  Rosoboronexport, based in Moscow, accounted for 85 percent
of Russia’s arms exports as of 2010, according to
GlobalSecurity.org, a research group based in Alexandria,
Virginia. It is the sole Russian company controlling exports of
the MI-17, according to the Pentagon.  The U.S. Army had one $375 million contract to buy 21
Russian-made MI-17 helicopters for the Afghans from
Rosoboronexport. The Pentagon agreed on July to buy 10 more for
$171 million.  Lawmakers including Representative  Rosa DeLauro , a
Connecticut Democrat, faulted the Pentagon last year for buying
equipment from a company that does business with the Syrian
government. Assad’s regime has been fighting a two-year civil
war in which more than 70,000 people have been killed.  “We should not be using U.S. taxpayer dollars to support a
firm that is arming a regime in Syria that’s murdering innocent
men, women, and children,” DeLauro said in an interview in
August.  Waiver Requirement  The U.S. defense authorization law for the current fiscal
year, which ends Sept. 30, prohibits using funds to pay
Rosoboronexport for helicopters unless the Pentagon invokes a
national security waiver.  Carter said the 30 helicopters would be purchased with
funds approved in fiscal 2012 so the prohibition wouldn’t apply.
Still, the Pentagon would have invoked the waiver “in the
national security interests of the  United States ,” if
necessary, he wrote.  While Carter didn’t mention the concerns about the
company’s sales to Syria in his letter, Pentagon officials have
previously responded to lawmakers’ questions on the issue.  Frank Kendall, undersecretary for acquisition, in a July 27
letter to Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican, said, “I
share your concerns over the point of origin of these
helicopters.”  “But I believe our mission in Afghanistan is of much
greater significance” than ending relations with the Russian
company, Kendall wrote.  ‘Extreme Environments’  James Miller , undersecretary for policy, acknowledged in a
March 2012 letter to Cornyn “that Rosoboronexport continues to
supply weapons and ammunition to the Assad regime,” and “there
is evidence that some of these arms are being used by Syrian
forces against Syria’s civilian population.”  Still, Miller said “the MI-17 acquisition effort is
critical to building the capacity of Afghanistan security
forces.”  The helicopters function well in “the extreme environments
of Afghanistan” and are easy for the Afghans to operate due to
their “low technical complexity,” making them a key part of
the U.S. exit strategy from the country, Miller wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  