-- Pfizer Neurontin Class Improperly Denied, Court Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-04-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/pfizer-neurontin-class-improperly-denied-appeals-court-says-1-.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  may have to face
lawsuits by insurers alleging the company improperly marketed
the epilepsy drug Neurontin after an appeals court found the
cases were improperly denied class-action status.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Boston  yesterday found a
lower-court judge erred in refusing to allow so-called “third-
party payers,” such as health insurers and union funds, to
combine their Neurontin racketeering claims. The appeals court
also upheld a $142.1 million damage award to Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan Inc. over Pfizer’s Neurontin marketing.  “We reject the argument” that Kaiser’s lawyers didn’t
produce sufficient evidence to uphold the jury verdict, the
court said in a 64-page ruling.  The decision allows hundreds of U.S. health plans to revive
potential class-action racketeering claims that the world’s
largest drugmaker engaged in illegal off-label marketing of
Neurontin for bipolar disorders, said  Carl Tobias , who teaches
product-liability law at the  University of Richmond  in  Virginia .
“They are telling the judge to take another look at the class-
certification issue,” Tobias said.  Pfizer officials said they are considering appealing the
today’s rulings in the Neurontin cases.  ‘No Basis’  “Pfizer continues to believe there was no basis in fact or
law” for the Kaiser verdict, Chris Loder, a spokesman for the
New York-based company, said in an e-mailed statement. The
drugmaker also contends the trial judge correctly ruled the
insurers shouldn’t be able to proceed as a class with their
claims.  Pfizer and its Warner-Lambert unit are accused in the
insurers’ lawsuits of promoting the drug for uses that weren’t
approved by the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to boost
profit. The insurers contend they were duped into covering
Neurontin prescriptions for unapproved ailments, such as bipolar
disorder.  Pfizer’s Warner-Lambert subsidiary pleaded guilty in 2004
to criminal charges filed by the U.S. Justice Department and
paid $430 million to resolve allegations over the company’s
Neurontin marketing. Pfizer acquired Warner-Lambert for $120
billion in 2000.  Neurontin’s sales rose from 15 percent off-label in 1994 to
94 percent in 2002, the government said in court filings. The
drug’s sales hit $2.3 billion in 2002.  Combine Claims  The insurers sought to combine claims that Pfizer engaged
in racketeering through its Neurontin marketing. U.S. District
Judge Patti Saris denied that request, ruling the plans couldn’t
show Pfizer’s actions caused their damages and therefore weren’t
entitled to have a class-action case certified, according to
court filings.  The appeals court panel, which included retired Supreme
Court Judge David Souter, concluded the plans presented
sufficient evidence to show Pfizer’s illegal Neurontin marketing
caused the insurers’ damages. The panel sent the case back to
Saris to revive the racketeering claims and to reexamine whether
the cases should be certified as a  class action .  “We express no view as to whether the plaintiffs can, on
remand, meet the requirements” for having their cases combined,
the court said.  In the Kaiser case, a federal court jury in Boston
concluded in 2010 Pfizer violated federal racketeering laws
through its Neurontin marketing and it awarded $47.4 million in
damages.  Saris later tripled the award under a provision of the
racketeering statutes. The claims were brought by the Kaiser
Foundation plan and Kaiser Foundation Hospitals. Both are units
of Oakland, California-based insurer  Kaiser Permanente .  The cases are In RE Neurontin Marketing and Sales Practices
Litigation, 11-1806, 11-1904 and 11-2096, United States Court of
Appeals for the First Circuit (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ; Janelle Lawrence in Boston at
 jmlawrence@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  