-- Pfizer’s Read Finds Reason to Keep Consumer Health Unit
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-04T20:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/pfizer-s-read-finds-reason-to-keep-consumer-health-unit.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  plans to keep its $3.2
billion-a-year consumer health business because the unit will be
critical to selling prescription drugs that become over-the-
counter products, Chief Executive Officer Ian Read said.  The unit that makes ChapStick lip balm, Advil pain pills
and Centrum vitamins will “absolutely” stay within  New York- 
based Pfizer, Read told investors on a conference call arranged
by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. last week. Medicines shifting to
nonprescription status will be a growing trend, he said.  “It’s a business that has a great store of value for us,”
Read said on the March 26 call. A recording of the call was
posted online.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, has been shrinking
since Read took over in late 2010, cutting expenses and
divesting its animal health and infant nutrition units. The CEO
has talked about splitting the drug business in two, with one
unit focusing on brand-name medicines and another on those that
don’t have patent protection.  “Pfizer does still very much seem to be contemplating this
possibility, but no firm decision has been made yet,” said Tim Anderson, a Bernstein analyst, said in a note to clients after
the call.  The drugmaker’s shares rose less than 1 percent to close at
$29.16 in New York. The stock had gained 30 percent in the last
12 months.  The consumer business is headed by Amy Schulman, who also
serves as general counsel and ran the infant nutrition business
until it was sold to  Nestle SA (NESN)  last year for $11.9 billion.  Unlock Value  “I do see the synergies with the branded and the generics
part of the business -- much more so than existed with animal
health or with nutritionals,” said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst
at New York-based International Strategy & Investment Group Inc.
said in e-mail. Still, “a separation could unlock a bit of
value.”  If Pfizer chooses to split the company in two, the consumer
unit might be bundled with its generic-drug business, he said.  Pfizer has been trying to expand the consumer line. In
August, the company bought the rights to sell  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s
heartburn pill Nexium over the counter. Pfizer paid $250 million
up front, and will pay royalties once the drug goes on sale,
likely in the U.S. about 2014. The company has also said it may
try and develop a nonprescription version of the cholesterol
pill Lipitor, which was once Pfizer’s best-selling product.  Comfortable Fit  “It in many ways has a very comfortable fit within our
current platform,” Schulman said on the investor call. “It’s
also an important harbinger of where the market is going.”  In  emerging markets , prescription drugs will be more
readily available over the counter than they will be in the
U.S., Read predicted.  “You could potentially see emerging markets moving faster
on this OTC switch than the very cautious” U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, Read said.  Drugmaker  Merck & Co. (MRK)  is evaluating its consumer unit
because it may not be big enough, Merck CEO Ken Frazier said at
a January investor conference. The Whitehouse Station, New
Jersey-based company got $1.95 billion in sales from the
business last year, with more than a quarter of that coming from
allergy medicine Claritin OTC.  Schulman said that Pfizer’s business, which is larger than
Merck’s, has enough depth in the products and geographies in
which it chooses to sell. “I think we have scale in the areas
in which we compete,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  