-- PG&E Cancels California Solar Power Contracts With BrightSource
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-04-04T01:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/pg-e-cancels-california-solar-power-contracts-with-brightsource.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , California’s largest
utility, canceled plans to buy power from two of  BrightSource
Energy Inc. (BRSE) ’s planned 250-megawatt solar-thermal plants, the
same day that BrightSource asked regulators to suspended
permitting for the $2.7 billion project.  Pacific Gas & Electric Co. and BrightSource “mutually
agreed to terminate” the contracts relating to the Hidden Hills
project because of “uncertainty around the timing of
transmission upgrades,” Keely Wachs, a spokesman for Oakland,
California-based BrightSource said today by e-mail.  The decision marks the second time this year BrightSource
has announced a contract cancellation, after  Edison
International (EIX)  “mutually terminated” an agreement in January
for the Rio Mesa 2 project near Blythe, California.  Hidden Hills was to be composed of two 250-megawatt  power
plants  that use mirrors to focus sunlight on boilers, which
produce steam that drives turbines to generate electricity. It
was estimated to cost about $2.7 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  contracts  with PG&E were approved in
2009.  BrightSource also asked state regulators to suspend
permitting for the project “until further notice,” according
to a  filing  today with the California Energy Commission.  The company “plans to continue to evaluate and collect
information on the project” located in Inyo County, near the
Nevada border.  “In the immediate, our focus remains on the Palen
project,” Wachs said. Palen is a 500-megawatt project that was
acquired in August during Solar Trust of America LLC’s
bankruptcy auction. BrightSource said March 15 that the site
would be co-developed with Abengoa SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  