-- Phone Use Trails ‘Lost in Thought’ in Fatal Car Crashes
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-04-04T13:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/phone-use-trails-lost-in-thought-in-fatal-car-crashes.html
Drivers involved in fatal U.S. car
crashes were more often “lost in thought” than distracted by
mobile phones, police data show.  Ten percent of U.S. auto accidents that caused death
involved at least one motorist who was distracted, Erie
Insurance Group said yesterday in a statement on its analysis of
national crash data. Daydreaming and being “lost in thought”
was the distraction 62 percent of the time, compared with 12
percent for mobile-phone use, Erie said.  Auto insurers including State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. and  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  have publicized the risks of
distracted driving. Carriers have been urging motorists to focus
on operating their vehicles as mobile phones and cars add
features that can take drivers’ attention off the road.  “The results were disturbing,” Doug Smith, senior vice
president of personal lines at Erie, said in the statement. His
company advises letting incoming calls go to voicemail and
pulling over to send  text messages .  The AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety advises drivers to
stay focused on the dangers of the road by playing the “what
if” game and asking themselves how they would react to
unexpected events on the road. Motorists should also identify
and overcome any diversions that are responsible for
daydreaming, the group said on its  website .  “Treat driving as a complicated task requiring your full
attention,” the foundation said. “Remember 20 complex
decisions are needed for every mile you drive.”  The U.S. Department of Transportation declared April as
 National Distracted Driving Awareness Month  as part of its
effort to help motorists focus on the road. Geico, the car-
insurance unit owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) ,  advises drivers  to shun food as well as phones when on the
road, and to limit the number of passengers inside the car.  Food, Pets  Among the biggest distractions for drivers are
rubbernecking, talking with other people in the car, eating and
moving an object in the vehicle, such as a pet, according to
Erie’s statement.  Police judgment is used to compile the data and could
understate the extent of distracted driving because of
motorists’ reluctance to tell an officer their attention was off
the road, Smith said.  Erie, based in the Pennsylvania city of the same name,
looked at 2010 and 2011 data from the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration’s Fatality Analysis Reporting System.
State Farm issued a study in November that found almost half of
drivers between the age of 18 and 29 use the Internet behind the
wheel.  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. auto and home
insurer, is running a  campaign  on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social-
networking site to get teenagers to stop texting while driving.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  