-- Pimco ETF Trounces Flagship Attracting Less Cash: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-04-04T23:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/pimco-etf-trounces-flagship-attracting-less-cash-credit-markets.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
13-month-old  exchange-traded fund  is attracting more cash than
the firm’s flagship Total Return mutual fund as investors join
 Bill Gross  in preferring ETFs for bond investing.  About $263 million was funneled into Pimco’s $4.3 billion
Total Return ETF in March, compared with $32 million for the
$289 billion eponymous mutual fund, the lowest monthly volume
for the world’s biggest bond fund since December 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ETF  returned  1.2 percent in
the first quarter versus 0.6 percent for the 25-year-old mutual
fund, the world’s largest.  The outperformance underscores the rising influence of ETFs
as investors seek faster ways to slip in and out of the bond
market for an edge with returns dwindling after average annual
gains of 6.3 percent in the past four years. After following
BlackRock Inc. and Vanguard Group Inc. into fixed-income
exchange-traded products, Newport Beach, California-based Pimco
is gaining ground as the industry swells to $321.2 billion.  “People like what ETFs offer in terms of intraday
liquidity, cost efficiency and transparency,” said  Deborah Fuhr , the former ETF research head at BlackRock who helped found
London-based research firm ETFGI last year. “Bill Gross is a
portfolio manager who is well-known and respected. The
performance of the ETF, which has done better than the mutual
fund, is an important part of the story.”  ‘On Board’  Mark Porterfield , a Pimco spokesman, said executives
weren’t available to be interviewed this week on the performance
of the firm’s two funds. He said late today that the actual
inflow into the Total Return mutual fund was $732 million in
March.  The Total Return ETF, selected by Pimco co-founder Gross in
January as his top pick for a bond fund this year, amassed $4.2
billion of deposits in the 12 months ended in February,
according to ETFGI. That’s almost 10 percent of the $43.1
billion of flows into the 166 fixed-income exchange-traded funds
and products in the U.S.  More than a decade after BlackRock created the  first fixed-
income ETF , investors from hedge funds to retirees are
increasingly turning to the products, which have shares that
trade like stocks on exchanges, as bond-trading volumes fail to
keep pace with record issuance.  “ETFs are the future of asset management,” said Timothy Strauts, an ETF analyst at Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . “Gross
being on board with ETFs, I see that as him seeing the light.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 1.3 basis point to a mid-price of 88 basis points as
of 6:18 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.9 basis point to 15.38 basis points.
The gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as company
debentures and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
government securities.  ETFs ‘Embraced’  Bonds of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp.  were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 3.9 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Investors are turning to ETFs to maneuver quickly in a
market that’s losing 0.07 percent this year on the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Broad Market index compared with 0.46
percent gains in the same period of 2012 as the Federal Reserve
holds its benchmark interest rate at close to zero percent for a
fifth year.  Pimco’s Total Return ETF has returned 13.4 percent since it
started trading on March 1, 2012, more than 5 percentage points
more than the 8.3 percent gain for its  mutual fund . With lower
volatility, the ETF’s risk-adjusted returns of 4.6 percent
compare with 2.3 percent for the mutual fund, Bloomberg data
show.  ‘First Pick’  “It’s a proof point that fixed-income ETFs and ETFs in
general are no longer niche investment vehicles,” David Mazza,
head of ETF investment strategy in the Americas at State Street
Global Advisors in  Boston , said in a telephone interview. “They
now can be used and embraced by the largest institutional
investors in the world.”  Unlike Pimco’s mutual fund, the ETF is prohibited from
using certain derivatives, such as futures, options and swap
agreements. In all other respects, the firm says, it  seeks  to
follow a similar investment strategy, with at least 65 percent
of its assets held as fixed-income securities and the same
targeted allocations to different credit markets.  Gross, who helped found Pimco in 1971 and now serves as co-
chief investment officer, named the ETF as his “first pick” as
he selected three bond exchange-traded funds to be used as
“bond substitutes.”  “I manage it on a daily basis,” he said at a Jan. 14
 roundtable  in New York hosted by Barron’s. “It has been a huge
success story.”  Less Liquidity  Gross, who is often referred to in the media as “the bond
king,” also runs the Total Return Fund, which has advanced an
annualized 7.9 percent over the past five years to beat 93
percent of peers.  The ETF charges 55 basis points in annual expenses,
according to fund documents. That compares with 46 basis points
for the traditional fund’s institutional shares, which generally
are used by advisers.  At the ETF’s inception in February 2012, Gross said in an
interview that “if you already own the Total Return Fund with a
lower fee, it’s hard to see why you’d want to go into the Total
Return ETF with a higher fee other than for more liquidity.”  While the amount of dollar-denominated corporate bonds
outstanding has surged 11 percent in the year ended March 31 to
$5.2 trillion, the average volume of the notes traded daily rose
2 percent to $19.2 billion, according to Trace and Bloomberg
data.  Corporate bond sales in the U.S. reached a record $1.475
trillion in 2012.  BlackRock, Vanguard  The market for company debt, which generally trades over
the counter, is growing less liquid as the biggest banks reduce
the volume of their own money they use to facilitate credit
trading. The 21 primary dealers that do business with the Fed
have cut their corporate-bond holdings by 76 percent since the
peak in 2007.  BlackRock’s  iShares iBoxx Investment Grade Corporate Bond
Fund (LQD) , which started trading in July 2002 and was the first of
its kind, has grown to include $23.6 billion of debt, while the
six-year-old Vanguard  Total Bond Market ETF (BND)  now includes $17.9
billion of assets, Bloomberg data show.  Pimco’s Total Return fund’s holdings are equal to almost
half of all actively managed fixed-income ETFs in the U.S.,
BlackRock’s data show. It has garnered the greatest volume of
net inflows among all fixed-income products listed in the U.S.
through in the 12 months ended in February, according to ETFGI
data.  “People want to be able to use exchange-traded products
for fixed-income investing,” Fuhr said. “Most mutual funds
that are actively managed haven’t been able to consistently
deliver alpha.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  