-- Pimco Welcoming Three More Years for Stevens: Australia Credit
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-04-04T01:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/pimco-welcoming-three-more-years-for-stevens-australia-credit.html
Glenn Stevens’s reappointment to the
helm of  Australia ’s central bank was welcomed by investors who
profited as he presided over the world’s strongest currency and
second-best bonds.  Australian sovereign debt gained 54 percent since Stevens
became Reserve Bank governor in September 2006, the most after
New Zealand among developed nations. The so-called Aussie dollar
climbed against all 16 major peers in the period and was the
best performer against the greenback, surging 39 percent.  The economy will outpace other major developed nations in
the coming three years, Bloomberg surveys of economists show,
extending an unrivaled two-decade-long expansion that coincided
with recessions in many countries since 2008. Stevens’s ability
to foster growth without spurring inflation was proved as he
first cut borrowing costs in 2008-2009, increased them in
2009-10 and dropped them back down from 2011.  “Continuity of pragmatic RBA governance in today’s world
of political and central bank leadership fluidity is welcomed,”
said Robert Mead, head of portfolio management at the Sydney
office of Pacific Investment Management Co., the manager of the
world’s largest bond fund. “Australia is one of few countries
to have undertaken an interest rate cycle since the crisis
began, with rates now back at their 2009 lows.”  Stevens, 55, joins People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou
Xiaochuan  in getting an extension to his term while the European
Central Bank and Bank of Japan are among central banks that have
seen a change of leadership.  Economy Expanding  Australia’s economy will expand 2.9 percent a year on
average through 2015, compared with 2.5 percent for the U.S.,
2.3 percent for  Canada  and 2.7 percent for New Zealand,
Bloomberg surveys show.  Gross domestic product  rose at the
fastest pace in five years in 2012 as the central bank lowered
its benchmark rate to 3 percent in December to manage a peak in
the nation’s resources investment boom. The RBA previously
increased borrowing costs to 4.75 percent in November 2010 from
3 percent in September 2009 to curb price pressures.  Consumer prices rose 2.3 percent last year, based on
measures the RBA favors that strip out the more volatile items,
below the middle of the central bank’s target range.  Election Looming  Stevens’s seven-year term was set to end Sept. 17, just
three days after a Federal election, and was extended by three
years at the governor’s request, Treasurer Wayne Swan told
reporters yesterday. Stevens has presided over annual inflation
that’s averaged 2.8 percent and  unemployment  of near 5 percent,
compared with inflation of 3.3 percent and a jobless rate
averaging 5.8 percent in the six years before he took on the
post on Sept. 18, 2006.  At 3 percent, Australia’s key rate is the highest among
major developed nations, with borrowing costs near zero in the
U.S., Japan and U.K.  The nation’s  10-year bond yield  was at 3.41 percent, up
from 3.27 percent on Dec. 31, and 1.60 percentage points higher
than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries. It offers a premium of
1.85 percentage points over the average rate in the nine other
nations that hold a AAA credit score from the three main credit
assessors.  Australian government bonds delivered gains of 41 percent
in the six years before Stevens became governor, the 12th-best
performance among 21 major sovereign markets covered by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Balancing Growth  “He’s done a good job balancing growth and inflation,”
said Yoshisada Ishide, who manages the $10.2 billion Daiwa SB
Short-Term Australian Dollar Bond Open Fund. “His reappointment
gives me more confidence in the RBA.”  Stevens, who faced criticism in April 2008 for being too
hawkish, rebuilt his reputation later when he helped guide
Australia through the global crisis that started with the
September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Politicians, retailers and one of his predecessors had
accused Stevens of being too aggressive when he increased the
key rate by 50 basis points in the first quarter of 2008 to 7.25
percent, the highest level in more than 13 years to counter the
effects of a record mining boom. Sydney’s Daily Telegraph led
its front page on April 5, 2008, with a picture of Stevens and
the headline: “Is This The Most Useless Man in Australia.”  Crisis Cuts  Stevens then responded to the global credit crunch by
cutting rates 4.25 percentage points from September 2008 to
April 2009.  Ishide’s fund, the largest among those dedicated to
investing in Australia, is “overweight” on state,
supranational and corporate debt. He may increase his allocation
to government bonds if yields climb further, he said.  Offshore buyers include central banks managing as much as
$7 trillion, that held 70 percent of Australia’s total
outstanding debt as of Dec. 31, according to government data
compiled by Bloomberg.  That demand has kept the Australian dollar, the world’s
fifth most-traded currency above $1 for a record nine months. It
bought $1.0478 as of 12:01 p.m. in Sydney and will probably be
at $1.03 by year-end, according to the median forecast of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The currency’s strength poses a challenge for Stevens in
his new term as he attempts to rebalance a two-speed economy as
mining regions thrive off Chinese demand while manufacturers
struggle. Australia is near the peak of its record resource
investment boom and spending in non-mining sectors remains
subdued, the RBA has said.  Mining Boom  Almost one in 10 jobs in the nation is tied to resource
extraction and industries that service it, double the level in
the mid-2000s, a central bank paper showed Feb. 20. Having
raised rates to 4.75 percent in 2010 to complete the most
aggressive increases among major developed nations after the
credit crunch, Stevens brought the rate back to match a half-
century low at the end of 2012.  “Pimco believes this return to a 3 percent policy rate
underlines the growth challenges the Australian economy faces
while the Australian dollar remains elevated and investment and
fiscal stimulus subside,” said Mead.  The central bank said April 2 there are signs its policy
easing is having the desired effect. In February, retail sales
climbed four times faster than economists forecast, employers
added 71,500 jobs and the nation’s trade deficit unexpectedly
shrank to a 14-month low.  Consumer confidence  rose in March to
the highest level since December 2010.  A private report showed dwelling values across Australian
capital cities climbed 2.8 percent in the first three months of
this year, the biggest quarterly increase since 2010.  “The RBA has done an excellent job and Governor Stevens
has the confidence of investors,” said Annette Mullen, Sydney-
based head of rates at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management’s fixed interest and credit team, which manages about
A$25 billion. “There are early signs previous easings are
working in Australia and we expect stable monetary policy going
forward with a bias to ease if we don’t continue to see positive
signs from housing and private consumption, or the Australia
dollar moves higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  