-- Political Intelligence Skirts Insider-Trading Standard, GAO Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-04-04T18:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/political-intelligence-skirts-insider-trading-standard-gao-says.html
Political intelligence poses a
challenge for regulators because it doesn’t necessarily meet the
“material nonpublic” standard for insider-trading claims, the
Government Accountability Office said in a report today.  “The extent to which investment decisions are based on a
single piece of political intelligence would be extremely
difficult to measure,” the GAO said in the review mandated by
the 2012 Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act.  Lawmakers sought input from the GAO after removing a
registration requirement for political-intelligence gatherers
from the Stock Act, which banned lawmakers, their staffs and
much of the executive branch from trading on confidential
information they learn on the job. Scrutiny of such trading
intensified after the 2008 credit crisis, when decisions in
 Washington  moved share prices of banks and insurers.  The report shows “the dire need for transparency” in the
political intelligence industry, Senator  Charles Grassley , an
Iowa Republican, and Representative Louise Slaughter, a  New York 
Democrat, said in a joint statement.  “When a political intelligence professional is paid to
gather inside information from congressional or agency sources
that can be used to make investment decisions, that professional
should have to register and disclose his or her activities to
the public,” Grassley and Slaughter said in the statement. The
two lawmakers said they plan to reintroduce their disclosure
requirement proposal.  Bundle Information  Insider-trading cases typically involve confidential
information about a company, such as earnings or a planned
merger, rather than policy information about an industry.
Political-intelligence firms instead often bundle information
with industry research and policy analysis, making it difficult
to prove that a specific piece spurred an illegal trade.  “Even when a connection can be established between
discrete pieces of government information and investment
decisions, it is not always clear whether such information could
be definitively categorized as material,” the GAO said.
“Investors typically use multiple sources of information to
influence their investment and business decisions.”  Such information may include conversations with lawmakers,
staff or other government officials about the future of bills or
regulations that haven’t been made public.  To conduct the study, the GAO conducted 34 interviews with
entities including political intelligence firms, law firms and
trade associations, as well as regulators including the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Helping SEC  SEC officials interviewed for the report said that such
disclosure could help the agency police markets, according to
the GAO. The SEC officials suggested political intelligence
disclosure legislation could include the name of the filer’s
former employer, dates of prior employment, and the dates of
contact between the filer and government source.  The Stock Act defined political intelligence as information
derived from direct communication with an executive branch
employee, lawmaker or congressional staffer, and provided to a
client who is using the information for investment decisions.
Insider-trading laws also prohibit members of the executive and
legislative branches from disclosing material nonpublic
information derived from their positions for personal benefit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  