-- Portuguese Parliamentary Affairs Minister Relvas Resigns
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-04-04T17:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/portuguese-parliamentary-affairs-minister-relvas-resigns.html
Parliamentary Affairs Minister
Miguel Relvas resigned today, saying he didn’t have the “state
of mind” to continue.  “I’m leaving of my own will,” Relvas said at a news
conference in Lisbon today. The decision was taken “weeks ago”
with the prime minister, he said. Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  plans to appoint a replacement “at an opportune
moment,” according to a statement from his office.  The resignation comes as Coelho battles rising joblessness
and lower demand from European trading partners and raises taxes
to meet the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($101 billion) aid plan
from the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . The
government on March 15 announced wider deficit targets as it
forecast the economy will shrink twice as much as previously
estimated this year.  The yield on  Portugal ’s 10-year bond rose eight basis
points today to 6.40 percent. That compares with a 12-month high
of 12.67 percent reached on April 16 of last year.  Coelho is also facing a pending high court ruling on the
legality of elements in this year’s budget that may limit the
government’s ability to comply with terms of the bailout.
President Anibal Cavaco Silva and different political groups
asked the court to review some points of the budget, including
taxes on pensions.  The decision may have a significant effect on Portugal’s
budget as there is limited room for the government to increase
taxes or cut spending if the budgetary gap is large, BNP Paribas
economist  Ricardo Santos  said in a note yesterday.  Abebe Aemro Selassie, head of the IMF’s mission to
Portugal, said in a Jan. 18 conference call that the court has
been asked to review a “relatively small part” of the budget’s
measures and that he didn’t think the review could bring the
whole program “off course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  