-- Pound Rallies Versus Euro After BOE Refrains From More Stimulus
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-04-04T12:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/pound-weakens-versus-dollar-before-boe-monetary-policy-decision.html
The pound rallied from the lowest in
almost two weeks against the euro after the  Bank of England 
refrained from expanding economic stimulus that tends to devalue
the currency.  U.K. government bonds rose after the central bank decided
to keep its asset-purchase target at 375 billion pounds ($565
billion), as  forecast  by 34 of 37 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . Policy makers also kept the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent. Sterling erased a decline against the
dollar after an industry report showed Britain’s services output
unexpectedly accelerated in March.  “The services data was a bit better than expected, which
has given sterling a bit of gumption,” said Jane Foley, a
senior foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank International in
London. “No-one really expected a policy move today but there
may have bit a bit of relief that there wasn’t an increase in
the asset-purchase target. However, that doesn’t mean its
completely off the table.”  Sterling rose 0.2 percent to 84.74 pence per euro at
1:26 p.m. London time after depreciating to 85.22 pence, the
weakest since March 25. The pound was little changed at $1.5127
after falling to $1.5034, the lowest level since March 20.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  and two colleagues
were outvoted by the other six Monetary Policy Committee members
in February and March in a push for a 25 billion-pound increase
in so-called quantitative easing.  Economic Contraction  The U.K. economy shrank 0.3 percent in the last quarter of
2012, the  Office for National Statistics  confirmed last week.
The figure for the three months through March will be announced
on April 25.  “It seems policy makers are still divided over the
efficacy of the quantitative-easing program,”  John Stopford ,
head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management in London
which oversees $105 billion, said before the decision was
announced. “It’s likely that gilt yields will remain low in the
near term given the economic backdrop, but as an investor we see
little value in gilts at these levels.”  A gauge of U.K.  services  output based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  rose to 52.4 last month from 51.8 in
February, Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply said in London. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News forecast a reading of 51.5. A level above 50
indicates expansion.  Little Difference  “The data has not really shown that much difference
compared to previous months,”  Laurent Fransolet , head of
European fixed-income strategy at Barclays Plc, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with
 Francine Lacqua . Bank of England policy makers “are a little
bit in wait and see mode at this time. It is probably better to
hold off and present a bigger plan later.”  The pound has declined 4.8 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-
nation currencies. The dollar has gained 3.2 percent and the
euro has weakened 0.1 percent.  The benchmark  10-year gilt  yield fell three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.73 percent. The 1.75 percent bond
due September 2022 rose 0.22, or 2.20 pounds per 1,000-pound
face amount, to 100.18.  Gilts returned 0.9 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained
0.4 percent and Treasuries rose 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  