-- Provident New York Acquires Sterling in $344 Million Stock Deal
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-04-04T20:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/provident-new-york-acquires-sterling-in-344-million-stock-deal.html
Provident New York Bancorp (PBNY)  acquired
Sterling Bancorp in a $344 million all-stock deal, joining a
list of U.S. lenders to pair up in the face of stiffer rules and
 capital requirements .  Provident shareholders will own 53 percent of the combined
firm, which will be rebranded Sterling National Bank, the
Montebello, New York-based company said today in a statement.
The deal is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter.  Smaller banks are under pressure as new regulations and
capital levels squeeze earnings. As acquisitions involving big
banks stall, lenders with just a few dozen branches are
increasingly combining to counter rising costs and falling
profits, said  Jeff Davis , managing director with  Memphis ,
Tennessee-based Mercer Capital.  “To the extent that investors continue to look for large
deals, it’s not going to happen right now because public policy
is not going to allow it,” Davis said. “What we’ve seen is
what I’d call some of these trophy, small regionals or large
community banks, sell.”  Provident will have $7 billion in assets and 46 branches in
the  New York  City metro area after the deal is completed, the
firm said in a separate release. The deal is structured as an
all-stock merger of equals, with Sterling shareholders receiving
1.2625 shares of Provident stock for every Sterling share they
own. Provident also plans to raise $80 million through a debt
offering, the firm said.  “It provides greater diversity of product sets, clients
and revenue streams,” Provident Chief Executive Officer Jack Kopnisky, 57, said in a statement. “The combined business will
be a more effective competitor.”  ‘Drastic Need’  Sterling gained 13 percent -- the most in four years -- to
close at $11.32 in New York and Provident rose 3.1 percent to
$9.08. Sterling shares climbed 24 percent this year, while
Provident’s slipped 2.5 percent.  Two similar all-stock mergers were announced in February
between banks with $1 billion to $10 billion in assets.  SCBT
Financial Corp. (SCBT) , based in Columbia,  South Carolina , reached a
$300 million with First Financial Holdings Inc., and Tupelo,
Mississippi-based Renasant Corp. said it would acquire in-state
competitor First M&F Corp. for more than $100 million.  Such acquisitions will dominate U.S. bank mergers for the
foreseeable future because lenders with $50 billion or more in
assets are reluctant to strike deals for fear of upsetting
investors and regulators, said Johnny Guerry, principal with
Clover Partners LP, a Dallas-based hedge fund that invests in
banks.  “The overall banking industry is in drastic need of
consolidation,” Guerry said. “You’re going to have a roll-up
that starts at the bottom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in New York at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  