-- Red Sox Hand Yankees Second Straight Loss; Mets Down Padres
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-04T10:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/red-sox-log-second-straight-win-over-yankees-mets-down-padres.html
The Boston Red Sox defeated the
Yankees 7-4 to start the Major League Baseball season with two
road wins against New York for the first time since 1935, while
the Mets topped the San Diego Padres 8-4.  The Red Sox led 6-0 after three innings last night at
Yankee Stadium. Jarrod Saltalamacchia hit a one-run single in
the first and Jackie Bradley Jr. scored in the second with the
bases loaded when Daniel Nava was hit by a pitch.  In the four-run third inning,  Shane Victorino  hit a run-
scoring single, Bradley drove in Victorino with a single and
Jacoby Ellsbury batted a two-run single. Ellsbury added a run in
the sixth on Dustin Pedroia’s ground-out.  The Yankees had a solo homer by Travis Hafner in the fourth
and a three-run home run by  Vernon Wells  in the eighth.  The Yankees dropped their first two games of the season for
the second straight year and the third time in five years.  Yankees starter  Hiroki Kuroda  (0-1) got the loss after
giving up two runs on four hits in 1 1/3 innings and left the
game in the second inning when his right middle finger was
bruised by Victorino’s line drive. The X-rays were negative, the
team said.  New York has five All-Stars on the disabled list: shortstop
 Derek Jeter , third baseman  Alex Rodriguez , first baseman Mark Teixeira, outfielder  Curtis Granderson  and pitcher Phil Hughes.  Clay Buchholz  (1-0) allowed six hits and one run in seven
innings while striking out four for the Red Sox (2-0).  Arizona Marathon  In other games in the American League, it was Oakland 6,
Seattle 2; the Chicago White Sox 5, Kansas City 2; Texas 4,
Houston 0; Minnesota 3, Detroit 2; Cleveland 3, Toronto 2 (11
innings); and Tampa Bay 8, Baltimore 7.  In the National League, Arizona outlasted St. Louis 10-9 in
16 innings. In other games it was San Francisco 5, the Los
Angeles Dodgers 3; Colorado 7, Milwaukee 3; Washington 3, Miami
0; Pittsburgh 3, the Chicago Cubs 0; and Atlanta 9, Philadelphia
2.  In an interleague game, it was Cincinnati 5, the Los
Angeles Angels 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  