-- Jackson Selling Yankees’ Jersey From 3-Homer Series Game
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-04T19:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/reggie-jackson-selling-yankees-jersey-from-3-homer-series-game.html
Reggie Jackson  is selling the jersey
he wore when he hit three home runs in Game 6 of the 1977 World
Series, securing the  New York Yankees ’ 21st title and cementing
a nickname that occupies the second line on his Hall of Fame
plaque.  The white pinstripe Yankees uniform will be sold online as
part of a spring collection at California-based  SCP Auctions ,
from April 10 through April 27. The outfielder’s five home runs
during the 1977 World Series earned him Most Valuable Player
honors and the nickname “Mr. October.”  Jackson said today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“On the Economy” that he would use the proceeds to make
“significant” donations to family members, as well as his  Mr.
October Foundation for Kids , which promotes educational
endeavors in minority communities.  “Give someone $100,000 and it changes lives,” Jackson
said.  With the Yankees up three games to two, Jackson hit home
runs on three consecutive pitches from three different pitchers
in an 8-4 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers at Yankee
Stadium. He was the first player since another Yankees Hall of
Fame outfielder,  Babe Ruth  in 1928, to hit three home runs in a
World Series game.  A 14-time All-Star, Jackson played 21 seasons, hitting .262
with 563 home runs and 1,702 runs batted in. He was inducted
into the  National Baseball Hall of Fame  in 1993.  Gehrig, DiMaggio  Jackson has kept the jersey as part of his personal
memorabilia. He said his collection includes items from Yankees
greats such as Ruth,  Lou Gehrig ,  Joe DiMaggio  and  Mickey Mantle ,
and other Hall of Famers, including  Jackie Robinson  and Roberto Clemente.  “I collected because I was a fan, and that stuff has
turned into significant value,” Jackson said. “I’ve never sold
anything except my stuff, because my stuff I guess is not as
important to me as some of the other things I’ve collected.”  The SCP spring collection also includes a road uniform worn
by DiMaggio in 1951, and a home uniform worn by Yankees catcher
Thurman Munson in 1979, the year he died in a plane crash. Non-
Yankees items include a Wayne Gretzky game-worn jersey from his
time with the Edmonton Oilers, and sneakers that Miami Heat
forward LeBron James wore as a tribute to those affected by the
December school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut.  Proceeds from the sale of the shoes will go to those
affected through the  LeBron James Family Foundation , according
to an e-mailed release from SCP Auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  