-- Triodos Plans Renewables Fund to Target Emerging-Market Growth
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-04-04T06:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/triodos-plans-renewables-fund-to-target-emerging-market-growth.html
Triodos Investment Management BV , an
arm of Dutch lender Triodos Bank NV, plans a clean-energy fund
focused on  emerging markets  as growth in the industry shifts
away from Europe.  The fund will invest in the “more developed” emerging
nations and center on wind, solar and hydropower, said Matthew
Clayton,  executive director  for Bristol, England-based Triodos
Renewables Plc, a fund under Triodos Investment Management.  Renewables fund managers, facing slower growth in Europe,
are looking to new markets to tap expanding economies and
accelerating power demand. While  Asia ’s biggest emerging nations
for clean energy are China and  India , others such as South Korea
and  Thailand  are starting to attract more investment.  “We’ve seen that several experienced renewable-energy
developers that Triodos has worked with in Europe are moving
into new countries,” Gerrit-Jan Brunink, a  fund manager  at the
company, said by e-mail. “Also, many existing clients in the
Triodos emerging-market network have started to become active or
are interested in renewable energy.”  More countries are establishing regulatory frameworks to
support clean energy. While China has long provided subsidies
for renewable-power projects and plans a cap-and-trade emissions
program in seven provinces this year, nations such as South
Korea are also now stepping up measures to curb carbon output.  Fund Size  Triodos is “exploring ideas” for the fund’s structure,
according to Brunink, who said new funds typically target 50
million euros ($64 million) at first, with expected growth to
100 million euros.  China was the biggest renewables market in emerging Asia
last year with $67 billion of investments, according to Angus McCrone, a senior analyst at BNEF. India accounted for $7
billion, Thailand $1.3 billion and  South Korea  $900 million, he
said.  Separately, Triodos Renewables will start raising money
from the retail industry in October, Clayton said in an
interview in London. The fundraising, targeted at 10 million
pounds ($15 million) to 15 million pounds by year-end, will be
used to expand in wind and solar power, he said.  Triodos Renewables, with the bank’s Renewables Europe Fund,
bought 49.8 percent of a 10-megawatt wind farm in the U.K. last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  