-- Russia May Privatize Rostelecom in 2013 as Tele2 Deal Looms
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-04-04T16:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/russia-may-privatize-rostelecom-this-year-as-tele2-deal-looms.html
OAO Rostelecom may be privatized
this year as the Russian government moved up plans to sell its
majority stake in the telecommunications operator that may be
the ultimate buyer of  Tele2 AB’s (TEL2B)  business in the country.  Originally, the state planned to sell its 53 percent in the
fixed-line monopoly that’s seeking to expand into mobile from
2014 through 2016. Today, Federal Property Management Agency
head Olga Dergunova said it’s proposed adding the stake to this
year’s privatization plans.  “This asset would be interesting to a wide range of
investors” once Rostelecom merges with state-run holding
company Svyazinvest, Dergunova said. The government may sell its
entire holding in Rostelecom while keeping a “golden share” so
it can veto unfavorable decisions, she said.  State-run lender  VTB Group (VTBR)  announced the completion of a
$3.55 billion acquisition of Swedish Tele2’s wireless business
in  Russia  today. VTB may resell the company to Moscow-based
Rostelecom in six to eight months once the merger with
Svyazinvest is completed,  Renaissance Capital  has said. Tele2
could get half of VTB’s cash profits should the bank sell the
Swedish company’s Russian business to a third party within a
year of the deal’s completion, Tele2 said April 2.  Arkady Rotenberg,  Vladimir Putin ’s judo partner, bought a
10.7 stake in Rostelecom a month ago. Then Rostelecom appointed
Sergey Kalugin as its new chief executive officer. Kalugin
previously worked for another Putin ally, Yury Kovalchuk, who
runs a  joint  business with Sweden’s Stenbeck family, which
formed Tele2.  Shares  VTB Group’s shares slumped 2.9 percent to $2.94 at 5:04
p.m. in London, while OAO Mobile TeleSystems declined 2.6
percent to $19.96 at 12:06 p.m. in  New York  and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) 
dropped 1.5 percent to $11.71.  Buyers of the “Rostelecom stake from the government would
most likely benefit from a subsequent merger with Tele2
assets,” said Otkritie Capital analyst Alexander Vengranovich.
Businessmen like Rotenberg may be interested in acquiring more
of Rostelecom, he said. Selling the whole government stake makes
the process less transparent than disposing a smaller stake in a
public offering, Vengranovich said.  A representative for Rotenberg who asked not to be named in
keeping with internal policy declined to comment on the
Rostelecom privatization. Alexander Karmaev, a spokesman for
Kovalchuk, couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  Tele2 has mobile coverage in 41 out of 83 Russian regions
and 22.7 million users, while Rostelecom covers 30 regions and
has 13.6 million mobile customers. The two carriers combined
would create a nationwide operator.  Larger Russian mobile operators  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  and
VimpelCom Ltd. sought to derail the legally binding VTB deal,
jointly offering as much as $4.25 billion for Tele2 Russia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  