-- Russian Rail Said to Seek 5% Stake Sale to State Funds in 2014
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2013-04-04T20:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/russian-rail-said-to-seek-5-stake-sale-to-state-funds-in-2014.html
OAO Russian Railways is offering to
sell a 5 percent stake to the country’s wealth and pension funds
in 2014 in the first step toward cutting state ownership of the
monopoly, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The sale of new shares in Russian Railways to the Wellbeing
Fund and Pension Fund is part of the so-called privatization
road map the transportation company had approved by the Federal
Property Management Agency, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the information is private. RZhD, as the
railway owner is known, would use the sale proceeds for its
investment program.  Management is proposing that 20 percent more of the company
may be sold in an initial public offering only after 2016, the
people said. Russian Railways may offer investors both new and
existing shares.  Before an IPO, the government will have to change the
structure of rail fees, decide what to do with the company’s
unprofitable units and undertake other measures to make the rail
monopoly more attractive to investors, according to sources.  Russian Railways Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Yakunin 
last year called on the government to slow plans for the state
to bring in investors, and raise cash by selling shares to the
pension fund managed by Vnesheconombank, the state development
bank.  Russian Railways’ press service declined to comment on the
proposals. VEB’s press service said such decisions are made by
the supervisory board, which is headed by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev . The prime minister’s press service referred questions
to the Finance and Economy ministries. The  Finance Ministry ,
which oversees the Wellbeing Fund, didn’t immediately comment.  The road map submitted by Russian Railways, which includes
private and public placements of stock, was approved, the
Federal Property Management Agency, overseen by the  Economy
Ministry , said by e-mail today, without giving details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Denis Maternovsky at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net  