-- Rutgers Top Administrators Face Fire in Aftermath of Coach Exit
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n ,   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-04-04T19:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/rutgers-top-administrators-face-fire-in-aftermath-of-coach-exit.html
From professors to politicians,
questions flowed on whether Rutgers University President Robert Barchi and Athletic Director Tim Pernetti deserve the same fate
as the basketball coach they fired yesterday.  Mike Rice was dismissed from the state university, more
than three months after an initial suspension, following the
national telecast of a video showing him physically and verbally
punishing players at practices while using gay slurs and
vulgarities. Pernetti said he had seen parts of the video before
deciding to suspend the coach.  For completing the season last month, Rice will receive a
$100,000 bonus, more than the amount he was initially fined,
according to his contract.  Ten members of Rutgers’s faculty sent a letter to the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based school’s Board of Governors and
Board of Trustees yesterday, demanding Barchi’s immediate
resignation. State Senate President Stephen Sweeney said
Pernetti should be fired or step down, while three state
assemblywomen called for an investigation into the
administration’s handling of the scandal.  “Although President Barchi is now suggesting otherwise, he
has known about Coach Rice’s homophobic, misogynist and abusive
behavior for several months now,” the faculty members said.
“Not only did he not fire Coach Rice, he in essence covered up
the coach’s actions by failing to tell faculty and students
about them.”  ESPN Telecast  The initial suspension of Rice was announced in December,
three weeks after Rutgers was invited to join the  Big Ten
Conference , a move from the Big East Conference that may
increase the school’s athletic-department income by millions of
dollars.  Rice was dismissed a day after the ESPN program “Outside
the Lines” televised the tape, collected at practices from 2010
to 2012. Barchi said yesterday that he had concurred with
Pernetti’s initial judgment without having viewed the recording
himself.  The faculty letter, which was provided by the school, said
it was indicative of Barchi’s views that he “only fired Coach
Rice after media attention forced him to do so.”  “There were political implications here,” said Scott Minto, director of the sports MBA program at  San Diego State
University . “I don’t see how as a manager you err on the side
of slapping someone on the wrist unless you are making a more
strategic decision overall.”  Rice’s Contract  Rice had a base salary of $300,000 for the year ending
April 7. He received $350,000 in additional compensation, an
annual car stipend of $12,000 and a standard benefits package
for university employees, according to his contract. He’ll be
paid a $100,000 bonus for having completed the season because
it’s contractually obligated, Jason Baum, a school spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  The school isn’t planning to hold a news conference today,
according to Greg Trevor, a Rutgers spokesman.  Rutgers spent $226,532 during the search for a new
president that yielded Barchi in April 2012, according to the
Newark Star-Ledger. His first-year base pay at Rutgers was
$650,000, according to a copy of his contract provided by the
school.  He was named the school’s 20th president by its Board of
Governors, with 11 voting members. They acted with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees, which has 59 votes.  ‘Regrettable Episode’  The  New Jersey  governor appoints six of the school
governors, with the rest elected by the trustees. Among the
trustees with  voting rights , five are chosen by the state
governor.  Governor  Chris Christie , a first-term Republican seeking
re-election, said yesterday in a statement that the earlier
decision to keep Rice “was a regrettable episode for the
university, but I completely support the decision to remove
Coach Rice.”  The governor is vacationing out of state this week. When
asked whether he was inclined to call for more dismissals, his
spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said via e-mail that his office
“won’t have anything additional today in all likelihood.”  Video Evidence  Barchi said in a statement yesterday that he was initially
notified last fall after Pernetti viewed video excerpts of
Rutgers’s practices. The school hired an independent
investigator to examine the issue and he and Pernetti then
agreed that Rice should be suspended for three games, fined
$50,000 and ordered to undergo counseling, Barchi said.  “Yesterday, I personally reviewed the video evidence,
which shows a chronic and pervasive pattern of disturbing
behavior,” Barchi said.  The president shouldn’t have waited so long to get more
involved, particularly in the aftermath of the scandal at Penn
State University, where former school President  Graham Spanier 
was charged with conspiring to conceal reports of ex-football
coach Jerry Sandusky’s sexual abuse of boys, said Kadence Otto,
an associate professor of the College of Business at Western
Carolina University.  “After the Penn State fallout, people have been writing
about the danger of criminal charges and the notion of vicarious
liability,” Otto said in a telephone interview.  “You can’t walk into court and just claim you didn’t know
what your employees were doing,” Otto said. “If there was
evidence of a video and you either watched two minutes of it or
didn’t dig into the fact that there was more tape, I do think
that the onus of responsibility is on the athletic director and
the president.”  Revenue Source  Universities across the nation, particularly at the top
division of college athletics, are making choices based more on
chasing revenue than promoting education, according to Warren
Zola, the assistant dean for graduate programs in the Carroll
School of Management at  Boston College .  “That level of pressure on any institution to generate
revenue, to be part of the landscape of conference realignment,
has created undue pressure where 20 years ago it may not have
existed,” Zola said in a telephone interview. “These sorts of
scenarios are predictable based on this evolution.”  State Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat from  East
Orange , said yesterday she will call for legislative hearings on
why Rice wasn’t fired sooner.  Seeking Answers  Assemblywoman Celeste Riley, a Democrat from Bridgton who
heads her house’s higher education committee, said Rutgers
leaders “must explain to the people of New Jersey why Mr.
Rice’s firing didn’t happen sooner and how such an abusive
environment was ever permitted to exist at our state
university.”  “If the Rutgers administration refuses to explain itself,
I will seek to get the answers,” Riley said in a statement
yesterday.  In another statement yesterday, Assemblywoman Mary Pat Angelini, a Republican from Ocean Township, called for an
investigation “to determine if anyone else is accountable for
tolerating behavior that is way out of bounds.”  Sweeney, a Democrat from West Deptford, questioned why it
took so long for Rice’s actions to become public. Pernetti must
go, the lawmaker said in a statement today.  “Mr. Pernetti deserves recognition for getting Rutgers
into the Big Ten,” Sweeney said. “But we have to ask if that
effort clouded his judgment on this matter.”  Big Ten  After negotiating Rutgers’s exit to the Big Ten, Pernetti
in March was among five nominees for Athletic Director of the
Year in the 2013 Sports Business Awards.  Pernetti, whose current annual salary is $452,769, signed a
five-year contract in 2009, with benefits including a $12,000
car stipend and an opportunity to earn as much as $50,000 in
bonuses for reaching academic, financial and competitive goals.  The agreement states that the athletic director reports to
the president and is a member of the president’s cabinet.  Pernetti can be fired for, among other things, neglect of
duty, act of moral turpitude and conduct tending to bring shame
or disgrace to the university as reasonably determined by the
president.  With players on year-to-year scholarships and afraid to
speak out about improper coaching behavior, it’s the
responsibility of administrators such as Pernetti and Barchi to
protect them, Minto said.  “If you are the 19-year-old whistle-blower here, what
benefit is it to speak up when this guy holds your financial and
professional future in his hands while he’s winging basketballs
at you,” said Minto. “The administrators, whose greatest
concern is for the bottom line, are the ones who are supposed to
protect them and now must be held responsible.’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  