-- Sands Owes Middleman for Macau ‘Brass Ring,’ Lawyer Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-04T01:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/sands-owes-middleman-for-macau-brass-ring-lawyer-says.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  owes a
middleman for its gaming license in Macau, which the casino
operator’s founder and chairman  Sheldon Adelson  called the
“brass ring in the merry-go-round,” according to a lawyer for
 Hong Kong  businessman Richard Suen.  Opening statements started yesterday in state court in Las
Vegas in a second trial over Suen’s allegations that Adelson
breached a 2001 agreement to pay him and his associates $5
million and 2 percent of the net income from the company’s Macau
casinos if it was awarded a permit. Suen is seeking as much as
$328 million in damages.  Suen claims that meetings he arranged between Adelson and
Chinese officials, including the mayor of Beijing and the vice
premier responsible for Hong Kong and Macau, were instrumental
in leading Edmund Ho, the former chief executive of the Macau
Special Administrative Region, to award the company a gaming
license in 2002.  Ho, according to Suen, initially had expressed misgivings
about  Las Vegas  Sands’s large-scale plans.  “This is a case about not paying your debts even if you
have the means to do so,” John O’Malley, a lawyer for Suen,
told jurors. “Las Vegas Sands should pay a debt that now has
been owing for many, many years.”  Pending Resolution  At Suen’s suggestion, before meeting with the Chinese
officials in July 2001, Adelson called Republican lawmakers to
“see what he could learn” about a pending U.S. House of
Representatives resolution to discourage the U.S. Olympics
Committee to vote for Beijing’s bid to host the 2008 Olympics,
O’Malley said in his opening statement.  After talking to then House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, who
was a co-sponsor of the resolution, Adelson told the mayor of
Beijing that he didn’t have to worry about the House voting on
it, O’Malley said.  “As a result of that call, Mr. Adelson learned or
understood that the bill would either be killed or not voted
on” before the vote in Moscow later that same month on Beijing
hosting the Olympics, O’Malley said.  O’Malley said the goodwill Adelson generated by calling his
political connections at the time of the Olympics bid was
important to Chinese officials helping Las Vegas Sands getting
awarded the Macau license.  Reversed Award  The Nevada  Supreme Court  in 2010 reversed a $43.8 million
jury award two years earlier in favor of Suen and sent the case
back for a new trial. The appellate court found that the judge
presiding over the previous trial had incorrectly allowed so-
called hearsay evidence linking the meetings in Beijing with the
award of the gaming license.  Richard Sauber, a lawyer for Las Vegas Sands, said in his
opening statement that Suen can’t prove his claim that he
“delivered” the Macau license by setting up a 40-minute
meeting with officials in Beijing.  Las Vegas Sands obtained its license after meeting with
Edmund Ho independently of Suen, participating in a tender
process supervised by Macau officials, and getting a
subconcession from a group of Hong Kong financiers that had won
one of the concessions to build casinos that Las Vegas Sands
would operate, Sauber told the jurors.  Other Claims  “Mr. Suen had nothing what to do with any of these
activities,” Sauber said. “There was no interference from
 China  -- this was an independent decision.”  Adelson is scheduled to testify today.  Las Vegas Sands has faced other claims by middlemen or
former partners who claim they helped it win the concession in
Macau. Through  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the company operates four
casino resorts in the former Portuguese colony, which is now the
world’s biggest gambling hub.  The company in 2009 agreed to pay $42.5 million to three
men who said they helped set up a partnership between Las Vegas
Sands and a Hong Kong-based group with which the casino operator
originally gained a license.  The casino operator also faces a lawsuit seeking as much as
$376 million in Macau by Asian American Entertainment Corp., a
Taiwanese-backed venture with which Las Vegas Sands was pursuing
a license before it teamed up with the Hong Kong group.  Past Damages  Suen seeks about $98 million in past damages and $230
million in future damages based on Las Vegas Sands’s profit from
its Macau casino resorts, according to the March 22 filing.  Las Vegas Sands has argued that the meetings Suen helped
arrange with Chinese officials in Beijing weren’t instrumental
to the local Macau government’s decision to award it a license
and that the region’s special status precludes the Chinese
central government from dictating who would be awarded a
license.  Before the Portuguese colony became part of the People’s
Republic of China in 1999, gambling in Macau was a monopoly
concession that since 1962 had been in the hands of a company
controlled by billionaire  Stanley Ho . In 2001, the Macau
government invited bids for casino concessions to boost growth
through competition.  Las Vegas Sands has said in court filings that it obtained
the Macau license after it took the suggestion of the local
government and joined the bid by  Galaxy Entertainment Group
Ltd. (27) , backed by two “prominent and wealthy Hong Kong families”
who had the wherewithal to invest in Macau and lacked casino
expertise.  Three Concessions  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , Stanley Ho’s company  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) 
and the Galaxy/Las Vegas Sands group were awarded the three
concessions issued by the Macau government in 2002. Las Vegas
Sands later that year got a subconcession from Galaxy to build
its own casinos in Macau.  Revenue from the gaming industry in Macau rose 14 percent
to $38 billion last year. Casino revenue in the region, where 60
percent of the visitors come from mainland China, exceeds that
of the  Las Vegas Strip  by more than six times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Las Vegas Sands said March 1 that an internal investigation
found it probably violated certain provisions of the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits bribing foreign
government officials to gain a commercial advantage. The
Securities and Exchange Commission and the  Justice Department 
opened probes after a lawsuit by the former chief executive
officer of Sands China.  The former executive,  Steven Jacobs , alleged Adelson wanted
him to use “improper leverage” on Macau officials. The company
has said it didn’t violate the anti-bribery provisions of the
FCPA and that the probable violations relate to the law’s books
and records and internal control provisions.  The case is Suen v. Las Vegas Sands Corp., 04A493744,
Nevada District Court,  Clark County  (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Las Vegas at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  