-- Saudi Arabia Tackles Illegal Labor in Job-Creation Push
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-04-04T05:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/saudi-arabia-tackles-illegal-labor-in-job-creation-push.html
Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s
biggest economy, is cracking down on illegal workers, part of a
push to create more jobs for its citizens and stave off unrest.  Inspectors have fanned out across the country, raiding
places where they suspect illegal workers are employed, Labor
Ministry spokesman Hattab al-Enazi said in an interview. Bader
al-Malik, spokesman for the General Department of Passports in
Riyadh, has told Saudi newspapers nearly 800,000 illegal workers
have been deported in the past 15 months.  The kingdom is “enforcing already existing  labor laws ,”
al-Enazi said yesterday. “The Saudi market has a lot of foreign
workers and a lot of them are illegals.”  He didn’t provide a figure on the number of illegal workers
in Saudi Arabia.  Saudi Arabia made  job creation  a priority after popular
unrest toppled leaders across the  Middle East  starting in 2011.
 King Abdullah , who turns 89 this year, unveiled a $130 billion
stimulus plan in 2011 to create jobs and tightened rules on the
expatriate workers most businesses depend on.  The aim was to ensure that the world’s biggest oil exporter
remains unscathed by the unrest that has swept other Arab
countries with high unemployment. With about a quarter of Saudis
aged 20 to 30 out of work, the government in 2011 curbed the
number of work permits issued to foreigners, linking them to the
number of Saudis a company employees.  Labor Reforms  In addition, deportations began. Al-Malik, the passports
department official, told the Al-Riyadh newspaper in February
that 575,000 illegal workers were deported in 2012. He told the
al-Hayat newspaper on April 1 that 200,000 were expelled in the
first three months of this year.  Paul Gamble , an analyst at  Fitch Ratings  in  London , said he
doesn’t expect the expulsion of low-wage workers to hurt the
economy.  “The government is introducing the labor market reforms at
the time of economic strength, so the economy will be able to
absorb any impact comfortably and growth is unlikely to be
affected,” Gamble said.  Greater employment of nationals “is beneficial for the
economy over the long-term,” he said.  Saudi Arabia’s $657 billion economy expanded 6.8 percent
last year as the government started implementing a $500 billion
plan to build industrial cities in the desert, airports and
universities. While growth may slow to 4.2 percent in 2013, it
will be outpaced only by Qatar in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, according to the  International Monetary
Fund .  Diminished Remittances  The clampdown could hurt countries from  Egypt  to the
 Philippines  that rely on Gulf economies to prop up their own
with money sent from abroad. Neighboring Yemen, whose economy is
significantly bolstered by remittances, has already warned the
measures could destabilize its fragile government.  In March, the government announced that expatriates can
work only for their Saudi sponsors, the official  Saudi Press
Agency  reported, citing a Cabinet statement. The Labor Ministry
will inspect facilities and report violations to the  Interior
Ministry , which will arrest, deport and fine violators, the news
service said.  “We take the necessary action to enforce the law,”  al-
Enazi said.  Shops Shuttered  After the government started conducting inspections, some
shops and schools around Riyadh shut down as people tried to
avoid sanctions.  “Most of the impact will be on the retail sector, where it
is easy to inspect,” Fahad Al-Turki, senior economist at Jadwa
Investment Co., said by phone. “We have heard of shops closing
either because of enforcement or fear of being caught by
inspectors.”  Saudi Arabia  has about 9.4 million foreign workers, mainly
from Egypt, Yemen, the Philippines, Indian and  Pakistan , out of
a total population of 29.2 million, according to the  Central
Department of Statistics . They drive taxis, work in shops, clean
streets and build homes.  While details aren’t disclosed, foreign nationals often
enter the kingdom under the sponsorship of one person then
change jobs to work for another, using the same visa. A Saudi
national could sponsor multiple visas for taxi drivers, and hire
them out to other companies for commission.  Enforcing Law  The government is trying to “organize the current mess in
the  labor force ,” Al-Turki said.  Saudi Arabia is the third-biggest global provider of worker
remittances after the U.S. and  Switzerland , sending $28.5
billion in 2011, according to  World Bank  data. Egypt, the Arab
world’s most populous country, received $14.3 billion in
remittances in 2011, representing 6.2 percent of its GDP,
according to the  World Bank . For the Philippines, it’s 10.3
percent. Yemen, pushed close to civil war in 2011, is another
large recipient, with remittances accounting for 4.2 percent.  Between 500,000 and 800,000 Yemeni workers in Saudi Arabia
could be hurt by the restrictions, Rajeh Badi, an adviser to
Yemen’s Prime Minister Mohamed Salem Basindwah, said in an
interview. A Yemeni delegation will visit Saudi Arabia to
discuss the crackdown, the Saba news agency said March 30.  Yemen, bordering Saudi Arabia and Oman at the southern tip
of the Arabian Peninsula, has struggled to recover from protests
in 2011 that weakened the central government’s authority.
Yemen’s President Abdurabu Mansur Hadi started national
reconciliation talks last month.  “Yemen’s economy is facing serious difficulties and this
would worsen the situation,” Badi said. “We hope Saudi Arabia
will realize that the economic situation will have a direct
impact on the political process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  