-- Schmolz Gains as Billionaire Vekselberg May Invest: Zurich Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-04-04T09:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/schmolz-gains-as-billionaire-vekselberg-may-invest-zurich-mover.html
  Schmolz & Bickenbach AG (STLN)  rose as
much as 12 percent after the unprofitable Swiss steelmaker said
Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  may take part in a capital
increase through his Renova Group investment company.  The shares traded 8.1 percent higher at 2.55 Swiss francs
at 11:18 a.m. in Zurich, giving the company a market value of
301 million francs ($317 million). The intraday percentage gain
was the biggest since Jan. 24.  Renova, which is the largest shareholder in Swiss companies
including textile machinery maker  OC Oerlikon AG (OERL)  and pumpmaker
 Sulzer AG (SUN) , has formed a group with the steelmaker’s main family
shareholders and may participate in a capital restructuring,
Emmenbruecke-based Schmolz said in a  statement  today.  “We are open to Renova’s participation,” Schmolz Chief
Financial Officer Hans-Juergen Wiecha said in a phone interview.  Schmolz is in talks about reorganizing its ownership with a
select group of investors including other steelmakers, Wiecha
said. Renova and the family shareholder group together have
20.46 percent of  voting rights , Schmolz said. Renova spokesman
Rolf Schatzmann declined to comment.  The supplier of steel to carmakers hasn’t yet decided what
format the capital revamp will take and the amount of funds
needed will depend on other restructuring measures which the
company is pursuing, Wiecha said. The move must be approved at
Schmolz’s annual shareholders meeting in June, he said.  Steel Slump  Shares of the steelmaker have fallen more than 90 percent
in the past five years as slowing demand for steel in  Europe 
pressured the company’s finances. Former Chief Executive Officer
Benedikt Niemeyer and CFO Axel Euchner were replaced with
current chief Johannes Nonn and Wiecha as finance head in June.  Vekselberg, the world’s 57th-richest man, sold a 12.5
percent stake in TNK-BP, the Russian oil venture he held with BP
Plc and four other Russian billionaires, for $7 billion last
month. Through Renova Group, he owns owns 47.9 percent of
Oerlikon and 31.2 percent of Sulzer.  Schmolz said March 8 it would look at “equity measures”
to reduce its debt after agreeing on amendments to credit
contracts with banks for financing lines of about 930 million
euros ($1.2 billion) due in March and April 2015.  Schmolz is also being sued by U.S. hedge fund GoldenTree
Asset Management LP, which accused the Swiss company of
fraudulently marketing bonds in May 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  