-- Scottish Water’s Costliest Upgrades Due to Climate: CEO
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-04-04T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/scottish-water-s-costliest-upgrades-due-to-climate-ceo.html
Scottish Water Ltd. , the publicly
owned utility with the lowest sewage and water bills in Britain,
said the most costly upgrades ever to Glasgow’s wastewater
system are due in part to climate change.  The U.K.’s fourth-largest water company with about 5
million customers is spending 250 million pounds ($378 million)
on the biggest infrastructure improvements to Glasgow in at
least a century to cope with intensifying weather.  The five-year spending plan stems from Glasgow suffering
three 1-in-100-year storms over two weeks in 2002 for a system
designed to cope with that occurring once every 30 years, Chief
Executive Officer Douglas Millican said in an interview. U.K.
weather swings included the coldest March in 51 years last
month, a 2012 drought and the wettest April to June on record.
Scottish  rainfall  in 2011 was the highest in at least 100 years.  “Whatever way the climate may go in the future, what is
undoubtedly clear is that we are having more intense storms,”
said the CEO, who took over in February following the death of
predecessor Richard Ackroyd. “That means that at certain peak
periods there are ever-higher volumes of surface water going
into sewers.”  New investments will separate waste surface water and
sewage pipes to take into account the growing population and
urban creep, with more areas being paved over and higher
standards demanded for sewage treatment, he said from company
headquarters in Dunfermline, 17 miles (27 kilometers) north of
Edinburgh.  Scottish Water is having to make more weather-related
investments due to changing climate than it estimated five to 10
years ago, the 48-year-old water head said last month. Still,
“you cannot engineer your way to deal with any possible weather
event, that would just be horrendous.”  Renewable Electricity  The spending is part of an investment program currently
running at about 500 million pounds a year in which Scottish
Water plans to increase the amount of renewable electricity
generated on land it owns about 15-fold by 2020 to become more
energy-efficient and help cut carbon emissions.  Only 7 percent of the electricity it consumes currently
comes from renewable sources such as wind, hydro or solar power
and that’s expected to rise to 10 percent by 2015.  “Our hope would be that by 2020 the total renewables being
generated from our estate would be double the amount of
electricity we are consuming,” Millican said. “We should be
delivering as much net to the grid as we consume ourselves.”  The Scottish government’s target is for 100 percent of
Scotland’s electricity to be generated from renewable sources by
2020. Renewables provided 39 percent of Scottish electricity
consumption last year, the government said.  Power Consumption  Whitelee , the U.K.’s largest onshore wind farm, is partly
situated on land owned by Scottish Water, giving the company
commercial benefit from its output. The farm, which has 215
turbines with a maximum output of 322 megawatts, generates the
equivalent of about 80 percent of Scottish Water’s annual
electricity consumption.  In the longer term Scottish Water’s ambition is to generate
up to three times as much energy from its own estate as it
consumes, Millican said.  One advantage Scottish Water has as the operator of almost
1,900 sewage treatment plants is the lowest carbon intensity to
produce water of any U.K. utility. That’s because more water
comes from upland, gravity-fed sources in Scotland, reducing
electricity requirements, he said.  Leakage Levels  The combination of lower power usage and fewer carbon
emissions means it can afford a higher “sustainable economic
leakage level” than other U.K. water companies, or the point at
which the cost of finding all the places where water leaks and
fixing it exceeds the cost of the water that’s wasted.  “Now for the first time we are at the economic level of
leakage,” Millican said. “In our case, it is 629 million
liters of water a day. In broad terms, it is 30 percent of the
water we produce.”  The leakage rate of 30 percent compares with 23 percent in
England and Wales in 2010-11, according to company-compiled data
published by the regulator Ofwat. Figures for 2011-2012 aren’t
yet available, said Ben Fisher, an Ofwat spokesman.  Government Rates  The ability to borrow at government rather than market
rates of interest also means Scottish consumers have the lowest
water and sewage bills in Britain. At 324 pounds, they were 52
pounds below the average for England and Wales for the year
ended March and at  334 pounds  this year will be 54 pounds lower,
Millican said.  Studies similar to the one for Glasgow’s upgrades are now
underway in Edinburgh, Aberdeen, Dundee, Grangemouth and the
Ayrshire coastline around Irvine, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  