-- Seaport Shedding Company That Includes Yankees Farm Club
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-04-04T20:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/seaport-capital-shedding-company-that-includes-yankees-farm-club.html
Seaport Capital LLC, which includes
a majority stake in Mandalay Baseball Properties, is selling its
share of the holding company that owns five minor-league
baseball teams, including half of the New York Yankees’ Triple-A
affiliate.  Seaport, based in New York, has retained Game Plan LLC to
sell the holding company, said Bob Caporale, the Boston-based
firm’s chairman.  Included in the portfolio are the Dayton Dragons, Erie
Seawolves, Frisco Roughriders, Oklahoma City Redhawks and
Scranton Wilkes-Barre Railriders, which are co-owned by the
Yankees. The teams are expected to generate more than $40
million in revenue this year, according to the retainer
announcement distributed by Game Plan, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Minor-league baseball is a great business,” Caporale
said in a telephone interview.  Bill Luby, the Seaport partner who oversees Mandalay
Baseball, declined in a telephone interview to put a valuation
on the company, saying he’d rather let the market do that.  Mandalay was the last investment remaining from Seaport’s
2000 fund, said Luby, who is also part owner of Derby County
Football Club in  England .  “It has run its course,” he said. “We think we’ve
developed a unique set of assets and that there’s an opportunity
to do a lot more.”  Possible Buyers  Caporale said he sees three categories of possible buyers:
someone who wants the company to do more in sports
entertainment; someone who wants to create a national minor-
league footprint by expanding operations into hockey or
basketball, or an equity fund interested in a pure investment.  Investors in Mandalay Baseball Properties include
basketball Hall of Fame player and Los Angeles Dodgers part-
owner Magic Johnson; Peter Guber, part owner of basketball’s
Golden State Warriors and the baseball Dodgers, and two-time
Heisman Trophy winner Archie Griffin.  Mandalay also owns minority interests in Professional
Sports Catering and 4Topps Premium Seating, the developer of a
patent-pending premium seating product for sports and
entertainment venues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  