-- SG Biofuels Sees Deal in Southeast Asia or Africa in Six Months
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-04-04T10:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/sg-biofuels-sees-deal-in-southeast-asia-or-africa-in-six-months.html
SG Biofuels Inc., the green fuel
biotech company working with Airbus SAS, is seeking a partner in
Southeast Asia or  Africa  and expects to complete a cooperation
deal within 180 days to expand its business into new markets.  “Both regions have a lot of growth potential for our
technology,” SG’s Chief Executive Officer Kirk Haney said.
“We’ll choose a company that has business experience in those
geographies and specifically related to agriculture or energy.”  The company is already working with Bharat Petroleum Corp.
to grow 86,000 acres of the jatropha plant, used in biofuel, in
 India  and is planting 75,000 acres in  Brazil  with Airbus, the
Inter-American Development Bank and TAM SA, Brazil’s largest
airline. SG said Dec. 10 it will probably raise capital from
private investors this year to fund growth into new areas.  The San Diego-based company is studying how to extract the
most oil from the inedible jatropha, a plant native to Central
America that can be grown on poor land. SG has developed a
library of jatropha genes that can be used to breed varieties
tailored to specific geographies. The plant’s seeds are crushed
to make oil for biodiesel, jet fuel and specialty chemicals.  Airlines have been “very positive” on biofuels, Haney
said in a phone interview. “About 40 percent of an airline’s
cost structure is related to fuel, so they have been very
sensitive. Now that companies like ours have demonstrated cost
competitiveness with petroleum, they’re really starting to
embrace buying biofuel and are making investments.”  Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Finnair Oyj and Air France-KLM Group
are among airlines that have flown planes using biofuels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  