-- Shekel Weakens as Risk of Currency Intervention Reduces Demand
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-04-04T13:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/shekel-weakens-as-risk-of-currency-intervention-reduces-demand.html
Israel ’s shekel weakened the most in
more than a week on increased bets the  Bank of Israel  will
intervene to stem the currency’s rally. Benchmark bonds rose.  The currency depreciated as much as 0.5 percent, the most
since March 27, before trading at 3.6305 a dollar, at 4:33 p.m.
in  Tel Aviv . The shekel, which reached a 17-month high this
week, strengthened 3.9 percent in the past three months, the
best performer among 31 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
government’s 4.25 percent notes maturing in 2023 yielded 3.86
percent today, down four basis points.  The shekel has been gaining in the run-up to the start of
gas production on March 30, which is set to improve the current-
account balance by as much as $3 billion this year, according to
the central bank. The Israel Export Institute yesterday urged
the central bank to resume currency buying as exports, making up
about 40 percent of the economy, fell by an annualized 6.5
percent in the fourth quarter. Economic growth eased to 2.4
percent, the slowest pace in more than three years.  “The sharp shekel appreciation increased the likelihood
that the central bank will resume currency purchases to help
exporters and ensure stability in the economy,” said Rony Gitlin, head of spot trading at Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. in Tel
Aviv. “Foreign banks and local investors are closing positions
and reducing risk.”  Interest Rates  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer , who will step down
at the end of June, is credited by some economists with helping
the nation weather the world financial crisis by buying foreign
currency to curb shekel strength and support exports. The
regulator last intervened in July 2011.  The shekel’s gain has also been partly driven by the Bank
of Israel’s decision to hold its  key borrowing rate  at 1.75
percent for a third month in March, giving the nation’s
relatively higher rates than Israel’s main trading partners, the
U.S. and  Europe .  One-year interest-rate swaps , an indicator of
investor expectations for rates over the period, fell two basis
points to 1.62 percent.  The Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index, which measures inflation-linked
and fixed-rate corporate bonds, was little changed at 286.14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  