-- Shenzhen Is First in China With June Start for Emissions Trading
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-04-04T08:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/shenzhen-is-first-in-china-with-june-start-for-emissions-trading.html
Shenzhen, a Special Economic Zone
designed to promote market policies in  China , will begin
emissions trading on June 17, the first announced start date
among the country’s regional carbon exchanges.  Mayor Qin Xu announced the schedule in an interview with
the  Shenzhen Daily newspaper . While Beijing and  Shanghai  may
also start their carbon markets in June, Shenzhen is the first
to set a specific date, according to analysts at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  China, the world’s biggest emitter, has approved pilot
programs to cap and trade emissions in seven manufacturing
centers as part of its plan to reduce greenhouse gases per
economic unit by as much as 45 percent before the end of the
decade. The nation will regulate 800 million to 1 billion metric
tons ofemissions by 2015 in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade
program outside of  Europe , New Energy Finance forecasts.  “This is a clear sign that Chinese carbon-trading regions
are actually starting their programs, paving the way for more 
to begin this year,” said Milo Sjardin, the Singapore-based
head of Asia-Pacific analysis for New Energy Finance.  Shenzhen will initially include 635 companies in its cap-
and-trade program, Qin told the newspaper. Those companies
discharged 31.7 million tons of greenhouse gases in 2010, 38
percent of the city’s total, according to New Energy Finance.
Pilot programs for carbon trading are also scheduled to open
this year in Guangdong, Tianjin, Chongqing and Hubei.  Former Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping chose Shenzhen in the
1970s as one of the nation’s proving grounds for market
capitalism. That transformed a county of 30,000 people north of
Hong Kong into one of China’s largest cities with a population
of more than 11 million as of the 2010 census. Shenzhen is a
financial center in South China and home to the Shenzhen Stock
Exchange.  Emission allowances are set to trade on the China Shenzhen
Emission Exchange, said Charlie Cao, a Beijing-based analyst at
New Energy Finance. Allowances have already been allocated to
Shenzhen emitters, and the exchange is exploring how to develop
futures based on the permits, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Anderson in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  