-- Sidley, Patton Boggs, Bird, Perkins Coie: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-04T11:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/sidley-patton-boggs-bird-perkins-coie-business-of-law.html
Sidley Austin LLP hired three
lawyers who have held various positions at the Federal Trade
Commission to bolster the firm’s antitrust practice.  The hires are William Blumenthal, a former general counsel
of the FTC; Kenneth L. Glazer, an ex-deputy director of the
FTC’s Bureau of Competition; and Karen Kazmerzak, also formerly
with the FTC’s bureau.  Kazmerzak is joining Sidley as counsel. All three will be
in the Washington office.  Mark Hopson, managing partner of Sidley’s Washington
office, said in a statement that Blumenthal and Glazer “will
provide immediate strength to our antitrust agency practice,
particularly with respect to pre-merger clearance, while
complementing our already prominent global competition
enforcement and litigation practices.”  Blumenthal was most recently Clifford Chance LLP’s chairman
of the U.S. antitrust group. He has advised clients on all
aspects of antitrust law, including mergers and acquisitions,
joint ventures, and pricing and distribution practices, the firm
said.  Glazer, formerly of K&L Gates LLP, is an antitrust
practitioner who has represented clients before the FTC, the
U.S. Justice Department, and foreign antitrust agencies on
merger and non-merger matters, the firm said. He has also worked
as the senior competition counsel for The Coca-Cola Co.  Kazmerzak, formerly of K&L Gates, has experience in pre-
merger clearance before both the FTC and DOJ.  Clifford Chance spokesman Mike Kachel said in a telephone
call that the firm wishes Blumenthal well.  Sidley has about 1,700 lawyers in 18 offices worldwide.  Firm News  Patton Boggs Opens Dubai Office With Kilpatrick Partner  Patton Boggs LLP said it opened an office in Dubai with
three lawyers from Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP.  Patton Boggs now has four offices in the Middle East/North
Africa region including Doha, Qatar; Abu Dhabi and an affiliate
office in  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia.  Thomas P. Wilson, formerly a partner at Kilpatrick, will
head Patton Boggs’s construction practice in the region. Scott
Hutton and Jonathan M. Taunton, both formerly associates at
Kilpatrick, also join along with Angie Hegazi, who will be
Patton Boggs’s regional director of business development and
marketing.  “Patton Boggs is committed to continued growth in the MENA
region,” Edward J. Newberry, managing partner of Patton Boggs,
said in a statement. “Our move into Dubai fulfills another of
our key strategic objectives for MENA, toward expanding and
strengthening our capabilities to best meet the needs of public
as well as private sector clients.”  Patton Boggs’s new legal team has experience with the
construction and infrastructure sector in the region, with a
particular focus on public and private capital improvement
projects, dispute resolution, contract negotiations, contract
compliance issues, and project risk management and mitigation,
the firm said.  In 2012, the firm affiliated with the Khalid Al-Thebity Law
Firm, in Riyadh.  Patton Boggs has about 550 attorneys in six offices in the
U.S. and four in the Middle East.  Bird & Bird Signs Cooperation Agreement With Swiss Firm  Bird & Bird LLP entered into a strategic cooperation
agreement with Swiss law firm BCCC Avocats LLC, covering French-
speaking Switzerland.  “Switzerland is emerging as a key European arbitration
hub, increasing 15 percent year on year,” Frederique Dupuis-
Toubol, Bird & Bird’s head of  France , said in a statement.
“This combined with the recently founded Swiss Federal
Institute of Intellectual Property presents great opportunities
for us to develop and expand our work in this region.”  BCCC has 30 lawyers based in Geneva and Lausanne, with
expertise in technology, media and telecommunications, health
care and life sciences as well as employment, corporate and
intellectual property practices, the firm said. The two firms
have worked together over the past five years.  “As the only international law firm with a presence in
Lyon we have been uniquely positioned in the area for a number
of years and this agreement will allow us to strengthen our
relationships and better support new and existing clients,
Dupuis-Toubol said in the statement.  Bird & Bird has more than 900 lawyers in 23 offices across
 Europe , the Middle East and Asia.  Greenberg Traurig Opens South Korean Office in Seoul  Greenberg Traurig LLP is the latest international law firm
to open an office in Seoul, the firm’s 36th worldwide.  ‘‘Unlike the many firms who quickly sent large numbers of
foreign lawyers to work on the ground, Greenberg Traurig’s focus
is on adding extraordinary value through strategic and deep
relationships with the people, companies and governing bodies of
 Korea  with both legal and cultural understanding of how they
operate,” Richard A. Rosenbaum, Greenberg Traurig’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement. “We are not entering
the Korean legal market to compete with local law firms, but
rather to work closely with them to serve the global needs of
Korean corporations.”  Greenberg Traurig shareholder Chang Joo Kim will lead a
team in the new office that includes shareholders Hyun Chung,
Richard A. Edlin and Rosa S. Jeong, along with a firm associate.  The  Seoul  office will provide legal advice with respect to
U.S. law, international treaties involving the U.S. and
international law.  Greenberg Traurig has about 1,750 attorneys at 36 offices
in the U.S., Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Moves  U.K. Office of Fair Trading’s Nikpay to Join Gibson Dunn  Ali Nikpay, a senior director at the Office of Fair
Trading, the U.K.’s competition authority, will join Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP as a partner in the worldwide antitrust and
competition law practice group on April 15.  Nikpay will be based in Gibson Dunn’s London office, where
he will lead the competition practice, the firm said in a
statement.  Nikpay spent nine years at the OFT, where he held several
leadership posts, including most recently head of the Cartels
and Criminal Enforcement division. He was also a member of the
OFT’s executive committee. He will advise clients on European
Union and U.K. cartels, mergers, monopolization cases and other
regulatory investigations.  “Ali has a fabulous reputation in the U.K. and across
Europe in the antitrust/competition space,” Ken Doran, chairman
and managing partner of Gibson Dunn, said in a statement. “He
will be a great addition to the firm’s premiere competition
practice and will enable us to better serve our clients in
Europe and around the globe.”  Nikpay will be accompanied by his colleague, Deirdre
Taylor, assistant director in the OFT’s Cartel and Criminal
Enforcement division. Taylor, who will join the firm’s London
office as of counsel, has 15 years of experience as a
competition lawyer, including five years with the OFT, the firm
said.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers at 18 offices in
the U.S. and internationally.  Perkins Coie Adds Five Partners in Three Offices  Perkins Coie LLP took on five new partners this week,
including a trio of patent litigation partners in  Chicago  and
partners in Palo Alto and Denver.  In Chicago, the three new hires are Michael R. Osterhoff,
Adam L. Marchuk and Heather A. Boice, who were most recently
partners at K&L Gates LLP. Osterhoff focuses on litigating
intellectual property cases involving patents, trademarks, false
advertising, unfair competition and industrial espionage.
Marchuk concentrates on intellectual property matters involving
patents, trademarks, trade secrets, false advertising,
commercial disparagement and breach of contract. Boice
concentrates on litigation dealing with patents, trademarks,
copyright and trade dress.  Lowell Ness joined the Palo Alto,  California , office in the
emerging companies practice from Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe
LLP.  Michael R. Henson, previously of Holland & Hart LLP, joined
the firm’s intellectual property practice as a partner in the
Denver office.  Perkins Coie has more than 900 lawyers in 19 offices in the
U.S. and Asia.  King & Spalding Strengthens Middle East Real-Estate Practice  King & Spalding LLP added real-estate partner Stephen Kelly
in the Dubai office. He previously worked at Clyde & Co, where
he was a partner and led the firm’s Middle East real-estate
development team, the firm said in a statement.  Kelly represents developers, hotel operators and service
providers on property issues, with an emphasis on the title
structuring of complex large scale master communities and mixed-
use hotel developments. He has a particular focus on advising
clients with developments impacted by the region’s various
“strata title regimes,” the firm said.  Kelly has been involved in developments in the region such
as Burj Khalifa, Palazzo Versace, Dubai Pearl and Sun & Sky
Towers, the firm said.  “We are committed to building our global real estate
practice to serve our clients, covering developers, financiers
and service providers,” Sarah Borders, leader of King &
Spalding’s capital transactions and real estate practice said in
a statement. “The capital transactions and real estate team now
has around 80 lawyers across the firm’s international network
and we will continue to strengthen the practice.”  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Capital Markets Lawyer Kenji Taneda Joins Morrison & Foerster  Capital markets lawyer Kenji P. Taneda joined Morrison &
Foerster LLP in  Tokyo  as a partner. He was previously a special
counsel for Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  Taneda’s recent transactional work includes serving as U.S.
counsel to  Japan  Airlines in its $8.5 billion global initial
public offering; U.S. counsel to Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. in a
$3 billion senior notes offering and U.S. counsel to  Nippon
Prologis REIT Inc. (3283)  in its $1.08 billion global IPO.  “We’ve worked across the table from Kenji on numerous
transactions over the years, and know him to be a superb
attorney,” Ken Siegel, managing partner of Morrison &
Foerster’s Tokyo office said in a statement. “His extensive
capital markets experience will further strengthen our practice
in this key area and enhance our ability to provide our clients
here and around the world with the highest levels of service.”  Morrison & Foerster is the largest international law firm
in Japan, with 125 lawyers in its Tokyo office, the firm said.  The firm has more than 1,000 lawyers at 16 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Energy Regulatory Attorney Andrea Chambers Joins Ballard Spahr  Andrea J. Chambers, who advises energy industry clients
nationwide on policy, regulatory, and compliance matters, has
joined Ballard Spahr LLP’s Washington office as a partner in the
energy and project finance group. She was previously at Foley &
Lardner LLP.  Chambers provides regulatory counsel to clients in the
electric, gas, and alternative energy sectors and strategic
advice to private equity investors in energy assets, the firm
said. She also has experience as a litigator.  Ballard Spahr has more than 500 lawyers in 13 offices in
the U.S.  Venable Adds Northern Virginia Business Litigator  Venable LLP announced that northern  Virginia  litigator
Randall K. Miller has joined the firm as a partner in the
Tyson’s Corner, Virginia, office, where his practice will focus
on complex contract and business litigation matters. Miller
joins the firm from Arnold & Porter LLP, where he was partner in
the business litigation group, the firm said in a statement.  Miller has experience handling complex business disputes in
Virginia, such as those involving breach of contract, fraud,
tortious interference, trade secrets, employment, false
advertising and unfair competition claims, the firm said.
Venable has more than 500 lawyers at eight U.S. offices.  News  Obama Labor Pick’s Immigration Advocacy Seen Testing Republicans  When Thomas Perez was nominated in 2009 to a top Justice
Department post, Senate Republicans delayed a vote for months
over his past work with a group that aids immigrants, regardless
of their legal status.  Perez returns to the Senate for a confirmation hearing
April 18 as President  Barack Obama ’s pick to lead the Labor
Department, the only Hispanic in his second-term Cabinet so far,
this time posing a political challenge to the Republican Party.
Republicans are seeking to woo Latino voters lost in 2012 by
quelling their anti-immigration rhetoric, and some members are
working with Democrats on a path to citizenship for an estimated
11 million undocumented immigrants living in the U.S.  “Most Republicans will be gun-shy over asking the hard
immigration questions because of the Hispanic vote,” said Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist who was a top aide to former
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott of  Mississippi  and former
House Speaker Dennis Hastert of  Illinois . “It would be wise for
Republicans to be very careful in raising an immigration
argument against Perez.”  Obama’s nomination of Perez drew swift criticism from some
Republicans. Perez’s leadership of the Justice Department civil
rights division prompted Republicans, including Senator Pat Roberts of  Kansas , to argue that some of his decisions were
based on ideology. Roberts and Senator Charles Grassley of  Iowa 
want to examine whether Perez acted improperly when he persuaded
St. Paul,  Minnesota , to drop a Supreme Court case that, had it
prevailed, risked harming a central enforcement tenet in housing
discrimination law.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 