-- Soccer Referees Charged With Sex-for-Fixing Remanded
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-05T09:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/soccer-officials-charged-with-taking-sex-bribes-in-singapore.html
Two Lebanese soccer match officials
charged in  Singapore  with accepting sexual favors to fix an
 Asian Football Confederation  Cup match were remanded pending a
bail hearing next week.  A third official who had also been charged yesterday has
been hospitalized, Singapore subordinate court Judge Kamala
Ponnampalam said today at a hearing into the case.  Each of the men was provided with a woman at Singapore’s
downtown Amara Hotel on April 3 who gave them free sexual
services as an inducement to fix the soccer match which was to
be played later that day, according to the charges filed last
night. Each of the men faces a maximum jail term of 5 years and
a fine of as much as S$100,000 ($80,700) if convicted.  Assistant referee Ali Eid, 33, had an “episode” in lock-
up before today’s hearing and was rushed to a public hospital,
Judge Ponnampalam said. No further details on Eid’s condition
were available.  Referee Ali Sabbagh, 34, and assistant referee Abdallah
Taleb, 37, shouldn’t be allowed bail given the circumstances of
the case, the attention it has drawn and possible links to a
syndicated operation, prosecutor Asoka Markandu said. The
prosecutor asked for the two men to be remanded in separate
cells.  Wider Concerns  Taleb had initially refused to be represented by lawyer
Gary Low, who was hired by the Lebanese Football Association to
act for all three referees. Taleb agreed after speaking with the
vice consul of the Lebanon consulate.  The charges come amid wider concerns about match-fixing in
soccer. In February, global governing body FIFA suspended people
in  Italy ,  South Korea  and  China  for allegedly being involved in
rigging games. The three Lebanese officials were replaced before
the AFC Cup match between Singapore-based Tampines Rovers and
East Bengal, which won 4-2 in a game that included an own goal
by its opponent.  “Singapore has always adopted a zero tolerance approach
towards corruption and match-fixing of any form is not condoned
in Singapore,” the Asian city’s Corrupt Practices Investigation
Bureau said in a statement yesterday.  Europol,  Europe ’s law enforcement agency, said in February
a Singapore-based operation tried to fix more than 380 games,
including  World Cup  and European Championship qualifiers, to
generate a profit of more than 8 million euros ($10.4 million).
An 18-month investigation, Operation VETO, found 425 match
officials, club executives, players and others in 15 countries
were involved.  ‘Excellent Referees’  The Football Association of Singapore previously  said 
Sabbagh, Eid and Taleb were pulled from the match after it was
informed they were assisting the anti-graft bureau with
investigations.  Lebanese Football Association head Hachem Haydar said in a
telephone interview before today’s hearing that he was “shocked
and surprised” by events in Singapore.  “Of course I know them,” he said. “They are some of the
excellent referees here. They are good referees, they have a
good performance and their attitude is very good. We are all
surprised that something happened.”  The men officiate in the Lebanese top league, AFC games and
have overseen matches between national teams, Haydar said.  “They are the elite,” he added. “All the people here are
shocked, we know them they are very good persons. I don’t know
what happened with this exactly.”  The criminal cases are Public Prosecutor v Ali Sabbagh,
DAC11104/2013, Public Prosecutor v Ali Eid, DAC11106/2013 and
Public Prosecutor v Abdallah Taleb, DAC11105/2013, Singapore
Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  