-- South Korea Government Adds Pressure on BOK to Cut Rate
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-04-04T02:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/south-korea-government-adds-pressure-on-bok-to-cut-rate.html
South  Korea ’s government is
signaling that the central bank needs to overcome its reluctance
to cut  interest rates , putting pressure on policy makers ahead
of a decision due in one week.  Cho Won Dong, chief economic adviser to President Park Geun Hye, said yesterday that “it will be better” if the Bank of
Korea lowers rates given that the government may need to issue
bonds.  Bond yields have fallen to record lows as Bank of Korea
Governor Kim Choong Soo, who said in February that liquidity was
“abundant,” faces the new government’s push for stimulus to
avert a second-half slowdown. Greater central-bank independence
from governments is associated with lower  inflation , according
to a 1993 paper co-written by Lawrence Summers, who later became
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s economic-policy director.  “This is an unprecedented push, at least since the mid-
’90s,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Hanwha
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. Central bank meeting
minutes from January and February, as well as Kim’s recent
comments, “show there is little intention for a cut. Everybody
will know that a cut would mean losing its independence.”  Lee Hahn Koo, floor leader of the ruling New Frontier
Party, on April 1 urged the central bank to consider stimulus
measures such as an interest-rate cut or increasing the loan
limit for small firms.  President’s Office  Cho’s comments were made “in theory” and weren’t aimed at
pressuring the Bank of Korea into an interest-rate cut, the
president’s office said yesterday in a statement. Lee Mi Yon, a
Park spokeswoman, confirmed Cho’s remarks after MoneyToday first
reported them.  The Bank of Korea will cut its seven-day repurchase rate to
2.5 percent or 2.25 percent in the second quarter, according to
nine out of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The benchmark
yield on three-year government  bonds  traded at 2.47 percent
yesterday, having fallen 15 basis points from a month ago. The
yield, which touched a record low of 2.45 percent on March 28,
has traded below the policy rate since Feb. 5.  South Korea’s consumer prices rose 1.3 percent in March
from a year earlier, the slowest rate in seven months.  “The central bank has given no signal that a rate cut is
imminent,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, an analyst at Daewoo Securities
Co. in Seoul. “It’s one of the toughest choices between policy
coordination with the government and its guard against household
debt along with its independence. Now the ball is in the BOK’s
court.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  