-- Spain’s First Fracking Ban Coming to Richest Shale Region
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-04-04T07:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/spain-s-first-fracking-ban-coming-to-richest-shale-region.html
Spain is set to enact its first
regional ban on producing natural gas using hydraulic
fracturing, yielding to objections from environmental groups
that so-called fracking risks polluting drinking water.  In the northern Cantabria region, where energy companies
say much of Spain’s gas exists in shale rock, the Parliament
plans to vote April 8 on suspending the contested drilling
technique “as long as current doubts on the technology
remain,” according to the bill on the government’s website. All
political parties in the region supported the law in a March 21
debate.  BNK Petroleum Inc. (BKX)  and R2 Energy Inc. of Canada are among
companies hoping to use fracking to shatter shale in Spain and
tap what their trade group last month said may be enough gas to
meet 70 years of national demand. While environmental protests
led to a fracking ban across the border in  France , in Spain
opponents have failed in provinces except for Cantabria, where
an estimated $100 million of exploration projects are forecast.  “We are talking about the one area in Spain where the most
resources could be found,” Angel Camara, dean of Official
Mining Engineers College in Madrid, said in a phone interview.
“They are closing the door to what could be a hugely important
economic opportunity for the country.”  About 202 exploration test wells have been drilled in the
basin shared by Cantabria and the adjoining Basque region that
has drawn “the most interest by oil and gas companies,”
according to a March report from the Spanish National
Association of Oil and Gas Companies, known as ACIEP.  ‘Without Remorse’  The relatively abundant rainfall and rivers of the Basque
and Cantabria regions will facilitate fracking, which can inject
as much as 30,000 cubic meters of water with sand and chemical
additives at high pressure to free gas trapped in shale rock,
according to Camara, who co-wrote a study by Spain’s Council of
Mining Engineers.  Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria, a member of the ruling
Popular Party, in February said Spain will pursue opportunities
involving hydraulic fracturing “without remorse” as long as
they comply with environmental restrictions.  Inigo Fernadez, the Cantabrian Popular Party’s spokesman,
said he would vote in “defense of our patrimony” and against
fracking in a March 21 parliament debate.  Underground water sources can be contaminated due to
uncontrollable gas flows and fracking fluid spillovers,
according to a 2011 European Parliament  study .  Streamline Permits  “I believe there is work to be done with the two levels of
government to streamline the process” of getting permits, Craig
Steinke, CEO of R2 Energy, which has applied for three permits
to produce shale gas, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
Steinke says the region holds “high potential.”  More than 100 million euros ($128 million) will be invested
in Cantabria just for exploration projects in the area,
according to data from Shale Gas Espana, an industry backed
forum. Once a company obtains a permit to explore, it can take
about five to six years for production to start.  Even if the law were to pass, it “offers little or no
security,” said Josue Bilbao, a member of Cantabria’s Anti-
fracking Assembly, because it will only prevent companies from
producing the gas, not from continuing their exploration
efforts. “No one lays the foundation for a house they don’t
expect to build,” the group said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in  Madrid  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  