-- Standard & Poor’s Downgrades Batista’s OGX on Low Output
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-04-04T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/standard-poor-s-downgrades-batista-s-ogx-on-low-output.html
OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA ,
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil producer, was downgraded by
 Standard & Poor’s  on disappointing output revenue and a
potential cash shortfall in 2014.  OGX (OGXP3)  may need to raise $1 billion from Batista through a put
option or sell assets because lower-than-expected production
doesn’t cover costs, S&P said in a statement yesterday. It
lowered OGX to ’B-’, six levels below investment grade, from ’B’
and may downgrade OGX again this year if it doesn’t make
progress toward improving liquidity, the credit rating company
said.  “The company would need additional sources of cash,” S&P
said in the statement written by analysts Renata Lotfi and
Fabiola Ortiz. “We are not expecting the 2014 production to
generate sufficient operating cash flows to continue financing
 capital expenditures  and interest payments.”  Rio de Janeiro-based OGX is pumping 11,300 barrels a day at
its first project where it hired a production vessel capable of
processing almost six times as much oil and costs $263,000 a
day. The explorer will probably not connect a fourth well at the
Tubarao Azul field after poor results at its most recent well,
S&P said.  “We could lower the ratings if the company does not show
by the end of 2013 material progress in obtaining additional
liquidity sources,” S&P said.  OGX had $1.7 billion in cash at the end of 2013 and plans
to spend $1.3 billion this year, the company said in a March 26
earnings release. The $1 billion  put option  is conditional to
capital needs and the absence of more favorable alternatives,
OGX said. OGX’s press office didn’t respond to a phone call and
e-mail yesterday after normal business hours.  OGX  shares  have fallen 49 percent this year to 2.22 reais
yesterday, more than the 8.8 percent drop in the benchmark stock
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  