-- Starwood to Sell as Much as $3 Billion Worth of Hotels
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-04-04T13:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/starwood-to-sell-as-much-as-3-billion-worth-of-hotels.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , owner of the St. Regis, Sheraton and Westin brands, plans
to sell $2 billion to $3 billion of hotels in two to three
years, Chief Executive Officer Frits van Paasschen said today.  “If markets continue to improve for the sale of hotel
assets,” properties in North America, Latin America and Europe
would be sold as Starwood hones its focus on managing hotels and
brands rather than owning real estate, van Paasschen said in an
interview in Dubai, the CEO’s base for a month ending today and
home to 14 Starwood hotels.  The company, based in Stamford, Connecticut, has been
selling real estate to focus on operations driven by fees, which
are less susceptible to economic slumps than revenue from owning
buildings. Starwood is divesting assets and cutting costs to
boost revenue and protect its investment-grade credit rating,
which it regained in 2011 after being cut to junk when sales
sank in 2009.  The company is seeking to increase hotel-management revenue
to 80 percent of the total from 25 percent five years ago, the
CEO said. Management fees currently make up around 60 percent to
65 percent of total revenue, meaning Starwood has met or is
close to reaching a goal that van Paasschen spelled out less
than six months ago on an Oct. 25 conference call.  “Our balance sheet is very strong,” van Paasschen said.
“As we generate cash either from ongoing operations or from the
sale of additional real estate, that represents cash that can be
returned to our shareholders” through increasing dividends or
buying back shares, he said.  Competitors Sales  Starwood symbolically moved its headquarters to Dubai from
Stamford for a month starting March 4 to emphasize its global
strategy and commitment to the Middle East and Dubai, which has
the highest concentration of Starwood hotels after New York. The
company relocated to China for a month in 2011.  Competitors such as  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  are
also selling properties to boost revenue. IHG, owner of the
Holiday Inn and Crowne Plaza brands, has sold about 191 hotels
since becoming an independent company in 2003. Marriott
International Inc., the largest publicly traded U.S. lodging
chain, gets about 90 percent of its earnings from fees, Chris Snow, a CreditSights Inc. analyst, said last year.  Potential buyers of Starwood’s properties range from real
estate investment trusts in North America to investment funds
around the world to sovereign-wealth funds and high-net-worth
families or individuals, van Paasschen said.  Starwood has sold at least six properties in the past year,
including W New Orleans, W Chicago Lakeshore, W Los
Angeles/Westwood and the Manhattan at Times Square Hotel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company owns 42 hotels “out of nearly 1,150 that we
have on our system,” van Paasschen said. “We have joint
ventures and leases for a number of hotels beyond that.”  Starwood typically has agreements to manage the properties
that it sells, with some lasting as many as 40 years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  