-- States With Fewer Gun Laws Are the Most Violent, Study Finds
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-04-04T17:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/states-with-fewer-gun-laws-rank-among-most-violent-study-finds.html
U.S. states with the least
restrictive gun laws are among those with the highest rates of
firearm-related violence such as homicides, suicides and
assaults, according to a study of national crime data.  Eight of the 10 states with the weakest gun-control laws,
including  Louisiana ,  Arizona ,  Mississippi ,  Montana  and  Oklahoma ,
are among the 25 with the highest rates of violence, according
to a study by the Center for American Progress, a Washington-
based group that favors tougher weapons curbs. Those with the
strictest, including New York, New Jersey and  Connecticut , were
among the least violent, according to a ranking based on 10
criteria.  “While the strength of a state’s gun laws is just one
factor in the prevalence of gun-related violence in the state
and cannot alone account for gun violence, there is a clear link
between weak gun laws and high levels of gun violence across the
United States,” wrote Arkadi Gerney, Chelsea Parsons and
Charles Posner, the authors of the study.  Gerney is a former adviser to New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, the co-chairman of Mayors Against Illegal Guns. The
mayor is the majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of Bloomberg News.  The study is the second in the past month to suggest that
stricter gun laws can improve public safety as Congress and
states debate whether to impose more hurdles to firearm
ownership following the December school shooting in Newtown
Connecticut that left 20 children and six educators dead.  AMA Article  An article published by the American Medical Association in
March found lower rates of gun-related homicides and suicides in
states with the most firearms laws.  President  Barack Obama  is seeking to press the case for new
gun-control measures that have stalled in Congress amid
opposition from owners and lobbying groups such as the National
Rifle Association.  State gun-control efforts have also been slow to advance.
While more than 600 bills aimed at restricting access to
firearms were introduced this year, according to the Law Center
to Prevent Gun Violence, few have become law.  New York and Colorado have both approved new gun-control
laws this year, while Connecticut lawmakers today approved bans
on semiautomatic weapons like the one used in the Newtown
shooting. Other states have moved to expand the rights of
firearm owners, including South Dakota, where the legislators
enacted a law allowing school workers to carry guns on the job.  NYC Teens  In New York City, Bloomberg said today that mandatory
3.5-year prison sentences for illegal gun possession and
police strategies targeting problem neighborhoods and gangs
had driven down the rate of teens carrying guns to an all-time
low of 2.3 percent in 2011. That’s less than half the national
average of 5.1 percent and a decline of 36 percent since 2001,
the mayor said, citing data from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  Michael Hammond, a lawyer with the Gun Owners of America, a
Springfield, Virginia-based group that lobbies against firearm
restrictions, said he doubted the link cited in the Center for
American Progress study, mentioning  Chicago  as an example of a
place where gun laws haven’t stopped homicides.  “The most dangerous areas in the country are those with
strong gun laws,” he said.  Firearms laws aren’t the only factor that explains the
prevalence of violence in states and that some didn’t follow the
trend, according to the study. For example,  Michigan , with some
of the strictest legislation, was the 25th most violent state in
the study.  Vermont , with some of the most permissive rules, was
also among those with the fewest gun-related incidents.  “A state’s gun laws are but one of many factors that
influence the rate of gun violence in a state,” the authors of
the study wrote, citing other influences, such as the economy
and gun trafficking across state lines.  Still, they said, “the correlation between the relative
strength or weakness of a state’s gun laws and the rate of
various indicators of gun violence in the state, however, should
not be overlooked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 