-- Structured Note Sales Slump to 9-Year Low on Regulatory Scrutiny
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-04-04T08:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/structured-note-sales-slump-to-9-year-low-on-regulatory-scrutiny.html
Structured notes sales slumped to
the lowest in nine years in  Europe  and Asia in the first
quarter, as regulators intensify scrutiny of the securities they
say are too opaque and complex.  Issuance of the notes, which package debt with derivatives,
fell to $23.8 billion, the least since 2004, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In the U.S., investors bought $10.4
billion of securities in the first three months, the slowest
period since Bloomberg started collecting data in 2010.  Regulators in the U.S. and Europe are seeking to increase
transparency and improve sales practices for structured
products. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission wants
banks to disclose the fair value of notes, which is lower than
the actual price investors pay to cover underwriting fees and
expenses, while European authorities are considering similar
measures.  Banks are issuing fewer structured products as investors
pull back from risky assets, said Annemarie Ganatra, the global
head of medium-term and structured notes at HSBC Holdings Plc in
 London . Regulatory attention on the suitability of the
securities for individual investors and low interest rates have
also damped sales, she said.  The European Central Bank, which has kept its main
refinancing rate at a record low of 0.75 percent since July, is
expected to maintain that level when it meets today, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The U.S. Federal Reserve
has kept its key interest-rate target between zero and 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Low interest rates can reduce potential returns on
structured notes because the zero-coupon bonds used to create
the securities become more expensive, leaving the bank with less
money to sweeten the terms by buying options.  Switzerland bucked the sales decline in March. Trading on
its Scoach exchange for structured products rose to 2.7 billion
Swiss francs ($2.9 billion), the highest in seven months, buoyed
by growing demand for leveraged securities, according to the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  