-- Trina to Yingli Top Jump as SouFun Gains: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-04T21:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/suntech-to-ldk-slide-on-debt-as-vipshop-gains-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose in New York,
driven by  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and  Yingli (YGE)  Green Energy Holding Co.
on speculation investors are favoring solar makers with
sufficient cash after  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  defaulted.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. added 0.2 percent to 90.53
yesterday. Trina gained the most in two weeks and Yingli
rebounded from a four-month low.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of
China’s biggest real estate information website, jumped the most
in five weeks, while Suntech sank after a two-day advance.  Trina had $807 million in  cash  by the end of 2012, while
Yingli had a cash balance of $490 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Suntech was forced by eight banks into
bankruptcy last month after defaulting on $541 million of
convertible bonds due March 15. A global supply glut and cuts to
government subsidies for alternative energy in Europe has
spurred losses for Chinese solar manufacturers since 2011.  “The ones that are really at risk are the ones that have
significant  U.S. debt  coming due, like Suntech,”  Gordon Johnson , an analyst at Axiom Capital Management Inc. said by
phone in New York. “Trina and Yingli have enough cash to meet
their liabilities in convertible debt.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 0.3 percent to $35.97
in New York, and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  advanced 0.4
percent to 1,559.98.  Trina, based in Changzhou, China, rallied 2.5 percent to
$3.67, trimming its loss this year to 15 percent. Yingli, the
world’s biggest solar panel maker by shipments, added 1.2
percent to $1.72, paring its 2013 loss to 27 percent.  Debt Registration  Suntech dropped 2.3 percent to 42 cents in  New York . The
stock has lost 40 percent since the default. LDK Solar Co., a
Xinyu-based maker of solar wafers which had $3.1 billion of debt
at the end of the third quarter, has slumped 25 percent.  A team managing Suntech’s insolvency is expected to finish
debt registration for almost 400 creditors and a review of the
company’s assets by the end of this month, the Beijing News
 reported  yesterday, citing Wuxi Municipal Intermediate People’s
Court, which accepted a bankruptcy petition for Suntech’s main
unit by eight banks March 20. A creditors’ meeting will also be
called, according to the report.  “All Chinese solar companies are pretty much in the same
boat and they can’t continue service without loans from Chinese
banks because they are losing money,” said Axiom Capital’s
Johnson.  SouFun Recovers  SouFun rose 6.9 percent to $23.66 in New York, posting the
biggest advance on the China-U.S. gauge. The Beijing-based
company dropped as much as 5.5 percent earlier in the day after
Glaucus Research Group California LLC said the stock was a
“strong sell.”  “The short-selling piece by Glaucus has caused volatility
in SouFun’s stock,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis
Asset Management Inc., which manages about $700 million of
investments including Chinese stocks, said by e-mail from Lisle,
Illinois. “The bigger issue is that the property measures by
local governments weren’t as terrible as thought.”  Thirty-day  volatility  on SouFun’s stock surged to 69
yesterday, the highest level since June. It compares with an
average of 51.5 over the past year.  Online fashion retailer  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  gained 3
percent to $30.53, the highest level in a week.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) ,
which provides mobile security services, jumped 4.7 percent to
$8.61, the biggest one-day rally since March 18.  Stock markets in mainland China and Hong Kong were closed
for a public holiday yesterday. Mainland markets remain shut
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  