-- Swan Seeks Budget Savings From $1.6 Trillion Pension Program
-- B y   I a i n   M c D o n a l d   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-04-05T02:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/swan-plans-changes-to-australia-s-1-6-trillion-pension-savings.html
Treasurer Wayne Swan announced plans
to curb tax concessions for wealthy Australians saving for their
retirement amid government efforts to plug a budget deficit and
make the A$1.5 trillion ($1.6 trillion) pension system more
sustainable.  Earnings over A$100,000 a year for retirees from
superannuation assets will now be taxed at 15 percent, Swan
told reporters in Canberra today. The changes will affect 20,000
people and save about A$900 million over four years, he said.  “Australians are living longer and in this context the
superannuation system needs to be fair and it needs to be
sustainable,” Swan said in an e-mailed statement.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard is seeking to plug revenue
shortfalls amid weakening tax receipts as the government
prepares for a pre-election budget due May 14. The government
says the current pension savings system unfairly benefits
wealthier Australians due to tax concessions and is
unsustainable amid an aging population.  Opposition leader Tony Abbott said that if his coalition
wins government at elections due Sept. 14 it would not adopt the
changes. “We don’t support this new tax on superannuation,” he
told reporters in  Melbourne . “This is a A$1 billion hit on
people’s retirement savings.”  Tax Concessions  Australia’s retirement savings system is the fourth biggest
pool of funds under management globally. Total superannuation
assets grew 14.6 percent to A$1.51 trillion in the December
quarter of 2012 from a year earlier, the Australian Prudential
Regulatory Authority said in February.  Tax concessions on superannuation were estimated at A$32
billion in fiscal 2013, according to the government’s 2011 Tax
Expenditure Statement.  Swan also said that from July 1, the government will allow
Australians aged over 60 to contribute as much as A$35,000 to
their pension fund each year at a reduced tax rate. This
concession will extend to people aged 50 and over from July
2014, the statement said.  Challenger Ltd. (CGF) , which sells retirement income products,
rose as much as 6.9 percent following the announcement and was
4.2 percent higher at A$3.94 at 1:49 p.m. in Sydney.  The announcement follows weeks of speculation that the
government would make more widespread tax changes to
superannuation, generating criticism from the opposition and
within the governing Labor party.  ‘Scary Stuff’  “What we’re also saying today is that all the scary stuff
you have heard - it’s wrong,” said Bill Shorten, minister for
employment and superannuation.  The Association of Superannuation Funds of  Australia  said
the announcement would community concern over the future of
their pension savings.  “We have consistently said that with an aging population,
there need to be adjustments made to ensure we meet the demands
this will place on government budgets in the future,” ASFA
Chief Executive Officer Pauline Vamos said in an e-mailed
statement.  Support for Labor slipped 6 points to 42 percent on a two-party preferred basis, while the opposition’s rose 6 to 58
percent, the biggest gap in almost a year, a Newspoll survey
showed last month.  Employers currently contribute 9 percent of workers’
salaries to superannuation funds and the government has said
that this levy will rise gradually to 12 percent by 2019,
beginning with an increase to 9.25 percent on July 1.  By 2050, for every 10 Australians in retirement there will
be 27 in work, down from 50, Shorten told Parliament in 2011
when he introduced legislation enacting the contribution
increase.  Swan late last year abandoned a pledge to return the budget
to surplus this fiscal year, damaging the government’s economic
credibility. The budget fell a further A$4.6 billion into
deficit in the first four weeks of 2013, taking the total
shortfall to A$26.8 billion for the first seven months of the
financial year, according to Treasury figures released by the
government March 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  