-- U.K. Stocks Drop as Draghi Sees Risks to Europe Recovery
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-04-04T16:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/u-k-stocks-little-changed-before-boe-ecb-rate-decisions.html
U.K. stocks  posted the biggest two-
day drop since July as European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said he sees risks to the euro area’s economic recovery
and U.S. jobless-benefit claims unexpectedly increased.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  dropped 1.9 percent after a report that its
acquisition of United Spirits Ltd. may be delayed.  WH Smith Plc (SMWH) 
slid the most in two months after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
downgraded the retailer. European Natural Resources Corp. jumped
4.7 percent, rebounding from a four-year low, as Halyk Bank
Kazakhstan raised its recommendation on the mining company.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  fell 76.16 points, or 1.2 percent, to
6,344.12 at the close in London, after sliding 1.1 percent
yesterday. The equity benchmark has still rallied 7.6 percent
this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget and
data fueled optimism that the world’s biggest economy is
recovering. The broader FTSE All-Share Index and Ireland’s ISEQ
Index also retreated 1.2 percent today.  “U.K. equities have had a strong start to the year, but
the economic outlook is pretty murky,” said Ivor Pether, a  fund
manager  who helps oversee about $15 billion at Royal London
Asset Management in London. “ Europe  is in recession and  Asia  is
having a growth pause. Overall, there’s downward pressure on
company earnings.”  The euro area may see a gradual economic recovery in the
second half of the year, subject to downside risks, Draghi said.
The ECB cannot replace lack of government action or a lack of
capital in the banking system, he said.  Economic Risks  “Tight credit conditions will continue to weigh on
economic activity,” Draghi said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt , after the ECB left its key  interest rate  unchanged at
0.75 percent. “Risks include the possibility of weaker-than-
expected domestic demand and slow or insufficient implementation
of structural reforms in the euro area.”  In the U.S.,  jobless claims  rose by 28,000 to 385,000 in
the week ended March 30, Labor Department figures showed. That’s
the highest since Nov. 24 and compares with a median forecast of
a drop to 353,000 among economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  Bank of England  kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 0.5 percent and its asset-purchase target at 375
billion pounds ($568 billion), matching economists’ forecasts in
Bloomberg surveys.  The volume of FTSE 100 shares changing hands was 13 percent
lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Diageo Drops  Diageo fell 1.9 percent to 2,046 pence after India’s Mint
newspaper said the London-based liquor company may take as long
as three months to complete a $2 billion deal to buy a majority
stake in United Spirits. The newspaper citied unidentified
people familiar with the matter.  WH Smith retreated 3.6 percent to 736.5 pence, the most
since Feb. 2, as Goldman Sachs downgraded the shares to sell
from neutral, citing a high exposure to low-growth product
categories including books, news and stationery.  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  declined 7.1 percent to 165 pence after
the New Vision newspaper reported that the oil and gas
exploration company lost a tax dispute case to  Uganda  at an
arbitration hearing in London. Heritage rejected the report,
saying comments attributed to the Ugandan government are a
misleading representation of a detailed legal decision.  ENRC, Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, surged 4.7
percent to 235.2 pence, after sliding 36 percent over the
previous 12 days. Halyk raised its recommendation on the shares
to hold from sell, saying the share price is close to its 12-
month estimate of 257 pence.  Vedanta Upgrade  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  rallied 6.1 percent to 1,070 pence,
the biggest gain since September, as Bank of America Corp.
upgraded the mining company to buy from neutral.  Domino’s Pizza Group Plc rallied 6.3 percent to 607 pence,
the biggest increase in 15 months, after saying same-store sales
rose 6.6 percent in the first quarter.  Wincanton Plc (WIN)  jumped 20 percent to 54 pence, the largest
advance since at least May 2001. The transporter of J Sainsbury
Plc groceries and Miller Beer said its contract logistics and
defense businesses have performed well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  