-- U.K. Says Migration From Bulgaria, Romania Unpredictable
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/u-k-says-migration-from-bulgaria-romania-unpredictable.html
The level of immigration from
 Bulgaria  and  Romania  to the U.K. once restrictions end next year
is “unpredictable,” though the impact on public services is
likely to be “modest,” a report for the Foreign Office said.  Research by the  National Institute of Economic and Social
Research  found estimates of the number of possible migrants are
“not reliable” because of “economic, political and social
factors in Bulgaria, Romania, the U.K.,  Europe  and beyond.”  British ministers have come under pressure to provide
statistics for the number of expected migrants from the two most
recent  European Union members , as voters expressed concern about
the impact an influx would have on jobs and state-funded
services such as health and education. Far more people from the
eight Eastern European countries that joined the EU in 2004
arrived in Britain than the then Labour government forecast.  “Although, given economic conditions in Bulgaria and
Romania, the interest in and potential for emigration is
significant, the U.K. is not likely to be the preferred
destination,” Niesr said. “The main destinations for migrating
Bulgarians and Romanians since their countries joined the EU
have been Spain and Italy, since these opened their borders
earlier and have similarities in language.”  Evidence that Bulgarians and Romanians are settling in
southern European nations long-term “may mean they continue to
be more popular destinations even after restrictions are lifted
across the EU,” Niesr said. “However, unemployment is high and
economic prospects are uncertain on both Spain and  Italy , which
may restrain future migration to these countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  