-- Energy Future Credit Swaps Fall After IRS Sees No Tax Liability
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-04-04T22:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/u-s-company-credit-swaps-fall-as-japan-doubles-bond-purchases.html
Credit-default swaps tied to the
debt of Energy Future Holdings Corp. dropped after the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service said the Texas power company won’t have
to pay a potential tax liability on $23 billion when
transferring ownership of some of its units.  Five-year contracts linked to Energy Future fell 6.5
percentage points to 23 percent upfront at 4:30 p.m. in New
York, according to CMA, the data provider owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. that compiles prices quoted by dealers. That implies a 75.1
percent probability the company will fail to meet its
obligations before the swaps expire June 2018, down from 83.2
percent yesterday, CMA data show.  The decision means Energy Future, taken private six years
ago in the largest leveraged buyout, can dispose of its shares
in its Energy Future Competitive Holdings Co. unit without
triggering the tax liability, the Dallas-based company said in a
regulatory filing yesterday.  The tax disclosure is unrelated to Energy Future’s program
to manage its debt,  Allan Koenig , a spokesman for Energy Future,
said in a telephone interview. The company’s proposed transfer
of shares in its competitive unit to a newly created subsidiary
will have no effect on its operations or financial statements,
according to the filing.  Analysts at high-yield debt research firm KDP Investment
Advisors Inc. had said in a Nov. 1 note that the power firm may
face a tax liability if it places its Texas Competitive unit
into bankruptcy.  Splitting Contracts  Contracts tied to Energy Future Intermediate Holding
Finance Inc., which were created after the committee of banks
and investors that governs credit swaps ruled that a debt
exchange at Energy Future triggered a split of contracts tied to
the parent, were little changed at a mid-price of 14 percent
upfront, according to three people familiar with the trading who
asked not to be identified.  The International Swaps & Derivatives Association’s
 determinations committee  ruled March 19 that the debt exchange
caused the so-called succession event, splitting swaps on the
parent between it and its Energy Future Intermediate Holding Co.
and EFIH Finance units, according to the New York-based industry
group’s  website .  A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk declined as central
banks in  Japan  and  Europe  reassured investors that they will
keep economies awash in cash to bolster growth.  Japan Stimulus  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.3 basis
points to a mid-price of 88 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit-swaps typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The  Bank of Japan  boosted its bond-buying program to help
support the world’s third-largest economy, buying longer-term
 government bonds  as part of its asset-purchase program, while
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy will
remain accommodative after keeping the benchmark rate at 0.75
percent. U.S. data showed jobless claims increased last week, a
day before the Labor Department’s monthly payrolls report.  Risk-averse investors are turning to the corporate-debt
market as they wait “to see if the smoke has cleared,” said
Robert Smalley, a credit strategist at UBS Securities LLC in New
York.  ‘Halfway House’  “Corporate credit can be a halfway house,” he said in a
telephone interview. “If you don’t have conviction about
equities or about Treasuries, you tend to see corporate credit
as a good place to be.”  The labor report tomorrow will probably show a gain of
190,000 in U.S. payrolls last month, following a 236,000 advance
in February, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
 unemployment rate  probably stayed at 7.7 percent.  Jobless claims rose by 28,000 to 385,000 last week, the
highest since Nov. 24, Labor Department figures showed in a
report that reflected the difficulty in adjusting the figures
around the Easter holiday and spring break at schools. The
median forecast of 47 economists in a survey called for a drop
to 353,000.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, sold $5
billion of debt in four parts in its biggest sale in two years,
since raising $5 billion in April 2011 in a four-part sale.  The company’s $1 billion of 0.6 percent, three-year notes
yield 30 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, its
$1.25 billion of 1.125 percent, five-year securities pay a
relative yield of 45 basis points, $1.75 billion of 2.55
percent, 10-year bonds have an 82 basis-point spread and $1
billion of 4 percent, 30-year debt pays 102, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  