-- Tumors on Ice as Budget Impasse Freezes Medical Research
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-04-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/tumors-on-ice-as-budget-impasse-freezes-medical-research.html
Rebecca Riggins, a Georgetown
University cancer researcher, has had to freeze her work amid
federal funding cuts brought on by sequestration. Literally.  Riggins has had breast tumor samples sitting on ice for a
month awaiting a decision on how much of an almost $1 million
federal grant will be trimmed as she moves into the third year
of a five-year project to study  breast cancer  treatments. The
grant could be cut by half, she’s been told.  Sequestration, the automatic, across-the-board spending
reductions triggered last month after U.S. lawmakers failed to
agree on a debt strategy, has cast a shadow of uncertainty over
public funding for medical research. That work often serves as
the basis for new treatments and strategies from drugmakers such
as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and device makers such as  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   “We were ready to get them out the door” for genetic
analysis, said Riggins, referring to the tumor samples now
“still sitting in the freezer.”  In anticipation of sequestration, the  National Institutes
of Health  began trimming 10 percent off existing grants at the
beginning of the fiscal year, director  Francis Collins  said in a
Feb. 25 briefing. Now that it’s reality, the NIH is facing a 5.1
percent decrease in its 2013 budget, or about $1.6 billion.  Protest Rally  Next week, the medical research community will seek to draw
the nation’s attention to its concerns at the annual meeting of
the  American Association for Cancer Research  in  Washington . The
group will shut down its meeting in the morning of April 8 for
the  Rally for Medical Research  in the hopes of attracting as
many as 15,000 supporters to the Carnegie Library grounds at Mt.
Vernon Square.  “Cuts to medical research don’t have the same visible
impact as standing in line at the airport, closed national parks
or no White House tours,” said Sue Nelson, vice president of
federal advocacy for the  American Heart Association , in a
telephone interview. “It’s important for the rally to explain
to lawmakers and the public what these cuts are costing them in
the longer term.”  Rebecca Riggins’ work helps tell that larger story.
Riggins, 36, an assistant professor at Georgetown’s  Lombardi
Comprehensive Cancer Center  in Washington, is studying how
hormones cause resistance to certain gene-based medicines for
 breast cancer . U.S. officials have already told Riggins that
much of the financing for her grant, a collaboration involving
Georgetown,  Virginia Tech  and the Fox Chase Cancer Center in
Philadelphia, is in jeopardy.  Developing Scientists  Riggins has plenty of company. Benjamin Hayden, a 34-year-
old neuroscientist, is just starting his lab at the University
of Rochester in  New York . His first two federal grant
applications as a faculty member were for the study of decision-
making and what goes wrong in the brain during drug addiction.  He received scores on grant applications to both the NIH
and  National Science Foundation  that he was told would normally
merit funding, he said in an interview. Now, “it’s not clear”
what funding he’ll receive or when he might expect to see it, he
said.  Hayden had planned to hire two graduate students and a
post-doctoral fellow with the expected funding, he said. Because
of the current uncertainty, he was only able to offer a position
to one graduate student.  Spending Critics  Joan Brugge, chairwoman of the cell biology department at
 Harvard Medical School , says the cuts are affecting experienced
researchers in addition to scientists just starting out. She
lost three of four NIH grants in the last year and a half,
amounting to about $800,000 in reduced funding.  “This is the peak of my career,” Brugge said in an
interview. “We are really fearing for the worst because,
essentially, in the 35 years I’ve been doing research I’ve never
seen anything like this.”  To be sure, the effects of sequestration are much broader
than medical research.  The cuts will reduce spending by $85 billion this year
across the government, causing agencies to reduce services and
lay off or furlough employees. President  Barack Obama  warned
their effects may span from hurting the military to shutting
campgrounds at popular national parks to delaying travelers at
airports and cutting safety inspections at food plants.  Critics of federal spending say there are other priorities
than funding medical research.  Dwindling Resources  “Right now, I think our members would say to the medical
community: Be content with what you have,” said Dean Clancy,
vice president of public policy for  FreedomWorks , a Washington-
based organization advocating for lower taxes and smaller
government, in an e-mail. “If you think these sequester cuts
are deep, wait until you see what happens after we default on
our debt. Then we’ll be in  Greece /Cyprus territory, just trying
to survive, with everything on the chopping block.”  Steven Houser, director of the cardiovascular research
center at Temple University School of Medicine in Philadelphia,
said he fears the cuts will hamper research for years to come,
shrinking the number of research trainees hired or accepted into
graduate programs, and causing still other students to question
whether  medical research  is a viable career option.  The chance of getting a grant funded by the  National Heart,
Lung and Blood Institute , under the NIH umbrella, has fallen to
about 6 percent this year, Houser said in a telephone interview.
That’s the lowest he’s ever seen it, down from 10 percent to 12
percent in recent years, he said.  “The main thing that’s going to happen is people are going
to lose jobs,” Houser said.  Job Losses  Temple’s medical school plans to lower the number of
students it accepts into biomedical sciences doctorate programs
next year by 15 percent, to 17 from 20, according to Houser. In
addition, the institution may cut about 25 jobs in the next year
or two as funding becomes more difficult to come by, he said.  It’s an issue that concerns more than just today’s
research. Obama, in an April 2 announcement of a $100 million
plan to map the brain, said he worried spending cuts might
affect an entire generation of new scientists.  “We can’t afford to miss these opportunities while the
rest of the world races ahead; we have to seize them,” Obama
said. “I don’t want the next job-creating discoveries to happen
in China or India or Germany. I want them to happen right
here.”  While a continuing resolution passed last month by Congress
restored some funding this year -- $71 million for the NIH --the
cuts come on top of years of constrained U.S. research budgets,
said Matt Hourihan, director of the R&D Budget and Policy
Program at the  American Association  for the Advancement of
Science.  The NIH budget was little changed from 2010 to 2012 even as
the cost of materials rose. It fell to $30.9 billion last year
from $31.2 billion in 2010, according to the agency’s  website .  ‘Historically Bad’  “When you take what already has been an extremely tough
environment for research and development funding and overlay
sequestration on top of that, it turns a bad situation into a
historically bad situation,” Hourihan said in an interview.
“We’d still be in a very tough place even without sequestration
because R&D budgets have declined so much.”  The NIH isn’t the only research-supporting agency hit. The
across-the-board cuts from sequestration reduce total U.S.
research and development spending by  $9.1 billion  this year,
Hourihan said. That includes agencies such as the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, the  U.S. Geological Survey 
and the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Federal funding for research has been squeezed before,
“but not for so long,” said  Janis Abkowitz , president of the
 American Society of Hematology  and head of the  University of
Washington  School of Medicine’s division of hematology in
 Seattle . Already, she said, some faculty members at her school
are taking a salary cut to try to save funding from grants for
research.  “These grants have been slimmed down and slimmed down and
slimmed down,” said Tyler Jacks, director of the Koch Institute
for Integrative  Cancer Research  at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  in Cambridge. “We’re cutting very close to the
bone, if not into it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  