-- Hungary to Tap Central Bank Currency Reserves in Growth Plan
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-04-04T12:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/hungary-to-tap-central-bank-currency-reserves-in-growth-plan-1-.html
Hungary ’s central bank will start a
500 billion-forint ($2.1 billion) program to boost lending to
help end a recession and is seeking to reduce the country’s
short-term external debt by using foreign-currency reserves.  The central bank may cut the reserves by 3 billion euros
($3.8 billion), a reduction that’s within its risk threshold,
Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy told reporters in
Budapest today. A three-month “Funding for Growth Scheme” will
include interest-free money for lenders and the refinancing of
corporate foreign-currency loans, he said. The forint rose.  “The amount of foreign-currency reserves the bank flagged
it wants to use isn’t drastic,” Viktor Szabo, a  money manager 
who helps oversee $11.8 billion of assets at Aberdeen Investment
Management Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail. “However, I believe
this is only the first step and it breaks a taboo, namely that
they won’t touch the reserves.”  Matolcsy took office last month after levying the highest
bank tax in  Europe  and nationalizing private pension fund assets
as economy minister from 2010. The measures helped keep the
 budget deficit  within the European Union’s 3 percent of economic
output at the cost of damaging lending and investment.  Economy Shrinks  The economy shrank 2.7 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, the biggest decline in three years. The central
bank is seeking to emulate the  Bank of England , which uses its
Funding for Lending program to stimulate credit, Matolcsy said.  “After reaching the goals of price and financial
stability, the central bank can and must support the
government’s economic policy,” Matolcsy told reporters. “We
have now reached that point.”  The forint reversed losses after details of the plan were
announced and gained 0.4 percent to 301.46 per euro by 2:47 p.m.
in Budapest. The yield on Hungary’s 10-year government bond fell
8 basis points to 6.037 percent.  The central bank is seeking to reduce Hungary’s short-term
external debt by 1 trillion forint, which will “allow for
bringing the foreign-currency reserves to a lower level,”
according to a  statement  published on the bank’s website today.
“Reserve adequacy is ensured by the fact that the use of
foreign currency reserves reduces external debt expiring within
one year by the same extent.”  The reserves were at 32.3 billion euros at the end of
February, 4 percent higher than a year earlier.  ‘Prudent, Predictable’  The central bank will continue to pursue a “prudent and
predictable” interest-rate policy in the aftermath of the
measures, which won’t threaten financial stability and will have
a “negligible” impact on mid-term inflation, it said in the
statement.  Under the preferential-lending plan, the central bank will
offer 250 billion forint in funds to commercial lenders at zero
percent interest, which they can use to extend credit to small
businesses with an interest rate of no more than 2 percent,
Matolcsy said. Loans will be targeted at industries that have a
key role in boosting potential growth, according to the
statement.  Another 250 billion forint will be available to small- and
medium-sized enterprises to convert foreign-currency debt to
forint at market exchange rates, he said. Under the program,
commercial lenders will receive interest-free funds from the
central bank which they can offer to businesses for refinancing
at a maximum interest of 2 percent.  The measures may help cut the amount commercial lenders
keep in two-week central bank bonds by 900 billion forint to 3.6
trillion forint, Matolcsy said.  “All in all, the effect on the forint was positive, thanks
in parts to previous market speculation about much more
aggressive steps, which led to a type of relief,” Gergely Gabler, an analyst at Equilor Befektetesi Zrt. in Budapest, said
in an interview at the central bank. “On top of that, if the
targets are met, the country’s vulnerability can decrease
somewhat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  