-- Hungary to Tap Central Bank Currency Reserves in Growth Plan
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-04T15:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/hungary-to-tap-central-bank-currency-reserves-in-growth-plan-2-.html
Hungary ’s central bank will start a
500 billion-forint ($2.1 billion) program to boost lending to
help end a recession and plans to use foreign-currency reserves
to cut the country’s short-term external debt. The forint rose.  The central bank may cut reserves by about 10 percent,
within its risk threshold, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy told reporters in Budapest today. A three-month plan
will include 250 billion forint of interest-free money for
lenders to boost corporate lending and an equal amount for
companies to refinance foreign-currency loans in forint.  Matolcsy took office last month after levying the highest
bank tax in  Europe  as economy minister, which contributed to
Hungary’s second recession in four years. He had criticized the
previous central bank leadership for doing too little to boost
growth. The plan is more limited than previous market
speculation, according to Concorde Securities in Budapest.  “The program is indeed limited in its scope and in its
impact on the foreign-currency reserves,”  Janos Samu , a
Budapest-based economist at Concorde, said by e-mail. “The most
important” effect may be that “uncertainty surrounding the new
measures can now drop.”  The forint reversed losses after details of the plan were
announced and gained 0.8 percent to 300.22 per euro by 5:28 p.m.
in Budapest.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender, rose 2.3
percent to 4,272 forint. The yield on Hungary’s 10-year
government bond fell 9 basis points to 6.02 percent.  Draghi, BOJ  Central banks around the world are looking for ways to
stimulate growth. The  European Central Bank  stands ready to cut
 interest rates  if the economy deteriorates and is considering
additional measures as a debt crisis enters its fourth year, ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said today. The  Bank of Japan  doubled
monthly bond purchases today as part of a bid to end two decades
of stagnation and 15 years of deflation.  Before his nomination to the central bank by Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban , Matolcsy called for the “brave” use of
“unorthodox” monetary-policy tools in December, sending the
forint to its weakest in seven months. On March 1, he said the
central bank can support government policies and boost the
economy as long as it doesn’t jeopardize price and financial
stability.  Speculation about a stimulus plan included potential bond
purchases by the central bank, according to Concorde. The forint
also strengthened as policy makers decided against a push to
convert foreign-currency housing loans into forint, Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt. said in an e-mailed note.  Boost Forint  “The market’s recent fear that the new NBH management may
create huge monetary easing disappeared as the new program was
revealed and this could give some boost to the forint in the
short run,” Levente Papa, a currency strategist at OTP, said in
an e-mail.  The central bank is seeking to emulate the  Bank of England ,
which uses its Funding for Lending program to stimulate credit,
Matolcsy said today. The economy shrank 2.7 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year ago, the biggest drop in three years.  “After reaching the goals of price and financial
stability, the central bank can and must support the
government’s economic policy,” Matolcsy told reporters. “We
have now reached that point.”  Loans, Conversion  Under Hungary’s preferential-lending plan, the central bank
will offer 250 billion forint to commercial lenders at zero
percent interest, with the aim of extending credit to small
businesses with an interest rate of no more than 2 percent,
Matolcsy said.  Another 250 billion forint will be available to small- and
medium-sized companies to convert foreign-currency debt to
forint at market exchange rates, he said. Commercial lenders
will receive interest-free funds from the central bank which
they can offer to businesses for refinancing at a maximum
interest of 2 percent.  In Matolcsy’s first rate decision, policy makers on March
26 cut the two-week deposit rate to 5 percent, taking the
benchmark to a record low with the eighth quarter-point
reduction in as many months. Easing can only continue if
uncertainty in the market environment abates, the central bank
said in a statement, tightening its earlier conditions.  Not Bold  “The plan is not as bold as it could have been,”  Neil Shearing , a London-based economist at Capital Economics Ltd.,
said in an e-mailed report. “The provision of cheap forint
liquidity is unlikely to provide a big boost to lending and the
plan to switch the foreign-currency loans of SMEs into local
currency will not ease their overall debt burden.”  The central bank is also seeking to reduce Hungary’s short-
term external debt by 1 trillion forint by using about 3 billion
euros ($3.86 billion) from its foreign-currency reserves.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank wants to convince commercial banks
to repay their foreign-currency debt maturing in less than a
year, extending swap lines to them for conversions to protect
the forint from weakening. The measure may help cut the amount
commercial lenders keep in two-week central bank bonds by 900
billion forint to 3.6 trillion forint, Matolcsy said.  The central bank would also offer the Debt Management
Agency the possibility to convert forint into foreign-currencies
if it decides to issue longer forint debt to repay maturing
foreign-currency loans.  Reserve Effect  Foreign-currency reserves and external debt expiring within
one year would fall “by the same extent,” ensuring “reserve
adequacy,” according to a  statement  published on the MNB’s
website today. Reserves were at 32.3 billion euros at the end of
February, 4 percent higher than a year earlier.  “The amount of foreign-currency reserves the bank flagged
it wants to use isn’t drastic,” Viktor Szabo, a  money manager 
who helps oversee $11.8 billion of assets at Aberdeen Investment
Management Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail. “However, I believe
this is only the first step and it breaks a taboo, namely that
they won’t touch the reserves.”  The central bank will start talks with commercial lenders
on April 8, including on the repayment of their short-term
obligations as well on the terms of preferential loans to small
businesses, chief economist Daniel Palotai told reporters.  The central bank will continue to pursue a “prudent and
predictable” interest-rate policy in the aftermath of the
measures, which won’t threaten financial stability and will have
a “negligible” impact on mid-term inflation, it said in the
statement today.  “It is very welcome that Hungarian authorities are
inclined to coordinate and cooperate with the market players,”
 Zoltan Torok , an economist at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) 
in Budapest, said in an e-mail. “The new monetary policy
measures should not jeopardize forint assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  