-- Hungary to Use Central Bank Reserves in $2.1 Billion Growth Plan
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-04T10:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/hungary-to-use-central-bank-reserves-in-2-1-billion-growth-plan.html
Hungary ’s central bank has started a
500 billion-forint ($2.1 billion) program to boost lending and
help end the country’s second recession in four years, Magyar
Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said.  The central bank may cut its foreign-currency reserves by 3
billion euros ($3.8 billion), keeping the reduction within its
risk threshold, Matolcsy told reporters in Budapest today. The
reserves were at 32.3 billion euros at the end of February. The
“Funding for Growth Scheme” will include interest-free funding
for lenders and the conversion of corporate foreign currency
loans into forint, he said.  The new monetary-policy chief took office last month after
levying the highest bank tax in  Europe  as economy minister from
2010. The levy helped keep the  budget deficit  within the
European Union’s 3 percent of economic output at the cost of
damaging lending and investment.  “After reaching the goals of price and financial
stability, the central bank can and must support the
government’s economic policy,” Matolcsy told reporters. “We
have now reached that point.”  The forint weakened 0.4 percent to 303.65 per euro by 11:49
a.m. in Budapest.  The central bank’s plan will include 250 billion forint of
financing for commercial lenders at zero percent interest, which
they can use to extend credit to companies at no more than 2
percent, Matolcsy said. Another 250 billion forint will be
available to convert corporate foreign-currency debt to forint,
he said.  Hungary is also seeking to cut the amount commercial
lenders keep in two-week central bank bonds by 900 billion
forint, Matolcsy said. The duration of the program is planned
for 3 months, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  