-- UniCredit Says Global Rule Needed to Bail In Big Deposits
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-04-05T14:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/unicredit-s-ghizzoni-favors-using-big-deposits-in-bank-failures.html
(Corrects headline of April 4 article to match story text.)  Uninsured deposits could be used in
future  bank failures  provided global rulemakers agree on a
common approach, according to Federico Ghizzoni, the chief
executive officer of Italy’s biggest lender,  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Cutting large deposits in failing banks, along with other
liabilities such as bonds, to offset losses is acceptable as
long as small savers’ funds remain protected, Ghizzoni told
reporters in Vienna late yesterday. The European Union has to
introduce identical rules in all of its  member states  and
ideally those rules would be coordinated globally, he said.  Including deposits “is acceptable if it becomes a European
solution,” said Ghizzoni, 57. “What we cannot accept is
differentiation country by country inside the same area. I would
strongly suggest to make this decision not only within  Europe 
but within the Basel Committee, where all countries are
represented. Otherwise we would open the market for arbitrage.”  Cyprus became a testing ground for investor losses when
euro-area authorities last month required restructuring of the
country’s two biggest banks as a condition of a 10 billion-euro
($12.8 billion) rescue. The Cyprus program was the first to
impose losses on uninsured depositors as the EU continues to
hash out how to handle failing banks on a case-by-case basis.
Its banking resolution law is still under discussion.  Ghizzoni said deposits should only be included when bonds
aren’t sufficient, and those below the guaranteed level of
100,000 euros should be off limits. While he would prefer not to
touch them at all, including deposits in a global plan was an
acceptable solution, he said.  Deposits Stable  Ghizzoni said he had been “afraid” of his clients’
reaction to the measures in the Cyprus rescue and asked for
monitoring of deposit flows in all 22 European countries --
stretching from  Italy ,  Germany  and  Austria  as far as Russia and
 Turkey  -- where his Milan-based bank operates. It didn’t find
any loss of deposits, he said.  “Really, we were afraid, we started to monitor on a daily
basis the flow of deposits in different countries,” he said.
“Maybe I’m disappointing you, but in reality we had no reaction
so far from customers.”  UniCredit increased its deposits in Italy by 8 percent last
year, Ghizzoni said. While this was good for the bank’s funding,
it was also a worrying sign for the Italian economy that people
aren’t increasing consumption, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  