-- UnitedHealth Units to Pay $24 Million in Hepatitis Case
-- B y   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-04-04T22:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/unitedhealth-units-told-to-pay-24-million-over-hepatitis-doctor.html
Two  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  units
must pay $24 million in damages for failing to properly monitor
a doctor who gave two colonoscopy patients hepatitis C by
employing substandard medical practices, a Nevada jury ruled.  Jurors in state court in Las Vegas deliberated about five
hours over two days before finding officials of Health Plan of
Nevada and Sierra Health Services were negligent in their
oversight of  Dipak Desai . The former gastroenterologist has been
blamed for infecting patients with hepatitis C by reusing vials
of the anesthetic  Propofol  and failing to sterilize equipment.  The panel ordered the two UnitedHealth units to pay
$15 million in compensatory damages to Bonnie Brunson and her
husband and $9 million to Helen Meyer. The two women contend
they got hepatitis during colonoscopy procedures at Desai’s
clinic. Their lawyers said earlier in the case they may ask the
jury to award more than $1 billion in punitive damages.  The verdict reflects “what’s wrong with health insurance
companies in the U.S.”  Robert Eglet , Brunson’s lawyer, said in
an interview after the verdict was announced. “They put profit
before patient safety.”  The trial is the first against units of Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based UnitedHealth over the 2007 hepatitis C  outbreak .
Nevada officials were forced to notify 50,000 patients they may
have contracted the potentially fatal blood disease from Desai’s
actions.  ‘Dangerous Precedent’  UnitedHealth officials said the verdict “sets a dangerous
precedent” because it holds insurers responsible for individual
doctors’ misdeeds.  “We are disappointed, but not surprised, by this verdict
given the volumes of essential evidence the jury was blocked
from hearing during this trial,” Tyler Mason, a UnitedHealth
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Health Plan of Nevada officials said on a  website  created
to provide information about the trial that Brunson’s and
Meyer’s cases were “driven only by attorney greed.”  Nevada juries already have handed down multimillion-dollar
punitive awards against  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
which made the Propofol used by Desai. Three juries awarded
colonoscopy patients more than $750 million in punitive damages
over the drugmaker’s decision to sell the anesthetic in
oversized vials that could be reused.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva, Israel, agreed last year to
pay $250 million to settle more than 80 lawsuits over Propofol
sales.  April 22 Trial  Desai, 62, and two nurse anesthetists face second-degree
murder charges over the death of a colonoscopy patient. The
former doctor also faces federal fraud charges. Desai is set to
go to trial  April 22   on charges filed by state prosecutors.  Jurors found today the UnitedHealth units were negligent
for failing to properly monitor Desai’s performance and “acted
in bad faith.” That means the companies are potentially subject
to punitive damages.  The panel will hear evidence on the insurers’ earnings
tomorrow,  Will Kemp , Meyer’s lawyer, said in an interview. The
women’s lawyers said earlier in the case that they will ask
jurors to award $1 billion in punishment damages.  “I will be asking for the largest verdict ever in Southern
Nevada,” Eglet said after the jury’s ruling on compensatory
damages was announced.  Quality Reviews  Meyer and Brunson sued under a Nevada law requiring HMOs to
file annual reports showing officials reviewed the quality of
health services provided to their members.  The women’s lawyers argued officials of the UnitedHealth
units knew Desai had a reputation for sloppy practice before
giving him a contract to handle colonoscopies and then didn’t
check the quality of his work. At one point, Desai was a member
of  Nevada’s Board of Medical Examiners , which oversees the
licensing of doctors in the state.  The plaintiffs contend the insurer didn’t properly monitor
Desai’s practices and procedures even though they received
complaints about his practices.  During the trial,  witnesses  said Desai adopted a cavalier
attitude toward patient safety, speeding through procedures so
he could see as many as 20 patients in a three-hour period.  The women’s lawyers argued the insurers’ executives had an
obligation to insure Desai was providing quality care to their
HMO members and were required to vet his practices before hiring
him.  The UnitedHealth units’ executives “consciously
disregarded patient safety by contracting with inferior doctors,
so that the companies could make hundreds of millions more
dollars,” Eglet said in closing arguments in the case.  Defense Blocked?  Lawyers for the UnitedHealth units argued in court papers
that health insurers shouldn’t be responsible for providing
full-time monitoring of physicians hired as part of an HMO
network. Health Plan of Nevada said Desai had been credentialed
at several Nevada hospitals when it hired him.  The companies’ attorneys also complained in court filings
that Judge Timothy Williams wrongfully prevented them from
putting on their full defense to the women’s claims.  The UnitedHealth units sought to show that administrators
followed established practices when vetting doctors for their
networks, but Williams refused to allow jurors to hear that
evidence.  The insurers also contend Williams erred in excluding files
showing Nevada officials who inspected Desai’s clinic “never
uncovered any evidence of supposed wrongdoing” at the facility.  “Jurors were unable to make a fully informed decision on
the case because plaintiffs’ attorneys prevented basic
information from being heard throughout the trial that would
have given them a more complete picture of how HPN was not
responsible” for the hepatitis injuries, Mason said in today’s
statement.  The case is Meyer v. Health Plan of Nevada Inc., A5837999
(Consolidated), Clark County District Court (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Valerie Miller in Las Vegas at  valeriemusicmagic@yahoo.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  