-- Unmarried Couples Living Together Is New U.S. Norm
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/unmarried-couples-living-together-is-new-u-s-norm.html
Three of four women in the U.S. have
lived with a partner without being  married  by the age of 30, an
increasing trend that suggests cohabitation is now a regular
part of family life in the U.S., researchers said.  The survey of 12,279 women ages 15 through 44 also found
that 40 percent of unmarried partners transitioned to marriage
within 3 years, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention report. A third of the arrangements stayed intact
without marriage, while 27 percent dissolved, the study found.  More people are putting off marriage either because they
can’t afford it or because it’s financially risky, said Gail
Wyatt, the director of the  University of California  Los
Angeles’s sexual health program. About 48 percent of the women
surveyed lived with a partner as a first union, compared with 34
percent in 1995. Others may view cohabitation as a way of test-
driving a relationship to see if a wedding will work.  “Marriage is for people who have money and want to spend
money just on the wedding itself,” Wyatt said in a telephone
interview. She wasn’t involved in the study. “Some people would
rather buy a house, or just pay the rent.” People who are poor
or less educated may shy away from marriage and its legal
complications, she said.  A couple that shares an address counts as a “first
union,” as does a first marriage, according to the report. Only
23 percent of first unions were marriages in the study period,
compared to 39 percent in 1995.  “Cohabitation is a common part of family formation in the
 United States , and serves both as a step toward marriage and as
an alternative to marriage,” the report said.  Education Factors  The Atlanta-based  CDC’s  report used interviews starting in
2006 and ending in 2010. About 70 percent of women without high
school diplomas lived with a partner as their first union,
compared to 47 percent of those with a bachelor’s degree, the
report found. Women with less than a high school diploma were
less likely to marry within 3 years, compared to peers with more
education.  Pregnancy is common in common-law arrangements. About 20
percent of women became pregnant in the first year of living
with a partner, and went on to give birth. The probability for
marriage for these women within six months was about 19 percent,
lower than in 1995.  Women without a high school diploma were more likely to
become pregnant, with a third of them reporting pregnancy in the
first year of living together with a partner. Only 5 percent of
women with a bachelor’s degree became pregnant in the same time
span. Those women who got pregnant were less likely to be
married.  Having Children  “People, especially women, make a distinction between
childbearing and marriage,” said Carole Joffe, a professor of
sociology at the University of  San Francisco ’s Bixby Center for
Global Reproductive Health, in a telephone interview. “You can
get the benefits of marriage without being married, but you have
to have a child to have the benefits of a child.”  The study’s takeaway is that there are more statuses than
married and unmarried, Joffe said. Some people are truly single,
others are cohabitating, and some are married. The question is
how best to support these different kinds of families, she said.  The percentage of first unions that were cohabitations
rather than marriages increased 57 percent for Hispanic women,
43 percent for white women, and 39 percent for black women in
2006 through 2010, compared to a similar survey from 1995. Only
Asian women weren’t more likely to cohabitate before marriage.  “We have to prepare girls not to look for white dresses as
the end-all, but to look at their financial opportunities and
their careers,” said Wyatt. “The same is true for boys.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  