-- Uribe Could Use Interest Rates to Curb Colombian Financial Risk
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-04-04T16:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/uribe-could-use-interest-rates-to-curb-colombian-financial-risk.html
Colombia ’s central bank could set
its  policy rate  higher than needed to control inflation if it
sees a risk of excessive financial risk-taking, central bank
Governor Jose Dario Uribe said.  Keeping interest rates low for “a long period” could risk
creating imbalances in the financial sector, Uribe said in a
speech to bankers in Medellin today. This would create a
conflict between the bank’s objective of keeping annual
inflation at 3 percent and its goal of preventing financial
instability, Uribe said.  “Based on the risk of financial imbalances, the board
could decide on an  interest rate  at a level that could be
somewhat higher than is consistent with inflation converging to
its target over the typical horizon of four quarters,” Uribe
said. “I’m not saying that’s what will happen, but it’s a
possibility. It could happen if inflation remains distant, as it
is at the moment, from its target of 3 percent.”  The central bank has cut its policy rate two percentage
points to 3.25 percent since June, the lowest among major Latin
American economies, as growth cooled and the inflation rate fell
to a six-decade low. Inflation accelerated to 1.99 percent last
month, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
19 analysts, from a six decade-low of 1.83 percent in February.
The statistics agency is scheduled to report March inflation on
April 5.  Range of Goals  Central bank board member Ana Fernanda Maiguashca, who took
office last month, has argued that the central bank can pursue a
range of goals, including financial stability, alongside its
inflation target.  “You don’t need to put anything above inflation to worry
about other things,” Maiguashca said in a Feb. 12 interview in
her office at the  Finance Ministry . “You can walk and chew gum
at the same time.”  The central bank expressed concern with the pace of credit
growth when it raised interest rates nine times between February
2011 and February 2012. Credit expanded 15 percent last year,
from 22 percent growth in 2011.  Home prices  rose 71 percent in the third quarter from a
decade earlier, according to the bank’s inflation-adjusted used
housing price index. Home prices are rising faster than nominal
gross domestic product, Uribe said.  The peso dropped 0.5 percent to 1,828.72 per  U.S. dollar  at
10:54 a.m. in Bogota. The currency has appreciated 23 percent
since the beginning of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  