-- Turkish Yields Drop 2nd Day as Central Bank Doubles Repo Funding
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-04-04T10:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/turkish-yields-drop-2nd-day-as-central-bank-doubles-repo-funding.html
Turkish benchmark bond yields
dropped for a second day as the central bank raised the amount
of its funding to lenders a day after Governor Erdem Basci said
he may cut  interest rates .  The central bank doubled the amount of money it provides at
the one-week repo rate of 5.5 percent to 2 billion liras ($1.1
billion) today. A “measured rate cut” may be in store if the
value of the lira exceeds the central bank’s limit as measured
by the so-called real effective exchange rate index, or REER,
Basci said at a conference in the southern Turkish city of
Mardin yesterday.  The increase in funding “will ease the repo liquidity,”
Onder Turker, a fixed-income trader at Finansbank AS in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. “There is a lot of
interest in bonds with less than two-year maturity.”  The central bank will announce the index level for March
today. A reading between 120 and 130 on the REER index could
prompt a “moderate” response, Basci said.  Yields on two-year domestic bonds fell five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.22 percent at 1:03 p.m. in
Istanbul, after declining 16 basis points yesterday, the most in
almost five months. The lira weakened less than 0.1 percent to
1.8089 per dollar.  “Obviously a rate cut will follow this speech,” Sercan Kiliclar, a fixed-income trader at  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  in Istanbul, said
in e-mailed comments, referring to Basci’s remarks yesterday.
The central bank “may lower the upper-end of the rates
corridor” at the Monetary Policy Committee’s meeting on April
16 and then reduce the lower band in the next meetings, he said.  Basci introduced a variable-rates policy, employing a so-
called corridor of two rates in addition to the benchmark rate,
in October 2011 to help control the lira by managing capital
inflows and containing loan growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  