-- Uruguay’s Mujica Says Fernandez Worse Than Husband, Stubborn
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2013-04-05T01:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/uruguay-s-mujica-calls-fernandez-stubborn-worse-than-husband.html
Uruguay’s President Jose Mujica,
speaking without realizing a microphone was on, said today that
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is “worse”
than her late husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner .  “This old lady is worse than the cross-eyed man,” Mujica,
77, said, according to a video posted on Todo Noticias
Television channel  website  and audio posted on Uruguay’s El
Observador. “He was more of a politician, she’s stubborn.”  Relations between the neighboring countries have
deteriorated since Fernandez restricted imports and tightened
controls on the exchange market. The measures, which limit
access to foreign currencies, have hurt Uruguay’s exports and
tourism industry. A $1.1 billion investment by  Finland ’s Metsae-
Botnia Oy in a pulp mill on the river bordering both countries
led to a four-year bridge blockade by Argentine who accused
Uruguay of violating an international accord on the river’s use.  In 2007, when then Uruguayan President Tabare Vazquez
allowed the pulp mill to start operations, Kirchner told him
that he had “stabbed  Argentina  in the back.” In 2002,
Uruguayan President Jorge Batlle accused Argentines of being a
“bunch of thieves,” a comment for which he later apologized
during a trip to  Buenos Aires .  Mujica, a former guerrilla who took office in 2010, said
later today that he didn’t publicly speak about Argentina at the
event today in Uruguay and won’t offer clarifications, according
to Montevideo-based newspaper  El Pais .  Argentine Foreign Minister Hector Timerman said the
comments were “unacceptable,” “denigrating” and
“offensive” to the memory of the deceased Kirchner, according
to an e-mailed statement addressed to Uruguay’s ambassador in
Argentina. Fernandez won’t respond to the insults, Timerman said
in the statement.  Kirchner, who died in October 2010 from a heart attack, was
president from 2003 to 2007. Fernandez succeeded him and was re-
elected in 2011.  Mujica traveled to Caracas for former Venezuelan President
 Hugo Chavez ’s funeral last month on Fernandez’s plane.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Buenos Aires at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  