-- USDA Boosts Testing to Block Horse-Meat Imports After EU Scandal
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-04T15:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/usda-boosts-testing-to-block-horse-meat-imports-after-eu-scandal.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
is increasing testing on meat imports to confirm that shipments
don’t contain horse meat after products from burgers to lasagna
were mislabled in Europe.  “We are confident that the inspection system at ports of
entry ensures the safety of products that come into our
country,” Cathy Cochran, a spokeswoman for the USDA’s  Food
Safety and Inspection Service , said in an e-mailed statement
today. “However, in response to recent events and consumer
concerns, we are increasing species testing to enhance current
safeguards and prevent fraudulently labeled products from
entering the country.”  The FSIS will conduct species sampling and testing on
imported raw ground-beef and veal that are also checked for
Shiga-toxin-producing E. coli, the agency said in an April 1
 notice . Imports from  Iceland , Ireland,  Poland  and the  United
Kingdom  will be subject to increased species sampling for all
types of product.  A horse-meat scandal that started in Ireland in mid-January
spread around the world. Ikea, the largest furniture retailer,
removed its signature Swedish meatballs from its restaurants,
while Yum! Brands Inc.’s Taco Bell withdrew ground beef from its
three U.K. restaurants. The European Union has ordered testing
across the region, while South Africa, spurred by European
discoveries, is investigating how unlabeled donkey, goat and
water buffalo got into supermarket products.  None of the countries or companies in the EU that have
recently recalled beef because of non-disclosed horse meat ship
beef to the U.S. FSIS doesn’t allow imports of horse meat from
other countries to the U.S. for human consumption, according to
the agency.  -- With assistance from Alan Bjerga in  Washington  and  Shruti
Singh  in Chicago. Editors: Millie Munshi, Steve Stroth  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  