-- Versace May Reach Sales Goal Early as It Weighs Growth Options
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-04-04T13:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/versace-may-reach-sales-goal-early-as-it-weighs-growth-options.html
Gianni Versace SpA, an Italian maker
of $2,795 dresses, said it may reach a 500 million-euro ($640
million) revenue goal a year early as it weighs up options that
may include an initial public offering.  “We will be quite close to this target,” this year, Chief
Executive Officer Gian Giacomo Ferraris said today by phone,
citing strong demand for accessories and in the U.S. Staying
independent or selling a minority stake publicly or privately
are all options for the Milan-based company, which hired Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Banca IMI SpA last year, he said.  “By the middle of 2013, probably we will have a scenario
of possibilities,” Ferraris said.  Luca Peyrano, head of primary markets in continental  Europe 
for London Stock Exchange Group Plc, said yesterday that he
expects more initial public offerings in  Italy  after the listing
of agenda maker Moleskin SpA and the IPOs of luxury-goods
companies Salvatore Ferragamo SpA and Brunello Cucinelli SpA.  In the fashion industry, “you can find somewhat of a
premium listing in Milan,” Peyrano told Bloomberg Television
yesterday, citing share gains of more than 100 percent at
Ferragamo and Cucinelli since their stock market debuts.  Retail sales at Versace surged more than 20 percent in the
first quarter. The company, recognizable by its Medusa-head
logo, follows Hermes International SCA in signaling strong sales
in the first three months of 2013. The luxury market will expand
between 6 percent and 7 percent annually in the next five years,
led by demand from Asian and Latin American consumers, estimates
Mario Ortelli, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  Margin Growth  Versace’s profit margin should widen “significantly” this
year, the CEO said. The company, founded by the late Italian
designer of the same name in 1978, aims to lift earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization to about 20 percent
of sales by 2014, up from 11 percent in 2012, he said.  Ebitda in 2012 increased 15 percent to 44.5 million euros,
adjusted for currency shifts, Versace said in a statement today.
Revenue advanced 20 percent to 408.7 million euros, with sales
at the company’s own stores surging 39 percent.  The U.S. was Versace’s fastest-growing market in 2012 as
sales increased 46 percent. Revenue climbed 38 percent in  Asia 
and 7 percent in Europe as the company opened more boutiques.  Revenue from Versace’s directly operated stores reached
224.5 million euros, it said. Wholesale sales gained 5 percent
to 149.4 million euros, while revenue from royalties was
“steady” at 34.9 million euros.  Rome, Paris  Net income, restated in April 2012 for tax adjustments,
rose to 8.5 million euros from 7.9 million euros.  Versace will open between seven to 10 stores in  Greater
China  this year as well as outlets in  Brazil , the U.S.,  Turkey 
and  South Korea , Ferraris said. In Europe, where retail sales
rose by a “close to double-digit” percentage in the first
quarter, the company will open stores including in  Rome  and
Paris and possibly one or two in Germany, the executive said.  After adding online operations in Europe and the U.S. last
year, Versace plans to extend e-commerce to  Scandinavia ,
 Australia  and possibly  China  this year, the CEO said.  Donatella Versace and her brother Santo Versace have helped
run the 35-year-old company since their brother Gianni’s murder
in 1997. Donatella serves as creative director, while Santo is
chairman. They own stakes of 20 percent and 30 percent,
respectively. Donatella’s daughter Allegra, a non-executive
director, owns the rest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 Aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  