-- VirnetX, Reuters, DreamWorks: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-04T10:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/virnetx-thompson-reuters-intellectual-property.html
VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC)  said it filed
a request for a new trial after losing a patent-infringement
lawsuit against  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   In a statement yesterday, VirnetX Chief Executive Officer
Kendall Larson said the company hopes that “with a new trial, a
jury can decide the issues of infringement and damages based on
the judge’s instructions and the merits of our claim.”  In March, a jury in Tyler, Texas, cleared the networking-
equipment maker of allegations it infringed inventions related
to virtual private networks. VirnetX was seeking $258 million in
damages.  Doug Cawley of McKool Smith PC, a lawyer representing
VirnetX, argued Cisco used the technology to improve security in
its own networks. A virtual private network allows a website
owner to interact securely with a customer or give an employee
working remotely protected access to a company’s electronic
files.  VirnetX won a $368.2 million verdict against Apple Inc. in
November over the same technology, including two of the same
patents, before a different Tyler jury. In 2010, Zephyr Cove,
Nevada-based VirnetX reached a $200 million settlement with
Microsoft Corp. over the same inventions.  The case against Cisco focused on the San Jose, California-
based company’s routers, software and phones that have virtual-
private networking functions including its Unified
Communications Manager product, Telepresence or AnyConnect.  VirnetX relies on patent licensing for its revenue. The
company is testing its Gabriel Connection Technology to create
secure communications links, according to its annual report.  The case is VirnetX Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 10-
cv-00417, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  Thomson Reuters Patents System to Rank Lawyers, Professionals  Thomson Reuters  Corp., the New York-based specialty
publishing house, received a patent on a method of rating
lawyers and other professionals.  Patent 8,412,564, was issued April 2, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. It covers a
“system and method of identifying excellence within a
profession.”  The patented technology depends on peer nomination and the
peer evaluation of the top-ranking candidates scored in an
independent research and objective evaluation process.  Thomson Reuters applied for this patent in April 2008, with
the assistance of  Boston ’s Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Danish Games Company Can Use ‘Opus Dei’ Trademark, Court Says  Opus Dei , the organization of Catholic clergy and laity
that was heavily featured in “The DaVinci Code,” failed in its
attempt to stop a Danish games company from using “Opus Dei”
for the name of one of its games, the Copenhagen Post  reported .  A Danish court said  Dema Games Asp ’s “Opus Dei --Existence
After Religion” game doesn’t fall into any categories that
would conflict with the religious group’s trademark, according
to the newspaper.  Initially the Danish patent office rejected Opus Dei’s
challenge to the games company’s mark. When that was
unsuccessful, took it the issue to the Danish court that
specializes in IP disputes, the Post reported.  In addition to losing the case, Opus Dei was ordered to pay
the games company’s 45,000 Danish kroner ($7,756) legal fees,
according to the Post.  Suffolk County Raid Nets $10 Million in Counterfeit Goods  Authorities in Suffolk County, New York, charged five
people with trademark counterfeiting, racketeering, conspiracy
and money laundering in connection with a haul of fake goods so
big a tractor trailer and seven box trucks were needed to cart
the goods away, the Suffolk County District Attorney said.  The seized goods included fake handbags, sunglasses, shoes,
and machinery used to create fake counterfeit designs, according
to a  statement  by prosecutors.  District Attorney Thomas J. Spota said the accused
defendants were buying fake made-in- China  handbags for $2 each
and selling them for as much as $25. If the handbags were sold
on the street or at an at-home handbag party, they would have
fetched as much as $100, according to the statement.  Among the brands featured on the fake products was  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s Louis Vuitton. Spota said a
genuine Louis Vuitton bag costs from $1,000 to $4,000.  Among the other brands that showed up on the counterfeit
goods were Coach, Tory Burch, Michael Kors, Jimmy Choo, Nike,
Oakley, Prada, Chanel and Kate Spade. The retail value of the
seized merchandise is in excess of $10 million, prosecutors
said.  The defendants laundered their profits by buying jade and
other jewels, and real estate, with some of the rest of the
money sent to banks in China and to pay for real estate
investments there and in  Manhattan , Florida and  California .  Estee Lauder Sued by Texas Cosmetics Company Over ‘Shy’ Mark  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL) ’ Clinique Laboratories unit was sued for
trademark infringement by a Texas-based cosmetics company.  Sara Cosmetics Inc. , of Richardson,  Texas , objects to
Clinique’s  use of “Shy ” in connection with some of its
lipstick and blush products. Sara Cosmetics registered the term
as a U.S. trademark in February 2011, according to the complaint
filed April 2 in federal court in  Dallas .  Clinique is also accused of using look-alike packaging that
includes “adornments of green aloe leaves” that are allegedly
substantially similar to the packaging used by Sara Cosmetics.
Packaging design is protected under U.S. trademark law.  The Texas company said customers are likely to be confused
and that it is harmed by Clinique’s actions.  Sara Cosmetics asked the court to bar further infringement
of its mark and packaging, and for awards of money damages,
including lost profits. Additionally, the Texas company asked
the court for extra damages for what it claims is “oppression,
fraud, malice and gross negligence” on Clinique’s part, and
also seeks awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Estee Lauder  didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is Sarah Cosmetics Inc. v. Clinique Laboratories
LLC, 3:13-cv-01362-M, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Texas (Dallas).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  DreamWorks Fails to Win Dismissal of ‘Kung Fu Panda’ Suit  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. has to face a copyright
infringement suit over its “Kung Fu Panda” film, a federal
judge in Boston ruled.  U.S. District Judge Joseph L. Tauro, rejecting the
Glendale, California-based film studio’s bid to have the suit
dismissed, ruled that Boston artist Jayme Gordon raised enough
genuine issues of material fact in the February 2011 case to bar
an early end to the litigation.  Gordon contends he first created his Kung Fu-fighting panda
in “the early 1990s” and registered his copyright in 2000. He
began selling clothing items featuring his characters through a
retail store in the 1990s and had costumes made depicting some
of them. The characters appeared at promotional events in and
around Boston and were displayed on his website,
luckylizard.com, he said.  Gordon said he sent his illustrations and stories to the
animation division of DreamWorks in the 1990s. He received a
rejection letter in October 1999 acknowledging receipt of the
work, according to his complaint.  Gordon claimed that DreamWorks’ “ King Fu Panda ” films and
other products feature “characters, character depictions,
character personality traits, illustrations, expression,
settings, story elements, plot and sequences of events that are
unlawful copies and derivatives” of his “Kung Fu Panda Power”
work.  He asked the court to order DreamWorks to pay him money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs and to acknowledge
he is an author and creator of the “Kung Fu Panda” products.  The judge said in his March 28 ruling that DreamWorks Chief
Executive Officer Jeffrey Katzenberg provided “conflicting
testimony” about his procedure for handling unsolicited
submissions made to the studio. He also said it was unusual that
Gordon never got back his submitted material.  These discrepancies need to be addressed by the court, the
Tauro said. A court must decide whether DreamWorks independently
developed the film or was influences by Gordon’s submissions, he
said.  The case is Jayme Gordon v.  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ,
1:11-cv-010255-JLT, U.S. District Court, District OF
 Massachusetts  (Boston).  St. Louis University May Sue Professors for Infringement  The  American Association of University Professors ’ St.
Louis University chapter may face copyright-infringement
allegations if it releases a survey aimed at measuring the mood
on campus, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch  reported .  The professors group had taken exception with a survey
released by  SLU  administrators that contained only one question
about the school’s president, about whom they claimed there was
much campus discontent, according to the newspaper.  General counsel for the school sent an e-mail to the
president of the faculty organization warning that its survey is
too similar to the administration’s, and that the school may
file an infringement suit, and have to pay money damages and the
school’s attorney fees, the Post-Dispatch reported.  In response, the president of the faculty group has filed a
complaint with the  American Civil Liberties Union , saying its
free-speech rights are being violated, the newspaper reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 