-- Vodafone Restates Results in Change to Accounting for Ventures
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-04T08:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/vodafone-restates-results-in-change-to-accounting-for-ventures.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is restating its
results going back two fiscal years as new international
accounting rules for joint ventures cut historical revenue and
earnings.  Revenue for the year ended March 2012 was revised to 38.8
billion pounds ($58.4 billion) from 46.4 billion pounds, the
Newbury, England-based company said today in a  statement .
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
were reduced to 11.6 billion pounds from 14.5 billion pounds.  Rather than taking a proportion of revenues and earnings
for jointly owned businesses in  Italy ,  Australia ,  India  and
Fiji, and telecommunications-tower builder and operator Indus
Towers Ltd., and accounting for them in its income statement,
Vodafone will only take its share of the net income and put it
into the “associates” line, Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said in November. That method is similar to the way the
company accounts for its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless,
Vodafone’s U.S. mobile venture with Verizon Communications Inc.  Free cash flow for the year ended March 2012 was reduced to
5.7 billion pounds from 6.1 billion pounds. Adjusted earnings
per share and profit will remain the same under the new rules
for joint ventures.  The company is also revising how it accounts for employee
pension plans. Vodafone will replace the expected return on the
plans’ assets and interest costs, which appear in the
consolidated income statement for defined benefit pension plans,
with a net interest cost. That will change the way the charge is
calculated and impact the amounts recorded in the company’s
income statement.  Vodafone will restate financial information for the 12
months ending March 2013 during its results announcement in May,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  