-- Vodafone Teams With China Mobile for Myanmar License Bid
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/vodafone-teams-with-china-mobile-for-myanmar-mobile-license-bid.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  China Mobile
Ltd. (941) , the two biggest wireless companies, will join forces to
bid for mobile licenses in Myanmar as investors and operators
jostle to be among the first into the Southeast Asian country.  The licenses would allow Newbury, England-based Vodafone
and China Mobile to build and operate a nationwide network for
15 years, they said yesterday in a statement. Myanmar will
announce the license winners on June 27, Vodafone said, citing
the government’s documentation.  Investors are piling into newly opened Myanmar, which has
less than 10 percent mobile penetration among its 64 million
people, after the government said it wants to boost
telecommunications coverage to as much as 80 percent of the
population by 2016. Billionaire  George Soros  has joined with
Digicel Group Ltd. and property developer Serge Pun to bid for
the licenses, the trio said in a separate statement yesterday.  “Myanmar will be an important new market for the global
mobile industry,” Vodafone and China Mobile said in their
statement. “The licensing round is also an opportunity to
accelerate the pace of Myanmar’s social and economic
development.”  Myanmar’s economy is projected to grow 6.2 percent this
year, up from an anticipated 5.5 percent increase in 2012,
according to an October World Bank report. The government said
in February that 91 companies had formally expressed interest in
the two licenses.  Mobile Costs  Mobile phones  have been out of reach for most consumers in
Myanmar since limited services were introduced in 2001. The cost
of activating a phone using the global system for mobile
communications standard, or GSM, was initially about 4.5 million
kyat ($5,120). That’s fallen to about 200,000 kyat for a GSM
chip, according to prices at phone vendors in the capital city
of Yangon, still an expensive purchase for most.  Still, the state-run MRTV television station said this week
that 350,000 low-cost mobile-phone cards a month will be sold in
the country, also known as  Burma , starting on April 24. The GSM
chips will cost 1,500 kyat, the news station said, citing the
Myanmar Posts and Telecommunications agency.  Myanmar said in January that the goal is to make
“telecommunications services available to the public at
affordable prices in both urban and rural areas, and to give the
citizens and the enterprises the capability to choose their
telecommunications services.”  “The liberalization of the telecommunications market in
Myanmar will serve as an important economic stimulus for the
country,” Soros said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  