-- Volaris Said to Hire Morgan Stanley for Initial Offering
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-04T21:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/volaris-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-for-initial-offering.html
Concesionaria Vuela Cia. de Aviacion
SA, Mexico’s third-biggest airline, has hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to
sell shares in an initial public offering this year, two people
with direct knowledge of the transaction said.  The Mexico City-based company, known as Volaris, will
probably sell at least $350 million in stock, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because they weren’t authorized
to discuss the transaction publicly.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
are helping to manage the deal, the people said. The amount and
timing are subject to change, they said.  A spokeswoman for the carrier declined to comment on its
IPO plans.  Volaris, which had its first flight in 2006, is seeking
funding after last year agreeing to buy 44 planes from Airbus
SAS in the biggest single commercial  aircraft order  ever by a
Mexican airliner. Companies have raised $4.4 billion in  Mexico 
in share sales this year including IPOs and secondary offerings,
compared with $694 million in the same period of 2012.  Like ABC Aerolineas SA, the country’s second-biggest
carrier, Volaris has followed the approach pioneered by
Southwest Airlines in the U.S., shunning a hub-and-spoke system
and focusing on the most profitable routes. The carrier operated
more than 10,255 flights in the first two months of 2013, making
it the nation’s third-biggest carrier, according to the most
current data from the Communications and Transportation
Ministry.  Chief Executive Officer Enrique Beltranena said in a
February 2012 interview that the company was considering an IPO.  Private Equity  Volaris has received backing from private-equity investors
including Pedro Aspe, co-chairman of  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , and
 Nala Investments LLC  Chairman Emilio Diez Barroso. Original
investors included billionaires  Carlos Slim  and  Emilio Azcarraga , who owned 25 percent each before selling their stakes
in 2010 for $80.6 million apiece.  Mexican stock issuance has surged as the country’s four-
month-old government, led by Enrique Pena Nieto, pushes for
economic reforms including reducing the power of dominant
telephone and television companies and opening the country’s
energy sector to private investment. Natural-gas distributor
Infraestructura Energetica Nova SAB soared 17 percent in its
trading debut on March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  