-- Walgreen Clinics Add Care of Chronic Illnesses to Boost Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/walgreen-clinics-add-care-of-chronic-illnesses-to-boost-sales.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, is expanding into treatment of diabetes, asthma
and other chronic illnesses to lure new customers including
millions gaining insurance under the Affordable Care Act.  More than 330 of Walgreen’s roughly 370  Take Care Clinics 
in stores are now offering chronic-care services as well as
advising consumers on whether to seek preventive care such as
laboratory tests, the Deerfield, Illinois-based company said
today in a statement.  Walgreen and rivals  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD) 
are expanding beyond filling prescriptions and giving flu shots
into chronic care traditionally provided by doctors. Walgreen
said it’s responding to the aging population, the rising
prevalence of long-term ailments and complaints by consumers
about a lack of access to doctors.  “As we see thousands of patients every day, many of them
say, ‘I am here because I can’t get an appointment at my
doctor’s office,’” Alan  London , a physician and chief medical
officer for Take Care Clinics, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  Some family doctors have responded to competition from
retail clinics, with 75 percent now offering same-day
scheduling, while more than half have weekend or evening hours,
according to Jeffrey Cain, president of the  American Academy of
Family Physicians , a Leawood, Kansas-based group representing
106,000 doctors.  Doctors’ Opposition  The academy opposes retail clinics providing services
beyond “minor acute illnesses” and in particular objects to
“the management of chronic medical conditions in this
setting,” according to a statement on its website.  “Our concern is that expansion of retail clinics from
urgent care into chronic care means they may get a piece of
their diabetes here,  blood pressure  there,” Cain, a family
physician in Denver, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“Our health care system is already fragmented.”  Obama’s health law, which passed Congress in 2010, may
extend insurance over the next decade to about 27 million people
who are currently uninsured. The  Congressional Budget Office 
estimates that 8 million more people will enroll in Medicaid
programs next year because of the expansion, which raises
income-eligibility limits.  As Walgreen expands into chronic-care services, it’s
coordinating care of customers with doctors, medical practices
and health systems, London said. The task is complicated by the
large number of systems tracking electronic medical records, he
said.  Chronic Profits  At Walgreen, nurse practitioners and physician assistants
assess, treat and manage chronic conditions. That category
accounts for 77 percent of U.S. health-care spending, according
to Kermit Crawford, president of the retailer’s pharmacy, health
and wellness division. Chronic patients are also more profitable
than acute patients, he told analysts in February.  CVS’s in-store clinics, called  MinuteClinic , increased
same-store sales by more than 38 percent in the fourth quarter,
Chief Executive Officer Larry Merlo told analysts in February.
Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based CVS plans to open 150 clinics
this year, giving it about 800 clinics in total, he said.  Rite Aid said last month that 58 of its pharmacies in
Baltimore,  Boston , Philadelphia and Pittsburgh are using the
Internet to allow customers to talk to doctors and nurses at
remote locations. The  Camp Hill , Pennsylvania-based company
introduced the services in nine Detroit pharmacies in 2011.  London declined to disclose sales by Take Care Clinics,
which was acquired by Walgreen in 2007, when Take Care had 51
clinics. The number has grown to more than 700 on the premises
of companies and wellness centers as well as in its stores.  Walgreen isn’t expanding into chronic-care treatment in
approximately 40 stores in  Missouri , where state law requires a
person who sees a nurse practitioner also to see a doctor if the
practitioner makes a new diagnosis of a chronic disease, London
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  