-- Who’s to Blame for Our Politics? Don’t Ask
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-04-04T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/who-s-to-blame-for-our-politics-don-t-ask.html
There is a classic “Doonesbury”
cartoon, published soon after the  Vietnam War  ended, in which
the antiwar activist Mark Slackmeyer is arguing with his pro-war
father. They go back and forth, each blaming the other’s
politics for everything that’s wrong in  Southeast Asia , when
they finally reach the Cambodian genocide.  They stare at each other in perplexity until one mutters,
“Whose fault did that turn out to be?”  That ironic bit of commentary came to mind as I read
various accusatory accounts of Secretary of State  John Kerry ’s
 recent visit  to Baghdad, where he essentially begged -- really,
there is no other word -- the government of Iraqi Prime Minister
Nouri al-Maliki to halt the pipeline of arms from  Iran  to
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime in  Syria , a flow of weaponry
that runs directly over Iraqi airspace. Maliki, for his part,
promised to take the matter under advisement -- although it is
clear that, like Herman Melville’s Bartleby, he would prefer not
to.  Back in the U.S., meanwhile, politicians and pundits have
been doing what nowadays they seem to do best: placing blame.
Politics ought to be about solving problems. Increasingly,
however, U.S. politics consists of fault-finding, explaining to
voters as well as readers and listeners where responsibility
lies for whatever the current mess. We may not be able to fix
many problems, but we sure know how to wash our hands of them.  Two Narratives  Consider again the issue of Kerry’s failed mission. There’s
a Republican narrative in which Maliki’s intransigence stems
from President  Barack Obama ’s decision to withdraw all combat
troops from  Iraq  in 2011. There’s a Democratic narrative in
which the problem is the 2003 invasion itself, either because it
overthrew  Saddam Hussein  (who for all his unquestioned cruelties
was a bulwark against Iran’s ambitions) or because it led to the
more general instability in the region.  Note that neither narrative has much to say about how to
resolve the problem. The Syrian regime is slaughtering its
people by the tens of thousands, and the mightiest nation in the
world is wringing its hands. Even if one side is right about
who’s to blame for America’s declining influence in the region,
the conclusion does nothing whatsoever to help the dying.  The U.S. is almost incompetent at resolving policy
disputes, but how skilled it has become at fixing blame for
them! The politics of blame resemble the ethics of the
schoolyard, where immature bickering is normal behavior and “he
started it” is considered a cogent argument.  One sees this same silliness in the fight over
sequestration, in which each side insists that the whole mess
was the other’s idea. Or consider the continuing unpopularity of
the Affordable Care Act. Critics claim that people dislike the
statute because of its requirements and effects. Supporters
respond that the well has been poisoned by wicked conservative
propagandists. And it’s hard to find anyone, among committed
partisans, who does anything but march in lockstep with the more
useful explanation.  Nowhere is this tendency more on display than in the fight
over  gun control . The likelihood that the Democratic-held Senate
will pass nothing of substance has led to plenty of blaming by
anti-gun forces: Either the  National Rifle Association  has
hypnotized the voters in the red states, or the president has
shown insufficient leadership. Whatever has gone wrong, there
must be more here than a mere difference of opinion: It has to
be somebody’s fault.  “Blame” is a serious word. We should be wary of reducing it
to the status of a tool to be used in the accretion of power.
The word comes from the same root as “blaspheme,” and was used
as recently as the early 20th century as an imprecation (“I’ll
be blamed if I know”). Although the meaning has lately diverged
through overuse, we would do well to recover the sense of
seriousness about the charge that the other fella is
blameworthy.  Morally Flawed  Blame, in a moral sense, is the precursor to punishment. To
blame is not simply to criticize. To blame is to insist that the
object of the blame is somehow morally flawed and thus unworthy.
America’s habit of placing political opponents in this category
constitutes a considerable danger to the country’s democracy.  To take a simple example, the segregationists who opposed
 Lyndon Johnson ’s civil-rights program were far more morally
blameworthy than anyone on either side of any issue today. But
Johnson’s great accomplishment was to treat his opponents
seriously. He used all his powers of persuasion, wheeling and
dealing until he had the votes to get what he so dearly wanted,
even at the cost of his party’s short-term future.  I am not suggesting that blame never matters. Understanding
the origin of a crisis can help us avoid repeating it. But we
have to keep our priorities straight: We should attempt the
parceling out of responsibility, if at all, only after a
solution has been worked out. To elevate blame into the first
priority is an unserious act, an implication that solving the
problem is less important than taking advantage of it.  Imagine how the market would punish a corporation that
neither recalled nor replaced a defective product but instead
divided into hostile camps, arguing over blame. But politics
functions differently.  Blame isn’t a device for making policy. It’s a tool for
winning elections. The way that partisans turn every dispute
into an exercise in placing blame rather than solving problems
is part of what is driving independents (a group in which I
number myself) away from electoral politics.  To be sure, political scientists have insisted for years
that it is possible to explain most of the behavior of elected
officials by the incentive to win the next time around. But
there is something to be said for subtlety. The blatant
jockeying for advantage by politicians and their familiars in
the media has become a repulsive spectacle. One longs for a
leadership class devoted to a principle other than smashing the
opposition.  But that is rarely what we get. Perhaps  George Orwell  was
right. Perhaps the purpose of power really is power, and the
devotion to principle was always a cynical sideshow. Well, call
me old-fashioned if you want: I enjoyed the show while it
lasted.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 