-- Xi Anti-Graft Campaign Questioned by Group After Activists Held
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-04T08:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/xi-anti-graft-campaign-questioned-by-group-after-activists-held.html
A U.S.-based rights group called
into question Chinese President Xi Jinping’s commitment to
cracking down on official graft after the detention of four
activists who demanded officials disclose their assets.  Police detained the activists -- Hou Xin,  Yuan  Dong, Zhang
Baocheng and Ma Xinli -- on March 31 after they displayed
banners in public with slogans advocating asset disclosure,
 Human Rights Watch  said. One banner said that without an end to
official corruption,“the  China  Dream can only be daydreams,” a
reference to Xi’s campaign for the country to realize the
“China Dream” of national rejuvenation.  “The detention of four anti-corruption activists calls
into question President Xi Jinping’s commitment to get tough on
graft,” Sophie Richardson, China director at New York-based
Human Rights Watch, said in a statement today. “The
government’s treatment of these activists is a litmus test about
whether Xi’s campaign to end China’s corruption epidemic is more
than mere rhetoric and a few show cases.”  Unlike U.S. and U.K. leaders, Chinese officials are not
required to make their assets public. Premier  Li Keqiang  said on
March 17 that Chinese officials cannot accumulate fortunes and
should be subject to public scrutiny.  “Since we have chosen government service we should give up
all thought of making money,” Li said in Beijing at his first
press conference as prime minister. “We will readily accept the
supervision of all society and the media.”  Snaring Tigers  Xi said the government’s anti-corruption campaign will
snare “tigers and flies,” meaning top officials and lower-
level government workers. In December, a deputy Communist Party
secretary in southwestern China’s Sichuan province, Li
Chuncheng, was removed from his post as part of the campaign,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported in December.  In June, Bloomberg News reported that the wealth of  Xi
Jinping ’s extended family included investments in companies with
total assets of $376 million; Hong Kong real estate worth $55.6
million; and an 18 percent indirect stake in a rare-earths
company with $1.73 billion in assets. The  New York  Times
reported in October that the family of outgoing Premier  Wen
Jiabao  had controlled assets of at least $2.7 billion.  Last December, Chinese intellectuals issued an open letter
calling for members of the Communist Party’s  Central Committee 
to disclose their assets. The letter was signed by more than
7,000 people, Human Rights Watch said.  The four Beijing activists were detained for illegal
assembly, the group said. Government offices were closed today
for a national holiday and China’s Foreign Ministry didn’t
answer a faxed request for comment.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  