-- Fed’s Yellen Favors Adjusting QE Pace as Outlook Changes
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-04T22:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-04/yellen-favors-adjusting-85-billion-qe-pace-as-outlook-changes.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the  Federal Open Market Committee  should be prepared
to alter its $85 billion monthly pace of bond buying based on
changes in the economic outlook.  “Adjusting the pace of asset purchases in response to the
evolution of the outlook for the labor market will provide the
public with information regarding the committee’s intentions and
should reduce the risk of misunderstanding and market disruption
as the conclusion of the program draws closer,” Yellen said in
a speech today in Washington.  Yellen’s comments support a proposal by St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard  to reduce the pace of purchases as the
economy improves or expand it if the economy weakens. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference last month the FOMC
is considering this strategy to “appropriately calibrate” its
policy.  The central bank every month is purchasing a total of $85
billion in mortgage-backed securities and Treasury debt, a
program known as QE for quantitative easing, as it seeks to
reduce 7.7 percent unemployment and ensure the nation’s labor
market improves “substantially.”  Bond buying has brought down  borrowing costs  and boosted
home and auto sales, Yellen said in response to audience
questions. “Housing is really beginning to recover in a way
that I think is very convincing.”  No Signal  The 66-year-old Fed vice chairman said an end of asset
purchases won’t signal that the central bank will soon increase
its target interest rate.  “There will likely be a substantial period after asset
purchases conclude but before the FOMC starts removing
accommodation by reducing asset holdings or raising the federal
funds rate,” Yellen said.  “At some point, the FOMC will return to a more normal
approach to monetary policy,” she said, without suggesting an
end to stimulus was near. Still, she said she is “encouraged by
recent signs that the economy is improving and healing from the
trauma of the crisis.”  The  unemployment rate  is expected to remain unchanged at
7.7 percent when the Labor Department issues its monthly jobs
report at 8:30 a.m. tomorrow, according to the median estimate
of a Bloomberg survey. Prices rose 1.3 percent over the last
year, according to the Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, less
than the central bank’s 2 percent goal.  Two Legs  “Both legs of the dual mandate call for a highly
accommodative monetary policy,” Yellen said to the Society of
American Business Editors and Writers. “With unemployment so
far from its longer-run normal level, I believe progress on
reducing unemployment should take center stage for the FOMC,
even if maintaining that progress might result in inflation
slightly and temporarily exceeding 2 percent.”  Five central bank officials -- including Governor  Daniel Tarullo , Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  and St. Louis’s
Bullard -- voiced support this week for the FOMC pledge to press
on with asset purchases until the job market improves
“substantially.”  Fed easing has helped push U.S. stocks to records. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to close at
1,559.98 today after central banks in  Japan  and  Europe  reassured
investors they will keep economies awash in cash. The yield on
the 10 year Treasury fell 0.05 percentage point to 1.76 percent.  Job Creation  Several months of  job creation  exceeding 180,000 and
declining unemployment would mean “in the second half of the
year or in early 2014 it would be appropriate to consider the
tapering off,” Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said today
during a panel discussion in Dayton,  Ohio . Chicago’s Charles Evans, speaking on the same panel, said he’d like to see
payrolls at “200,000-a-month increases for like six months.”  The presidents’ numerical objectives help clarify a pledge
to bring about substantial gains in the labor market. While Fed
officials set different goals, they agree they’ve fallen short
of their mandate to ensure full employment. Evans is an FOMC
voter this year, while Lockhart is not.  Bernanke said in December that policy makers haven’t
specified a numerical goal that would prompt the end of asset
purchases because “we have a number of different things that we
need to look at as we go forward.”  The Fed has expanded its balance sheet to a record $3.22
trillion through its bond purchases.  The FOMC will be in no hurry to slow its asset purchases
this year with inflation below its target, Bullard said
yesterday.  “It is full steam ahead right now,” Bullard said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview. “I think that is exactly what the
committee is doing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  