-- ‘Facebook Effect’ Could Boost California Budget Through Capital-Gains Tax
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-01-11T21:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/-facebook-effect-could-boost-california-budget-through-capital-gains-tax.html
A public stock offering this year by
Facebook Inc., the world’s most-used social-networking site,
could boost  California ’s budget through taxes on  capital gains ,
the state legislative analyst said in a  report  today.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park , California, is considering
the largest initial public offering for an  Internet company  on
record, a person familiar with the plans said last year. At
least 14 other Web-related companies, including San Francisco-
based Yelp Inc., are considering offerings totaling $11 billion
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  California revenue forecasters assume that at least a few
companies will float offerings each year, the report from
Legislative Analyst Mac Taylor’s office said. Facebook plans to
raise about $10 billion in an initial share sale that would
value the company at about $100 billion, the person said last
year.  “It’s just the sheer size of it,” Taylor said in a
question-and-answer session with reporters. “It could be
huge.”  Jonathan Thaw, a Facebook spokesman, didn't immediately
respond to a phone call and an e-mail message requesting comment
on the company’s plans.  California Governor  Jerry Brown  unveiled a $92.6 billion
spending plan Jan. 5 that assumes voters pass temporary
increases in sales and income taxes in November. Even with the
higher tax rates, the most-populous state would cut $4.2 billion
from social programs such as welfare-to-work and health
insurance for the poor under the proposed budget for the fiscal
year beginning July 1.  Additional revenue from an initial public offering by
Facebook could cushion the blow somewhat, the legislative
analyst said in its report.  “In the coming months, the state’s revenue forecasts will
need to be adjusted somewhat to account for the possibility of
hundreds of millions of dollars of additional revenue related to
the Facebook IPO,” the report said.  At the same time, gains or losses in the stock market could
dwarf a positive “Facebook effect,” the report noted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  