-- La Nina May Weaken, Boosting Outlook for Grain Crops in Argentina, Brazil
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-01-11T10:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/la-nina-may-weaken-boosting-outlook-for-grain-crops-in-argentina-brazil.html
The La Nina weather event that
parched crops in  Argentina  and  Brazil  and flooded plantations in
 Thailand  and Malaysia may be weakening, said Telvent DTN Inc.  The Southern Oscillation Index, used to measure its
strength, has declined since peaking in December, signaling it
“has topped out,” said  Bryce Anderson , an agricultural
meteorologist, who correctly predicted that wet conditions would
delay U.S. corn planting last year.  Dry weather has wilted crops in Argentina, the world’s
second-biggest corn exporter, and in Brazil, the second-largest
grower of soybeans. Corn futures have climbed 13 percent in
Chicago since Dec. 15 on concern that the lack of rain would cut
production. Soybeans and wheat have each rallied about 10
percent since the middle of last month.  A diminishing La Nina may gradually allow rainfall to
return to normal, replenishing soil moisture and aiding crop
development, Anderson said in an interview today.  The oscillation index dropped to minus 1.7 on Jan. 10,
taking the 30-day running average to 16.46, he said in an e-mail
from  Nebraska . The monthly index surged to 23 in December, the
highest since April before the last La Nina dissipated,
according to the  Australian Bureau of Meteorology . A sustained
reading of plus 8 indicates the presence of La Nina, it said.  “It certainly could be a sign that La Nina has reached its
maximum strength,” Anderson said. The decline in the reading
may be reversed if a strong cyclone develops, he said.  Corn, Soybeans  The dry weather in Argentina may have caused more damage to
the corn and soybean crops than in 2008-2009 when the nation
faced the worst drought in 70 years, the Argentine Association
of Regional Consortia for Agricultural Experimentation, a
farming group, said on Jan. 6.  Argentina’s  soybean  harvest plunged 31 percent to 32
million metric tons in 2008-2009, the lowest in seven years,
while corn output slumped 30 percent to 15.5 million tons,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Rains this week probably came too late to reverse damage to
the corn crop, Anderson said. Argentina’s  corn  output could be
as low as 22 million tons because of the dry weather, Martin Fraguio, executive director of the Maizar association, which
represents corn farming groups, said Jan. 5.  The weather outlook in Brazil, where soybean plantings are
at a “critical point,” is unfavorable and will be the primary
driver for soybeans,  Jeffrey Currie , head of commodities
research at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said in  London  on Jan. 9.  Supply Shortage  Global demand for soybeans will increase 3.5 percent to a
record 260.1 million tons in 2011-2012 from a year ago,
outstripping  production  that’s estimated to decline 1.9 percent
to 259.2 million tons, according to the USDA in December.  “We eventually expect downward revisions to soybean
production estimates in Brazil and Argentina of up to 2 million
tons each, owing to developing drought conditions, though the
USDA may wait until later in the growing season to make these
cuts,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by Hussein Allidina wrote in
a Jan. 6 report. The next USDA outlook is due tomorrow.  Corn for March delivery advanced 0.4 percent to $6.5425 a
bushel on the  Chicago  Board of Trade today, while soybeans for
the same month declined 0.2 percent to $12.2925 a bushel.  Palm oil  output  in Malaysia, the second-largest producer,
dropped to a nine-month low in December when the main growing
regions were flooded. Rubber futures in  Tokyo  have climbed 4.9
percent this month partly on concern that rains will disrupt
latex tapping in Thailand, the biggest grower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  