-- Lacker ‘Nervous’ About Fed’s Independence With Forays Into Fiscal Policy
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-11T13:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/lacker-nervous-about-fed-s-independence-with-fiscal-forays.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he is concerned how the central
bank will be treated in the 2012 elections.  “I haven’t seen as much threat to our independence in my
career here as we’ve been seeing in the last couple of years,”
Lacker said today in an interview on CNBC. “I’m a little
nervous about how the Fed’s going to be treated in this
electoral cycle.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the central bank were
criticized by Republicans this week for a housing study sent to
Congress that, in the words of Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah,
“intrudes too far into fiscal policy advice and advocacy.”  Hatch, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, was joined in his criticisms by Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker , who said New York Fed President William C. Dudley’s
suggestion last week that  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  reduce the
principal of the loans they guarantee was “absolutely
egregious.”  When asked about the Fed’s housing paper, Lacker said that
“we have to be really careful because of our special
independence.”  “When the central bank strays into fiscal policy it gets
itself entangled in politics,” he said.  The flareup over the housing paper comes amid a Republican
presidential primary in which almost all candidates have called
for an end to Bernanke’s tenure at the central bank.  Paul, Perry  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, Texas Governor
 Rick Perry , former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich and
Congressman  Ron Paul  of Texas all indicated they’d appoint a new
Fed leader if they won the presidency in 2012. Bernanke’s term
as Fed chief ends in January of 2014.  Lacker said he didn’t expect the election to result in the
end of the central bank, as Paul has proposed.  “I think cooler heads will prevail before we get a bill to
abolish the Fed,” Lacker said.  The economy will probably grow around 2 percent to 2.5
percent in 2012, and the inflation rate will be around 2
percent, Lacker said.  “Some of the more persistent headwinds the economy is
facing are more serious than we thought,” Lacker said. “I
think we’ll make more progress on unemployment, but it’s likely
to be slow.”  Lacker, 56, votes on monetary policy in 2012 as part of the
rotation among Fed bank presidents. He is a former head of
research at the Richmond Fed and became president of the bank in
August 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  