-- Taco Bell Sees Market Share Recouped With Chipotle Menu: Retail
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-01-11T21:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/taco-bell-sees-market-share-recouped-with-chipotle-menu-retail.html
For  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Taco Bell,
thinking outside the bun means going gourmet.  The chain that once used a talking chihuahua to sell
chalupas is working with Miami chef Lorena Garcia to win back
eaters who have become accustomed to  Chipotle Mexican Grill
Inc.’s (CMG)  style of Mexican fare. Menu items will include Chipotle
staples such as black beans, cilantro rice and corn salsa, Greg Creed, Taco Bell’s president, said last month.  Taco Bell could use a boost. The chain has shrunk by more
than 1,000 stores since 2000 and has been left behind as Yum
expanded its KFC and  Pizza Hut  chains overseas. Chipotle, in the
meantime, has been a stock market star, its shares tripling
since the end of 2009.  “They have a tough road ahead to really reposition
themselves as a direct competitor to Chipotle or Qdoba,” Mike
Brumagin, a former Yum Brands senior project manager and Taco
Bell store owner, said in an interview. Taco Bell has “always
been about value.”  Taco Bell scored the lowest in food quality and atmosphere
among limited-service Mexican eateries, including Chipotle and
 Jack in the Box Inc.’s  Qdoba Mexican Grill, according to a
September survey from Nation’s Restaurant News and consultant WD
Partners.  Slow Growth  Taco Bell is also in a market that is growing slowly. Sales
at so-called limited-service restaurants increased 1.9 percent
to $195 billion in 2010 and Taco Bell was behind  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD) , Subway, Burger King Holdings Inc. and Wendy’s Co. in
market share that year, according to Technomic Inc. The Chicago-
based researcher hasn’t released 2011 figures.  Almost half a century old, Taco Bell was started by Glen
Bell in Downey,  California .  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  bought the taco
restaurant in 1978, a year after acquiring Pizza Hut. Pepsi
later bought the KFC fried-chicken chain and spun off all three
to become Tricon Global Restaurants Inc. in 1997. In 2002,
Tricon became  Yum Brands (YUM) , now based in Louisville,  Kentucky .  During the past decade, the brand has positioned itself as
an affordable option for the young guy who “loves the lower
price points,” said Peter Saleh, a restaurant analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in  New York . Taco Bell has touted value meals
with its “Why Pay More!” slogan and recently advertised a 12-
pack of crunchy tacos for $10.  ‘Younger Crowd’  Last year, the chain received negative publicity when
Beasley Allen, a Montgomery, Alabama-based  law firm , filed a
class action lawsuit claiming Taco Bell didn’t use enough real
beef in its food to label it as such. Chief Executive Officer
 David Novak  called the claim “absolutely false” and said the
restaurant’s seasoned meat is 88 percent real beef. Beasley
Allen dropped the suit.  For a chain that made its name peddling cheap eats in the
wee hours of the morning, a higher-priced menu may not appeal to
the restaurant’s primary customer. The Taco Bell frequenter is
an 18- to 24-year-old, value-conscious male, says Jeff Bernstein, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New York.  “It’s definitely targeted to a younger crowd,” he said.  Former franchisee Brumagin also is skeptical and says
introducing somewhat fancier, higher-priced food could go the
way of a healthy menu experiment in the mid-’90s that he called
an “abysmal failure.”  Taco Bell is clearly taking cues from its higher-end rival.  “Chipotle is an opportunity because what it’s done has
expanded the trial and usage of Mexican food,” Creed said at
the investor meeting in New York Dec. 7. “It’s got people to
believe they can pay $8 for a bowl or a burrito.”  Taco Bell can make food “every bit as good as Chipotle,”
he said, and instead charge less than $5.  Hot Fritos  While Chipotle’s $7 or $8 burritos include ingredients such
as naturally raised pork seasoned with thyme and juniper
berries, Taco Bell’s menu now features the 99-cent Beefy Crunch
Burrito that’s topped with Flamin’ Hot Fritos.  Steve Ells, a classically trained chef opened the first
Chipotle in 1993. Since then, the company has grown to more than
1,100 U.S. locations while the menu has stayed relatively simple
and consistent. Taco Bell has about 5,600 U.S. stores. While
Chipotle’s shares more than tripled from the end of 2009 through
last year, Yum gained 69 percent during the same time and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index rose 67 percent.  Yum  advanced  2 percent to a record close of $60.92 in New
York today. The shares rose 20 percent in 2011.  Other fast-food chains have successfully remade themselves.
 Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s gradually changed into a
somewhat more adult and upscale restaurant by introducing McCafe
espresso drinks and splashing its stores with earth tones, said
John Kokoska, a managing director at BDO Consulting Corporate
Advisors LLC in Atlanta who advises restaurants.  KFC Focus  Such an undertaking hasn’t been a priority at Yum, which
has been more focused on expanding its KFC and Pizza Hut chains
in China.  Since 2005, when Yum began reporting its China division
separately, it has more than tripled  revenue  there while
increasing store count more than 80 percent to about 4,200,
topping McDonald’s 1,300 locations in the nation.  “Investors are in the stock as a play on  China ,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in an
interview. Instead of a place for a quick, cheap meal, Yum
restaurants in China are considered a nicer place for a family
to go out for dinner, he said.  Taco Bell, meanwhile, hasn’t expanded much overseas. Yum
has said it plans to sell hundreds of its U.S. stores to
franchise owners. While the chain has stores in 21 countries,
the U.S. accounts for 96 percent of its locations.  “It’s the tale of two cities,” John Gordon, principal at
Pacific Management Consulting Group, a restaurant adviser in  San
Diego , said in an interview. Yum has “lost the capability to be
able to run and work U.S. stores.”  Strategy Details  In the coming months Taco Bell will “be announcing further
details” about the menu and strategy, Rob Poetsch, a Taco Bell
spokesman, said in an interview.  Taco Bell in 2010 generated about $400 million in operating
profit, about 60 percent of the company’s U.S. total and 23
percent of its global earnings by that measure.  Yum has sought to sell franchises back to U.S. store
owners, in part to minimize its risk from rising raw-ingredient
prices, Gordon said. In the quarter ended Sept. 3, U.S.
restaurant margin narrowed to 12.1 percent from 14.4 percent
last year, Yum said in a  filing .  Turning around a fast-food chain with fancy new menu items
can be pricey, especially for franchised store owners, said
Kokoska, the BDO consultant.  “It might mean kitchen equipment where the franchisee has
to cough up the cash,” he said. “It isn’t just a matter of
buying better ingredients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  