-- Airbus Production Increase Strains GKN Suppliers’ Funding Need
-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 2012-01-11T12:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/airbus-production-increase-strains-gkn-suppliers-funding-need.html
GKN Plc (GKN)  said some of its suppliers
are struggling to secure the financing needed to step up
production of components for planes including  Airbus SAS (EAD) ’s
delayed A350 model as bank credit for new equipment dries up.  While GKN’s own ramp-up plans are on track, with a second
set of A350 wing spars and trailing edges due to be delivered
this month, the limited access to capital of its suppliers is of
some concern, according to aerospace unit chief Marcus Bryson.  Airbus pushed back the A350’s service entry by as much as
six months on Nov. 10, the project’s second delay, saying some
parts were arriving late. Redditch, England-based GKN also
supplies wing structures and engine housings for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
787, which began deliveries three years late in September.  “If you talk to some of the supply chain they do find it
difficult in the current climate to get access to finance from
the banks,” Bryson said in an interview in London. “We know the
ones to watch and work closely with them. It’s not that many.”  Some banks are holding back on lending to reduce risk and
maintain higher reserves, potentially threatening production,
Airbus Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said in October.  GKN employs about 200 engineers in designing and developing
large-scale structures for the A350 at Airbus’s former site in
Filton,  England , which it bought in 2009. Its own acceleration
to peak production is fully costed, according to Bryson.  “We’ve already calculated what we need to spend to reach
capacity,” he said. “We’re on track and it’s all planned out. I
think they would like us to build a bit faster but at this stage
of the program engineering-definition is still coming through.”  Airline Impact  Airbus and Boeing are also making heavier demands on
suppliers as they lift production of older models, with the
European company boosting output of its A320 from 38 a month in
August to 42 by the second half of 2012. A further acceleration
to 44 may be made if the supply chain is deemed able to cope.  Assembly of the A350 will start by the end of 2012, rather
than late last year as originally slated, according to Toulouse,
France-based Airbus’s latest schedule. Qatar Airways Ltd. is the
No. 1 A350 customer and the first airline due to get the jet.  GKN makes components for all of Airbus’s planes, including
the A330 and discontinued A340 wide-body models, the A380
superjumbo and the A400M military transport.  Bryson said he’s also concerned that any further impact
from the euro crisis on the international banking system could
limit financing available to airlines, jeopardizing contracts.  “An order-book might look great, but if you’ve got
customers that can’t raise the capital to buy the planes that
would be a problem,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in  London  at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  