-- Allianz Said to Consider Converting Commerzbank Participation
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-01-11T17:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/allianz-said-to-consider-converting-commerzbank-participation.html
Allianz SE (ALV) , the largest  shareholder 
in  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  after the German government, may convert its
holding to help the country’s second-largest lender meet capital
goals set by the European Banking Authority, said two people
with knowledge of the matter.  The German insurer is considering turning the 750 million-
euro ($951 million) non-voting stake into a form accepted by the
EBA as core Tier 1 capital to help Commerzbank avoid a second
state bailout, said the people, who requested anonymity as the
matter is private. Allianz acquired the so-called silent
participation after it  sold  Dresdner Bank to Commerzbank in
2008.  Commerzbank, based in  Frankfurt , must tell  Europe ’s top
banking regulator this month how it plans to raise 5.3 billion
euros by the end of June as part of efforts to restore
confidence in the financial sector. Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Blessing , who spent three years trying to free the lender
from  government aid  needed to survive the 2008 credit crunch,
has pledged to avoid another bailout by selling assets, lowering
costs and retaining profits.  “We believe Commerzbank may have found innovative and
organic ways to cover” the shortfall, Nomura Holdings Inc.
analysts said in a note to clients yesterday. “We may still see
a smaller capital raise than our previous estimate” of 1
billion to 2 billion euros, they said.  Allianz has yet to decide on helping Commerzbank, said one
of the people. Reuters reported the Munich-based insurer’s
considerations earlier. Spokesmen for the companies declined to
comment.  Eurohypo Disposal  In December, the EBA told Commerzbank and five other German
banks to raise a total 13.1 billion euros to reach a core Tier 1
capital ratio of 9 percent or more based on data from the end of
September.  Commerzbank is unlikely to be able to close its capital gap
without state aid, “considering the difficulties in returning
to the market for additional equity and or disposing of
Eurohypo,” Citigroup Inc. analysts said in a note yesterday,
referring to the bank’s commercial-property and public-finance
lender.  Allianz, which owns a 9.5 percent stake in Commerzbank
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, agreed in January 2009
to provide a silent participations of 750 million euros to
 Dresdner Bank  to help strengthen Commerzbank’s capital following
its  acquisition  of Frankfurt-based Dresdner from Allianz. The
Munich insurer gets a 9 percent coupon on the investment, it
said in its 2008 annual report.  Silent participation is a form of non-voting capital used
in  Germany  that is not accepted by the EBA as core Tier 1
capital. They were used by the country’s government and states
to recapitalize lenders hit by the financial crisis.  The German government owns 25 percent of Commerzbank as a
result of the 2008 bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich  at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  