-- Insurers Lifting Rates as Storms Defy Models
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-01-11T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/allstate-among-insurers-lifting-rates-as-storms-defy-models.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , Travelers Cos. and
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. are among insurers
raising homeowners’ rates after damage from natural disasters
defied industry projections.  Allstate, the No. 2 U.S. home insurer, boosted prices for
its namesake brand of home policies by 5.6 percent in the nine
months through Sept. 30 and has said more increases are coming.
Travelers is raising rates after re-evaluating U.S. storm risk.
State Farm, the largest U.S. home insurer, has charged
homeowners more nationwide for three straight years.  Near-record-low  interest rates  cut insurers’ investment
income, and tornadoes, wildfires and  Hurricane Irene  increased
claims costs in the U.S. last year. The industry averaged annual
underwriting losses on homeowners’ policies in the decade ended
in 2010, according to data compiled by the  National Association
of Insurance Commissioners .  Homeowners’ coverage “has been really underpriced,” said
Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., in a
phone interview last month. “If you go back 10 years, these
businesses were loss leaders.” Personal auto coverage has been
profitable for insurers during that period, NAIC data show.  Catastrophes worldwide led to a record $105 billion in
insured losses last year, according to a report this month from
 Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer. About $25 billion of
those losses came from U.S. storms, including the tornado that
leveled parts of Joplin,  Missouri , in May. Irene, the first
hurricane to make landfall in the U.S. since 2008, caused $7
billion in insured losses.  State Farm  Policyholder-owned State Farm raised homeowners’ rates 3.6
percent last year, Dick Luedke, a spokesman for the Bloomington,
Illinois-based insurer said in a phone interview. That follows a
7.3 percent increase in 2010 and a 9.7 percent increase in 2009.  Allstate boosted homeowners’ rates for its namesake brand
in 37 states in the first three quarters of 2011, compared with
32 in all of 2010, according to regulatory filings. Chief
Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson , 54, has said that the company
is acting as if increased weather-related losses are part of a
permanent shift in climate patterns.  “Rates were not adequate” for homeowners’ insurance, he
said at an investor conference in New York last month. “They
are not adequate for us and the rest of the industry. We are
getting little pushback from regulators or customers, for that
matter, on raising pricing in the marketplace. So there are more
rate increases to come.”  Travelers’ CEO Jay Fishman, 59, has also said he is pushing
for rate increases after tornadoes last year fueled a  second-
quarter loss  and forced the company to assess whether its models
understated storm risk.  ‘Something Different’  “We can either make the decision that we’re really smart
and we’ve been unlucky, or we can make the decision that
something different is happening,” he said on an October
conference call with analysts to discuss the New York-based
insurer’s quarterly results.  U.S. state regulators approved about 1,500 requests to
raise rates for policies that protect homes last year, according
to data compiled by Perr & Knight, a  Santa Monica , California-
based consulting firm that tracks the records. That adds to more
than 3,700 in the prior two years. Companies must seek approval
from states to make most changes on policies sold to consumers.  Allstate, based in Northbrook,  Illinois , has also moved to
change terms of some policies. The insurer started a program in
 Oklahoma  that limits payouts for customers’ with older roofs,
Wilson said at an investor conference in December.  More Increases Coming  Some carriers in  Georgia  have refused to cover homes with
roofs older than 10 years, said Victor Hamby, a partner at  Hamby
& Aloisio Inc. , an independent insurance agency in Atlanta. His
clients faced rate increases averaging about 18 percent last
year and he expects them to continue rising this year and next.
He attributes the increases to underwriters needing to recoup
losses and a new state insurance commissioner who has sped up
the process for approving rate changes.  “The underwriting standards have really tightened up,” he
said in a phone interview last week. “It’s not like you can
jump from one carrier to another and they’ve got the sale of the
day going on down the street.”  Insurers are expanding the area they consider at risk for
large tornado and hail losses beyond  Texas , Oklahoma and  Kansas ,
said Howard Botts, executive vice president at  CoreLogic Inc. ’s
spatial solutions business, who creates natural hazard databases
for the industry. The U.S. Gulf Coast,  Minnesota  and  Wisconsin 
are among areas now considered at higher risk, he said.  “It often takes catastrophic events, or large loss events,
to get the attention of senior management,” Botts said in a
phone interview. Insurers are “much more sensitive to losses
now that they can’t offset that with their investments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  