-- American Auto Market Preferred for Profit as Sales in China Slow
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/american-auto-market-preferred-for-profit-as-sales-in-china-slow.html
Three years after sales  tumbled  to
the lowest in more than a quarter-century, the U.S. auto market
may be emerging as the safest bet for predictable and profitable
growth as  China , India and Brazil slow.  “The U.S. is now the high-growth market in the world as
much as India or China,” said  Xavier Mosquet , senior partner
for  Boston Consulting Group  in Detroit and an adviser in 2009 to
the government rescues of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group
LLC. “The worst thing five years ago was to be a U.S. automaker
or supplier. Now it’s the best thing to be.”  U.S. car and light truck sales probably rose at a faster
pace than China’s vehicle sales last year for the first time
since at least 1998, fueled by a recovery in  consumer confidence .
That’s a reversal from 2009, when plunging sales helped push
Detroit-based GM and  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler into
bankruptcy along with dozens of their suppliers. Automakers
closed plants in the U.S. and cut production as China passed it
to become the world’s largest car and truck bazaar.  Now the U.S. is growing while sales are moderating in
Brazil, India and China and will probably drop in debt-stricken
 Europe , Mosquet said in an interview Jan. 9 at the North
American International Auto Show in Detroit.  “As I look around the world, my greatest confidence is
about the U.S.,” said Mustafa Mohatarem, chief economist for GM,
which retook global auto sales leadership from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
last year. In giving his outlook for 2012 at the Society of
Automotive Analysts’ Jan. 8 conference in  Detroit , he said “the
most surprising thing to many will be that the U.S. will once
again be in the leading position.”  U.S. Growth  U.S. light-vehicle deliveries climbed 10 percent, or
almost 1.19 million, to 12.8 million in 2011, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. That’s the second consecutive annual
increase of at least 10 percent after the industry’s 27-year low
of 10.4 million sales in 2009. Deliveries may rise about 5.6
percent this year to 13.5 million, the average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Deliveries in China may have risen 3 percent to 5 percent
last year, the smallest increase in at least 12 years, according
to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, which is
scheduled to release annual results this week. Based on 2010
sales of 18 million vehicles, the total may have grown by less
than 1 million. Before 2011, growth in China outpaced the U.S.
every year according to CAAM figures stretching back to 1998.  “The growth for the U.S. will be solid next year,” said
Henner Lehne, the Frankfurt-based director of global light-
vehicle forecasting at IHS Automotive, a researcher included in
the survey whose 2012 estimate matches the average.  China,  India  Slow  The Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers yesterday
lowered its forecast for annual local passenger-car sales for
the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012, saying they may be
unchanged to up 2 percent. Car sales rose 4.3 percent to
1.95 million in the calendar year, the industry group said
yesterday.  Demand in India, the world’s second-most populous country,
slowed amid accelerating inflation and record-high gas prices.
That prompted the central bank to raise  interest rates  and damp
sales of cars in a country where about 80 percent of purchases
are funded by loans. The industry group in October called for
sales growth of 2 percent to 4 percent.  China’s growth slowed last year from a 32 percent increase
in 2010 after its central bank raised borrowing costs to fight
inflation and the government phased out subsidies, rebates and a
sales-tax break on vehicle purchases.  The Chinese auto market faces “a slowdown relative to
their recent past” in 2012 amid changes to the nation’s once-
in-a-decade political leadership this year, GM’s Mohatarem told
analysts and reporters.  Brazil  Outlook  Sales in Brazil,  South America ’s biggest economy, will rise
4.5 percent this year to 3.58 million vehicles, the country’s
dealership association, or Fenabrave, said in a Jan. 4 statement.
Deliveries increased 2.9 percent last year, Fenabrave said.  U.S. sales may top analysts’ estimates, said  Mike Jackson ,
chief executive officer of AutoNation Inc., the country’s
largest retailer of new cars and trucks.  AutoNation projects sales may rise to about 14 million next
year. Industrywide deliveries will be boosted by better
selection of vehicle as Japanese automakers recover from last
year’s tsunami, Jackson said in an interview.  Available financing and the aging fleet of light vehicles
on U.S. roads should drive more sales, said Jackson, whose
company is based in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida . The average
passenger car or truck has been on the road for more than 10
years.  “The vehicles on the roads in America are just plain old
and wearing out,” Jackson said in a Jan. 9 interview. “We’re
going to take another step in the recovery this year and we’re
on a journey back to 15.5 million to 16 million units” as soon
as 2013, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Detroit at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  