-- Amtrak to Order Electric Locomotives This Year
-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o   a n d   J o A n n e   N o r t o n
-- 2012-01-11T16:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/amtrak-to-start-building-70-electric-locomotives-in-2012-plan.html
Amtrak  will build the first of 70
planned electric locomotives and 130 long-distance cars this
year to update its fleet, Chief Executive Officer Joseph Boardman said.  The U.S. national passenger railroad plans to extend
electronic ticketing to all trains this year and improve service
in the Northeast Corridor between  Washington  and Boston,
Boardman told reporters on a conference call today.  “I see us as having a great future because we carry more
and more people, our revenues are up and we’re going to be able
to be more efficient,” Boardman said.  The equipment purchases, under two contracts worth $764
million, “show our commitment to long-distance service,” he
said. The U.S. unit of Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE)  is building the
locomotives and CAF USA, the U.S. unit of  Construcciones y
Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles SA  of Beasain,  Spain , has the rail-car
contract.  Amtrak will do advanced design and engineering this year
and start construction in 2013 to increase top speed on a 24-
mile segment of track in  New Jersey  to 160 miles per hour from
135 mph, Boardman said.  That project is being financed by a U.S. grant of $450
million, or $4.5 million per second of reduced travel time in
that stretch. Amtrak has said it’s a necessary first step toward
increasing speeds elsewhere in the Northeast.  Hudson River Tunnel  The new locomotives will replace ones now operating in the
Northeast, starting in 2013, Boardman said. Trains in the
Northeast Corridor and between Philadelphia and Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , will be able to boost top speeds to 125 mph from
110 mph, he said.  Amtrak, based in Washington, is “not fearful” of calls by
Representative John Mica, the Florida Republican who is chairman
of the U.S. House transportation committee, for the private
sector to take a lead role in developing bullet-train capability
between Washington and Boston, Boardman said.  Congress cut assistance to Amtrak to $1.42 billion this
fiscal year from $1.48 billion in fiscal 2011. Amtrak will
continue infrastructure improvements after the reduction,
Boardman said. The railroad’s budget includes $15 million toward
building a second tunnel under the Hudson River to increase the
number of Amtrak and New Jersey Transit trains serving  New
York ’s  Penn Station .  “Uncertainty about federal funding and budget cuts is not
new to Amtrak,” Boardman said. “We will not lose sight of the
Amtrak our customers expect us to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net ;
JoAnne Norton in Washington at 
 jnorton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  