-- Romney Film Stretches Truth While Taking Comments Out of Context
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-11T05:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/anti-romney-film-stretches-truth-while-taking-his-comments-out-of-context.html
A 28-minute film that attacks
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney for eliminating
jobs at times stretches the truth and takes some reports out of
context or selectively edits them.  The film, bankrolled by supporters of rival candidate  Newt Gingrich  and scheduled to be released today, focuses on Romney’s
work as chief executive officer of  Bain Capital  LLC, a Boston-
based private equity firm.  The film, “When Mitt Romney Came to Town,” focuses on
Bain’s dealings with UniMac, KB Toys Inc., American Pad & Paper
or Ampad, and  DDi Corp. (DDIC)   A review by Bloomberg News shows that the film, while often
relying on news accounts, doesn’t always give a complete
picture. It includes comments from unidentified people who say
they previously worked for Bain-owned companies. Their
identities couldn’t immediately be independently confirmed.  “We’re filling in the gaps of the 20 years of Bain that
nobody knows about,” said  Rick Tyler , an adviser to Winning Our
Future, a pro-Gingrich political action committee that funded
the film. “People can look at it and decide for themselves.”  Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, said of the film, ‘‘This
is the type of criticism we’ve come to expect from
President Obama,” not Republicans. Unlike President  Barack Obama  and Gingrich, she said, “ Mitt Romney  spent his career in
business and knows what it will take to turn around our nation’s
bad economy.”  An outside spokesman for Bain said he hadn’t seen the film
and couldn’t comment.  Following are some findings from the Bloomberg review:  DDi Bankruptcy  The Claims: The film accuses Romney and Bain of turning
“the misfortunes of others into their own enormous financial
gains,” pointing to electronics component manufacturer DDi,
based in Anaheim,  California . The film says Bain fired employees
to boost profits. Romney sold his stock in the company, DDi
filed for bankruptcy and eliminated 2,100 jobs, it says.  Background: DDi filed for bankruptcy in 2003 after Bain
sold shares in the company, generating at least $85.5 million,
and billed $10 million in management fees. The  Orange County
Register  reported that 2,100 jobs were eliminated.  The Facts: The film doesn’t mention that DDi since emerged
from bankruptcy and now has 1,600 employees in four states and
 Canada . DDi filed for bankruptcy because it was a victim of the
dot-com crash, said DDi Chief Executive Officer Mikel Williams
in an interview.  NPR Report  The Claim: The film runs an audio clip of a radio report in
such a way that it sounds as if the reporter has concluded that
“Bain reaped millions from companies that sent jobs overseas,
closed factories or plunged into bankruptcy.”  Background: NPR aired a story last Oct. 6 about Romney and
Bain Capital.  The Facts: The film was edited to leave out the first half
of the sentence. The full sentence said: “Romney’s opponents
have seized on those examples where things went south, places
where Bain reaped millions from companies that sent jobs
overseas, closed factories or plunged into bankruptcy.”  KB Debt  The Claims: After buying the company in 2000, Romney and
Bain “loaded KB Toys with millions in debt then used the money
to repurchase Bain stock.”  Background: KB, previously owned by  Big Lots Inc. (BIG) , was
taken private in 2000 in a $305 million buyout by Bain. In 2002,
KB’s directors approved a $121 million stock redemption from
which Bain received a payout of $83 million, according to the
Columbus Dispatch. The redemption was funded in part by $66
million in bank loans, according to a report in Forbes.  The Facts: The events reported in the film took place at a
time when Romney said he didn’t have a role managing Bain.
Romney “has not had any active role with any Bain Capital
entity” since retiring in February 1999 to head the organizing
Committee for the Salt Lake City Winter Olympics, according to
his August 2011 financial disclosure filed with the  Federal
Election Commission .  KB’s Demise  The Claims: By 2009, the debt accumulated by KB after Bain
took control “was too great. KB Toys was no more.”  Background: KB closed almost half of its 1,200 stores after
seeking  bankruptcy protection  in 2004. The retailer filed for
bankruptcy again in 2008 and liquidated its remaining 431
stores.  The Facts: A unit of the private equity firm Prentice
Capital Management took a 90 percent stake in KB after it
emerged from bankruptcy the first time in 2005. The company said
market forces, not its debt, were to blame for the first
bankruptcy, according to the Boston Business Journal. The same
weak retail environment that prompted the company to file for
bankruptcy the second time also contributed to the bankruptcy of
other chains such as Linens ‘n Things Inc. and  Circuit City
Stores Inc. (CCTYQ)   Romney Talk  The Claim: Romney is shown saying, “for an economy to
thrive, there are a lot of people who will suffer as a result of
that.”  The Background: The video came from comments Romney made in
April 2010 at Emory University’s business school in Atlanta.
Romney was talking about “creative destruction,” a term
popularized by Austrian economist  Joseph Schumpeter  to describe
how economies evolve to replace old technologies and spur the
creation of new ones.  The Facts: The film doesn’t include comments Romney went on
to make: “It’s important for us as a society to find ways to
help people be able to move through this process of losing a job
in one industry that becomes outmoded, and finding a position in
a new type of industry that is growing.”  Romney Financial Statement  The Claim: The film says Romney’s “own financial statement
shows his personal fortune to be at least a quarter-billion
dollars,” and that “no one knows for sure” how much money he
has. It also says “the bulk” of his money is kept in blind
trusts and overseas bank accounts.  Background: Romney filed a public financial disclosure
report with the Federal Election Commission. Signed on Aug. 12,
2011, the form lists his investment holdings, which are valued
using a range instead of a specific figure.  The Facts: The $250 million net worth figure cited in the
movie is the top range of Romney’s worth. Using the lower
figures in the range given for his investments, Romney could
have assets valued at $190 million. As listed in the filing,
Romney’s net worth is valued between $190 and $250 million, not
“at least” $250 million. Romney also says on the form that he
and his wife, Ann, have kept their assets in a blind trust since
Jan. 1, 2003, and haven’t had control over them. The forms also
don’t show that Romney uses overseas bank accounts, though he
invests in partnerships and funds that have foreign holdings.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  