-- Apple Said to Acquire Israel’s Anobit Technologies for About $390 Million
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-01-11T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/apple-is-said-to-acquire-israeli-component-maker-anobit-for-390-million.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  acquired Anobit
Technologies Ltd. for about $390 million, paying below the price
sought by the Israeli maker of a flash-memory drive part for the
iPhone, people familiar with the purchase said.  Negotiations continued for more than two weeks after
 Israel ’s Calcalist newspaper reported Dec. 20 that Apple bought
Herzliya-based Anobit for as much as $500 million. Apple finally
signed the agreement Jan. 6 to buy the Israeli company,
according to two Anobit shareholders, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because Apple didn’t want details disclosed.  An Apple spokesman confirmed the acquisition Jan. 10 while
declining to comment on the price. “Apple buys smaller
technology companies from time to time and we generally do not
discuss our purpose or plans,” Steve Dowling, a spokesman for
Cupertino, California-based Apple said. Anobit Chief Executive
Officer Ehud Weinstein didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment that was answered by a receptionist.  The deal helps Apple secure  supplies  of a key component for
its top-selling devices. Anobit makes high-performance
controllers used to optimize the memory capabilities inside
products such as the iPhone and iPad. Apple is the world’s
largest buyer of NAND flash memory, accounting for about 23
percent of consumption last quarter, according to a Jan. 6
report from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The Anobit deal is the company’s first acquisition in
Israel, where  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  have established operations.  Microsoft Center  Apple doesn’t typically make multi-billion-dollar
acquisitions like rivals such as Hewlett Packard, Microsoft or
Google. The company has made a series of small acquisitions of
privately-held companies that can bring in new employees or
technology to be integrated into Apple’s products.  Earlier acquisitions include Siri Inc., whose technology
was used for the new voice-control software in the iPhone 4S;
Quattro Wireless Inc., which became Apple’s mobile advertising
platform iAd; music service La La Media Inc.; Poly9, a maker
of mapping technology; and chip companies PA Semi Inc. and
Intrinsity Inc.  Israel, with a population similar in size to  Switzerland ’s
at 7.7 million, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside  North America  after
 China . Israel is also home to the largest number of startups per
capita in the world.  Microsoft opened a research and development center in
Israel in April 2006, according to the Redmond, Washington-based
software maker’s website. Intel, which began operations in
Israel in 1974 with five employees, has 6,600 workers in the
country, according to the chip manufacturer’s website.  Israel Acquisitions  “The acquisition is further proof that Israel’s innovation
overcomes boundaries and that the semiconductors industry is an
innovative and leading field in Israel,” Koby Simana, head of
the Israel Venture Capital Research Center in Tel Aviv said by
phone. “In 2012 we will continue to see mergers and
acquisitions as a central cash flow channel for technology
investors and hope that also IPO opportunities will arise when
international markets will allow.”  CSR Plc (CSR) , the U.K. maker of chips used in Nokia Oyj mobile
phones, completed the acquisition of the Israeli developer Zoran
Corp. on Sept. 1, according to Bloomberg data. Citi Venture
Capital International, a private equity investor and investment
adviser focused on developing markets, paid $307 million in cash
last year for Tel Aviv-based Ness Technologies Inc., an
information technology company.  Anobit had raised $76 million from investors, including
 Battery Ventures  and Pitango Venture Capital, before Jan. 10,
according to an online fact sheet. The Israeli company says its
memory signal processing technology uses proprietary signal-
processing algorithms to improve the performance of flash-memory
chips.  While Apple didn’t acknowledge buying Anobit until Jan. 10,
Israel’s prime minister’s office welcomed the company to the
country in a Dec. 20 post on  Twitter .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  