-- Marguerite Fund Buys Into France’s Largest Solar Park
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-01-11T13:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/marguerite-fund-buys-into-france-s-largest-solar-park-correct-.html
(Corrects third paragraph to switch attribution on scale
of project, fourth paragraph to show proper closing date and
sixth paragraph to show the total target size for the fund.
Story originally ran on Jan. 9.)  An equity fund backed by the
 European Investment Bank  and Germany’s KfW bought about a third
of the largest solar project in France from  EDF Energies
Nouvelles SA. (EEN)   The Luxembourg-based Marguerite Fund, which is also
supported by four other European financial institutions,
acquired 36 megawatts of capacity from the 115-megawatt Toul-
Rosieres solar project in northeastern France, it said in an e-
mailed statement today. The fund said it obtained financing from
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Credit Agricole S.A (ACA) , without giving the
purchase price.  The project, which will be completed in the third quarter,
is the second-largest being built in Europe, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  Solarhybrid AG (SHL) , a German
developer, started to build a 123-megawatt solar park in Italy
last month.  Project financing for the acquisition closed on Dec. 30
with more than 75 percent of gearing, William Pierson, partner
and head of energy at the fund, said by phone. The debt was
obtained “in a very short timeframe in a difficult market at
reasonable terms,” he said. “Now there is further pressure on
pricing.”  Energy Fund  The deal is the second investment from the fund, which
raised 710 million euros ($906 million) in 2010 for energy,
renewables and transport in  Europe . It follows the purchase of
about 9 percent of Thornton Bank, a wind farm off the Belgian
coast, from the  EDF SA (EDF)  unit in December.  Marguerite is seeking to raise funds from other
institutional investors by June to reach a total size of 1.5
billion euros as part of the European Union’s efforts to derive
20 percent of its energy use from renewable sources by 2020.  The fund plans to invest a third of its equity in renewable
energy projects in the region, Pierson said. It’s already in
talks to invest in other solar parks in France and solar thermal
projects in Spain, he said.  EDF EN’s Toul-Rosieres project will cover a former military
air base near Nancy with one and a half million photovoltaic
panels from U.S. manufacturer  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)   The fund acquired the maximum size it could buy in the
project, in which EDF will retain a “significant” part,
Pierson said.  The largest plant in operation in France is the 67-megawatt
Gabardan solar park in the southwest, which was completed by EDF
in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  