-- Harrison Sees ‘Long-Term’ Role as Ackman’s Pick to Lead Canadian Pacific
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-01-11T21:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/harrison-sees-long-term-turnaround-role-as-ackman-s-canadian-pacific-ceo.html
Hunter Harrison,  William Ackman ’s
choice to lead  Canadian Pacific  Railway Ltd., said he would be
willing to stay in the job for as long as it takes to turn
around the least efficient railroad in  North America .  Harrison more than tripled net income during seven years
running  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , using an approach known
as precision railroading, before retiring in 2009. Now, hiring
the 67-year-old as Canadian Pacific’s chief executive officer is
at the center of a turnaround plan by Ackman, whose 14.2 percent
stake makes him the company’s largest investor.  “If the opportunity presents itself I am ready to be in
there for the long term,” Harrison said today in a telephone
interview from his home in Wellington,  Florida .  A tenure of three to five years “is reasonable,” Harrison
said. “Could it be seven and could it be four? Yeah. My
commitment would be that I would be there as long as I’m needed
to turn the organization in the right direction and build some
sustainability. This is not some kind of one-time shot to go in
there, do something overnight and then get out.”  Ackman, the founder of New York-based Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, invests in companies he deems undervalued
and seeks changes to improve shareholder returns. He disclosed
his stake in  Canadian Pacific (CP)  in late October and has since
sought to oust CEO Fred Green.  Proxy Fight  Canadian Pacific Chairman John Cleghorn rebuffed Ackman’s
push to replace Green with Harrison in a letter released Jan. 9.
Ackman told Bloomberg News that day he would seek a proxy fight
and that Harrison would be CEO “once we are successful.”
Ackman told the Wall Street Journal earlier this week he will
hold a meeting for shareholders next month.  Harrison said he’s looking forward to the challenge of
turning around Calgary-based Canadian Pacific if Ackman succeeds
in his bid.  “I tried other things, and I missed the work,” Harrison
said in the interview. “This was an opportunity that came along
and was unforeseen. It’s where my focus is, and only there.
Clearly I have made some commitments to Mr. Ackman, and I intend
to live up to my commitments.”  Harrison declined to say how long it might take for
 Canada ’s second-largest railroad to boost earnings, pointing to
his tenure at  Canadian National  and Illinois Central Corp.
Montreal-based Canadian National, Canada’s largest railroad,
bought Illinois Central in 1998.  Precision Railroading  When Harrison retired from Canadian National, the operating
ratio, a measure of efficiency, had been cut to 67.3 from 76 at
the end of 2002, filings show. Canadian Pacific’s ratio was 75.8
in 2011’s third quarter, and 77.6 for all of 2010, according to
Bloomberg Industries data.  “If you look at IC in the past, and CN in the past, and
you look at the timeframes in the improvement, it should start
to give some indication” of how long Canadian Pacific might
need, Harrison said. “I’ve always said that scheduled precision
railroading is applicable to any railroad. It’s a little
premature” to make more specific comments, he said.  Canadian Pacific’s U.S. shares rose 0.5 percent to $67.97
at 4:02 p.m. in  New York , while Canadian National gained 0.9
percent to $78.57 in its third straight advance.  Harrison said he’s “bullish” about railroads, which he
predicted will take market share from trucking companies as
consumers grow more conscious about factors such as energy costs
and greenhouse-gas emissions.  “As an outsider over the last couple of years watching
what has taken place, I think the industry has gotten
stronger,” he said. “The industry will continue to grow. From
an energy standpoint or an environmental standpoint, all those
things lead to rail. In my view, railroads will play a bigger
part in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  