-- Asian Currencies Weaken as European Debt Crisis Outweighs U.S. Jobs Data
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-01-11T09:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/asian-currencies-weaken-as-european-debt-crisis-outweighs-u-s-jobs-data.html
Most Asian currencies fell, led by
 South Korea ’s won, as concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen
countered an improvement in U.S. jobs data.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index dropped after
 David Riley , London-based head of the sovereign-debt unit at
 Fitch Ratings , said yesterday that  Italy  faces a “significant
chance” of a downgrade. Malaysia’s export growth slowed for a
second month in November, a government report showed today,
after the U.S. Labor Department said employers took on 4.15
million workers in November, 107,000 more than the prior month.  “It’s difficult for investors to bet on riskier assets,
just relying on positive economic data from the U.S.,” said Lee Jung Hyun, a Seoul-based currency trader at Industrial Bank of
 Korea . “There’s tension in the market regarding Europe.”  The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,158.78 per dollar in Seoul
and Malaysia’s ringgit weakened 0.2 percent to 3.1390, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Indonesia’s rupiah was little
changed at 9,158 after earlier falling as much as 0.7 percent.  Indonesia’s central bank holds its interest-rate review
tomorrow, at which 13 of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast the reference rate will be kept at 6 percent. Five
predict a quarter of a percentage point cut.  China Slowdown  Capital flows into Asia are expected to fluctuate more than
they did in 2011 because of concerns about Europe’s debt crisis
and China’s economic slowdown, Bank of Thailand Assistant
Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said yesterday.  Malaysia ’s
exports grew at the slowest pace in four months in November,
today’s data showed, after China reported yesterday that imports
increased by the least in two years in December.  Shipments from Malaysia rose 8 percent from a year earlier,
after gaining a revised 15.4 percent in October, according to
the trade ministry. Industrial production climbed 1.8 percent,
the least since July, data showed yesterday. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey was for a 3.5 percent gain.  “Malaysia’s growth is likely to get slower,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based senior currency analyst at
Malayan Banking Bhd.  Thailand’s baht approached a 16-month low after
international investors sold $57 million more local shares than
they bought yesterday, according to exchange data. The central
bank will scale back efforts to control the  exchange rate  even
as it predicts volatility in the baht will rise, Pongpen said.
The baht slipped 0.2 percent to 31.73 per dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 31.83 on Jan. 9,
the weakest level since August 2010.  Taiwan Dollar Rallies  “For now, investors remain conservative about putting
money into riskier assets,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief
trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “There’s some optimism about the
 U.S. economy , but  Europe ’s problems haven’t been solved yet.”  Taiwan’s dollar rose to the strongest level in more than
two months on speculation President Ma Ying-jeou will be re-
elected this weekend. Tsai Ing-wen, chairwoman of the opposition
 Democratic Progressive Party  will contest Ma, who is chairman of
the Kuomintang party, on Jan. 14.  The island’s dollar gained 0.2 percent to NT$29.999,
according to Taipei Forex Inc. It touched NT$29.904, the
strongest level since Nov. 1. Overseas investors bought $318
million more local equities than they sold yesterday, the
biggest net inflows since Dec. 1, according to exchange data.  China’s yuan was little changed at 6.3155 per dollar as U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  prepares to hold talks
with Premier Wen Jiabao in Beijing today. The Treasury
Department said in a report two weeks ago that the yuan was
“substantially undervalued” and the U.S. will “press for
policy changes that yield greater exchange-rate flexibility.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso was little changed at 43.99
against the greenback, while Singapore’s dollar lost 0.2 percent
to S$1.2914. India’s rupee climbed 0.1 percent to 51.6513.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  