-- Asian Stocks Rise as U.S. Optimism Overshadows European Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-01-11T11:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/asian-stocks-rise-as-u-s-economic-optimism-overshadows-european-concerns.html
Asian  stocks  advanced for a third
day, with the regional benchmark index heading for its highest
close in a week, as optimism about the  U.S. economy  tempered
concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a maker of building materials
that gets most of its sales in the U.S., climbed 3 percent in
Sydney.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , which supplies liquid-crystal
displays to Nokia Oyj and Dell Inc., gained 4.4 percent in
Taipei.  China  Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. fell 3.5 percent amid
concern competition will increase among mainland telecoms.  “There are more positive signs particularly on
employment” and  consumer spending  in the U.S., saidStephen Halmarick, Sydney-based head of investment markets research at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which oversees
about $150 billion. “The outlook in the U.S. is for modest
growth this year, and that’s better than Europe. Expectations
are Europe will be in a recession.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  added 0.2 percent to 116.35 as
of 8:01 p.m. in Tokyo, having swung between gains and losses at
least eight times. About three shares rose for every two that
fell on the measure. The gauge advanced 0.9 percent last week as
manufacturing growth from China to the U.S. bolstered confidence
in the global economy.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index increased 0.9 percent, while
Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.3 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index added 0.8 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index
lost 0.4 percent.  China Inflation  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  decreased 0.4 percent,
snapping a three-day rally, on concern inflation will hamper the
government’s ability to ease lending curbs. A report due
tomorrow will probably show consumer prices rose 4 percent in
December, according to analysts’ estimates.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today, erasing losses of as much as 0.3 percent. The
gauge rose 0.9 percent in  New York  yesterday as global equities
rallied amid bets that China will ease monetary policy to spur
growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  Exporters advanced as U.S. employers hired 4.15 million
workers in November, 107,000 more than in the prior month, the
Labor Department said yesterday. A survey by Chief Executive
magazine showed confidence among American CEOs rose last month
to the highest level since May.  James Hardie  rose 3 percent to A$7.12 in Sydney. AU
Optronics climbed 4.4 percent to NT$14.30 in Taipei.  LG Display
Co. (034220) , the world’s second-largest LCD maker by sales, gained 2.7
percent to 26,800 won in Seoul.  Europe Risk  “The strong outlook and underpinnings of the U.S. economy
are much more important to the Asian market outlook than
European uncertainty,” said Sandy Mehta, Hong Kong-based chief
executive officer of Value Investment Principals Ltd. “We think
the Europe situation remains difficult and presents risk, but
much of this is already discounted by investors and the
situation will be more stable by mid-year.”  Germany’s economic growth slowed last year to 3 percent as
the sovereign debt crisis damped export demand and Spanish
industrial production shrank by the most since Oct. 2009,
reports showed today. Spain will auction as much as 5 billion
euros ($6.4 billion) of bonds tomorrow, while Italy is scheduled
to sell 12 billion euros of bills. Germany will auction 4
billion euros of five-year notes today.  Raw material producers advanced after the  London Metals
Exchange Index (LMEX) , which tracks prices of six primary metals
including aluminum and copper, rose for a third day yesterday.
Aluminum prices may rise more than 6 percent by the end of the
quarter as processing companies replenish inventory to meet
demand, said Vedanta Resources Plc, India’s biggest producer.  Indian Retailers  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
increased 1.5 percent to A$36.18 in Sydney.  Aluminum Corp. of
China Ltd. , the nation’s No. 1 supplier of the light metal,
climbed 2.3 percent to HK$3.61. Hindalco Industries Ltd.,
India’second-largest aluminum producer, jumped 5 percent to
129.35 rupees.  Indian retailers rallied after the government removed a
limit on foreign investment in single-brand store chains, paving
the way for international players such as Starbucks Corp. and
Ikea to operate in the country without a local partner.  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , India’s largest retailer,
climbed 6.2 percent to 155.9 rupees. Clothier  Provogue India
Ltd. (PROV)  jumped 10 percent to 27.05 rupees.  Apple’s iPhones  Chinese phone companies declined today amid concern
increasing competition will hurt profit as China Telecom Corp.,
the nation’s third-largest carrier, moves closer to getting
government approval to offer Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  China Unicom, the mainland’s only iPhone distributor, sank
3.5 percent to HK$15.86. China Telecom lost 1.4 percent to
HK$4.22.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 17 percent in 2011 as
China took steps to cool its  property market  and Europe
struggled to resolve its debt crisis. The  S&P 500 Index  broke
even for the year and the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index dropped 11
percent. Stocks in the Asian gauge were valued at 12.2 times
 estimated earnings  on average as of yesterday, compared with
12.3 times for the S&P 500 and 10 times for the Stoxx 600.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the utility at the center of the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear disaster, declined 6.1 percent to 202
yen. Tepco, as the company is known, is in talks with banks to
borrow as much as 2 trillion yen ($26 billion) to help stave off
bankruptcy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  