-- Avenue Capital Raises $2.1 Billion for Europe Distressed Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-01-11T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/avenue-capital-raises-2-1-billion-for-europe-distressed-fund.html
Avenue Capital  Group, the
distressed-debt firm co-founded by  Marc Lasry , has raised about
$2.1 billion for its second European fund, according to an
investor update.  The Avenue  Europe  Special Situations Fund II seeks to take
advantage of opportunities fueled by Europe’s leveraged
corporate debt market and the region’s sovereign-debt crisis,
the New York-based firm said in marketing materials issued in
April. The fund will be capped at $2.5 billion, according to a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  Avenue Capital is among a number of firms looking to invest
in distressed European debt.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
New York-based private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , has been
marketing a fund to purchase nonperforming loans in Europe.
Davidson Kempner Capital Management LLC, the New York-based
hedge fund, is raising its first private-equity fund focused on
distressed investments.  Kathleen Deveny, a spokeswoman for Avenue Capital, declined
to comment on fundraising.  The new fund, which will be managed by the firm’s London-
based unit, will target northern European countries, including
the U.K.,  Germany , Ireland,  Belgium  and the Netherlands, as well
as Scandinavian nations, according to the marketing documents.
It will invest primarily in senior secured debt, equities or
other financial obligations of companies in financial
difficulty.  Previous Fund  The fund had its fourth closing on Dec. 22, according to
the investor update, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. The smallest check investors can write to the fund is 10
million euros ($12.78 million), according to the marketing
materials. The term is five years, with as many as two one-year
extensions.  Avenue Capital’s first European distressed fund raised 1
billion euros in 2008. It was generating an 18.3 percent
internal rate of return and a 1.6 times multiple of the
acquisition cost as of June 30, according to performance data
from the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , an
investor in the fund.  Lasry and his sister, Sonia Gardner, formed Avenue Capital
in 1995. The firm, which managed about $12.1 billion as of Nov.
30, invests in distressed and undervalued debt and equity in the
U.S.,  Asia  and Europe, according to its website. The firm’s
European team managed about $3.3 billion as of that date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  