-- Taxpayer Advocate Calls IRS Budget Cut ‘Most Serious’ Issue
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-11T21:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/taxpayer-advocate-calls-irs-budget-cuts-most-serious-problem.html
An increasing workload for the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service combined with reduced funding for the
agency pose the “most serious problem” facing taxpayers,
according to the national taxpayer advocate.  In her annual report to Congress today, advocate  Nina Olson 
told lawmakers that cutting the IRS’s budget while making
frequent changes to the U.S. tax code poses difficulties for the
agency in enforcing tax laws and collecting revenue. Lawmakers
agreed last month to cut the agency’s budget by 2.5 percent for
fiscal 2012.  “The overriding challenge facing the IRS is that its
workload has grown significantly in recent years while its
funding is being cut,” Olson said in a press release. “This is
causing the IRS to resort to shortcuts that undermine
fundamental taxpayer rights and harm taxpayers and at the same
time reduces the IRS’s ability to deliver on its core mission of
raising revenue.”  The IRS’s budget struggles reflect differences between the
Obama administration and congressional Republicans. Obama has
pressed for an increase in the agency’s budget so it can help
implement the 2010 health-care law. Most Republicans are opposed
to that law and many support lower corporate and individual tax
rates.  Michelle Eldridge, an IRS spokeswoman, said the budget cuts
won’t hurt the agency’s relationship with taxpayers.  ‘Without Basis’  “The link described in the report between a challenging
budget environment and alleged erosions in taxpayer rights is
inaccurate and without basis in fact,” Eldridge said in a
statement.  Olson operates as an autonomous figure within the IRS,
working on behalf of taxpayers to resolve conflicts with the
agency. Her report is prepared independently and submitted to
Congress under a 1998 law that expanded taxpayers’ rights when
dealing with the IRS.  Representative Charles Boustany, a Louisiana Republican and
chairman of the Ways and Means oversight subcommittee, said
Olson’s report highlights the need to overhaul the U.S.  tax
code .  The report “provides a glimpse into the challenges facing
taxpayers as they struggle with a broken tax code,” he said in
a statement.  The IRS responded to the budget cuts in November by
offering buyouts to 5,400 employees. Doug Shulman, the IRS
commissioner, said reducing the agency’s budget will prevent it
from collecting the revenue needed to narrow the  U.S. budget
deficit .  ‘Pretty Unique’  “We’re pretty unique since we actually raise the funds
needed to run the government,” Shulman said Nov. 8 at a
conference sponsored by the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants in Washington. “If you’re going to have a
conversation about the deficit, you shouldn’t cut our budget.”  The U.S. tax code has become more complex as Congress makes
temporary changes that come up for renewal with regularity.
Lawmakers agreed in December to extend a 2 percentage point
 payroll  tax cut through February so they can have more time to
debate a yearlong extension. Congress also will revisit the
expiring 2001 and 2003 tax cuts at the end of this year.  Such changes make it tougher for taxpayers to figure out
what they owe and complicate the IRS’s collection efforts, the
report said.  “Frequent and late-year tax law changes add to the IRS’s
workload and increase taxpayer burden,” according to the
report.  Olson said the IRS is working to prevent  tax fraud . An
internal computer system detected more than 1 million tax
returns in 2011 that might have been fraudulent, a 72 percent
increase from 2010, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  