-- Baht Approaches 16-Month Low After Funds Reduce Share Holdings
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-01-11T02:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/baht-approaches-16-month-low-after-funds-reduce-share-holdings.html
Thailand’s baht approached its
weakest level in 16 months after international investors cut
holdings of the nation’s equities.  Government bonds  were steady.  Global funds sold $57 million more local shares than they
bought yesterday, their biggest net sales since Dec. 15,
according to exchange data. The baht has lost 0.4 percent this
year as concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen countered
optimism the  U.S. economy  is recovering.  “For now, investors remain conservative about putting
money into riskier assets,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief
trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “There is some optimism about the
U.S. economy, but Europe’s problems haven’t been solved yet.”  The baht dropped 0.1 percent to 31.69 per dollar as of 8:32
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 31.83 on Jan. 9, the weakest level since August
2010.  The central bank plans to scale back efforts to regulate
the  exchange rate  even as baht volatility will increase this
year, Assistant Governor Pongpen Ruengvirayudh said yesterday.
Reining in intervention will lessen the “burden” of the
central bank, she said, noting that exporters and importers have
become more adept at managing exchange-rate risk.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in December at the
fastest pace in six months and the  unemployment rate  dropped to
the lowest level in almost three years, reports showed this
month.  The yield on the Thai government’s 3.25 percent bonds due
June 2017 was unchanged at 3.01 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  