-- Bank of China, Six Others Said to Mull Borneo Lumbung Loan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-01-11T03:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/bank-of-china-six-others-said-to-mull-borneo-lumbung-loan-1-.html
Bank of China  Ltd. and Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. are among seven banks that may lend to
the $1 billion sought by  PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal ,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The Jakarta-based producer of coking coal is raising the
money to buy a $1 billion stake in coal producer Bumi Plc from
PT Bakrie & Brothers.  Standard Chartered  Plc, the underwriter of
the five-year facility, has been marketing the loan to banks in
senior syndication since November and last week extended the
deadline for responses until late this month.  Bank of China and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ are
considering lending as much as $250 million, the person said,
asking not to be identified because the details are private.
Natixis and First Gulf Bank PJSC may also commit to the
facility, the person said.  The loan’s close was delayed from last month pending
approvals from  Indonesia ’s capital markets regulator, after
which Borneo Lumbung sought shareholders’ go-ahead at an
extraordinary general meeting.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia and Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. may also commit money, even though they were
not invited by the underwriter, the person said. Standard
Chartered has been marketing the loan to a limited number of
banks before widening the group in so-called general
syndication.  PT Bank Mandiri may also take part should it be able to
lend Indonesian rupiah, the person said.  ING Groep NV has decided not to participate, another person
familiar with the matter said today. Eileen Lau, a spokesman for
ING in  Singapore , declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  