-- BofA Appoints Killingback as Head of Asia Mergers Amid Management Overhaul
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-01-11T07:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/bank-of-america-names-killingback-m-a-head-for-asia-ex-japan.html
Bank of America Corp . named David Killingback head of mergers advisory for the Asia-Pacific region
outside  Japan , as the lender overhauls senior management at its
investment bank in the area.  Killingback will report to Jayanti Bajpai and Jiro Seguchi,
co-heads of  investment banking  for  Asia , and Adrian Mee, head of
international M&A advisory, according to an internal memo
obtained by Bloomberg News. Bank of America dismissed Michael Cho as co-head of mergers and acquisitions in Asia, a person
with knowledge of the matter said this week.  Bank of America  is cutting about 15 managing directors from
its investment bank in Asia, according to a person with
knowledge of the reductions. Sluggish demand for new debt and
equity helped lower third-quarter investment banking fees by 31
percent.  The lender’s ranking in M&A advisory in the Asia-Pacific
region outside Japan slipped to seventh in 2011 from sixth the
year before, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Cho’s role
did not involve  India  and  Australia .  Bank of America also named Raj Balakrishnan and Asit Bhatia
as co-heads of investment banking in India, according to the
memo. Chen Min, a real estate banker, will be appointed as head
of Asia corporate finance, the document showed.  Mark Tsang, a spokesman for Bank of America in  Hong Kong ,
confirmed the memo’s contents.  Julian Lee, a managing director in the bank’s China team,
and Nicholas Tye, head of equity-linked origination for Asia,
were among senior executives who left this week as part of the
job cuts, said two people familiar with the matter who asked not
to be identified. The two bankers didn’t answer phone calls from
Bloomberg News today.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
52, is seeking to cut about $5 billion in annual costs in his
Project New BAC initiative, amid stagnant revenue and a 58
percent plunge in the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender’s
stock last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  