-- Europe Banks Hoarding Cash Resist Draghi Bid to Avoid Crunch
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-01-11T14:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/banks-in-europe-resist-draghi-bid-to-avert-credit-crunch-by-hoarding-cash.html
Banks are hoarding the  European
Central Bank ’s record 489 billion-euro ($625 billion) injection
into the banking system, thwarting attempts by policy makers to
avert a credit crunch in the region.  Almost all of the money loaned to 523 euro-area lenders
last month wound up back on deposit at the Frankfurt-based
central bank instead of pouring into the financial system, ECB
data show. Banks will use most of the three-year loans to meet
their refinancing needs for this year and next, analysts at
Morgan Stanley and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc estimate.  “It’s illusory to think that the measure will translate
into credit generation,” Philippe Waechter, chief economist at
Natixis Asset Management in Paris, said in an interview. “It
will assuage some of the anxiety banks have regarding their
liquidity needs. But they’ve engaged into a massive overhaul of
their strategy and shrinkage of their balance sheets, which is,
coupled with the deteriorating economy, not compatible with
increasing credit.”  Governments are urging European banks to keep lending to
companies and individuals while requiring them to raise an
additional 114.7 billion euros of core capital by June to
weather a deepening sovereign-debt crisis. Instead of raising
equity, most lenders across  Europe  have vowed to meet capital
rules by trimming at least 950 billion euros from their balance
sheets over the next two years, either by selling assets or not
renewing credit lines, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ECB Deposits  That has stirred concern among policy makers that banks
will cut lending and throttle growth in the euro region.  Banks have been parking almost all extra liquidity from the
ECB loans back at the central bank. Barclays Capital estimates
firms used 296 billion euros of the Dec. 21 three-year loans to
replace maturing shorter-term ECB borrowings. That left only 193
billion euros of additional money for the financial system.
 Overnight deposits  with the ECB have jumped by about 223 billion
euros since the loans to a record 486 billion euros, suggesting
the central bank funds haven’t so far reached customers.  Banks account for about 80 percent of lending to the euro
area, making them “crucial to the supply of credit,” according
to recently installed ECB President  Mario Draghi . By contrast,
U.S. companies rely more on capital markets for financing,
selling bonds to investors.  Refinancing Needs  The ECB lending, and a follow-up loan offering on Feb. 28,
won’t ease the pressure on banks to shrink, say analysts
including Huw van Steenis at Morgan Stanley in  London .  “The ECB loans will largely be used to pre-fund 2012 and
some of 2013’s bank refinancing needs, but it will not stimulate
lending,” Van Steenis said. They will “just stop it falling
off precipitously.”  Euro-area banks have more than 600 billion euros of debt
maturing this year, the Bank of England said in its financial
stability report last month. The first ECB loan offering should
help cover about two-thirds of that amount, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. analysts say. Morgan Stanley’s Van Steenis estimates banks
may reduce assets by as much as 2.5 trillion euros in two years,
a process known as deleveraging.  The volume of loans to households and companies in the 17-
nation euro area  shrank  in November for the second consecutive
month, the ECB said on Dec. 29. Loans were still up 1.7 percent
over the year-earlier period, slowing from a 2.7 percent
increase in the 12 months through October.  Merkel, Sarkozy  When granted, loans are getting costlier for borrowers.
Since July, interest margins have increased, with investment-
grade borrowers in Europe paying an average of 91.6 basis points
more than benchmark rates, up from 84.4 basis points during the
first half of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.  “We must avoid a credit crunch for our economies,”
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said on Jan. 9. “The
recent measures by the European Central Bank on a long-term
lending facility for the banks are welcome in this context.”  The  European Banking Authority , which oversees the region’s
regulators, asked banks on Dec. 8 to retain earnings, curb
bonuses and raise equity to boost core capital before resorting
to cuts in lending.  The EBA followed both French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in urging banks to keep lending.
Sarkozy said on Oct. 27 that he had asked firms to shift
“almost all” of their dividends into strengthening balance
sheets and to make bonus practices “normal.” Merkel said on
Oct. 9 she was “determined to do whatever necessary to
recapitalize the banks to ensure credit to the economy.”  ‘No Credit Crunch’  Bankers have said they haven’t restricted lending and that
demand for credit is slowing as growth slows.  “All banks I talk to keep lending to small- and medium-
size enterprises and households,”  Christian Clausen , president
of the European Banking Federation, an industry association,
said on Dec. 9. “That part of the bank will keep rolling.”  There is “no credit crunch,”  Frederic Oudea , chief
executive officer of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s second-
biggest lender, and chairman of the French Banking Federation,
said last month. “The reality is that credit is available,” he
said in an  interview  on BFM radio on Dec. 16.  Even so, companies across Europe say credit is tightening.  ‘Double Punch’  In France, where credit to the private sector increased by
3.7 percent in  November  compared with a year earlier, the
majority of the country’s company treasurers said they
encountered “very strong tensions” in negotiating bank loans,
with more than 50 percent of respondents saying the process led
to more expensive terms, according to a December survey by the
French Association of Corporate Treasurers.  The majority of those polled said obtaining bank financing
was “as difficult as at the end of 2008,” after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  U.K. banks expect to toughen their criteria on loans to
companies and households in the first quarter because of strains
in the wholesale funding market, the  Bank of England  said Jan.
5in its fourth-quarter Credit Conditions Survey.  Belgian credit growth slowed to 3.1 percent in the 12
months to the end of October, from 3.6 percent at the end of
September, the country’s central bank  said  on Dec. 12.  In  Italy , some companies with annual sales of 30 million
euros to 40 million euros are charged as much as 10 percent
interest on loans,  Emma Marcegaglia , chief of the country’s
Confindustria lobby group, said in an interview on Dec. 20.
Lending to businesses and consumers grew at the weakest pace in
a year, the  Bank of Italy  said today.  Draghi’s Priority  With the ECB’s injection, “deleveraging may happen in a
more orderly way, but it doesn’t mean it will be painless,”
said Alberto Gallo, head of European credit strategy at RBS.
Banks are faced with high long-term financing costs, a
deteriorating economy and difficulties raising capital, he said.
“It’s what I call the double punch: A combination of negative
growth and banks’ deleveraging will affect lending activity.”  Even the ECB’s Draghi, who has made it one of his
priorities is to keep credit flowing into the economy, said the
central bank’s loan offerings may fail to achieve that goal.  “Monetary policy cannot do everything, but we’re trying to
do our best to avoid a credit crunch that might come from a lack
of funding,” Draghi said Dec. 19 at the European Parliament in
Brussels. “We have to be extremely careful here, because there
may be other reasons that create a credit crunch.”  Draghi may be wary of the U.S. experience with multiple
rounds of bond purchases. That so-called quantitative easing
hasn’t stimulated lending, Natixis’s Waechter said.  ‘Kick the Can’  “Lending really picked up when the economy got better,”
he said.  The ECB cut its forecast for euro-area economic growth in
2012 to 0.3 percent on Dec. 8 from a September prediction of 1.3
percent. The central bank expects the economy to expand 1.3
percent next year.  In the U.S., almost all categories of bank lending fell in
2009 and 2010 and didn’t start improving until last year, when
the  Federal Reserve  stopped its second wave of quantitative
easing,  according to data  by the U.S. institution. Banks
increased their holdings of Treasury and agency securities in
2009 and 2010, showing they were using the Fed’s cheap money to
own safe government paper.  Because quantitative easing tends to improve  capital
markets  first, the healing will be even slower in Europe given
its reliance on banks for borrowing, according to Gallo.  “The ECB loans are a kick-the-can measure that doesn’t fix
the banks’ structural problems,” Gallo said. “Deleveraging
needs to happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  