-- Banks Said to Face New York Inquiry Over Home Insurance Rates
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-11T22:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/banks-said-to-face-new-york-inquiry-over-home-insurance-rates.html
Banks and insurers including
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Assurant Inc. are being investigated by New
York’s insurance regulator over the prices charged to mortgage
borrowers for home insurance, a person familiar with the matter
said.  The  Department of Financial Services  is looking into
whether homeowners were burdened with overpriced so-called
force-placed insurance, said the person, who didn’t have
authority to speak publicly about the matter and declined to be
identified.  The insurance is issued to protect the property securing a
mortgage loan when a homeowner’s original coverage lapses. The
Department of Financial Services is looking into pricing
practices, relationships between the companies involved and
whether kickbacks are being paid, the person said.  Ron Klug, a spokesman for the Department of Financial
Services, which regulates banks and insurers in New York state,
declined to comment on the investigation.  The investigation was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  The department, headed by Superintendent Benjamin Lawsky,
has issued subpoenas or demands for information to 31 companies,
including Zurich American Insurance Co., Assurant and affiliates
of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Citigroup,
according to the person.  Regulated Entity  Shawn Kahle, a spokeswoman for New York-based  Assurant, (AIZ) 
said in an e-mailed statement that the company will cooperate
with the department and that as a regulated entity it receives
“requests of this nature on a routine basis.”  Citigroup complied with the requests made by the state and
is working with the department,  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for
the New York-based company, said in an e-mail. San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo provided the requested information and is
cooperating, Kathryn Ellis, a bank spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Jumana Bauwens, spokeswoman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said it is the bank’s practice to
cooperate with regulatory investigations. A spokesman for Zurich
American didn’t respond to a request for comment on the
investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  