-- Barclays Geneva Wealth Unit Increases Assets, Hires Bankers
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-01-11T15:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/barclays-swiss-wealth-management-unit-assets-near-sf18-billion.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Swiss wealth-
management unit added client assets and recruited bankers last
year after attracting customers from outside the U.K.  Assets under management rose by a “low double-digit
percentage” to almost 18 billion Swiss francs ($18.9 billion)
in 2011, including some funds booked outside Switzerland, said
 Patrick Ramsey , who heads Barclays Bank Suisse SA.  The firm plans to hire more Swiss-based relationship
managers this year after increasing the number servicing wealthy
private clients by 14 to 57 in 2011. Barclays is targeting  Latin
America ,  Africa  and  Russia  as it expands beyond its traditional
base of non-U.K. domiciled clients.  “Switzerland is one of the main hubs for the growth of
Barclays in the future,” Ramsey told reporters today in Geneva.
“If we can find the talent, we can end the year with 70 to 80
bankers.”  Barclays, like other Swiss private banks, is seeing
pressure on the profit it earns from client funds, Ramsey said.  “We’re living in a margin-squeeze environment because the
cost of servicing has increased tremendously,” he said. “Most
firms are starting to offer at a product level more or less the
same thing,” and that’s pushing down fees, he said.  The bank is trying to persuade clients to share its
“cautious degree of optimism” for 2012, said New York-based
Aaron Gurwitz, chief investment officer of  Barclays Wealth .  Client Fear  “We have so many clients who are afraid because they see
the day-to-day volatility,” he said. “We want to avoid a
generation of investors who are afraid of equities.”  The MSCI World Index fell 7.6 percent in 2011. The
benchmark of developed market stocks is up 1.9 percent this year
as economic reports from around the globe generated optimism the
global economy can withstand the euro area’s debt crisis.  Barclays, the U.K.’s largest wealth manager, managed 169.5
billion pounds ($260 billion) for private clients globally at
the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at   rhackley@bloomberg.net  