-- Bernanke Doubles Down on Fed Bet Defied by Recession
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/bernanke-doubling-down-on-housing-bet-asks-government-to-help-mortgages.html
Ben S. Bernanke  is signaling his
willingness to double down on a three-year bet that’s failed to
revive housing, showing the extent of the Federal Reserve
chairman’s effort to wrest a recovery from the deepest
recession.  Since the Fed started buying $1.25 trillion of mortgage
bonds in January 2009, the value of  U.S. housing  has fallen 4.1
percent, and is down 32 percent from its 2006 peak, according to
an S&P/Case-Shiller index. The central bank is  poised  to buy
about $200 billion this year, or more than 20 percent of new
loans, as it reinvests debt that’s being paid off. Some Fed
officials have said they may support additional purchases that
 Barclays Capital  estimates could total as much as $750 billion.  Even as Bernanke and fellow U.S. central bankers consider
expanding their efforts, they are acknowledging their inability
to turn around the housing market without help from the rest of
the government. Bernanke underscored the importance of
residential real estate, which represents 15 percent of the
economy, in a  study  he sent to Congress last week that said
ending the slump is necessary for a broader recovery.  “They’re definitely frustrated and disappointed,” said
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC and
a former Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond researcher. “I’m sure
they would have anticipated they would have gotten more bang for
their buck.”  While the Fed has helped push  mortgage rates  to record lows
of less than 4 percent, home-loan borrowing in 2012 is forecast
to decline to the least in 15 years. Americans who might
 refinance  and buy properties are getting shut out by stricter
lending standards or avoiding transactions as values tumble amid
mounting  foreclosures , according to the Fed study.  Eventual Losses  Bernanke’s report urged Congress and President Barack Obama’s administration to consider steps with short-term costs
for taxpayers, such as widening the role of  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac (FRE) , the government-supported mortgage guarantors.  At the same time, the central bank’s purchases of mortgage
bonds with yields at record lows is increasing the risk of
eventual losses for the Fed, said Anthony B. Sanders, a
professor of real-estate finance at  George Mason University  in
Fairfax, Virginia.  So far, the Fed is reporting record profits. It said
yesterday it will pay $76.9 billion to the U.S. Treasury as part
of an annual dividend bolstered by its holdings.  Brian Sack , the
 New York  Fed’s markets group chief, said in October 2010 its
goal in buying bonds would be to stimulate the economy not to
generate profits and acknowledged it’s taking on some risk.  David Skidmore , a Fed spokesman in  Washington , declined to
comment on potential losses.  Remove Obstacles  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley,
 Eric Rosengren , president of the Boston Fed, and Fed Governor
 Elizabeth Duke  followed Bernanke in highlighting the need to fix
housing to speed the recovery.  Dudley called on the government to remove obstacles to
refinancing, saying in a Jan. 6 speech to the New Jersey Bankers
Association that the Fed is no “substitute” for government
measures. Rosengren said that day in Connecticut he supports
buying more mortgage-backed securities. San Francisco Fed
President John Williams sees a “strong case” for the move, he
said yesterday.  The Fed has taken unprecedented steps to lower borrowing
costs as it held short-term  interest rates   near zero  since 2008.
It acquired $1.25 trillion of government-backed mortgage
securities and $172 billion of federal agency bonds from
December 2008 through March 2010, as part of a process known as
quantitative easing, or QE. It embarked on a second stage
involving $600 billion of Treasuries through last June.  QE3 Likelihood  In October, it began recycling proceeds from the mortgage
and agency debt into home-loan securities, buying $80.2 billion
through Jan. 4. Reinvestment will probably total about $200
billion this year, according to Barclays,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .
and Credit Suisse Group AG.  Dudley’s comments and the Fed study signal a greater
likelihood of QE3, according to Ajay Rajadhyaksha, a Barclays
analyst in New York, who has estimated it could involve $500
billion to $750 billion of mortgage-bond purchases over a year.  “The investment community is almost regarding quantitative
easing as a free good and if it’s a free good, why not just do
QE10,000,” said Sanders, a former head of mortgage-bond
research at Deutsche Bank AG. “If rates start going up,
somebody’s going to have to pay the tab, and you know who that
is: John Q. Public.”  Unemployment Easing  While central bankers are frustrated with the results of
their record monetary stimulus,  Sandra Pianalto , president of
the Cleveland Fed, said yesterday after a speech in Wooster,
Ohio that “on the margin” it’s affecting mortgage refinancing.  Last year, refinancings totaled $858 billion, according to
a  Mortgage Bankers Association  estimate. Average rates on
typical 30-year mortgages between 3.9 percent and 4 percent
since early December, based on  Freddie Mac  data, bolster home
prices by allowing property buyers to pay more. A monthly bill
of about $1,430 covers a $300,000 loan at a 4 percent rate,
versus $267,500 at 5 percent.  Unemployment is also easing. A Labor Department report
showed that the  jobless rate  fell to 8.5 percent in December,
the lowest since February 2009. Unemployment peaked at 10
percent that year as the financial crisis triggered the biggest
economic contraction since the Great Depression in the 1930s.  Property Slump  Monetary policy hasn’t been enough to prevent house prices
from continuing their more than five-year long slide, with
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Scott Simon, the bond
manager’s mortgage head, forecasting further declines of 6
percent to 8 percent.  An  S&P/Case-Shiller index  of property values in 20 cities
dropped 3.4 percent in the year through October. Existing home
sales remain 18 percent below their 10-year average and Dudley
estimated properties seized by lenders may rise to 1.8 million
this year, and the same number next year, from about 1.1 million
last year and 600,000 in 2010.  Housing’s share of gross domestic product, including
household spending on related services like utilities and rent,
declined to 15 percent in the third quarter from 18.6 percent in
2005, according to the  National Association of Home Builders .  The Mortgage Bankers Association, based in Washington,
 estimates  that home-loan originations declined last year to an
11-year low of $1.3 trillion and will fall to $968 billion this
year, the least since 1997.  Protecting Taxpayers  Potential first-time buyers are particularly hurt by
tightened credit, Bernanke’s paper said. Lenders are avoiding
making risky loans for government programs on concerns that
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac may force them to repurchase the debt
if there’s an underwriting error or  delinquencies  will prove
costly for servicing departments.  Only about 85 percent of lenders are offering loans
eligible for guarantees by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which
were seized by the government in 2008, to borrowers with 680
credit scores and 10 percent down payments, according to
LoanSifter Inc. data cited by the study. Fewer than 50 percent
are making loans in the companies’ lowest credit tier, the Fed’s
Duke  said  last week.  Although Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s ability “to put back
loans to lenders helps protect the taxpayers from losses, an
open question is whether the costs of the associated contraction
in credit availability outweigh the benefits” of lower losses,
she said.  Borrowers Locked Out  Most troubling is that creditworthy borrowers are being
locked out for minor blemishes or documentation challenges as
lenders look to protect themselves, said Willie Newman, head of
residential mortgage originations at  Cole Taylor Bank (TAYC)  in
Chicago.  “There are people where everything about them looks good
except this one little thing,” he said. “But you do precisely
what they tell you to do, you don’t deviate, because the price
of getting it wrong is too large.”  Refinancing has also slowed because lower prices have left
about a quarter of homeowners with mortgages owing more than
their properties’ values. Almost half of the more than $3.7
trillion of 30-year fixed-rate home loans in government-backed
bonds have rates of about 5.5 percent or more, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In December, prepayments on Fannie Mae’s 5.5 percent
securities, containing loans with 6 percent rates, averaged a
pace that would erase 27 percent of the debt in a year. That
compares with a peak of 45 percent in 2003, when loan rates
reached as low as 5.21 percent, and fewer mortgages were being
retired by foreclosures.  Eliminating Loan Fees  Obama’s three-year-old Home Affordable Refinance Program
for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans with little or no home
equity is being expanded to help homeowners by cutting lender
risks, lowering fees and allowing borrowers to refinance no
matter how much their home’s value has dropped. The changes,
which started in December, followed the program reaching less
than a quarter of its 4 million to 5 million target.  Bernanke’s Fed study said “more might be done,” including
eliminating entirely the reduced fees for risky loans, “more
comprehensively” cutting lenders’ put-back risks; and further
streamlining refinancing for other Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
borrowers.  The U.S. also should consider having Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac refinance loans not already backed by the
government, which would add credit risk for the companies,
according to the report.  Corinne Russell, a spokeswoman at the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, which oversees the mortgage firms, declined to
comment on the paper.  Government Limitations  The limitations of the government’s Home Affordable
Refinance Program meant that Karthik Narayanan, who bought a
house in Gilbert, Arizona in 2007 for $300,000 that he estimates
has lost $100,000 in value, gained only minimal benefits.  The software engineer refinanced under HARP in October 2009
into a 5.3 percent rate, using cash to pay off a $30,000 home
equity loan that he had used to fund half of his down payment,
because he was told he couldn’t otherwise qualify for the
program. Then he heard that HARP was being expanded and looked
to cut his costs further, only to discover that loans made after
May 2009 still don’t qualify.  “Help the people who are responsible, who are trying to
stay in their home, that’s what I would say to” Bernanke and
policy makers reading the Fed chief’s report, Narayanan said in
a telephone interview. He might pay down his mortgage faster or
buy a second home to rent out with the savings, he added.  Bernanke Repercussions  Though the bigger ideas in Bernanke’s report may sound
good, “repercussions” would include further entangling banks
and the government in housing, said  Jim Vogel , a debt analyst at
FTN Financial in Memphis, Tennessee. That could limit financial
companies’ access to capital and make it impossible for the U.S.
to unwind its involvement in mortgages for decades, he said. The
study said it avoided discussions of “longer-term restructuring
of the housing finance market.”  “They say they’re not going to think about the future of
the system, but that leaves such a large, empty spot in the
white paper,” Vogel said.  Some actions taken thus far by Congress and Obama’s
administration have recently added to challenges for housing.  To pay for a payroll-tax cut extension last month, Congress
directed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to boost their annual fees
for guaranteeing mortgages bonds by at least 0.10 percentage
point. The FHFA said it must further raise the charges, which
lenders tack on to borrowers’ rates, to better reflect the
companies’ risks.  ‘Very Low Pay-Off’  The Fed is getting “a very low pay-off for the amount of
risk they’re generating,” said Sanders of  George Mason .  The central bank is funding its portfolio mainly with  cash
borrowed  from banks at 0.25 percent, a financing cost that will
rise when it raises its benchmark for short-term rates. The
central bank may lose money on the investments if it sells the
securities after increases in long-term rates, or pays more on
its borrowings than the yields on its holdings. The central bank
would take those steps to stem inflation.  Yields (MTGEFNCL)  on Fannie Mae 30-year mortgage bonds trading closest
to face value -- the focus of the Fed’s buying because they most
affect loan rates -- have averaged 3.1 percent since the central
bank started reinvesting in October, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That compares with 4.3 percent during its initial buying.  They’ll probably “make out like bandits” for several
years as interest rates that guide the Fed’s funding costs
remain close to zero, Sanders said.  Prints Money  While the Fed has pledged to hold short-term rates near
zero through mid-2013,  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, says he can
envision its target rate reaching 3 percent by 2017.  “The good news” is that the Fed pays zero percent on
about 40 percent of its liabilities because it can print money,
said Doug Dachille, chief executive officer of First Principles
Capital Management LLC in New York, which oversees $8 billion.  The projected average lives of Fannie Mae-guaranteed
securities with 3.5 percent coupons, which accounted for the
largest portion of the Fed’s purchases last week, would extend
from 5.2 years to 10.8 years if rates rose 3 percentage points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That means the central
bank could be stuck with them for longer and their value would
drop more with further increases in interest rates.  ‘No Confusion’  “Rates go up, and you’re going to see a pretty significant
level of extension in terms of the duration and meaningful book
losses residing on the Fed’s balance sheet,” said Jason Callan,
head of structured products at Columbia Management Investment
Advisers LLC, a Minneapolis-based firm overseeing $170 billion
in fixed-income. “That’s kind of the name of the game in
mortgages.”  A  report  by the New York Fed in March discussed how the
central bank’s net income can remain “sizable” even if it
sells some bonds at losses, while Sack  said  in July that the
central bank’s bond portfolio will earn about $500 billion from
2009 to 2018.  “There should be no confusion, no mistake, that we’ve put
duration risk onto the Fed’s balance sheet,” Sack said in 2010.
“These decisions are being made to produce economic outcomes”
rather than “to produce a certain return on the portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  