-- BMW-Mercedes Sales Rhetoric Raises Dealer Concern With Focus on Quantity
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-01-11T18:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/bmw-mercedes-sales-race-rhetoric-concerning-group-1-s-chief-says.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz are boosting incentives and
emphasizing sales leadership instead of brand value, the chief
executive officer of car dealer  Group 1 Automotive Inc . said.  “The conclusion of every month brings more comments and
boasts regarding which brand is selling the most,”  Earl Hesterberg , who runs the fourth-largest U.S. dealership, said in
a speech today at the Automotive News World Congress conference
in Detroit. “Quantity seems to be surpassing quality and brand
value in terms of emphasis.” He called rhetoric of  BMW (BMW)  and
Mercedes “concerning.”  Mercedes said Jan. 9 it held back final 2011 U.S. sales
results this month because the luxury brand suspected BMW would
adjust its own number to become No. 1.  BMW (BMW) , which snapped the
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Lexus brand’s 11-year run as the top-selling
premium automaker in the U.S. last year, denied the accusation
while taking a swipe at Mercedes’s incentive spending.  BMW, Mercedes and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi are in a global
contest for sales leadership, Hesterberg said in an interview
after his speech. Automakers are counting on China, which became
the biggest market for brands such as BMW’s Rolls-Royce last
year, to help make record deliveries in 2012.  “The concern is if  China  dries up,” he said. “We’ve seen
it in  Europe  already where certain countries have dried up, and
too many vehicles are getting pushed into market. That can be
very damaging to a brand and to the dealer business model.”  Truck Glut  Hesterberg said he has similar concerns about too much
supply of full-size pickups in the U.S. Inventory of those
trucks grew through much of midyear 2011, which helped result in
the segment leading the market in incentives, he said.  BMW outsold Mercedes by 2,715 vehicles in 2011 in the U.S.
Mercedes and BMW both waited until Jan. 5 to release results, a
day after other automakers announced final figures. Ultimately,
Mercedes announced its results about two hours before BMW did.  “The luxury brands seem to be locked in a perpetual sales
contest no different than the  Ford (F)  versus Chevy wars of several
decades,” said Hesterberg, a former Ford sales executive.  One bulletin describing December incentive programs that was
distributed to dealers was 29 pages long, Hesterberg said in his
speech. He declined to name which brand issued it.  ‘Most Aggressive’  “Luxury goods aren’t about pushing volume,” he said in
the interview. The brands’ year-end push to boost deliveries
with discounts was “the most aggressive one we’ve seen, I think
because somebody had a chance to unseat Lexus.”  BMW, including its Mini non-luxury brand, accounted for 13
percent of Houston-based Group 1’s new vehicle sales in the
first three quarters of 2011 while Daimler brands including
Mercedes were 5.5 percent. Group 1 disclosed the figures on Oct.
25 when it reported third-quarter financial results.  Group 1 still sees BMW and Mercedes franchises as
“attractive” and won’t adjust plans to add stores selling
those brands to its dealership chain, Hesterberg said.  Both BMW and Mercedes say they expect the fight for luxury
supremacy to continue this year. Mercedes forecasts its U.S.
sales to rise at least 10 percent in 2012, aided by the
refreshed C-Class.  BMW predicts its U.S. sales will rise as well, helped by
the introduction of the redesigned 3-Series compact sedans.
Ludwig Willisch, chief executive officer of BMW of  North
America , declined to say how much sales would increase, though
he said BMW will remain No. 1 in the U.S.  Sales of Munich-based BMW’s luxury vehicles rose 13 percent
to 247,907 last year, boosted by the redesigned X3 sport-utility
vehicle, while Lexus sales fell 13 percent to 198,552.  Mercedes narrowed the gap with BMW toward the end of the
year, helped by a refreshed C-Class compact sedan and new coupe.
Stuttgart, Germany-based Mercedes saw sales rise 13 percent to
245,192 in the U.S.  The results exclude Daimler’s Sprinter and Freightliner
vans, Smart cars and BMW’s Mini brand vehicles, which aren’t
luxury models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in  Detroit  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  