-- BNDES to Lend $2.2 Billion for Brazil Sugar-Cane Plantations
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-01-11T19:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/bndes-to-lend-2-2-billion-for-brazil-sugar-cane-plantations.html
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico e Social,  Brazil ’s national development bank, will
lend sugar-cane mills as much as 4 billion reais ($2.2 billion)
to plant more crops as ethanol supplies dwindle.  The 72-month loans, available through Dec. 31, may prompt
companies to renew as much as 1 million hectares (2.5 million
acres) of aging plantations or develop new ones, the Rio de
Janeiro-based lender said today in a statement.  Brazil’s ethanol industry is struggling to keep up with
demand after cash-strapped mills planted fewer crops following
the 2008 credit crisis, Renata Marconato, an analyst at the
agricultural consulting company  MB Agro , said today in a
telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  “Brazil needs this,” Marconato said. “Drivers are
switching to gasoline because ethanol is expensive and there’s
been a small drop in purchases of flex-fuel cars” that can run
on just ethanol.  Sugar-cane yields fell to 50 metric tons a hectare in some
areas last year due to frost and aging plantations, which must
be renewed every five years to maintain productivity, she said.
The average annual yield per hectare in Brazil is about 80 tons,
she said. The yearly harvest season in the country’s Center
South region typically ends in December.  The funding program, called Prorenova, may boost ethanol
production by as much as 4 billion liters (1.1 billion gallons)
in two harvests’ time, BNDES said.  Brazil’s Center South produced last year about 20.4 billion
liters of ethanol from April to December, the annual harvest
season, 18 percent less than in 2010, the Sao Paulo-based cane
industry association Uniao da Industria de Cana-de-Acucar  said 
Dec. 15.  Brazilian  anhydrous ethanol , which is blended with
gasoline, cost 1.34 reais a liter on the  spot market  on Jan. 6,
up 52 percent from the same time in 2009, according to
information compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  