-- Brazilian Stocks Advance as Usiminas, Vale Follow Metal Prices Higher
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-01-11T20:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/brazilian-stocks-gain-as-builder-mrv-rises-on-outlook-for-credit-growth.html
Brazilian stocks advanced for a
fourth day as steelmaker  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA 
and mining company  Vale SA (VALE5)  gained after metals prices increased.  Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is known, jumped the most
in two weeks. The stock led gains on the MSCI  Brazil /Materials
index, which was the  best  performer among ten industry groups.
Homebuilder  MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA  rose after a
measure of prices in Brazil unexpectedly dropped, boosting the
outlook for stocks linked to domestic demand. Consumer-goods
maker  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3)  plunged after Banco BTG Pactual SA said it
doesn’t plan to make a hostile bid for a stake in the company.  The Bovespa index climbed 0.3 percent to 59,962.40 at the
close of trading in Sao Paulo. Thirty-four stocks rose on the
gauge, while 33 sank. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.8025
per  U.S. dollar .  “After two terrible years, many stocks started 2012
looking cheap,” Osmar Cesar Camilo, an analyst at Sao Paulo-
based brokerage Socopa Corretora Paulista, said by phone.
“Brazilian companies should keep profiting this year, even as
the economy slows a bit, so maybe last year’s drop was a bit
excessive.”  The Bovespa trades at 9.4 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, which compares with the ratio of 9.6 for MSCI Inc.’s
measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge sank 18 percent
in 2011.  Industrial metals advanced, with the  Bloomberg Base Metals
3-Month Price Commodity Index (CMDIBAS3)  climbing 0.7 percent, on
speculation  China  may loosen monetary policy to shore up growth,
boosting the outlook for demand.  Vale rose 0.8 percent to 39.81 reais. Usiminas gained 3.1
percent to 17.83 reais.  IGP-M  Price Index   MRV, Brazil’s fifth-biggest homebuilder by revenue, rose
2.2 percent to 12.79 reais, the best performer on the  MSCI
Brazil (MXBR) /Consumer Discretionary Index.  The first preview of Brazil’s IGP-M index of wholesale,
construction and consumer prices showed prices declined 0.01
this month, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said on its website
today. That compares to a median estimate for a 0.10 percent
increase in a Bloomberg survey of 13 economists.  Hypermarcas fell 1.7 percent to 10.50 reais after earlier
plunging as much as 6.8 percent. BTG Pactual said in a
regulatory filing today neither the bank nor any of the funds it
manages hold a stake of more than 5 percent in the company.  Hypermarcas rose 26 percent this year through yesterday on
speculation BTG Pactual, the Brazilian owned by billionaire
 Andre Esteves , was in talks to join its controlling block.  Oil Drops  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge earlier fell as much as 0.6
percent as lower commodities prices dimmed the outlook for
Brazilian producers.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company, was little changed at 22.91 reais after
earlier sinking as much as 1.1 percent.  The Bovespa has gained 23 percent from a two-year low on
Aug. 8 as interest-rate cuts in Brazil and signs of progress in
solving  Europe ’s debt crisis buoyed demand for equities.  Traders  moved  5.59 billion reais ($3.10 billion) in stocks
in Sao Paulo today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a daily average of 6.49 billion reais in 2011,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  