-- Brocade Poised to Rise 40% in Takeover Seen for Oracle: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-01-11T21:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/brocade-poised-to-rise-40-in-takeover-seen-for-oracle-real-m-a.html
Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD) 
is throwing off so much cash it may be worth 40 percent more in
a sale to Oracle Corp. or private equity firms.  The maker of switches for data-storage networks, which had
been trying to find a buyer with the help of  Frank Quattrone  for
two years, was valued yesterday at 7.7 times its free  cash flow ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the cheapest
among its closest competitors and less than half the median of
17 times for comparable companies -- even after surging almost
80 percent from its low in August to $5.77 a share.  While Brocade was passed over when Dell Inc. agreed to buy
Force10 Networks Inc. in July, the company could give  Oracle (ORCL)  a
networking product it currently doesn’t offer to businesses and
enable it to better compete with Cisco Systems Inc., according
to ThinkEquity LLC and Avian Securities LLC. Brocade, which has
more than doubled its  free cash flow  in the past five years,
also makes sense for buyout firms and could command about $8 a
share in a takeover, ThinkEquity said.  “The cash flow is pretty healthy,”  Rajesh Ghai , a San
Francisco-based analyst at ThinkEquity, said in a telephone
interview. “It could be private equity or a large strategic
buyer. It fills a hole that Oracle has.”  Pavel Radda, a spokesman for  San Jose , California-based
Brocade, declined to comment on whether it is currently seeking
to sell the company.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman at Oracle,
declined to comment on whether the  Redwood City , California-
based company is interested in buying Brocade.  Today’s Trading  Brocade climbed 2.1 percent to $5.89 in New York today, the
 highest level  since July.  Founded  in 1995, Brocade sells the hardware that connects
information stored in servers. It controls 38 percent of the
market for switches used in so-called storage area networks, a
larger proportion than any of its competitors, according to
Redwood City-based research company Dell’Oro Group.  Brocade also acquired Foundry Networks Inc. in December
2008 to enter the market for so-called ethernet switches that
are gaining popularity in data centers.  The company has thus far been unsuccessful in selling
itself, even after hiring Quattrone’s  Qatalyst Partners  to drum
up interest, a person with knowledge of the matter, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly, said in July. First-round bids in
the latest auction for Brocade were due last month, according to
people with knowledge of the situation, who declined to be
identified because the process was private.  Relative Value  Sally Palmer at San Francisco-based Qatalyst didn’t return
telephone or e-mail messages seeking comment.  At yesterday’s price, Brocade traded at 7.7 times its cash
from operations of about 75 cents a share after deducting
capital expenses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  QLogic Corp. and  NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , the two cheapest competitors
among comparable companies cited by JMP Securities and Mizuho
Securities USA Inc., were valued at 9 times and 11.2 times.  Less than a year ago, Brocade sold for 27.8 times its free
cash flow, more than three times its current value.  Oracle could acquire Brocade to bolster its enterprise
software and server businesses by adding networking products,
which it currently lacks, according to Matt Bryson, a Boston-
based analyst at Avian Securities.  Brocade may also make sense for Armonk, New York-based
International Business Machines Corp. as it competes with
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Dell for customers that want services
from a single provider, according to Jitendra Waral, a
technology hardware analyst for Bloomberg Industries.  ‘Missing Networking Plugs’  Doug Fraim, a spokesman for  IBM (IBM) , didn’t return telephone
and e-mail messages seeking comment.  “Everybody’s trying to stick to one vendor that can
provide everything, rather than disparate systems,” Waral said
in a telephone interview from  Las Vegas . “IBM and Oracle both
have these missing networking plugs.”  Brocade’s client partnerships could make a takeover less
attractive, said  Brian Marshall , a San Francisco-based analyst
at ISI Group. One reason is that 60 percent of Brocade’s data-
storage products, which account for more than half of its sales,
are sold through agreements with Oracle, IBM and Hewlett-
Packard, he said. If Oracle or IBM bought Brocade, the deals
with the other two would probably end.  “They’d be selling products to a competitor, which could
create problems,” he said in a telephone interview.  Aging Technology  The technology that Brocade uses for most of its data-
storage products is also aging, which may also deter some
potential buyers, according to Erik Suppiger, a San Francisco-
based analyst at JMP Securities.  Brocade could still attract interest from private equity
buyers, according to Joanna Makris, an analyst at Mizuho
Securities USA in  New York . The amount of  free cash  it generated
last fiscal year climbed to a record $352 million, versus $136
million five years ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company’s  operating margin  of 8.9 percent was a third
less than the median for comparable companies.  “Brocade is not getting a lot of love from investors,”
she said in a telephone interview. “Private equity is usually
the type of place where they take on stories like this.”  Based on ThinkEquity’s projected takeover price of $8 a
share, Brocade would be worth $3.64 billion. That’s a windfall
of about a billion dollars, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
price could rise even more if Brocade attracts multiple bidders,
Penn Capital Management’s  Eric Green  said.  Traders in the options market are also getting  more bullish 
on Brocade. The ratio of calls to buy Brocade shares versus puts
to sell rose 46 percent to 1.11-to-1 on Jan. 9, the highest
level since June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is one where you could have a bidding war,” Green,
a Philadelphia-based manager at Penn Capital, which oversees $6
billion and owned shares of Brocade as of Sept. 30, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a stock that makes sense as an
acquisition candidate and a lot of people would be interested.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 