-- Buffett Challenges Republicans on Donations, Time Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-01-11T22:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/buffett-challenges-republicans-to-donate-to-u-s-government-time-reports.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  will
match voluntary contributions by congressional Republicans to
the U.S. government, he told Time magazine.  Buffett, who has said the tax system favors the rich, made
his offer after Republicans, including U.S. Representative
Michelle Bachmann, suggested he donate his fortune to the
government.  “If we go to a contribution system, I’ll match the total
contribution made by all Republican members of Congress and
I’ll even go 3-for-1 with McConnell,” Buffett said of Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , the Kentucky Republican, in an
 interview  with the magazine.  Buffett, chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha,
Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , supports President
 Barack Obama , a Democrat. Buffett has called for tax increases
on the wealthiest Americans and said he benefits from provisions
that aren’t as helpful to the middle class. McConnell has said
the U.S. should focus on shrinking government rather than
raising taxes, and that he welcomes voluntary donations.  “Since some, like President Obama and Mr. Buffett want to
pay higher taxes, Congress made it possible for them to call
their own bluff and send in a check,” McConnell’s office said
in an e-mailed statement today. The senator looks forward to
“Mr. Buffett matching a healthy batch of checks from those who
actually want to pay higher taxes, including congressional
Democrats” and Obama.  “It’s kind of touching, this faith he has in the American
public, with a $1.2 or $1.3 trillion deficit, that he thinks
Americans are so wonderfully spirited that they would just solve
it all by contributions,” Buffett said. That’s a  tax policy 
“only a Republican could come up with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  