-- California’s Top-Earners Dwindle as Brown Pushes Taxes
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-01-11T21:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/california-s-top-earners-dwindling-as-brown-counts-on-their-higher-taxes.html
California (STOCA1)  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
plan to balance the state budget in part with higher taxes on
the wealthy depends on a group of top earners that shrank by
one-third from 2007 to 2009.  Tax returns with adjusted gross incomes topping $500,000
fell to 98,610 in 2009, the latest year available, from a recent
peak of 146,221 two years earlier, according to data from the
 Franchise Tax Board , the state agency that collects income and
corporate taxes.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, faces a budget deficit of
$9.2 billion. If voters reject his tax plan, Brown proposes to
cut $4.8 billion from schools, the equivalent of taking three
weeks from the academic year. California’s top individual tax
rate of 10.3 percent is third-highest in the U.S., behind  Hawaii (STOHI1) 
and  Oregon (STOOR1) , according to the Washington-based  Tax Foundation .
The new tax proposal might put California on top.  “Some of them welcome it with open arms,” Brown said when
asked last month what high-income individuals were saying about
the increase. “I’m sure if you made more than a million dollars
a year, you’d be very happy to pay 2 percent on whatever else
you made.”  Dwindling Share  California’s share of top-earners has dwindled even as
their numbers climbed nationally, according to Internal Revenue
Service data. The Golden State accounted for 14.7 percent of the
553,381 returns over $500,000 filed in 1999. Ten years later,
the state’s share was 13.5 percent.  The decline may be tied to the nature of wealth creation,
with technology and real estate being less profitable in recent
years than other industries, according to  Edward Leamer ,
director of the  Anderson Forecast  at the  University of
California , Los Angeles.  “My guess is it’s stock market gains from intellectual
property created in California versus bonuses to Wall Street
execs,” Leamer said.  California’s high taxes already prompt some top-earners to
leave the state, according to  Kevin McCarthy , a Republican
congressman from Bakersfield.  “The more you chase away, the less you get,” he said in a
Jan. 9 interview. “Why did  Tiger Woods  grow up here and not
live here now?”  Higher Rates  Brown has proposed a ballot measure that would increase
rates for individuals making more than $250,000 a year to 10.3
percent from 9.3 percent and to 11.3 percent for single filers
with income above $500,000.  Californians with earnings of more than $1 million are
subject to a surcharge to fund mental  health services  that
brings their present rate to 10.3 percent. Brown’s plan would
push that to 12.3 percent. No other state has a higher rate,
according to the Tax Foundation  website .  The higher income taxes would be in effect for five years.
Together with a statewide sales-tax increase to 7.75 percent
from 7.25 percent, the increases may raise $6.9 billion through
the next fiscal year, according to the governor’s office.  Such estimates are tricky because the income of
California’s top-earners is highly volatile. Almost two-thirds
comes from  capital gains  rather than wages, the state
Legislative Analyst’s Office concluded in a Jan. 9 review of the
governor’s tax proposal.  For the three-year period ending in 2013, the governor’s
revenue estimates are $3.9 billion higher than the legislative
analyst’s, according to a  report  released today. Of that
difference, $3.7 billion is attributed to estimates of personal
income taxes.  ‘Question Mark’  “The difficulty in knowing how much taxable income will be
attributable to high-income Californians makes the state’s
revenue estimates an even bigger question mark than usual,” the
report said.  Generating most of the new revenue from high earners and
linking the ballot measure to education funding may be the best
chance Brown has of putting an increase by a tax-averse public,
according to  Dan Schnur , a former aide to Republican Governor
Pete Wilson and now director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of
Politics at the University of  Southern California  in  Los
Angeles .  “He’s saying pass this or we’ll cut three weeks out of the
school year,” Schnur said. “That’s a pretty visceral measure.
When Californians have voted to raise taxes in the past, they’ve
always done it by raising taxes on other people.”  Slower Growth  The nation’s most populous state, with 37.5 million
residents, California’s population grew at its slowest rate in
history in the past decade, according to U.S Census data. About
154,000 people left for other states in the fiscal year that
ended July 1, continuing a trend that has seen 100,000 people a
year leaving, according to the state’s Finance Department.  Three of the top five states to which Californians have
moved over the past decade --  Nevada (STONV1) ,  Texas (STOTX1)  and  Washington (STOWA1)  --
don’t tax wages, according to Aaron Renn, an analyst who runs a
website called urbanophile.com.  “ California  is bleeding people like crazy to almost every
state,” Renn said. “Every time they leave, they take income
with them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  