-- Canadian Natives Seek to Stop Enbridge’s Oil-Sands Pipeline
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-01-11T08:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/canadian-natives-seek-to-stop-enbridge-s-oil-sands-pipeline.html
Canadian aboriginal groups testified
against an  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  pipeline that would carry crude from
 Alberta ’s oil sands to the British Columbian coast, saying the
risk of a spill is too great.  A three-member panel appointed by the country’s national
energy regulator to determine the environmental impact of the
C$6.6 billion ($6.5 billion) project began listening to
testimony yesterday, a process that will be completed next year.
The hearings were held in Kitimat Village, a native preserve
near the coastal town of Kitimat.  “This might end up in a court battle,” Sam Robinson, a
Haisla First Nation hereditary chief, said in an interview after
testifying before the panel. “We’ll do whatever we need to do
to stop it.”  Oil producers and Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  have said
the 36-inch-wide pipeline is needed to allow tar-sands crude to
be shipped to Asian markets, reducing dependence on the U.S.,
where demand for fossil fuels is stagnant.  The 1,177-kilometer (731-mile) line would wind though one
of the world’s largest remaining temperate rainforests, crossing
more than 700 streams and rivers before arriving at export
terminals of Kitimat.  Haisla leaders yesterday told the panel and hundreds of
participants about the importance of oolichan, a fish species,
and other animals and plants used for food throughout their
2,000-year history. Such lifestyles will be destroyed with an
 oil spill .  “It worries me to think all these will be lost when there
is a spill,” Robinson told the panel. “And mark my words,
there will be a spill.”  National Energy Board   “We believe we can operate the pipeline safely,” Paul
Stanway, an Enbridge spokesman, said in an interview.  When the hearings end next year, the panel will make a
recommendation on whether Enbridge should build the pipeline.
Canada’s National Energy Board will then decide if the project
should proceed.  “We’re here to listen,” said Enbridge Vice President
Janet Holder. “That’s what this is about. It’s fair and open
and that’s what’s great about being Canadian.”  After listening to groups living in areas that will be
affected by the pipeline, Enbridge has already made “slight”
changes to routes and valves, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Kitim, British Columbia via   jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  