-- Carlyle Group Founders Received $413 Million Last Year Before Planned IPO
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-01-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/carlyle-founders-made-combined-413-million-in-2011-before-planned-offer.html
Carlyle Group , the Washington-based
private-equity firm seeking to go public, said its three
founders received a combined $413 million last year as profits
rose.  William Conway ,  Daniel D’Aniello  and  David Rubenstein  each
earned a $275,000 salary, a $3.55 million bonus and $134 million
in distributions, the firm said yesterday in a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Carlyle said it doesn’t
plan to create a compensation committee as it prepares to go
public, leaving decisions regarding the founders’ pay in their
own hands.  Carlyle’s founders “have historically made all final
determinations regarding executive officer compensation,” the
firm said in its filing. “The board of directors of our general
partner has determined that maintaining our current compensation
practices following this offering is desirable and intends that
these practices will continue.”  Compensation of private-equity managers and their taxation
has come under scrutiny by U.S. lawmakers, who have been
considering proposals to tax some distributions at the higher
rate for personal income.  Mitt Romney , the former Bain Capital
LLC chief executive officer who is seeking the Republican
presidential nomination, was attacked this week for his role in
the buyout industry by rivals who said he enriched himself at
the cost of corporations and their employees.  Nasdaq  Listing  Carlyle said net income for the nine months through Sept.
30 rose to $918.1 million from $571.1 million a year earlier and
revenue rose 60 percent to $2.01 billion. The firm returned $15
billion to its limited partners during the same period, the most
it has ever distributed over a nine-month period, according to
an investor.  Carlyle plans to list shares on the Nasdaq under the symbol
CG. It hasn’t set a price range or the number of shares it aims
to sell. In seeking to offer shares to the public, the buyout
firm follows New York-based rivals Blackstone Group LP and KKR &
Co.  Stephen Schwarzman , chief executive officer of Blackstone,
earned $398.3 million in 2006, the year before his firm went
public. Blackstone raised $4.75 billion in its 2007 IPO.  Carlyle, which oversaw $148 billion in assets as of Sept.
30, said it expects to hire more employees after the offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  