-- CBS to Order at Least 15 Pilots for Next Season, Tassler Says
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-01-11T18:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/cbs-to-order-at-least-15-pilots-for-next-season-tassler-says.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s broadcast network will
order 15 to 24 pilot television shows for next season to bolster
a schedule that already attracts the most prime-time viewers.  CBS is ordering “a couple” of pilot, or test, reality
shows now, Nina Tassler, entertainment president, said today at
a TV critics conference in  Pasadena ,  California . Networks order
new shows in the first half of the year for the new TV season
that starts in September.  Music-related shows are among those CBS will consider for
next season, Tassler said. CBS has been replacing older, more
expensive programs from outside studios with less expensive
productions that it owns and faces the prospect of canceling
shows with sizable audiences.  “The bar gets higher and higher each year,” Tassler told
reporters. “Our goal is to improve each time period.”  CBS asked several shows to produce season finales, Tassler
said, without providing specifics. The network will consider
letting writers of longer-running programs wrap up story lines
in a final season. Those decisions won’t be made until May,
close to the end of the broadcast season, she said.  “CSI:  New York ” will again be one of the shows network
executives debate about canceling, Tassler said. The program is
attracting 10.7 million viewers a night in the season that
started in September, according to Nielsen data.  By comparison, CBS’s top-rated drama “NCIS” has 20.5
million viewers on average each night, Nielsen data show.  “I would love all ‘CSI’ series to run forever,” Tassler
said. “The truth is, nothing is forever.”  The network is in first place in audience ratings for the
current season. CBS is averaging 12.2 million viewers a night in
prime time as of last week, according to Nielsen data. The
network also leads in the advertiser-sought 18-to-49-year-old
demographic, with 4.06 million viewers nightly.  CBS, based in New York, fell 1.5 percent to $28.19 at 1:45
p.m. in New York  trading . The shares climbed 42 percent last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  