-- CFTC Takes Up Conduct Rules for Dealers Selling Swaps to Municipalities
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/cftc-may-vote-on-derivative-rules-to-protect-cities-collateral.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  may complete rules designed to curb the abuses of
banks that sell derivatives to municipalities as it moves to
impose new Wall Street regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act.  CFTC commissioners are scheduled to vote today on final
regulations, first proposed a year ago, that would set business
conduct standards between swap dealers and clients, including
pension funds, endowments and state and local governments.  The rules are part of the CFTC’s effort to reduce risk and
boost transparency in the $708 trillion global swaps market
after largely unregulated contracts helped fuel the 2008 credit
crisis. Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted in
2010, seeks to have most swaps guaranteed by central
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  Municipalities faced unforeseen fees during the crisis to
escape from derivative contracts pitched by banks as a way to
save money. The CFTC regulation to be weighed today marks
 Washington ’s broadest effort to rein in a segment of the
derivatives industry that flourished during the past decade,
only to cost taxpayers billions when the deals collapsed.  The CFTC may also complete rules to protect swap traders’
collateral that is used to reduce risk in trades. Segregation
and protection of collateral gained new urgency after as much as
$1.2 billion in client funds went missing as  MF Global Holdings
Ltd (MFGLQ) . collapsed last year. The CFTC, Securities and Exchange
Commission,  Justice Department  and court-appointed bankruptcy
trustee are investigating whether funds were misused.  Moore Capital Management LP, Paulson & Co. Inc.,  Fidelity
Investments , Tudor Investment Corp. and  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM)  are among companies that have urged the
CFTC since November to adopt tougher standards than the agency
has proposed. The CFTC should allow investors the option to set
aside collateral in separate accounts at third-party banks
instead of allowing funds to be pooled, the companies have said
in letters to the agency.  The CFTC may also vote to propose limits on proprietary
trading and investments in private equity and hedge funds under
the so-called Volcker rule. The CFTC is the last of five U.S.
regulators to consider proposing the limits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  