-- CFTC Votes 4-to-1 for Rules Aimed at Wall Street Swap Abuse
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-01-11T20:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/cftc-votes-4-to-1-for-rules-aimed-at-wall-street-swap-abuse.html
U.S. regulators moved to soften
Dodd-Frank Act rules designed to protect less-sophisticated
customers in swap trades after banks, pension funds and
municipalities said the original plan could damage the market.  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , meeting in
 Washington  today, voted 4-1 for revised regulations that ease
responsibilities initially proposed for Wall Street banks. The
changes loosen requirements that trades be suitable for clients
and limit banks’ obligation to act in the best interest of
public agencies, so long as they don’t recommend specific swaps.  The rules “implement requirements for swap dealers and
major swap participants to deal fairly with customers, provide
balanced communications, and disclose material risks, conflicts
of interest and material incentives,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a statement before the meeting.  Lawmakers in the Dodd-Frank Act called for regulators to
crack down on abuses in the sales of derivatives to states,
cities and school districts after municipalities lost billions
of dollars on interest-rate swaps during the 2008 credit crisis.
Jefferson County,  Alabama , became the biggest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history as the result of such deals.  In a separate 4-1 vote, completed Dodd-Frank rules to
protect swap traders’ collateral used to reduce risk. That
measure gained urgency after as much as $1.2 billion in client
funds went missing as  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) . collapsed last
year.  Insulate Collateral  The collateral rule would insulate clients if their broker
defaults, while also allowing customer funds to be pooled before
a bankruptcy, according to a CFTC summary.  Moore Capital Management LP, Paulson & Co.,  Fidelity
Investments , Tudor Investment Corp. and  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM)  had urged the CFTC to adopt tougher
segregation standards than those completed today.  The CFTC rule is an “elegant solution” to balancing costs
and customer protection, Supurna VedBrat, co-head of  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) ’s market structure and electronic trading team, said in an
e-mail today.  “The commissioners are ensuring protection of investor
collateral for swaps through mandatory clearing incorporated in
Dodd-Frank -- while not foreclosing the possibility of even
stronger consumer protections if the industry can fund such
solutions while still balancing costs,” she said.  Volcker Rule  CFTC commissioners also voted 3-2 to propose a version of
the Volcker rule curbs on proprietary trading required by Dodd-
Frank, becoming the last of five regulators to seek comment on
the measure. Today’s vote opens the measure to 60 days of public
comment. The rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , was included in the regulatory overhaul to rein in
risky trading at banks that benefit from federal  deposit
insurance  and Fed borrowing privileges.  The business-conduct rules for municipal investors have
been the subject of lobbying since they were introduced in
December 2010. The measure approved today aims to address
concerns about potential market impact that were raised by
pension funds, the Government Finance Officers Association and
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, whose
members include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   “The summary released today indicates the CFTC
thoughtfully addressed many issues that would have restricted
plans’ and other clients’ ability to manage risk,” Sifma said
in a statement. “It is our hope that after a more thorough
review that the commission has indeed made sufficient changes to
the original proposal so as not to unnecessarily impede the
ability of pension funds, states and municipalities to manage
their risks.”  ‘Serious Flaws’  CFTC Commissioner Jill Sommers opposed the rules, saying
they would have a deleterious effect.  “The business conduct rules we are finalizing today
contain serious flaws,” Sommers said at the meeting. “We heard
over and over again from special entities, right up until last
week, that our rules would not provide additional protections,
but would actually harm them by making it more difficult for
them to enter into arm’s-length transactions.”  The final regulations are a “significant weakening” of
the CFTC’s original proposal, Marcus Stanley, policy director of
Americans for Financial Reform, which includes AFL-CIO and other
labor unions, said in an e-mail today.  “The numerous opt-outs, exceptions, and safe harbors in
the final rule can effectively give swap dealers a free pass out
of compliance with key statutory protections,” Stanley said.  Floating-Rate Bonds  For municipalities, interest-rate swaps were typically used
when they raised money by issuing floating-rate bonds, which
allowed them to paying short-term  interest rates  on debt that
may not mature for decades.  Swaps were supposed to protect against the risk that
interest rates would increase. Together, the financings were
pitched as a cheaper alternative to borrowing with conventional,
fixed-rate bonds. The trades were also lucrative for banks,
which could reap undisclosed fees from the then-unregulated
derivative contracts.  Such deals turned toxic during the credit crisis when
investors and cash-strapped banks unloaded floating rate bonds.
The interest rate swaps moved the wrong way and borrowers were
forced to pay penalties to banks on the other side of the trade
to break the contracts. Public agencies and non-profits paid
more than $4 billion, just as they were reeling from tumbling
tax collections brought on by the recession.  Undisclosed Fees  The CFTC rules contain provisions to guard against abuses
by banks selling swaps to municipalities and other customers.
Banks will be forced to disclose the material risks associated
with the deals as well as the daily market value of the
contracts, which may make it more difficult to overcharge with
undisclosed fees.  The CFTC also softened some provisions that apply to so-
called special entities -- public agencies and endowments -- to
address concerns of banking lobbyists and public officials over
the initial rule, which they said would foist unworkable
responsibilities on banks.  The final rules will stop banks from being considered
advisers -- a position that requires them to act in the best
interest of customers -- in cases where it creates a unique swap
for a municipality but stops short of recommending that they
enter into it.  Independent Advisers  The rules also allow banks to rely on representations of
their customers that they have an independent adviser capable of
evaluating transactions, rather than placing the burden on swap
dealers to determine that. They also ensure that the CFTC
responsibilities don’t cause swap dealers to be considered
pension-fund fiduciaries under Department of Labor rules, which
would have created legal risks for banks.  Barbara Roper , who has been following the rule for the
 Consumer Federation of America , said the safe harbors may
undermine the protections and leave banks with broad latitude to
take advantage of less-sophisticated customers. The complete
rule hasn’t been released, so some details are unknown.  “This is definitely an issue where the devil is in the
details, so we don’t know how bad it will be until we see the
final language,” Roper said. “This appears to be a huge
retreat from the strong rule proposal put on the table.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  