-- Chevron’s Fourth-Quarter Profit Squeezed by Refinery Repairs
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-01-11T23:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/chevron-s-fourth-quarter-profit-squeezed-by-repairs-at-california-refinery.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, said fourth-quarter profit was
“significantly below” third-quarter results after maintenance
work at a California refinery and the sale of a U.K. plant
curbed fuel output. The shares fell more than 2 percent.  Profit from the company’s oil and natural-gas wells was
comparable with third-quarter performance, the  San Ramon ,
California-based company said in a statement today. Chevron’s
refining business was “near break even,” according to the
statement.  The company’s U.S. refineries processed 18 percent less
crude during October and November than during the final three
months of 2010 because of maintenance work that idled part of a
California refinery, Chevron said. Processing rates at overseas
plants slumped 24 percent during the same period after the
August sale of a Welsh refinery to  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)   Chevron dropped $2.22, or 2.1 percent, to $105.55 at 5:23
p.m. after the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Before today, the stock had gained 21 percent in the past year.
Chevron rose 17 percent in 2011, the second-largest increase in
the  NYSE Arca Oil index  after Houston-based  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ,
which advanced 30 percent.  Assets Sold  Chief Executive Officer John Watson has been selling
refining and retail-fuel assets in  Europe  and Africa to
concentrate on higher-profit oil production and gas liquefaction
projects. Chevron is scheduled to release full fourth-quarter
results on Jan. 27.  The company’s wells pumped the equivalent of 2.64 million
barrels of crude a day on average during the first two months of
the fourth quarter, a 5.3 percent decline from the full fourth
quarter of 2010.  Prior to today’s announcement, Chevron was expected to
report per-share profit of $3.27 for the fourth quarter, based
on the average estimate of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
That would be a 24 percent increase from $2.64 a year-earlier.
The company has 21 buy recommendations from analysts, five holds
and one sell rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  