-- China Trade Spurs $115 Billion Australia Building Boom: Freight
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-01-12T06:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/china-trade-spurs-115-billion-australia-building-boom-freight.html
Australia  is set for an A$112
billion ($115 billion) infrastructure boom as the nation adds
ports and railways to feed  China  and  India ’s appetite for coal
and  iron ore .  The largest exporter of the key steelmaking materials will
build enough railroads to stretch from Washington D.C. to  Los
Angeles  over the next decade, as well as a new port on the Great
Barrier Reef coast that will dwarf the world’s biggest bulk
harbor. The projects will near-double global coal  trade  and add
57 percent to the market for seaborne iron ore.  “There is so much opportunity here,” said Philippe
Bouquet, Australia construction head at French builder Bouygues
SA. “People in Paris are very impressed. They say: ‘23 million
people? How can they do so much?’”  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , Australia’s biggest builder,
Bechtel Group Inc. and trainmaker General Electric Co. are among
companies winning deals as Australia adds transport links to
support A$232 billion of mineral and energy projects. The demand,
coupled with economic slowdowns in the U.S. and  Europe , has
helped make Australia the developed world’s fastest-growing
construction market.  “This isn’t a short-term phenomenon,” said Hamish Tyrwhitt, chief executive officer of Sydney-based Leighton.
“This is about the urbanization of India and China and the
economic prosperity of the region.”  Leighton jumped 3.2 percent in Sydney trading, the biggest
gain in a week, to close at A$20.49. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index fell 0.2 percent. Engineering company  Macmahon Holdings
Ltd. (MAH)  climbed 4.2 percent and builder Lend Lease Group rose 1.6
percent.  Ports, Rail  Australian plans include building port terminals with
capacity of almost 1.5 billion metric tons a year by 2022, and
laying as much as 3,700 kilometers of rail track, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  One of the main sites is Abbot Point, a small coal port
sandwiched between a salt marsh and the lagoon of the Great
Barrier Reef. Queensland’s state government wants to boost
capacity 26-fold from 15 million metric ton to 385 million tons
under a  construction plan  due to begin in 2014. That would
surpass by almost 40 percent the 2011  volumes  at China’s
Qinhuangdao port, the world’s biggest dry-bulk harbor.  BHP,  Rio Tinto   In the Pilbara iron ore-producing region on Australia’s
northwest coast,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group are
leading plans to raise ore exports by 538 million tons over the
next five years. That will more than double output from an area
that already accounts for about 40 percent of the iron ore
shipped by sea each year.  Port Hedland , the Pilbara’s biggest harbor, plans to add
390 million tons of annual capacity by 2016 to support the
expansion push. It exported 199 million metric tons of cargo in
year ended June.  GE (GE) , which supplies 70 percent of the locomotives for mines
in the Pilbara and Queensland’s Bowen Basin coal district, plans
to double its total business in Australia by 2014, spokeswoman
Joanne Woo said by e-mail.  Bouygues (EN) , Europe’s second-largest listed builder, aims to
win two to three new construction deals in Australia each year,
Bouquet said. The company has only done three projects in the
country since 1995, he said.  Overseas Builders  Bechtel is building a US$2.5 billion expanded coal port for
BHP on the Barrier Reef coast and extending four BHP mines in
the Bowen Basin. In Western Australia, Irving, Texas-based  Fluor (FLR) 
is leading the US$3.9 billion expansion of BHP’s iron ore
terminal at Port Hedland.  “These companies have certainly got expertise that would
put them above what would otherwise be available here,” said
Phillip Greenham, a construction lawyer at Minter Ellison in
 Melbourne .  Still, overseas companies can meet difficulties
establishing reliable workforces and setting up supply chains,
which may cause them to focus on partnerships with local
contractors, according to Steve Gatt, KPMG’s Sydney-based lead
construction partner.  “There’s not a large number of companies that know the
geography, the markets and the customers and have a demonstrated
ability to build these things,” said Mike Carter, the head of
coal-train operator  QR National Ltd. (QRN) ’s network division.  The railroad last month completed an A$1.1 billion link to
Abbot Point. It  expects  to spend A$1.6 billion on its network
this year.  Construction Spending  Australia, with a population 40 percent smaller than
 California ’s, spent $176.5 billion on construction in the 12
months to September 2011. Spending has  surged  50 percent since
June 2006, giving it the fastest-growing building market of any
advanced economy.  New construction spending in the U.S.  totaled  $724.8
billion in the 11 months ended November, the lowest level since
the 1990s and down 34 percent from its peak in 2006. An  index 
tracking construction in the European Union was 21 percent lower
in October than in December 2006.  The Australian boom is showing up in customs data. The
value of large metal sections, used in construction, imported in
the 12 months ended November was almost twice the amount for the
whole of the 1990s, government data  shows .  Rolling-stock imports were a third above the 1990s total.
Imports of prefabricated buildings -- mainly used for
accommodation at remote building and mining projects -- almost
matched the 1990s total in September alone.  “You are seeing exponential growth,” said Jay Leary, a
construction partner with Freehills lawyers in Brisbane. “The
projects that are committed and planned for the next few years
are game-changing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  