-- China Doubles Estimate of Third-Quarter Capital Account Gap
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-11T10:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/china-doubles-estimate-of-third-quarter-capital-account-gap-1-.html
China ’s foreign-currency regulator
nearly doubled its estimate of the country’s third-quarter
capital and financial account surplus to $66.2 billion from an
earlier estimates issued in November.  The revision was posted to the  website  of the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange today in a statement that
also included a reduction in the current account surplus
estimate for the third quarter. The agency didn’t provide an
explanation for the changes.  “The large revision shows that capital-inflow pressure was
bigger than initially anticipated,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-
based economist for Societe Generale SA. “That may be reversed
this year with capital outflows more likely to become a concern
as investors may pull money out of the country due to worries
about slowing economic growth.”  The growing use of financial products such as yuan trade
settlement and yuan-denominated foreign investment may also have
contributed to the upward revision, Yao said.  A breakdown of China’s capital account surplus in the third
quarter showed net direct investment inflows were revised down
to $28.7 billion from previous reading of $35.9 billion. A
further $9.9 billion came from “net securities investment” and
$26.2 billion from “other net investment inflows,” items that
were not given in November’s preliminary estimates.  The estimate of China’s third-quarter current account
surplus, which includes the goods and services trade, was cut to
$53.4 billion from a preliminary reading of $57.8 billion,
today’s data showed. The excess included $85.3 billion for trade
in goods, and a $20.3 billion deficit for trade in services, the
currency regulator said.  --Zheng Lifei. Editor: Nerys Avery,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  