-- China’s Growth in Power Consumption May Slow With Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-11T08:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/china-s-growth-in-power-consumption-may-slow-with-economy-1-.html
China ’s power-consumption growth may
slow to about 8.5 percent this year as the world’s second-
biggest economy expands at a weaker pace, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported.  Power demand grew 11.7 percent to 4.7 trillion kilowatt-
hours last year, Xinhua said in a report, citing Yu Yanshan,
deputy director at the State Electricity Regulatory Commission.  Momentum in  China’s economy  has waned as the European
sovereign-debt crisis damps exports and a crackdown on
speculation in the domestic housing market weighs on demand.
Electricity consumption growth may slow to 5 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, according to the Xinhua
report yesterday.  Economic expansion may ease to 8.5 percent this year from
9.2 percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  As the economic slowdown curbs power demand growth, China
will continue to take measures to ensure stable fuel supplies
and conserve energy.  “It is always worrisome to have to sustain supply of
energy and resources for a country with 1.3 billion people,”
Liu Tienan, head of the National Energy Administration, said at
a national energy work conference yesterday.  The country will “reasonably” control its energy
consumption and expand stockpile facilities for oil, natural gas
and coal this year, Liu said in a  statement  posted on the energy
administration’s website yesterday.  Limiting Energy Use  China will add 200 million metric tons of coal-production
capacity this year, compared with 95 million tons in 2011, the
energy administration said. The country may build 70 gigawatts
of power-generation capacity this year, after adding 90
gigawatts in 2011, according to the statement.  The nation may limit its annual energy consumption to the
equivalent of 4.1 billion tons of standard coal and electricity
demand to 6.4 trillion kilowatt-hours by 2015, the National
Business Daily  reported  today, citing the energy conference.  The official targets haven’t been set yet, Zeng Yachuan, a
spokesman at the administration, said by telephone from Beijing.  Energy consumption gained 5.9 percent to 3.25 billion tons
of standard coal in 2010, according to the National Bureau of
Statistics.  --Winnie Zhu. With assistance from Jing Yang in  Shanghai .
Editors: Ryan Woo,  Mike Anderson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 