-- China May Idle Most Aluminum Capacity Since 2009: Commodities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-12T08:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/china-may-idle-most-aluminum-capacity-since-2009-commodities.html
Chinese aluminum smelters may idle
their annual capacity by one-third, the most in three years, as
energy costs soar and prices slump.  China  may produce almost 20 million metric tons of the
lightweight metal and its capacity may be as much as 30 million
tons by the end of this year, said Luo Rongjin, a Beijing-based
analyst with Bocom International Holdings Co. Monthly output
from China, the world’s biggest producer, fell 8.3 percent in
November from a record 1.6 million tons in August.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , Rio Tinto Group and their global rivals are
cutting production after prices dropped 19 percent last year,
curbing profits. Alcoa, the largest U.S. producer that reported
its first loss in two years this week, said China may use 70
percent of its capacity in 2012.  “China’s aluminum industry is becoming less and less
competitive because power is going up and many producers are
making losses,” Peter Hickson, managing director of Global
Commodity Research and Basic Materials Strategy at UBS AG, said
in an interview in  Shanghai . Chinese smelters may idle 1 million
or 2 million tons of capacity this year, adding to 6 million
tons of surplus capacity in 2011, he said.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , or Chalco, the nation’s
biggest producer of the metal used in aircraft, beverage cans
and car parts, is “actively studying the market” and may
adjust production when needed, spokeswoman Shen Hui said. China
will curtail 1.1 million tons of aluminum output capacity this
year, Alcoa Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said Jan. 9.  Further Cuts  “We should watch out for further production cuts in and
outside China as many aluminum smelters are operating at a loss
given the low prices,” said  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Aluminum will be strongly
influenced by macroeconomic data and political actions,
especially regarding the sovereign debt crisis in the  euro
zone .”  Falling prices may force 3 million tons of global capacity
to be closed or mothballed,  Oleg Deripaska , CEO of United Co.
Rusal, the world’s largest producer, said last month. Rusal
itself isn’t planning to cut output yet, and is monitoring the
market closely, the Moscow-based company’s press service said
yesterday in an e-mail.  Alcoa this month said it would halt 12 percent of its
global capacity and Rio, the world’s third-biggest producer,
said in November it would shut its Lynemouth smelter in  England .
Norsk Hydro ASA, Europe’s third-largest producer, said Jan. 10
it may take some capacity offline at its smelter near Newcastle
in  Australia .  Low Prices  Aluminum prices will stay low until Chalco and other
smelters cut production, UBS’s Hickson said. Prices may average
$2,275 a ton, down from last year’s $2,397, according to the
median of 18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Ten to 20 percent of production cuts in 2012 is normal,”
Lu Changqing, executive director and vice president of China
Zhongwang Holdings Ltd., said in a Jan. 9 interview. The company
is  Asia ’s largest industrial aluminum-extrusion products maker
with annual capacity of 700,000 tons, according to a regulatory
filing. “Prices have fallen to some of the smelters’ cost of
production. They are unlikely to sustain losses for long.”  China raised retail power prices by an average 0.03 yuan
(0.5 cents) a kilowatt-hour from Dec. 1, squeezing profits at
smelters that don’t have access to cheaper fuel. That would
raise costs by as much as 500 yuan for producing a ton of
aluminum, or equivalent to an increase of as much as 5 percent
of total costs, Chalco’s Shen said.  ‘Heavy Blow’  “More than half of Chinese smelters are already making
losses,” said Lang Dazhan, deputy head of China Nonferrous
Metals Industry Association’s aluminum unit. “The latest power-
rate hikes give another heavy blow and may force them to curtail
production in the first quarter. Chalco is certainly a victim.”  Smelters in China’s Henan, Guangxi and Hunan provinces are
the worst affected because they are paying the highest power
rates, Lang said. Chalco may cut production at its high-cost
units in Henan and Shanxi provinces in the first quarter, said
Bocom’s Luo.  China’s primary aluminum production gained 9.9 percent to
16 million tons in the first 11 months last year from a year ago,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009, on weaker export
demand and monetary tightening. Aluminum inventories monitored
by the Shanghai Futures Exchange gained for a fifth week last
week to 221,624 tons, the highest since July.  Production Restraint  Aluminum prices in  London  have slumped 23 percent from a
record in May to $2,170 a ton at 2:34 p.m. Shanghai time today
after global growth decelerated amid a sovereign-debt crisis in
 Europe  and China’s government action to control inflation.  “Smelters will need to show production restraint in the
coming years to restore a degree of normality on the aluminum
market,” Bank of America Corp. said in a weekly metals report
Jan. 9. The bank estimated prices may reach $2,275 a ton this
year and $2,375 in 2013.  Still, China will add 3 million tons to 5 million tons of
new capacity this year to the existing 24 million to 25 million
tons, even as most of the producers won’t make a profit,
according to Bocom’s Luo.  Many of these projects are located in provinces such as
Gansu, Ningxia and Inner Mongolia that may have access to
cheaper electricity or are closer to energy sources,
intensifying competition to plants in eastern regions owned by
larger players such as Chalco, Luo said.  “Steel and aluminum projects generate huge output value,
and are always a big driver for local GDP and the government’s
tax revenue,” he said. “Local governments encourage these
projects to be built, sometimes even without appropriate
approval.”  Aluminum smelting capacity in China may reach 35 million
tons a year by the end of 2015 from 25 million tons last year,
with most of the projects located in western regions including
Xinjiang province, Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts, led by Bonnie Liu, said in a report dated yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  