-- China May Be Allied With U.S. in Preferring Ma Victory in Taiwan Election
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-12T05:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/china-may-be-allied-with-u-s-in-preferring-ma-victory-in-taiwan-election.html
China  and the U.S., at loggerheads
over everything from trade to human rights, have a common
interest in the outcome of this week’s Taiwan presidential
election: a victory by President Ma Ying-jeou.  The U.S. “rewarded” Ma with visits last month by a deputy
energy secretary and the head of USAID, the highest-level trips
by American officials in more than 10 years, and may allow visa-
free travel, said  Douglas Paal , formerly head of the American
Institute in Taiwan, the de facto U.S. embassy. China, which
claims sovereignty over Taiwan, didn’t protest, instead saying
that victory by Ma’s main opponent would be a step backward.  For China, Ma’s re-election on Jan. 14 would help cement a
key legacy of President Hu Jintao’s decade-long rule -- the
peaceful enmeshing of Taiwan into the mainland’s  economic orbit ,
with Taiwanese investment in China rising to $12.2 billion in
2010, up 26 percent from 2007, the year before Ma took office.
While the U.S. says it’s not taking sides, a Ma victory may make
historically close ties with Taiwan less likely to hurt mainland
relations as the Obama administration seeks  Chinese support  for
curbing nuclear programs in  North Korea  and  Iran .  “The U.S. very much wants continued calm across the  Taiwan
Strait , lest new tensions undermine the fragile cooperation
built up with China over the past 16 months and in a
consequential political year in the U.S. and China,” said Paal,
now vice president at the Washington-based Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace.  Closer Links  Ma, 61, head of the Kuomintang Party, has brought Taiwan
closer economically and politically with the mainland since
taking office in 2008, ending a six-decade ban on direct air,
sea and postal links, reducing tariffs and boosting two-way
investment.  Ma said at a Jan. 8 rally that cross-straits relations were
at their best in 60 years, and that ties had benefits as well as
risks. At a briefing today, he said he had asked China not to
get involved in the upcoming elections and promised he won’t be
pressured to make any political deals with China if he wins a
second term.  Maintain Status Quo  “Mainland China knows they won’t achieve their ultimate
political goal in the short-term, so they must ease tension,”
Ma told reporters in Taipei. “Maintaining the status quo can’t
harm China, they’ve got nothing to lose from it.”  In China, gone are the days when Chinese propaganda
officials churned out epithets against Taiwanese leaders,
including former Kuomintang president Lee Teng-hui, who served
until 2000 and was branded a “rat” for his policy of moving
 Taiwan  toward sovereignty. At one popular Taiwanese restaurant
in Beijing, Ma’s photo graces the entryway.  Ma was widening his narrow lead over Democratic Progressive
Party Chairwoman Tsai Ing-wen in public opinion polls taken
prior to a blackout period for voter surveys that began Jan. 4.
Taiwanese law bars publication or release of polls 10 days prior
to presidential elections.  Tsai’s Platform  Tsai says that while she wants good relations with China,
closer  economic links  could lead to Taiwan bartering away its
autonomy. In a Nov. 17 interview, Tsai said she differentiates
herself from the previous DPP president, Chen Shui-bian, who
angered China with demands for Taiwanese independence, and is
“not known as a provocative person.”  “We need to diversify our global relations, our global
economic ties,” DPP spokeswoman Hsiao Bi-Khim said at a
briefing in Taipei today. “We feel that we need to deal with
China along with the rest of the world instead of facing the
world only through China.”  Tsai, 55, has said she doesn’t support what the Kuomintang
and the Chinese government call the “1992 Consensus,” an
agreement between the two that there is only one China, with
each party differing on the meaning.  “If Tsai gets elected, there will be a standstill on
China-Taiwan relations and all the ongoing negotiations will be
suspended,” said Chang Wu-ueh, a professor of political science
at Taipei’s Tamkang University.  Trading Partner  China passed the U.S. as Taiwan’s largest  trading partner 
in 2002. Two-way trade  reached  $160 billion last year, according
to Chinese customs statistics, a 10 percent increase from a year
earlier.  The Kuomintang’s honorary chairman, Lien Chan, regularly
meets with Hu, who calls Lien an “old friend.” They met in
November at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, where
Lien was first in line to have photos taken with President
 Barack Obama  at a dinner. Taiwan’s  Central News Agency   touted 
Lien’s moment in the “international media spotlight.”  Chinese tourists are also flooding into Taiwan, with the
total jumping 68 percent to 1.63 million in 2010 as China
overtook  Japan  as the island’s biggest source of visitors. The
influx has helped spur expansion among hotel groups including
Marriott International Inc. and Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc.  ‘Good Feelings’  “Piece by piece, little by little, you add mutual trust,
and add good feelings about each other,” Lien said in a Nov. 11
interview.  Gone for now are the days when tensions across the Taiwan
Strait infected the China-U.S. relationship. China conducted
military exercises around Taiwan ahead of Lee’s 1996 victory in
the island’s first democratic election and threatened war if Lee
won. In response, then-President  Bill Clinton  deployed two
aircraft carrier battle groups to the area.  China claims Taiwan as a province and has vowed to reunite
the island with the mainland by force if necessary. The two
sides have been ruled separately since 1949, when the Kuomintang
government fled to the island following its defeat by the
Communists in the Chinese civil war.  Not Taking Sides  Victoria Nuland , a State Department spokeswoman, said in a
Jan. 5 statement that the U.S. “does not take sides in the
election.”  “We will work, within the parameters of our existing
unofficial relationship, with whomever the people of Taiwan
elect,” Nuland said.  Cui Tiankai, China’s vice foreign minister overseeing ties
with the U.S., told reporters in Beijing on Jan. 9 that the
Obama administration is “very aware” of China’s position with
regard to Taiwan. He declined to answer a question about whether
the U.S. and Chinese positions on the Taiwan election were
aligned.  “Where the U.S. and Chinese interests coincide are that
both sides want to see a stable environment across the strait
and don’t want to see a return to the environment that we had
during the last DPP presidency,” said Paul Haenle, who served
as the director for China and Taiwan at the White House National
Security Council under the Bush and Obama administrations from
2007-2009.  “The administration probably has concluded that stability
would be easier achieved under Ma, but they would still try to
achieve that stability under Tsai Ing-wen: they don’t have a
choice,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  