-- China Swap Rates Drop Most in Three Weeks as PBOC May Add Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-11T08:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/china-swap-rates-drop-most-in-three-weeks-as-pboc-may-add-cash.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps dropped
the most in more than three weeks on speculation the central
bank will add funds to the financial system to ease a cash
shortage.  The People’s Bank of China injected 51 billion yuan ($8.1
billion) last week by halting sales of new bills, while those
issued earlier matured. The monetary authority  said  on Jan. 6 it
would suspend such auctions until after the Lunar New Year
holiday starting Jan. 23, and may offer reverse-repurchase
contracts to provide additional cash.  “Concern over a possible funding squeeze into the New Year
has now eased, as the market anticipates liquidity injections
via reverse repos,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “Money-market
rates don’t yet suggest the reverse repos have started.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell six basis
points to 3.05 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the biggest decline since
Dec. 16.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 3.99 percent, according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The  finance ministry  sold 28 billion yuan of one-year bonds
at an average yield of 2.78 percent, according to a trader at a
 finance company  that participates in government debt auctions.
The average yield compared with the 2.80 percent median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of seven fixed-income analysts and
traders. The highest winning bid was 2.86 percent, according to
the trader, who declined to be identified as the information
isn’t public.  The yield on the 3.94 percent government bond due January
2021 rose one basis point to 3.42 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Anil Varma, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 