-- Christie Tells Oprah He Feels Guilty About Being Unable to Control Weight
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-11T20:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/christie-tells-oprah-he-feels-guilty-about-being-unable-to-control-weight.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
told  Oprah Winfrey  he feels guilty about being overweight and
wishes for his family’s sake he could get his size under
control.  Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, said the weight
issue hurt him more when he was younger and that he has
“developed a bit of a shell” about it in public life because
it’s talked about more.  “The guilt that I feel is in regard to my children, like,
that I wish that I could get better control of it, just for my
own health, and my own future, with them,” Christie, a married
father of four, said in an excerpt from an interview set to air
Jan. 15 on Winfrey’s OWN cable network.  Winfrey, 57, left broadcast television to focus on OWN,
which started in January 2011. She traveled to  New Jersey  for
the interview with Christie, which will appear on her show
“Oprah’s Next Chapter.” Winfrey has acknowledged her own
struggles with weight.  Christie, who in October opted against running for
president this year and has campaigned for Republican hopeful
 Mitt Romney , denied during the interview that his girth shows a
lack of discipline.  Asthma, Weight  In July, Christie was hospitalized for several hours for
asthma after complaining of shortness of breath. He later told
reporters he planned to exercise more and try to lose some
pounds.  “I would love to show these people who say that because
I’m overweight that means I’m not disciplined,” Christie told
Winfrey. “They think you could get to where I am by being
undisciplined? Let me show them.”  Christie, the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since 1997, saw his stature in the national party rise weeks
after taking office in January 2010. He froze $2.2 billion in
spending to close a midyear deficit, and then cut $10 billion in
projected new spending for schools, pensions and towns. He
sparred with teachers and other union members over benefits and
pay, using  YouTube  videos of the battles to spread his message.  In recent weeks, Christie has traveled to  New Hampshire  and
 Iowa  to stump for Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts .  Christie said during the interview that Congress is “at
war with itself” over partisan issues, and President  Barack Obama  is the only one who can call a truce. Obama has called
Winfrey a friend and appeared in the past on her syndicated talk
show.  “Those who underestimate Barack Obama underestimate him at
their own peril,” Christie told Winfrey. “He’s as good of a
politician as I’ve ever seen.”  Christie, who is known for his blunt and caustic style,
also spoke during the interview about his relationship with his
deceased mother. He said he learned from her to leave “nothing
unsaid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  