-- Chrysler to Begin Natural-Gas Truck Sales
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-01-11T23:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/chrysler-to-begin-selling-natural-gas-powered-pickups-to-fleets-this-year.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , plans to begin selling natural gas-
powered pickups in the U.S. this year, said  Sergio Marchionne ,
chief executive officer of both automakers.  “We are going to bring them here, there is no doubt,”
Marchionne said yesterday in an interview at the North American
International Auto Show in Detroit. Sales will be “limited at
first. It depends upon the distribution network.”  Fiat, which owns 58.5 percent of Auburn Hills, Michigan-
based Chrysler, has engines using compressed natural gas in
Europe. Chrysler executives have said they plan to begin
deliveries of vehicles using the technology to the U.S. by 2017.  Sales of compressed natural gas-powered pickups will begin
to fleet customers, David Elshoff, a spokesman, said in an e-
mail. He declined to say whether Chrysler will target particular
buyers such as government or commercial customers.  Marchionne said yesterday that  natural-gas  engines are the
“best option.” He has argued they’re cheaper than competing
technologies and that electric cars, which competitors such as
 General Motors Co. (GM) , Nissan Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. are
marketing, present “too many obstacles” such as the recharge
time for batteries.  The additional cost for an engine using natural gas is
$3,000, compared with $3,300 for diesel and $8,000 for an
electric hybrid,  Alfredo Altavilla , who heads Fiat’s Iveco truck
unit, said in September 2010, when Fiat laid out its natural gas
aspirations.  Limited Refueling  Infrastructure for refueling natural gas vehicles is
limited. The International Association for Natural Gas Vehicles
says on its  website  that there were 1,000 stations and 112,000
natural-gas vehicles in the U.S. as of December 2010.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  is the only automaker selling cars with
compressed natural-gas engines to retail customers in the U.S.
with its $26,155 Civic Natural Gas sedan. The model, formerly
the Civic GX, has sold mainly in California and a small number
of other U.S. states that have fueling facilities.  The newest version of Civic Natural Gas, named 2012 Green
Car of the Year at the Los Angeles auto show in November, is now
sold by 200 dealers in 36 states, according to Honda. The car
was initially available only in California,  New York , Utah and
Oklahoma.  Chrysler in 2009 separated the Ram and Dodge brands to
create a standalone truck unit. Marchionne’s five-year plan for
the company includes bringing large- and small-commercial vans
to the U.S. in 2012 under the Ram brand based on Fiat’s trucks
platforms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in  Detroit  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in Detroit at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  