-- Citigroup Lobbyist Casts Doubt on Obama’s Recess Appointment
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-01-11T18:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/citigroup-lobbyist-casts-doubt-on-obama-s-recess-appointment-of-cordray.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s lobbyist said
President Barack Obama’s decision to make Richard Cordray head
of the new financial watchdog agency wasn’t a “recess”
appointment and may face a court challenge.  Naming Cordray to run the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau while the Senate held “pro forma” sessions left the
White House open to legal action, especially from financial
firms facing new rules, Candida Wolff, Citigroup’s executive
vice president for global government affairs, said in an
interview today.  “I don’t think this was a recess appointment,” said
Wolff, who was chief lobbyist for President  George W. Bush  and
now represents the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets. “I
struggle with the fact that a session is still a session, and
you can have business within that session.” Cordray’s authority
to oversee non-banks and non-financial companies “will probably
be one area where I can see action,” she said.  Obama had drawn fire for using his power to make
appointments while Congress is out of session. Obama installed
Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general, as consumer bureau
director on Jan. 4, drawing objections from Republicans who
opposed the agency’s creation. Senate members met every few days
specifically to block recess appointees.  Court Challenges  “Legal challenges to the appointment are likely to come
from every quarter -- from individuals to community and labor
groups to possibly even Congress,” Wolff said in comments
posted on the New York-based bank’s website. “Will the rules,
regulations and proposals coming out of the bureau be stuck in
limbo for the foreseeable future, and what impact will such
uncertainty have on those who must decide how to comply with
their rulings?”  Wolff said she’s not aware of any litigation planned by
Citigroup or the  American Bankers Association , the industry’s
Washington lobby. Citigroup supports the goal of more
transparency, choice and control for banking customers,
according to Molly Millerwise Meiners, a Citigroup spokeswoman.
She declined to comment on Cordray’s appointment as a matter of
company policy.  “We’re not weighing in on the political arguments,” Wolff
said in the interview. “We’re weighing into some of the
questions that have to be resolved.”  Citigroup received a $45 billion U.S. bailout during the
financial crisis, which has since been repaid.  White House Response  “The Senate has effectively been in recess for weeks, and
is expected to remain in recess for weeks,” White House
spokesman  Eric Schultz  said in a statement. Lawyers who advised
President Bush also rejected pro-forma sessions, said Schultz,
who called them a “sham” designed to keep Obama from doing his
job. “Gimmicks do not override the president’s constitutional
authority to make appointments to keep the government running,”
he said.  Wolff is a lawyer whose career included a stint as deputy
staff director for the Senate Republican Policy Committee,
according to an April 2011 Citigroup statement when she joined
the bank. She wondered on Citigroup’s website whether Cordray’s
elevation -- as well as three recess appointments to the
 National Labor Relations Board  -- would further damage relations
between Republicans and Obama while setting a precedent for
future contentious hires.  “If things weren’t tense before, the political stakes have
been upped,” Wolff wrote. “Add to that a hostile election-year
environment and even the most non-controversial piece of
legislation may not make it in 2012.”  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who led bailed-out insurer
American International Group Inc. for almost four decades until
he was ousted in 2005, called Cordray’s appointment
unconstitutional. Greenberg, 86, is chairman and chief executive
officer of insurer C.V. Starr & Co.  “The president’s stuck his finger in the eye of Congress,”
Greenberg told Betty Liu today on Bloomberg TV’s “In the
Loop.” “You need the approval of the Senate for that
appointment. It was bypassed. That doesn’t lead for a great
relationship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 