-- Cleared Carbon Volumes Surged on ICE as EIB May Have Begun Sales
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-01-11T14:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/cleared-carbon-volumes-surged-on-ice-as-eib-may-have-begun-sales.html
The volume of carbon contracts
cleared on the ICE Futures Europe exchange more than doubled in
the period since Dec. 1 as the  European Investment Bank  may have
started selling 2013 contracts for the first time.  So-called exchange-for-physical December 2012 contracts
transferred from the over-the-counter market on to the exchange,
the biggest for carbon trading, totaled 85.3 million metric tons
in the period through Jan. 6 from Dec. 1, according to data
compiled by OTC Europe LLP. That compares with 30.6 million tons
of December 2011 EFPs in the same period a year earlier. Total
exchange-cleared trading for EU permits in 2011 rose 5 percent
from the year before, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The highest volume of EFPs handled in the period was on
Jan. 4, when 7.8 million tons traded, the data show. That
coincided with the record low for the December 2012 contract of
6.38 euros ($8.10) a ton in intraday trading. Prices fell as low
as 7.21 euros a ton on Dec. 6, a record at the time, as EFP
trading more than tripled to 5.6 million tons compared with the
day earlier.  The EIB received 200 million tons of 2013 permits from the
European Commission, the regulator of the world’s largest
emissions market, on Dec. 2 and has a mandate to sell them
within 10 months. Prices fell to records amid uncertainty about
whether the sales had started. EIB spokesmen including Nick Antonovics declined to comment at the time. On Dec. 21, the EIB
said it will publish today its first monthly report on sales of
carbon allowances from the reserve, which is expected at 5:30
p.m.  London  time.  The EIB’s over-the-counter transactions “will be
structured in a way to ensure best competition and limit any
information advantage to the amount executed with each market
counterpart,” the bank said in a statement on its website
updated Dec. 2. The sales volumes and timing “may be adjusted
to minimize any impact on the secondary market,” it said.  ‘Odd Month’  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst for  Barclays Capital  in London,
said today the EIB may have sold about 10 million tons last
month. “It’s an odd month, with the holiday period, so it’s
unlikely to be much of a guide on how much will be sold going
forward,” he said today by e-mail.  Not all lows coincided with high EFP volumes. On Dec. 14,
when prices reached a record at the time of 6.73 euros a ton,
EFP trading was 2.6 million tons on ICE, the data show.  It’s difficult to say how much, if any, of the EFP volume
can be attributed to the potential EIB transactions, said Brett Genus, a broker and technical analyst at OTC  Europe  in London.
At least some of the EFP trading may be related to sellers
anticipating the EIB sales, he said.  The outright December 2012 futures contract had its highest
volume during the period on Dec. 20, when 23.1 million tons
traded on ICE, while average volume during the 24-session period
was 10.6 million tons a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  