-- Clinton Calls for Arab League to Leave Syria
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-01-11T19:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/clinton-calls-for-arab-league-to-leave-syria.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the Arab League monitoring mission in Syria has failed to
deter the government’s violence against dissidents and should
end.  The league sent monitors to Syria two weeks ago to judge
whether the regime was adhering to its promises to end assaults
by government troops, release political prisoners and follow
through on other commitments.  “So far, the regime has not done so,” Clinton said.  The
top U.S. diplomat added that it was “clear” that the
“monitoring mission should not continue indefinitely. We cannot
permit President Assad and his regime to have impunity.”  Clinton’s comments came as a top United Nations official
said that Syrian security forces have persisted in deadly
attacks on protesters throughout the monitors’ two-week
observation mission, set to expire on Jan. 19.  About 400 people have been killed since the  Arab League 
team arrived on Dec. 26 to monitor Syria’s implementation of an
accord to end the crackdown, UN political chief Lynn Pascoe told
the 15-member Security Council yesterday.  Clinton noted that 11 monitors were attacked two days ago.
She said President Bashar al-Assad has only made excuses for the
violence his troops are perpetrating, particularly in a speech
Assad gave yesterday.  ‘Only Making Excuses’  “Instead of taking responsibility, what we hear from
President Assad in his chillingly cynical speech was only making
excuses, blaming foreign countries, conspiracies so vast that
now it includes the Syrian opposition, the international
community, all international media outlets, the Arab League
itself,” Clinton said.  She spoke at the State Department after a meeting with
Qatari Foreign Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabor al Thani. The foreign minister said he was glad the Arab League had
taken the initiative.  “In the history of the Arab League, this is the first time
that we are sending monitors,” al-Thani said. “I could not see
up till now a successful mission, frankly speaking.”  The Arab League will produce a report after the mission
ends which “will be very important for us to make the right
judgment,” he said. “We cannot accept to let the situation as
it is in  Syria , and the people killed by their own government.”  ‘Iron Fist’  The Syrian president vowed yesterday to use an “iron
fist” to resist what he described as foreign-backed efforts to
divide his country, in his fourth national address since the
uprising began in March. The UN estimates that more than 5,000
people have died.  At least 38 people were killed yesterday in Deir al-Zour,
Homs, Qamishli, Idlib and in Hama, said the  Local Coordination
Committees , an activist group with members in Syria. The U.K.-
based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , which also has a
network of activists in the country, put the death toll at 27
yesterday.  The observatory said three civilians and one army defector
were killed in Hama today, while a strike was under way in Idlib
over  living conditions . Security forces opened fire on students
rallying this morning in a suburb of the capital Damascus, it
said.  Assad repeated his argument that the violence is a result
of a “foreign conspiracy.” He said his priority is to restore
security and that “terrorists” will be met with an “iron
fist,” while denying that any orders had been given to security
forces to fire on civilians.  ’Irresponsible Acts’  Under an agreement with the Arab League, Syria’s government
promised to withdraw military and security forces from urban
areas, release political prisoners and allow observers into the
country to monitor implementation of the accord.  Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi condemned the attack on
the monitors as “irresponsible acts and acts of violence” and
said the Syrian government is responsible for the protection of
its envoys.  Anwar Malek, an Algerian Arab League observer who resigned
from his position saying he found himself serving the Syrian
government’s interests, told  Al Jazeera  the Arab League’s
monitoring mission wasn’t independent.  “What I saw was a humanitarian disaster,”  Al Jazeera 
cited Malek as saying. “The regime is not just committing one
war crime, but a series of crimes against its people,” he said.  Snipers are widespread and shoot at civilians, while people
are being kidnapped and prisoners tortured, Al Jazeera cited
Malek as saying. Security forces didn’t withdraw their tanks
from the streets as the Syrian government claimed, but hid and
then redeployed them after the observers left, he told the Doha-
based news channel.  Increased Pressure  State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said Malek’s
observations correspond to reports received by the U.S. “His
concerns are absolutely consistent with the reports we’re
getting,” she said in a briefing with reporters today.  In a televised speech from Istanbul yesterday, Burhan Ghalioun, the leader of the Syrian National Council, an umbrella
opposition group, called on Arab governments to increase
pressure on Assad and urged the Arab League to raise the Syrian
situation at the UN.  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27.
Russia and  China  have blocked efforts by the U.S. and the
European Union, which also have imposed sanctions, for the UN
 Security Council  to condemn the crackdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Flavia Krause-Jackson at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  