-- Cnooc Starts Its First China Shale-Gas Exploration Project
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-01-12T05:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/cnooc-starts-its-first-shale-gas-project-in-eastern-china.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s biggest offshore
energy producer, started drilling at its first shale-gas project
in the country, joining rivals including  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028)  in the search for unconventional natural gas.  Exploration started Dec. 29 in the eastern Anhui province,
China National Offshore Oil Corp., Cnooc’s parent, said in a
 statement  on its website yesterday. The shale-gas project is
also the Hong Kong-listed unit’s first onshore venture, it said.  China, estimated to hold more natural gas trapped in shale
than the U.S., has yet to produce the fuel commercially. Chinese
energy explorers have been seeking shale technology and
expertise by buying stakes in overseas fields, including
acquisitions of Chesapeake Energy Corp. assets by Cnooc.  “It may take more than five years for Cnooc to turn this
exploration into real production, but the key message here is
Cnooc signals a new direction on where the company will move in
the future,” said  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based energy
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “Cnooc will count heavily
on unconventional oil and gas for growth down the road.”  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet (36
trillion cubic meters of gas), or 12 times the country’s
conventional natural gas deposits, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said in April. China’s “technically
recoverable” reserves are almost 50 percent more than the 862
trillion cubic feet held by the U.S., the EIA said.  China National Petroleum Corp., the country’s biggest
energy producer, agreed in June to form a venture with Royal
Dutch Shell Plc to improve its drilling efficiency after taking
11 months to complete the nation’s first shale-gas well.  Exploration Right  Cnooc fell 1.4 percent to HK$15.16 at 1:51 p.m. in Hong
Kong, while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  swung between gains
and losses.  The project, located in Anhua’s Wuhu city, covers an area
of 4,800 square kilometers (1,853 square miles), China National
Offshore said. The company’s application for the right to
explore the area was approved by Ministry of Land and Resources
in December 2010, Cnooc said in an e-mailed statement today.  Cnooc joined China’s first shale-gas exploration rights
auction in June and lost to China Petroleum and Henan Provincial
Coal Seam Gas Development and Utilization Co. Sinopec, as China
Petroleum is known, and Henan Provincial won the rights to
search for the fuel in the Nanchuan and Xiushan blocks.  The Nanchuan block, an area of 2,198 square kilometers,
straddles Chongqing municipality and Guizhou province in the
southwest, while Xiushan, spanning Chongqing, Guizhou and Hunan,
has an area of 2,039 square kilometers, the land ministry said
June 29.  China has scheduled a second auction for January, Zhang
Dawei, deputy director of oil and gas research at the Ministry
of Land and Resources, said Dec. 29.  Cnooc has bid for at least $16 billion of assets overseas
since the beginning of 2010, including stakes in Chesapeake’s
Niobrara and Eagle Ford shale projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  