-- Colts Hire Eagles’ Grigson as General Manager, Replacing Fired Bill Polian
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-01-11T16:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/colts-hire-eagles-grigson-as-general-manager-replacing-fired-bill-polian.html
The  Indianapolis Colts  named
Philadelphia Eagles Director of Player Personnel Ryan Grigson as
their general manager, the latest move in the team’s front-
office shakeup after a season that produced the National
Football League’s worst record.  The hiring of the 40-year-old Grigson, which was announced
on the Colts’ website, comes nine days after the firings of Bill Polian as vice chairman and his son Chris Polian as GM.  Grigson helped the Eagles bring in six Pro Bowl players
over the last two seasons. Last offseason, he helped acquire
cornerbacks Nnamdi Asomugha and Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie and
defensive end Jason Babin, whose 18 sacks ranked third in the
NFL in 2011. Philadelphia finished 8-8, winning their last four
games but missing the playoffs.  Grigson directed the Eagles’ college scouting from 2006 to
2009, drafting running back LeSean McCoy and wide receiver
 DeSean Jackson . Both have made Pro Bowl appearances.  A native of Highland, Indiana, Grigson was the captain of
the Purdue University football team in 1994.  Bill Polian joined the Colts in 1998 and took  Peyton Manning  as the top pick in that year’s draft. Manning led the
Colts to eight division titles and a  Super Bowl  win after the
2006 season, collecting a record four NFL Most Valuable Player
awards.  Manning missed this season after three operations on his
neck and the Colts started 0-13. Indianapolis finished 2-14 to
gain the top pick in April’s draft, where Stanford University
quarterback Andrew Luck is expected by analyst Mel Kiper of ESPN
to be the No. 1 pick.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 