-- Covidien Seeks ‘Tuck-In’ Acquisitions to Reinforce Devices
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2012-01-11T21:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/covidien-seeks-tuck-in-acquisitions-to-reinforce-devices.html
Covidien Plc (COV)  is interested in
“tuck-in” acquisitions of companies that have annual sales of
$20 million to $120 million, Chief Executive Officer Jose Almeida said.  “We are always looking at acquisitions in our vascular
business, in our respiratory business, in our surgical
business,” Almeida said yesterday in an interview at the J.P.
Morgan Healthcare Conference in  San Francisco . “I had several
targets last year but the value did not match.”  Covidien, a maker of surgical products and medicines, said
in December it would spin off its pharmaceuticals unit into a
separate company. The drugs business generates about $2 billion
and the medical products unit has annual sales of $9.6 billion
for the company with offices in Dublin, Ireland and Mansfield,
 Massachusetts .  Covidien fell less than 1 percent to $46.17 at the close of
trading. The stock has dropped 2 percent in the past 12 months.  The company has announced or completed 20 deals in the past
five years, with an average disclosed size of $304 million and
an average premium of 74 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  An acquisition in the area of vascular products may be a
natural target, said Michael Matson, an analyst with Mizuho
Securities USA Inc.  Almeida said he isn’t interested pursuing deals for
Covidien’s medical supplies business, something which Matson
said may be dilutive to the company’s margins.  “Those are more commoditized products,” Matson said.
“They are going to go to look at higher margin products.”  Endologix Inc. (ELGX) , of Irvine,  California , and Poway,
California-based  ResMed Inc. (RMD)  would make sense for Covidien’s
offerings, said Matt Dolan, a Roth Capital Partners analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  