-- Oil Declines After U.S. Fuel Inventories Climb as German Economy Contracts
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-01-11T20:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/crude-oil-falls-after-decrease-in-german-growth-bolsters-recession-concern.html
Oil fell as U.S. crude and fuel
supplies climbed more than expected and concern mounted that a
contracting German economy will drag  Europe  into recession.  Futures dropped 1.3 percent after a government report
showed that  crude  inventories rose 4.96 million barrels last
week, almost five times the gain projected in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. Fuel stockpiles jumped as demand decreased.
Oil also slipped as  Germany ’s Federal Statistics Office said
Europe’s largest economy shrank last quarter.  “The fundamentals are poor, with both today’s inventory
report and the fourth-quarter contraction of the German economy
pointing to lower prices,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “Today’s numbers point to a poor demand period, which
should be weighing on the market.”  Crude oil for February delivery declined $1.37 to settle at
$100.87 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 11
percent from a year earlier.  Brent oil for February settlement fell $1.04, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $112.24 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European contract’s
premium to Nymex crude widened to $11.37 a barrel today.  Crude inventories rose to 334.6 million barrels last week,
the highest level since the seven days ended Dec. 2. A 1
million-barrel gain was forecast, based on the median of 12
analyst estimates in the Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Bearish Reports’  “We’ve had three bearish reports in a row and oil has only
managed to briefly dip below $100,” said Todd Horwitz, chief
strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group in  New York . “We’ve got
every reason to drop but have held up well. I expect we will
soon be testing resistance in the $103 to $104 area again.”  Oil in New York reached $103.74 a barrel on Jan. 4, the
highest level since May 11. Futures have touched a low of $98.30
during the last three weeks.  Gasoline supplies  climbed 3.61 million barrels to 223.8
million in the week ended Jan. 6, the highest level since March,
the report showed. Analysts projected a 2.25 million-barrel
increase in stockpiles.  Demand (DOEDMGAS)  tumbled 4.4 percent to 8.18
million barrels a day, the lowest level since February 2003.  Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, climbed 3.99 million barrels to 147.6
million, the report showed.  “The market was shaken by the combination of the German
economic news and the U.S. gasoline numbers, which were
anemic,” said Matthew Dougherty, a managing director at
Advisory Research Inc. in  Chicago , who manages $6 billion.  GDP Decline  German gross domestic product  decreased  by about 0.25
percent in the fourth quarter from the third, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today in an unofficial
estimate. A recession is defined as two consecutive quarters of
GDP contraction.  “Germany is on the cusp of recession, which will be bad
for demand,” said David McAlvany, chief executive officer of
McAlvany Financial Group in Durango,  Colorado . “There will be
pressure on this market as long as there’s no clear path out of
Europe’s economic problems.”  The euro slipped 0.6 percent to $1.2703 at 3:47 p.m. in New
York. A weaker common currency and stronger dollar decrease the
appeal of raw materials to investors.  “The dollar keeps going higher as the euro sinks on
concerns about Europe,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of
market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“It looks like Germany, the engine of Europe’s economy, is
heading into recession if it isn’t there already.”  Nuclear Program  Futures climbed as much as 0.2 percent earlier after Iran’s
Fars news agency said a nuclear scientist, Mostafa Ahmadi
Roshan, was killed in a bomb attack in Tehran. Rising tension
between Iran and the West over the country’s nuclear program has
bolstered  oil prices .  Four diplomats said European Union talks on ending imports
of Iranian oil are bogged down. Greece, Italy and  Spain  are
trying to soften a U.K. push for a blanket ban, on concern it
would weaken economies, the diplomats said, declining to be
identified because no final agreement has been reached. EU
foreign ministers will discuss sanctions on Jan. 23 in Brussels.  “Iranian saber rattling has been embedded in the price,”
Dougherty said.  Oil has risen this year because of an improving economic
outlook rather than tension with  Iran , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in a report dated yesterday. The bank sees little evidence
of an Iran premium in the price, according to the note from
 David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman in New York.  The Nigerian oil union Pengassan said it has started the
process of shutting the oil platforms of  Africa ’s top producing
country to support demands for return of fuel subsidies. The
West African country was the fifth-biggest source of U.S. oil
imports during the first 10 months of 2011, according to the
Energy Department.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 538,697
contracts as of 3:47 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 652,853
contracts yesterday, 8.6 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.39 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  