-- Debt Trap Looms in Convertibles Due After 25% Sensex Plunge: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-01-11T14:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/debt-trap-looms-in-convertibles-due-after-25-sensex-plunge-india-credit.html
Indian companies with a record $5.3
billion of convertible bonds due this year may see borrowing
costs more than quadruple after the worst performance among the
world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  Reliance Communications Ltd.,  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  and  Tata
Steel Ltd. (TATA) , sold a third of the total debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Their shares are trading as much as 88
percent below the bond conversion prices. Should they choose to
issue debt that can’t be converted into equity to meet
repayments, companies will face an average yield of 6.92 percent
on dollar-denominated bonds, a HSBC Holdings Plc index shows,
compared with 1.55 percent on convertible notes, according to
Barclays Capital data.  “Companies are heading into a debt trap,” Raj Kothari, a
convertible bond trader at Sun Global Investments Ltd., said in
a phone interview from  London  on Jan. 4. “Companies have no
option but to repay the debt.”  Cash levels for Indian borrowers relative to their interest
commitments fell to a five-year low after the central bank
raised  interest rates  a record 13 times since March 2010 to
combat inflation and as operating profits declined, Standard &
Poor’s Indian unit  Crisil Ltd. (CRISIL)  said in a report this month.
Corporate earnings will probably post the biggest drop in three
years in the financial year ending March, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Reliance Communications,  India ’s second-largest mobile-
phone operator, is due to repay $925 million of convertible debt
on March 1, the largest amount by any Indian company this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zero Coupon  The company’s zero-coupon bonds, sold five years ago to
help fund capacity expansion in the world’s fastest-growing
wireless services market, can be exchanged into stock at 661.23
rupees ($12.7).  Reliance Communications (RCOM)  rose 1.3 percent to 82.1
rupees at close in Mumbai, about 88 percent below the conversion
price. The shares more than halved in value last year.  The Mumbai-based company’s 30 billion rupees of 11.2
percent securities maturing in March 2019 were little changed
today at a yield of 9.72 percent, or 147 basis points more than
equivalent-maturity government notes, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Reliance Communications will ensure timely redemption of
its foreign-currency convertible bonds,” Rohit Khanna, a
Mumbai-based spokesman said by e-mail on Jan. 9.  Suzlon Energy, India’s biggest wind-turbine maker, has a
total of $389 million of equity-linked debt maturing in June and
October with conversion prices of 76.7 rupees and 97.3 rupees,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s shares
advanced 4.3 percent to 20.5 rupees in  Mumbai .  ‘Adequate Liquidity’  Tata Steel, the biggest producer of the alloy, will redeem
$382 million of convertible bonds that exchange into equity at
730.5 rupees in September. The stock rose 3 percent to 383
rupees today.  “We have adequate liquidity,” Prabhat Sharma, Tata
Steel’s spokesman, said by e-mail yesterday. “Refinancing is
always an option depending upon the terms.”  Kirti Vagadia, head of corporate finance at Pune, western
India-based Suzlon Energy, declined to comment when contacted
yesterday.  Earnings  forecasts  for companies in the benchmark Sensitive
index fell 8.7 percent this financial year to 1,150 rupees per
share, according to about 1,500 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The 25 percent decline in the measure last year compares with 22
percent for  China ’s benchmark, 17 percent for Russia and 18
percent for  Brazil .  Crisil Report  Companies’ abilities to meet interest payments may weaken
because sales have decelerated amid the global economic
slowdown, Crisil said on Jan. 3. The report, based on financials
of 420 companies in the  S&P CNX 500 Index , said the “interest
coverage” ratio had dropped to a five-year low.  Dollar bond costs for India borrowers are seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, below the 6.99 percent yield
reached in October, the highest level since Oct. 30, 2009,
according to HSBC.  Similar rates  for Chinese companies dropped
to 5.88 percent, from a 31-month high of 6.84 percent touched on
Oct. 4, the data show.  Subex Ltd. (SUBX) , a telecommunications software maker, is looking
at “multiple options to raise funds” such as selling equity or
raising debt to repay two convertible bonds of $99 million
maturing in March, Ramanathan J., a vice president at the
Bangalore-based company, said in a phone interview on Jan. 9.
The company will decide how to get $135 million to refinance the
notes within the next month, he said.  Higher Rates  All except for $116 million of the bonds due this year were
sold before 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
investors were attracted by the Sensex trebling in value in 2006
and 2007.  Indian stock markets fell last year as growth slowed to
below 7 percent for the first time since June 2009, the central
bank raised interest rates more than any other Asian monetary
authority and European leaders failed to find a resolution to
the region’s debt crisis.  The  Sensex (SENSEX)  advanced 0.1 percent to 16,175.86 in Mumbai,
extending gains this year to 4.7 percent. The yield on the
benchmark 8.79 percent note due in November 2021 was unchanged
at 8.23 percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system.  India’s sovereign bonds returned 7.7 percent in the past
year, trailing gains in two of the 10 Asian local-currency
markets monitored by HSBC. In the corporate  bond market , the
difference in yields between top-rated five-year debt and
similar-maturity  government bonds  rose one basis point to 96
basis points.  Rupee Rebound  The rupee slid 16 percent in 2011 as  Europe ’s debt crisis
reduced the allure of higher-yielding assets. India’s currency
fell 0.4 percent to 51.8950 per dollar in Mumbai.  The cost of protecting the debt of eight Indian borrowers
against default fell one basis point to 454 basis points
yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Five companies defaulted on $183 million of convertible
debt in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Indian
borrowers sold $797 million of equity-linked bonds last year,
down 55 percent from 2010, the data show.  Equity Dilution  Issuers will be able to avoid diluting their stock by
repaying the bonds, said Prabal Banerji, chief financial officer
at Adani Power Ltd., India’s 15th most-indebted company with
$7.4 billion of loans outstanding.  “Repayment will be a challenge for many companies, but
it’s still a blessing in disguise because borrowers won’t need
to offer their shares at cheap prices to investors,” Banerji
said in a phone interview from the western Indian city of
Ahmedabad on Jan. 9.  Indian companies sought to borrow $92.2 million overseas in
November to redeem foreign-currency convertible bonds, the most
since permission to raise such loans without prior approval from
the central bank was given in July, data published on Jan. 4 on
the  Reserve Bank  of India’s website show.  “Equity prices have gone below the conversion prices on
convertible bonds,” Samir Shah, head of technical analysis at
BP Equities Pvt. said in a phone interview from Mumbai on Jan.
6. “There’s no option for companies but to repay the debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  