-- Deutsche Bank Said to Choose Sale of Asset Management Business After Bids
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-01-12T17:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/deutsche-bank-said-to-pursue-asset-management-sale-after-preliminary-bids.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  executives decided
to pursue a sale of asset-management units after they were
satisfied with early interest in the business, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  More than two dozen bidders, including banks, private-
equity firms and asset managers, handed in preliminary offers
last week, said the people, who declined to be identified
because talks are private. Some bidders valued all of the assets
between 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) and 2.5 billion euros,
while others made offers for pieces of the business, the people
said. A selected group of potential buyers will be asked to
submit second-round bids in February, one person said.  Deutsche Bank, the biggest in  Germany , announced a
strategic review in November of its global asset management
division, excluding operations of the DWS mutual fund unit in
Germany,  Europe  and  Asia . Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , who’s leaving in May, built up the  asset management 
and consumer banking units to temper the company’s reliance on
 investment banking .  Christian Streckert, a Deutsche Bank spokesman in
Frankfurt, declined to comment. The company’s shares rose 2
percent to 28.51 euros, valuing the company at 27 billion euros.  Deutsche Bank’s management board opted for a sale at a
meeting Jan. 10, though could still decide later in the process
not to sell, one person said. The lender will likely give about
10 bidders access to the unit’s accounts, the person said.  RREEF, DWS  The German lender would prefer to sell the businesses as a
whole, though it will also consider bids for parts, the person
said. Among the assets for sale are the U.S. portion of DWS
mutual funds; RREEF alternative investments such as real estate
and infrastructure; DB Advisors, which works for pension and
sovereign wealth funds and endowments; and Deutsche Insurance
Asset Management for insurers.  The units hold less than 400 billion euros in assets under
management, according to estimates from  Dirk Becker , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.  Deutsche Bank’s entire asset management unit, including the
DWS businesses being kept, reported nine-month pretax profit of
316 million euros, up 83 percent from the year-earlier period.
Kevin Parker, head of asset management, cut costs and headcount
by about a third between 2007 and 2010 while exiting businesses
not considered strategically relevant to boost profit.  The German lender in November said the review “is focusing
in particular on how recent regulatory changes and associated
costs and changes in the competitive landscape are impacting the
business.”  Europe’s top financial regulator is requiring the region’s
banks to bolster their capital levels by mid-2012 to withstand
losses on sovereign debt. Deutsche Bank needs to fill a capital
gap of 3.2 billion euros after the results of a  stress test  by
the European Banking Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 