-- Dish Credit-Default Swaps Jump on Speculation of T-Mobile Bid
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-11T22:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/dish-credit-default-swaps-jump-on-speculation-of-t-mobile-bid.html
The cost to protect against losses
on  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  debt jumped on speculation that the
satellite-television company may be considering a bid for T-
Mobile USA.  Credit-default swaps on Englewood, Colorado-based Dish
climbed 16.2 basis points to 345.8 basis points, the biggest
jump since Nov. 9, according to data provider CMA. Earlier the
contracts surged 30 basis points, according to data from broker
Phoenix Partners Group.  After regulatory opposition killed  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s
sale of T-Mobile to AT&T Inc. on Dec. 19, speculation that Dish
might be interested in acquiring T-Mobile has been “rather
rampant,” according to  Dave Novosel , an analyst at bond
researcher Gimme Credit LLC in Chicago. Dish could partner with
T-Mobile or another wireless company to create a strengthened
competitor to  AT&T (T)  and  Verizon Wireless , Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Clayton said last month.  While a deal wouldn’t be “inconsistent with the recent
moves they’ve made,” Novosel said “the nature of the deal
makes some sense, but the size of the deal precludes something
from happening.”  Aaron Johnson , a spokesman for Dish, didn’t immediately
return a voicemail message seeking comment on the bond and
credit-default swap moves.  Dish’s underperformance relative to  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest
U.S. satellite-television provider, is pushing the company to
adjust its strategy, Novosel said in a telephone interview
today.  Sacrificing Balance Sheet  “AT&T had plenty of financial flexibility to borrow
against its balance sheet whereas Dish doesn’t have nearly the
flexibility; one because it just has higher leverage, and two
it’s a much smaller company,” Novosel said. “I don’t think
Dish would be willing to sacrifice its balance sheet for an
acquisition of this nature.”  Dish’s $2 billion of 6.75 percent notes due 2021 dropped
2.25 cents to 105.75 cents on the dollar as of 3:53 p.m. in  New
York , according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Dish and Google Inc. submitted a bid for T-Mobile, SNL
Kagan said yesterday, citing unidentified sources.  Credit-default swaps tied to Dish’s debt, which typically
rise as perceptions of creditworthiness deteriorate, are down
from 551.5 basis points on Oct. 4, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Markit CDX  A benchmark gauge of U.S. company credit risk held at about
a two-month low. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined for a third
day, decreasing 0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 116.1 basis
points, the lowest level since Oct. 31, at 5:20 p.m. in New
York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The gauge advanced earlier as  David Riley , head of the
sovereign-debt unit at  Fitch Ratings , said the  European Central
Bank  should step up its government bond purchases to contain the
euro region’s debt crisis. The index, which typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves,
increased as much as 1.4 basis points.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap  spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, was little changed at 37.8 basis
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  