-- Swap-Conduct Rules for Pensions, Municipalities May Be Softened by CFTC
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-01-11T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/dodd-frank-swap-conduct-rules-may-be-softened-for-pensions-municipalities.html
U.S. regulators may soften Dodd-
Frank Act rules designed to protect less-sophisticated customers
in swap trades after banks, pension funds and municipalities
said the original plan could damage the market.  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , meeting in
 Washington  today, may grant Wall Street banks a series of
exceptions to rules requiring dealers to reasonably believe
their derivatives are suitable for clients and in the best
interests of endowments and other so-called special entities.  A measure scheduled for a final vote at today’s meeting
would provide a safe harbor to banks offering swaps to the
entities so long as they don’t recommend that clients buy
specific swaps. It also would give banks a safe harbor from
verifying the independence of a client’s adviser, allowing
dealers to rely on clients’ claims.  The rules “implement requirements for swap dealers and
major swap participants to deal fairly with customers, provide
balanced communications, and disclose material risks, conflicts
of interest and material incentives before entering into a
swap,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a statement before
the meeting.  The CFTC’s five commissioners are also scheduled to hold
final votes today on other Dodd-Frank provisions including a
rule protecting swap traders’ collateral and a proposal to limit
proprietary trading under the so-called Volcker rule.  Abuses  The agency originally proposed the business-conduct
regulation in December 2010 after the Dodd-Frank Act called for
regulators to crack down on abuses in the sales of derivatives
to states, cities and school districts before the 2008 credit
crisis. States and municipalities lost billions of dollars when
interest-rate swaps that banks sold as a way to drive down costs
moved against them instead. Jefferson County,  Alabama , became
the biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.  The proposed rule would hamper the  derivatives market  and
impose unworkable responsibilities, said pension funds,
including the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System ,
the Government Finance Officers Association -- which represents
municipalities -- and the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are members of Sifma.  The CFTC proposal would cause “severe market disruption”
by transforming the relationship between swap dealers and
clients such as pensions and municipalities, Sifma and the
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.  wrote in a
Feb. 17 letter. Under the final rule, dealers would be required
to disclose material risks and daily mid-market values of
contracts to their clients.  Swap Collateral  The CFTC may also complete rules designed to protect swap
traders’ collateral that is used to reduce risk in trades. The
rule seeks to insulate the collateral if their broker defaults,
while also allowing the customer funds to be pooled before a
bankruptcy, according to a CFTC summary of the regulation.  Segregation and protection of collateral gained new urgency
after  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) . collapsed last year and as much as
$1.2 billion in client funds went missing. The CFTC, Securities
and Exchange Commission,  Justice Department  and bankruptcy
trustee are investigating if funds were misused before the New
York-based broker filed for  bankruptcy protection  Oct. 31.  Moore Capital  Management LP, Paulson & Co. Inc.,  Fidelity
Investments , Tudor Investment Corp. and  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC (OZM)  are among investment companies that have
urged the CFTC since November to adopt tougher standards than
the agency is set to complete today. The CFTC should allow
investors the option to set aside collateral in separate
accounts at third-party banks instead of allowing the funds to
be pooled, they said.  MF Global  MF Global’s failure had an “extremely damaging impact” on
futures customers and demonstrated the flaws in allowing futures
brokers access to customers’ assets, Anthony J. DeLuca, chief
financial officer of Moore Capital, wrote to the CFTC on Jan. 9.
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, urged the
CFTC to complete the rules and consider more protections later.  The agency’s staff has been asked to consider additional
measures to protect traders’ collateral in the swaps and futures
markets, a CFTC official told reporters on a telephone briefing
call yesterday. The agency may propose additional rules, said
the official, speaking on condition of anonymity before the
CFTC’s meeting.  The CFTC also may propose limits on proprietary trading and
investments in private equity and hedge funds under the Volcker
rule. The rule was included in Dodd-Frank as an effort to rein
in risky trading at banks that receive federal assistance
through the deposit insurance fund and Federal Reserve discount
window.  The CFTC is the last of five federal agencies to propose
the ban, which has been criticized by the financial industry as
overly complex. The CFTC’s proposal would be open to 60 days of
public comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  