-- Dodgers End TV Rights Fight With Fox, Paving Way for Sale of Baseball Team
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-11T16:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/dodgers-end-bankruptcy-court-fight-with-news-corp-s-fox-over-media-rights.html
The bankrupt  Los Angeles Dodgers 
ended their court fight with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports over future
television rights, removing the last major barrier to a sale of
the Major League Baseball team.  Fox Sports agreed to end its opposition to the Dodgers’
bankruptcy reorganization and the team agreed not to solicit
bids for future television rights before an exclusive
negotiating period with Fox ends later this year.  The deal was designed to “eliminate the cost and
distraction of the disputes with Fox and to allow the sale
process to move forward unhindered by any uncertainty regarding
those disputes,” the Dodgers said in a court filing late
yesterday.  Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  is selling the team, which
filed for bankruptcy in June. To increase the value of the
franchise, the Dodgers won permission from the judge overseeing
the team’s bankruptcy to solicit separate offers for the rights
to televise future games, which Fox currently holds.  That decision was put on hold by a higher court, which
found that Fox was likely to win an appeal. A final hearing on
whether to overturn the media rights ruling was scheduled for
tomorrow.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross approved the settlement
today at a hearing in Wilmington,  Delaware , that had originally
been scheduled to decide whether the bankruptcy should be
dismissed, as Fox had demanded.  ‘Exclusive Media Rights’  “We are pleased that these matters between our two
organizations have been resolved,” Fox said in a statement.
“We were never in favor of litigation, but it was imperative
that we protect our exclusive media rights.”  Under the settlement, whoever buys the team would have the
right to negotiate an extension of Fox’s current television deal
with the Dodgers or, failing that, sign a contract with a new
company. Under the current contract, Fox has a limited right to
match any subsequent bids under certain circumstances.  No talks with a rival to Fox are allowed until after
November, according to court documents. Fox, through its Prime
Ticket unit, can televise games through the 2013 season.  Potential bidders for the team include Rick Caruso, the Los
Angeles real estate developer who is working with former Dodgers
and  New York  Yankees manager Joe Torre; hedge-fund manager  Steve Cohen  of SAC Capital Advisors LLC in Stamford, Connecticut; Mark Walter, chief executive officer of Guggenheim Partners LLC in
New York, who counts  Magic Johnson , the former Los Angeles
Lakers player and a basketball Hall of Famer, among his
partners.  The deadline for opening bids for the team is Jan. 23 and
the sale must be finished by April 30.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  