-- Dubai Brokers Choose Sandwiches Over Stocks as Volume Sinks
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-01-12T15:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/dubai-brokers-choose-sandwiches-over-stocks-with-volume-down-77-.html
Nabil Rantisi, who sold stocks
during the United Arab Emirates’ boom, now oversees orders of
roast beef and Yorkshire pudding wraps from crowds including
former clients.  “Business was getting too slow, and at some point you have
to decide where time would be spent in a more valuable way,”
said Rantisi, who quit his job as the director of brokerage at
Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd. in Dubai in June to help start a
deli named 1762. The 34-year-old now works a few hundred meters
from where he used to fulfill share orders.  Three years after the Dubai bubble burst, its financial
industry is still in decline and shows little sign of recovery.
While the emirate successfully restructured debt and invested in
transport and tourism, 41 of the 98 local brokerages active in
2008 suspended operations.  Banks including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  have trimmed their equities or equity research devisions as
 trading volume  on the Dubai Financial Market plunged 77 percent
after 2009. Al Futtaim HC Securities LLC, a Dubai-based broker
ranked first by value traded in July according to the Dubai
Financial Market  website , said Jan. 4 it would end operations in
the U.A.E. The number of employees in the Dubai International
Financial Centre slipped to 11,331 in July of last year from
11,436 in 2009.  Market Crash  The crash followed real-estate speculation as government
and state-owned companies amassed about $110 billion in debt.
Dubai is home to the world’s tallest skyscraper and palm-tree
shaped islands off its coast. By early 2008, the benchmark  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  had risen almost six-fold in five years.  The market value of shares in the U.A.E. is now $97
billion, less than half the $206 billion at the end of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Foreign investors have
reduced holdings of Dubai stocks amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and
political uprisings that ousted leaders in Egypt and  Libya . They
bought shares worth 2.8 billion dirhams ($762 million) in the
third quarter, down 83 percent from the same period in 2009,
according to the  Dubai Financial Market  website.  Dubai’s benchmark index slumped 17 percent  in 2011  compared
with a 20 percent drop in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   Abu
Dhabi ’s  measure  retreated 12 percent. The value of shares traded
in Dubai tumbled to about $5 million on Nov. 16, the lowest
since 2004. The DFM General Index slipped 0.5 percent to
1,327.54 at the 2 p.m. close today, down 84 percent from a high
in 2005.  Drop in Volume  Trading volume in Dubai plummeted to a six-year low even
after state-owned holding company Dubai World reached a
restructuring agreement with creditors in March. The company
roiled global financial markets in 2009 when it sought to halt
repayments on about $25 billion of debt.  The U.A.E. will have to wait until at least June to be
upgraded to emerging market from frontier status in  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) 
indexes, which determine the stocks that tracking funds buy.  With little to trade, ex-stockbrokers are running
restaurants, nightclubs and luxury hotels, waiting for a
catalyst to reignite markets. Vyas Jayabhanu, the manager of Al
Dhafra Financial Broker LLC, has spent the past year developing
Boutique 7 Hotel and Suites, a four-star Dubai hotel complete
with a bar, a café and soon a nightclub.  Moving Investment  Business has been good, Jayabhanu, 35, said in an interview
over coffee at the hotel’s Garden of Eden café. “If you’re
bankrupt, you drink more,” he said. “It’s a win-win
situation.” The café sports tables made of wood imported from
 Scotland , surrounded by trees and bushes, and offers shisha, the
water-pipe smoked in the  Middle East .  “During the boom you saw everyone investing more to
capture market share,” said Rantisi of 1762, a reference to the
year the Earl of Sandwich supposedly asked for his meat between
two pieces of bread so he could stay at the gambling table. “It
was overdone, and that was the first signal that the cycle was
coming to an end,” he said. “Today is the opposite. People are
getting out of the business or moving to other investments as
the market dries up.”  Dubai, which has less than 10 percent of the U.A.E.’s oil
reserves, set up the DIFC, a tax-free  business park , in 2004 to
attract global banks, asset managers and insurers to help
diversify its economy. Banks such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  added staff in the region as rising oil
wealth increased demand for financial advice.  Expanded Too Quickly  Dubai expanded too quickly, said Akram Annous, former
Middle East and North Africa strategist at Al Mal Capital PSC
who left the company in November. “For now, I’m working on
enhancing my personal brand,” the 33-year-old former banker
said. “Maybe I’ll bring a franchise to Dubai, such as a shisha-
based bowling alley, a fusion enterprise of some sort. Or maybe
I’ll start a twitter feed.”  Rantisi’s former company, Rasmala, which has a research
venture with  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , has moved away
from retail brokerage services, as have HSBC and  Shuaa Capital
PSC. (SHUAA)  Shuaa, the U.A.E.’s largest investment bank, scaled back
its research department to two employees as it cut costs, two
bankers familiar with the matter said Jan. 10.  “We are simply not making any money through brokerage,”
said Jayabhanu of Al Dhafra. “There’s a vicious fight to make
use of small volume. In tourism, there’s something for
everybody,” said the broker, who spends much of his time on the
hotel project. “Encouraging clients to trade in this market
condition is not ethical.”  Banks Also Suffer  Regional lenders have also suffered after the global credit
crisis weakened lending, crimped  investment banking  and spurred
loan defaults. Fees earned by banks in the region fell 42
percent to $320 million in the first nine months of 2011 from
$551 million during the same period the year earlier, according
to New York-based research firm Freeman & Co.  Bond markets have recovered, with the average yield on debt
in the U.A.E. slumping about 200 basis points since the end of
2009 to 5.36 percent on Jan. 10, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq
Dubai UAE US Dollar Bond Index.  Al Dhafra  still operates with four brokers in Abu Dhabi,
the U.A.E. capital that led the $20 billion bailout of Dubai,
Jayabhanu said. The brokerage was  ranked  30th by value traded in
December on the  Dubai Financial Market. (DFM)   “One thing that could boost volumes would be the inclusion
of the U.A.E. in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,” Georges Elhedery, head of global markets for the Middle East and North
Africa at HSBC, said by e-mail Jan. 4. “Inclusion would have
the effect of allowing international Emerging Markets funds to
access this important market.”  Key Designation  MSCI indexes are tracked by funds that oversee about $3
trillion in assets, so getting promoted to emerging market from
frontier can increase investment. MSCI cited investor’s
questions about the effectiveness of a new settlement system as
a reason why it kept the country under review.  The U.A.E. and Qatar, which is also up for review from
frontier market status in June, “deserve an upgrade on the
basis of their financial strength and economic and political
stability,”  Paul Cooper , the Dubai-based managing director at
Sarasin-Alpen & Partners Ltd., which oversees more than $500
million in the Middle East, said by e-mail Dec. 21. “The
difficult global economic environment could work in the region’s
favor as its financial strength could justify an overweight
stance here.”  The Securities & Commodities Authority, the U.A.E. market
regulator, plans to issue rules on liquidity providers, short
selling and security lending and borrowing in the first half,
Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Al Turaifi said in November.  “The smart brokers who manage to stick around will
capitalize big time when volumes come back,” Rantisi said.
Meanwhile, the former broker and his partners plan to open a
branch of 1762 as soon as this month in Jebel Ali, another Dubai
business district.  “We haven’t hit a wall in sales figures yet,” Rantisi
said. “And business has exceeded expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  