-- DuPont, Makhteshim, Kodak, News Corp: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/dupont-makhteshim-kodak-news-corp-intellectual-property.html
China-based hackers rifled the
computers of  DuPont Co. (DD)  at least twice in 2009 and 2010, hunting
for technological secrets that made the company one of the
world’s most successful chemical makers.  It’s not something investors would have learned from
DuPont’s regulatory filings, or from those of other companies
victimized by hackers.  Over the next three months, as publicly traded companies
file 10-K’s, investors may see new admissions of corporate
networks being hacked after the SEC said companies can’t
continue to hold back the details of those incidents.  As cyberspies from  China ,  Russia  and other countries
ransack the computer networks of one major U.S. and European
firm after the next, the SEC in October offered its new
interpretation of disclosure requirements as applied to
cybercrime.  Daniel Turner, a spokesman for Wilmington, Delaware-based
DuPont, said, regarding the previously-reported hack, “We let
our disclosures speak for themselves.”  Mandiant Corp., an Alexandria, Virginia-based security firm
that specializes in cyber-based industrial espionage, has
responded to incidents at 22 Fortune 100 companies, said Richard
Bejtlich, the firm’s chief security officer.  When  Google Inc. (GOOG)  announced in 2010 that China-based hackers
had raided its networks, it was a rare example of a U.S. company
publicly revealing a cyberburglary aimed at its intellectual
property -- in this case, its source code.  Google, the world’s largest search-engine firm, said at the
time that at least 34 other major companies were victims of the
same attack. Only two --  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  --
stepped forward, and they provided few specifics.  The networks of more than 2,000 companies, research
universities, Internet service providers and government agencies
were hit over the past decade by China-based cyber spies,
according to Joel Brenner, U.S. counterintelligence chief until
2009.  The companies, including firms such as Research In Motion
Ltd. and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , range from some of the largest
corporations to niche innovators in sectors like aerospace,
semiconductors, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, according to
intelligence data obtained by Bloomberg News.  The oil and gas industry has been a frequent target of
successful cyber-raids -- many originating from China, which is
on a hunt for global oil reserves.  Beginning in 2009, the networks of at least six major U.S.
and European energy companies were breached by China-based
hackers. The victims included Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, ConocoPhillips and BP Plc.  The oil companies’ financial filings from the period didn’t
assess possible losses or mention the attacks, which became
public through a report by Bloomberg News.  John Roper, a spokesman for ConocoPhillips, and  Alan
Jeffers , a spokesman for Exxon Mobil, said their companies don’t
comment on security matters. Toby Odone, a London-based BP
spokesman, and Kayla Macke, a Shell spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Investors haven’t done more to press for details and the
impact of attacks because “they now look at an investing cycle
as maybe a quarter or at most a year,” said Eden Chen,
portfolio manager at Los Angeles-based Lightmark Capital. That’s
too short a time for stolen technology to make a significant
difference in many companies’ fortunes, he said.  “If you are looking at companies for 10 years down the
line you would definitely ask those questions,” he said.  Patents  Makhteshim Wins BASF Insecticide-Patent Lawsuit in U.S.  Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd. (MAIN) , the world’s largest maker
of generic agrochemicals, said it won a lawsuit brought by  BASF
SE (BAS)  that had accused the company of infringing insecticide
patents.  Makhteshim’s insecticides using the chemical fipronil don’t
infringe two BASF patents, U.S. District Judge William Osteen in
Greensboro,  North Carolina , ruled Jan. 9, according to a
statement by Makhteshim. Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF, the
world’s biggest chemical company, had claimed Makhteshim
violated patents that cover the Termidor insecticide.  Termidor , which has been sold for more than 10 years, is
the top-selling termite product in the U.S. Makhteshim, based in
Israel, said it introduced the first generic version of fipronil
in June with its Taurus and Prefurred pest-control products.
BASF said in a statement it would appeal the ruling, and the
decision doesn’t affect the validity or enforceability of its
manufacturing patents for fipronil.  BASF also had sued  Cheminova A/S  over the same technology.
The companies agreed to settle that case, BASF said, and
Cheminova won’t make or sell its fipronil product until the
patents expire. Further terms weren’t disclosed, BASF said.  China National Chemical Corp. bought a 60 percent stake in
Makhteshim in an agreement that valued the agrochemical company
at $2.4 billion.  The cases are BASF Agro B.V. Arnhem Wadenswil Branch v.
Cheminova Inc., 10-cv-00274, and BASF Agro B.V. Arnhem v.
Makhteshim Agan of North America, 10-cv-00276, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of North Carolina.  Kodak Sues Apple, HTC Claiming Patent Infringement  Eastman Kodak Co., the 131-year-old imaging company that is
turning to its patent portfolio to help fund a turnaround, sued
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  yesterday, claiming infringement of
technology related to digital photographs.  The lawsuits in federal court in Rochester,  New York ,
accuse the smartphone makers of using Kodak inventions covered
by four patents related to image transmission, such as a way for
users to share images directly from cameras. Kodak also claims
HTC is infringing a fifth patent for an image preview feature,
which is at the center of a U.S. International Trade Commission
case against Apple and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)   Kodak, which is predicted by analysts to report its fourth
straight annual net loss, has put the company’s more than 1,100
digital-imaging patents up for sale to help fund a turnaround.
Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez, who is now betting on
digital printers for publishers, packagers, advertisers and
households to lift Kodak, has said that the Apple-RIM trade
commission case could generate $1 billion in new revenue.  The case instead has met with delays including the
retirement of the judge handling the case, and a final decision
isn’t expected until September. Kodak said it also filed new
patent complaints at the trade commission today in  Washington ,
seeking to block imports of products including Apple’s iPad and
iPhone, and HTC’s Flyer tablet and Wildfire S phone.  “We’ve had numerous discussions with both companies in an
attempt to resolve this issue, and we have not been able to
reach a satisfactory agreement,” Laura Quatela, Kodak’s chief
operating officer, said in a statement.  HTC, based in Taoyuan, Taiwan, had no comment on the
complaints. Officials with Cupertino, California-based Apple
didn’t immediately reply to a request for comment.  Kodak claims infringement by Apple’s iPad 2, iPhone and
iPod Touch, and by HTC’s tablets and phones, including the
Flyer, EVO View 4G, Jetstream, Vivid, Amaze 4g, Desire, Hero S,
Rezound, Rhyme, Sensation 4G and Wildfire S.  The new case against Apple is  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  v. Apple
Inc., 12cv6020, and the case against HTC is Eastman Kodak Co. v.
HTC, 12cv6021, both in U.S. District Court for the Western
District of New York (Rochester).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Obscene Words on T-Shirts Draw University Trademark Suit  West Virginia University (26929MF) , a state school based in
Morgantown,  West Virginia , sued three t-shirt sellers for
trademark infringement.  The suit, filed Jan. 6 in federal court in Clarksburg, West
Virginia, accused t-shirt companies of producing and selling
shirts that infringe on the school’s trademarks.  Many of the shirts, which are pictured in the complaint,
are made in the school’s colors of blue and gold and feature
texts in a font similar to that used on the school’s licensed
products.  Texts on some of the allegedly infringing shirts contain an
obscene word between “West” and “Virginia,” or feature the
image of a hand with an upraised middle finger in place of the
outline of the state. The defendants are also accused of selling
other infringing products including temporary tattoos and
portable coolers.  The school complains that if the public perceives “a lack
of quality, or any impropriety” on the defendants’ products,
the goods may mistakenly be attributed to the university. This
inflicts “irreparable harm” to the school’s goodwill and
reputation, according to court papers.  Also at issue are several Internet domain names where the
allegedly infringing products are sold. The domain names also
contain an obscene word between “West” and “Virginia,”
according to the complaint.  The university asked the court to bar further infringement
of its marks, and to order the recall and destruction of all
infringing merchandise and promotional material.  Additionally, the school seeks money damages, including all
profits defendants derived from their alleged infringement, and
asked to be transferred the offending Internet domain names. The
court is also asked for awards of attorney fees and litigation
costs.  The university is represented by West Virginia’s Attorney
General  Darrell V. McGraw Jr. , and by  Eric Whytsell  of
Charleston, West Virginia’s  Jackson Kelly PLLC (816663L) .  The case is West Virginia University Board of Governors v.
Miviman LLC, 1:12-cv-00005-FPS, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of West Virginia (Clarksburg).  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  News Corp. Hires Williams & Connolly Partner as General Counsel  News Corporation (NWSA)  hired Gerson Zweifach as general counsel,
the New York-based media company said in a  statement .  Zweifach, who joins from Washington’s  Williams & Connolly
LLP , is a litigator who has handled patent, antitrust, media,
first amendment and securities disputes. Among the clients he
has represented in patent disputes are Sony Corp., Eastman Kodak
Co., Time Warner and Zenith Goldline Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
according to Bloomberg data.  He has an undergraduate degree from Brown University and a
law degree from  Yale University .  Jones Day Loses High-Profile Litigator Turner to McDole Kennedy  McDole Kennedy & Williams PC  hired Robert Turner, the
Dallas-based IP specialty firm said in a  statement .  Turner , who joins from Washington-based  Jones Day (1113L) , is
litigator who has handled patent, copyright, trade secret and
trademark disputes. He’s also served as an arbitrator, special
master, mediator, technical advisor, consultant or expert
witness in various disputes.  He has represented clients whose technologies have included
hospital identification bands, nuclear logging apparatus, water
hose irrigation systems, consumer products, knee braces, oil-
drilling equipment, pagers and speed controllers for hand tools.  Turner has an undergraduate degree from Rice Institute and
a law degree from the University of Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 