-- The Business Case for Reading Novels
-- B y   A n n e   K r e a m e r
-- 2012-01-11T23:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/the-business-case-for-reading-novels.html
     I've been a devoted, even fanatical reader of fiction my
whole life, but sometimes I feel like I'm wasting time if I
spend an evening immersed in Lee Child's newest thriller, or
re-readingThe Great Gatsby. Shouldn't I be plowing through my
in-box? Or getting the hang of some new productivity app? Or
catching up on my back issues of The Economist? That slight
feeling of self-indulgence that haunts me when I'm reading
fake stories about fake people is what made me so grateful to
stumble ona piece in Scientific American Mind by cognitive
psychologist Keith Oatley extolling the practical benefits to
be derived particularly from consuming fiction.  Over the past decade, academic researchers such as Oatley
and Raymond Mar from  York University  have gathered data
indicating that fiction-reading activates neuronal pathways in
the brain that measurably help the reader better understand
real human emotion — improving his or her overall social
skillfulness. For instance, in fMRI studies of people reading
fiction, neuroscientists detect activity in the pre-frontal
cortex — a part of the brain involved with setting goals —
when the participants read about characters setting a new
goal. It turns out that when Henry James, more than a century
ago, defended the value of fiction by saying that "a novel is
a direct impression of life," he was more right than he knew.  In one of Oatley and Mar's studies in 2006, 94 subjects
were asked to guess the emotional state of a person from a
photograph of their eyes. "The more fiction people [had]
read," they discovered, "the better they were at
perceiving emotion in the eyes, and...correctly interpreting
social cues." In 2009, wondering, as Oatley put it, if
"devouring novels might be a result, not a cause, of having a
strong theory of mind," they expanded the scope of their
research, testing 252 adults on the "Big Five" personality
traits — extraversion, emotional stability, openness to
experience, agreeableness and conscientiousness — and
correlated those results with how much time the subjects
generally spent reading fiction. Once again, they discovered
"a significant relation between the amount of fiction people
read and their empathic and theory-of-mind abilities" allowing
them to conclude that it was reading fiction that improved the
subjects' social skills, not that those with already high
interpersonal skills tended to read more.  Theory of mind, the ability to interpret and respond to
those different from us —
colleagues, employees, bosses, customers and clients — is
plainly critical to success, particularly in a globalized
economy. The imperative to try to understand others' points of
view — to be empathetic — is essential in any collaborative
enterprise.  Emotions also have an impact on the bottom line.
A 1996 study published in the journal Training and Development
assessing the value of training workers at a manufacturing
plant in emotional management skills — teaching employees to
focus on how their work affects others rather than simply on
getting the job done — found that union grievance filings were
reduced by two-thirds while productivity increased
substantially.
And a study of a Fortune 400 health insurance companyconducted
by Peter Salovey, a psychology professor at Yale, looked at
the correlations between emotional intelligence and salary and
found that people rated highest by their peers in emotional
intelligence received the biggest raises and were promoted
most frequently.  To bring the subject home, think about how many different
people you interact with during the course of a given day —
coworkers, clients, passing strangers, store clerks. Then
think about how much effort you devoted to thinking about
their emotional state or the emotional quality of your
interaction. It's when we read fiction that we have the time
and opportunity to think deeply about the feelings of
others, really imagining the shape and flavor of alternate
worlds of experience. Right now, I'm in the middle of Irene
Nemirovsky's posthumously published novel about  France 's fall
to the Nazis in 1940. Her simple sentences sketch a sense of
uncertainty, moral ambiguity, and heartbreak — feelings I
certainly wouldn't want to dwell on in "real" life, but
emotions I'm better off for having taken the time to consider.  But nourishing empathy doesn't require such grimness. And
if you want your diet of fiction, as it's shaping your mind to
be more emotionally acute, to be specifically relevant to
work, there is a body of great literature about business and
organizational behavior. For instance, Anthony Trollope's The
Way We Live Now, inspired by 19th century financial scandals
among the British elite, resonates powerfully today. In his
autobiography, Trollope wrote that "a certain class of
dishonesty, dishonesty magnificent in its proportions, and
climbing into high places, has become at the same time so
rampant and so splendid that there seems to be reason for
fearing that men and women will be taught to feel that
dishonesty, if it can become splendid, will cease to be
abominable. If dishonesty can live in a gorgeous palace with
pictures on all its walls, and gems in all its cupboards, with
marble and ivory in all its corners, and can give Apician
dinners, and get into Parliament, and deal in millions, then
dishonesty is not disgraceful, and the man dishonest after
such a fashion is not a low scoundrel. Instigated, I say, by
some such reflections as these, I sat down in my new house to
writeThe Way We Live Now." Seems fairly au courant to me.  From now on, I'm going to feel less like an escapist
slacker when I'm engrossed in a new novel. In addition to the
Trollope, below are some of my favorite books to get you
started:  Kurt Andersen, Turn of the Century — set in 2000 and
2001, a successful TV producer husband and digital
entrepreneur wife, trying to balance the demands of work and
life, wind up pitted against each other as executives in a
U.S. media empire. His mistrust grows when she becomes a
favorite of the Rupert Murdoch-like chairman. Meanwhile, their
hedge-fund-manager best friend is involved in big-time stock
manipulation. (Full disclosure: my husband is the author)  Jane Austen , Sandition — in this unfinished fragment of a
novel, Austen departs from her typical marriage plot to
describe the zealous entrepreneurialism of a real estate
speculator. While we can never know how the novel would have
ended, we can be pretty sure his housing bubble will burst.  Charles Dickens , Bleak House — Dickens' tenth novel
explores the human cost of prolonged litigation through the
eyes of Esther Summerson, who is caught up in a
multi-generational dispute over the disposition over an
inheritance. Anyone who has ever been entangled in a lawsuit
will revel in the characterization of the process. At the time
of publication, 1852–1853, public outrage over injustice in
the English legal system helped the novel to spark legal
reform that culminated in the 1870s.  William Gaddis, JR — in the 1976 National Book Award
winner, the 11-year old protagonist, JR, secretly trades penny
stocks, using the tools of the trade at the time — money
orders and payphones — to build a fortune. Written entirely in
dialogue, the absurdity of a precocious child's feat satirizes
as Gaddis put it, "the American dream turned inside out." His
description of dysfunctional boards and the corrosive effect
of corporate takeovers and asset stripping are as current
today as they were 30 years ago.  Joseph Heller, Something Happened — Heller's stream of
consciousness second novel follows a regular-joe middle
manager as he prepares for a promotion. The messy interweaving
of his thoughts about his job, family, sex, and childhood
perfectly distill how complicated the selves we bring to work
really are. 