-- Health Management CEO Says ‘No Merit’ to Suit That Hurt Stock
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-11T21:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/health-management-ceo-says-no-merit-to-suit-that-hurt-stock.html
Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) ’s
former head of compliance says in a lawsuit he was wrongfully
fired after he reported fraudulent billing. The company says he
was sent away after refusing to give up confidential documents.  The dispute has boiled over into the public arena, causing
HMA to lose a fifth of its value over two days, and spurring
Chief Executive Officer Gary Newsome to address the controversy
head-on yesterday in comments during the J.P. Morgan Healthcare
Conference in San Francisco.  Newsome told investors and analysts that on Jan. 8, his 2-
month-old BMW Alpina B7 was rear-ended in an accident. A day
later, when he saw his company’s stock plunge as a result of
investor concerns over the lawsuit, “I felt rear-ended again,”
he said, drawing laughter from the standing-room-only audience.  The lawsuit “has no merit whatsoever,” Newsome said. “In
fact, we feel very comfortable in saying that publicly, and I
think that’s unusual in lawsuit cases.”  The company’s shares  fell  7.1 percent on Jan. 9 when an
analyst for CRT Capital Group LLC,  Sheryl Skolnick , reviewed the
documents related to the lawsuit brought by the former HMA
employee, Paul Meyer, and told investors in a note they needed
to be “at least watchful and at most worried” that Meyer, a
former FBI agent, had brought the action.  ‘Worst’ Assumed  After a day without public comment, HMA submitted a
 regulatory filing  disclosing the resignation of its general
counsel. It caused HMA to fall 13 percent, the biggest single-
day share decline in almost three years, as investors assumed
“the worst,” said Whit Mayo, an analyst with Robert W. Baird &
Co. in Nashville, who has an “outperform” rating on the stock.  The company framed the event as bad timing. There is “no
connection whatsoever” between the resignation of the general
counsel, Timothy Parry, and the lawsuit, Newsome  said yesterday .  From the time Newsome began his comments at about 11:30 a.m.
in  San Francisco , the stock began a steady rise from about $5.50
to its closing price of $6.05. It was a strong performance by
the CEO, said Frank Morgan, a managing director at RBC Capitol
Markets in Brentwood,  Tennessee , in an e-mail.  HMA rose 4.34 percent to $6:31 at 4 p.m. in  New York , the
biggest gain since Dec. 5. The stock has fallen 35 percent in
the last 12 months.  ‘Issue to Rest’  “Hopefully this will put this issue to rest and investors
can return to focus on management’s 2012 guidance, which appears
to be quite respectable,” Morgan wrote. “We believe shares
should recover the last two days’ lost ground over the next
several weeks.”  CRT’s Skolnick isn’t so sure, she said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  “We have to see how this all plays out,” Skolnick said.
“Investors now are looking at the company with a higher degree
of caution and that’s absolutely appropriate. If the
investigations widen or if there are other allegations made,
there could be significantly more downside risk. If not, over
time, the stock is still likely to trade at a lower multiple
because of the overhanging worry that it might happen.”  The lawsuit, moved to federal court in  Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida, in November, is based on statements by Meyer, the
former compliance director.  Several HMA hospitals won higher government payments from
the Medicare program for the elderly and disabled, in part by
“the submission of fraudulent billing to Medicare through the
improper admission of patients as inpatients even though such
patients clearly did not meet the standards for inpatient
admission,” Meyers said in the court filings.  After Promotion  In the documents, Meyer is quoted as saying he raised the
issue after he was promoted to director of compliance in January
2010. He was fired, according to the court filing, on the day he
told the company he would report violations to the U.S.
government. HMA said he was fired after refusing to give back
documents the company needed to respond to a federal subpoena.  “This is not a fraud case, it is an individual wrongful
termination case,” said Susan Toepfer, a lawyer for HMA, with
Stearns, Weaver, Miller, Weissler, Alhadeff & Sitterson in Miami.  When Meyer raised concerns that a Medicare fraud may have
occurred, the company “treated them seriously and
appropriately,” she said.  When a compliance issue comes up, the company does an
internal audit and then pays money back to people that shouldn’t
have been billed for it, Newsome said.  ‘People Make Errors’  “The fact is, people make errors, and you have to correct
them,” said Chief Financial Officer Kelly Curry said at the
health conference. “We do that routinely. There has not been,
to any of our knowledge, any occasion that any issue that was
ever brought up as a result of compliance reviews that hasn’t
been acted upon, investigated, fully to its conclusion and
reported to the  audit committee .”  Meyer’s attorney, David Isicoff from Miami-based Isicoff
Ragatz & Koenigsberg, tells a different story about his client,
who he said worked for 30 years at the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation, where Meyer gained experience in fraud cases.  “He attempted to do all the right things and then when
those avenues were closed off to him, they fired him,” Isicoff
said in a telephone interview. “Any suggestion our client had
any materials they needed and that he would not surrender to
them is absolutely untrue.”  While Meyer could win back pay and damages in the suit
under the Florida Whistleblower Act, HMA doesn’t think he is
entitled to them, Toepfer said. A trial is scheduled for January
2013.  The case is Meyer v. Health Management Associates Inc., 11-
cv-62479, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Fort Lauderdale).  -- Editors: Reg Gale, Andrew Pollack  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  