-- Teamwork Gave U.S. Clear Harbor View (Part 1): Bratton and Tumin
-- B y   W i l l i a m   J .   B r a t t o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T u m i n
-- 2012-01-11T00:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/teamwork-gave-u-s-harbor-view-part-1-commentary-by-bratton-and-tumin.html
At 2:30 a.m. on Feb. 7, 2003, a
Cuban gunboat quietly docked at the Hyatt Marina in Key West,
 Florida . It had entered U.S. waters, the harbor and the marina
next to the U.S. Coast Guard station undetected by the Coast
Guard or the U.S. Navy.  The four men on the boat -- Cuban border guards in full
uniform and carrying sidearms -- strode up to the Hyatt front
desk. The desk clerk, discovering they had no reservations,
turned them away.  Through the night they wandered Key West before coming upon
a police officer, to whom they surrendered. Fortunately, the
Cubans wanted only to defect.  The event has been recounted with some laughter. But as the
Coast Guard commander who related it to us said, “It was no
laughing matter that they were on American soil for four hours,
free to move a weapon inland and be gone.”  Neither the Coast Guard nor the Navy had any detection
measures in place where the Cubans’ gunboat had docked.  If the Sept. 11 attacks revealed security problems with
airplanes, the  Key West  incident reminded everyone that the
situation was even worse with ships. “We never knew what was
going on in the oceans,” explained Mike Krieger, director of
information policy for the Department of Defense’s chief
information officer. “Hence we never knew what was coming to
shore.”  Port Security Defined  The Coast Guard’s priorities had been safety on the
waterways and fighting the drug war on the seas, not port
security. “Prior to 9/11, I don’t know that you could find
anybody who knew what port security was,” a shipping industry
executive said.  Even after 2001, some officials downplayed the threat of a
ship’s being weaponized and used as a bomb like the 9/11
jetliners. “Use a ship as a weapon to bring a major bridge
down?” one Coast Guard officer asked. “There are easier things
to do.”  Others perceived a serious danger. In the late fall of
2005, at President  George W. Bush ’s direction, Navy and Coast
Guard admirals convened in Colorado Springs to map out a formal
plan to achieve global “maritime domain awareness.”  The vision was for the world’s navies, ports and shippers
to collaborate to protect shipping, harbors and cities from
attack. But developing such a “concept of operations” was
considered a challenge so large, it would take 18 months.  That’s right -- 18 months just to create a plan. Meanwhile,
U.S. ports and those of its allies would remain vulnerable. And
U.S. warships and commercial vessels entering foreign harbors
would remain blind to hidden perils, even though information
about a dangerous ship, cargo or crew might well exist in
another agency’s or company’s database. There was no way to
compile everyone’s data to tell friend from foe.  Even as the admirals were meeting in Colorado Springs,
nearly 2,000 miles to the east a Coast Guard captain was
inspecting the new Department of Homeland Security’s  New York 
Harbor Watch Center, where plasma screens displayed every dock,
warehouse and pier. If an incident occurred, people at all the
other harbor watch centers in the country could presumably see
what was going on in New York and size up the threat to their
own port.  Yet the Coast Guard captain was mystified. The displays
didn’t show a single vessel. This was one of the world’s busiest
harbors. Where were the ships?  The watch center, he learned, did not yet have that feed.  Right-Sized Problem  It was a sad reflection of U.S. port security at the time:
The Coast Guard had data on ships, Customs on cargoes, and the
U.S. Department of Transportation on crews. Shipping companies
had some awareness of all those elements for their own fleets.
But no one had the whole picture  Back in  Colorado Springs , as the three-day meeting was
wrapping up, and everyone seemed resigned to the 18-month
timeline, Krieger told the generals they could start sharing
information in half that time. What he knew was that they could
start collaborating faster by making the problem the right size
-- find the common ground everyone can agree on now, figure out
what can be done, and get started.  “This resonated with me,” Rear Admiral Joseph Nimmich
recalled. He decided to continue with the 18-month effort to
develop the concept of operation, but give Krieger a small team
of Navy and Coast Guard technicians, operators and contractors
and let him push ahead, as well.  To co-sponsor the effort, Nimmich recruited U.S. Navy Rear
Admiral Nancy E. Brown, the most senior officer responsible for
all systems for the U.S. North American Command.  At its first meeting, in 2006, the team settled on a
statement of what it intended to do: “Get some worldwide
situational awareness of what’s on the seas.” But Krieger wanted
to narrow the scope to a goal that could be met in six to 12
months. So the team came up with a plan, first, to see how much
data could be shared from the agencies’ individual databases --
to create a picture of what was on the water.  It would be difficult, however, to make sense of shared
information because the various databases used different names
for the same object. And there were thousands of different
objects.  The database owners had to agree, for example, that the
terms “ship,” “boat” and “vessel” would mean the same
thing across all systems, and then give every mention of a ship,
boat or vessel in each database the same tag. That way, if you
searched the tag, you could see every ship, boat or vessel, no
matter what anyone called it.  Maritime Traffic Watch  With thousands of maritime object terms in their databases,
getting agreements on tags and then executing could take months
and millions of dollars. And that might add up to only a partial
solution, not full awareness of maritime traffic for all the
agencies that need it.  So the team asked itself, “What if we do this only for a
few important terms like ‘vessel’”? If tests could show that any
authorized person could search only for a few tags to discover
all mentions of everything afloat, then each agency could see
what all the others saw.  Thus did Krieger’s group narrow its scope from building
worldwide awareness to sharing information to simply tagging and
sharing a few key terms. And that well-defined challenge became
what the group decided it could deliver in nine to 12 months.  The questions the team ended up asking were “simple in the
extreme,” said John Shea, who was project manager. “When we
search for a tag, can we find it? When we pull the data up into
our native viewers, can we see it?”  In his day job, Shea was technical director for the Navy’s
“C4I” network operations -- command, control, computers and
communications -- and was already at work improving the Navy’s
ability to track maritime traffic. His work with Krieger’s team
allowed him to collaborate not just with fellow Navy technicians
and contractors but also with others from the Coast Guard, the
Department of Transportation and private companies as well. If
the team was successful, it would save Shea time, money and work
and also let the Navy take advantage of the eyes and ears of
other networks.  By November 2006, the team was ready to show its results to
the highest levels of the U.S. Navy and Coast Guard. In the
boardroom of the chief of naval operations, Singapore Harbor was
displayed from a single system on board a Navy vessel. There
were some 500 “tracks,” or ships. At the push of a button, new
data were added from the Department of Transportation, the Coast
Guard and the Office of Naval Intelligence. Now 1,500 tracks
appeared on the display, many far out of view, over the horizon.  In nine months, Krieger had delivered.  (William J. Bratton, who led the  Los Angeles , New York and
Boston police departments, is the chairman of Kroll, a risk
consulting company. Zachary Tumin is a senior researcher at
Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs. This is the first in a three-part series
of excerpts from their book, “ Collaborate or Perish !: Reaching
Across Boundaries in a Networked World,” to be published Jan. 17
by  Crown Business . The opinions expressed are their own. Read
 Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
William J. Bratton and Zachary Tumin at
 info@collaborateorperish.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  