-- EBA to Review 9% Capital Rule Based on Steps to Fight Crisis
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-01-11T15:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/eba-to-review-9-capital-buffer-based-on-steps-to-fight-europe-debt-crisis.html
The European Banking Authority will
review banks’ need to hold a 9 percent capital buffer as
governments take steps to address the sovereign-debt crisis,
Andrea Enria, the EBA’s chairman, said in a speech.  The “need to maintain this buffer, and its size, will be
reviewed if and when the policy measures to fight the sovereign-
debt crisis have an effect on the price of  government bonds ,”
Enria said in  Rome  today.  The EBA told banks last month to raise 114.7 billion euros
($145.8 billion) in fresh capital by the end of June as part of
measures introduced to respond to the euro area’s fiscal woes.
Lenders should look to bolster reserves by cutting bonuses,
retaining earnings or issuing shares, it said.  The EBA has “underlined the need to accompany these
measures with efficient and credible policy solutions on
sovereign debt,” Enria said.  German banks need to raise an additional 13.1 billion
euros, Italian banks 15.4 billion euros, and Spanish lenders
26.2 billion euros in core tier 1 capital, the  European Banking
Authority  in London said. The capital shortfalls include 15.3
billion euros for  Spain ’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and 7.97 billion
euros for Italy’s  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Enria’s comments highlight concerns at the EBA and the
 European Central Bank  that lenders may seek to scale down their
loans to meet the capital rules,  Richard Reid , research
director for the International Centre for Financial Regulation,
said in an e-mail.  Credible Initiatives  “If there are any credible policy initiatives on  Europe ’s
fiscal prospects and euro-zone durability, it is clear the
regulators will not be slow to reflect these in their regulatory
requirements,” Reid said.  The EBA is committed to ensuring that the bank
recapitalization does not give “further impetus,” to the
credit crunch, Enria said in his remarks today.  Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, said on Jan. 9 it met the
9 percent core capital ratio requirement set by the EBA as it
sold stakes in South American lenders and issued new stock.
UniCredit,  Italy ’s largest bank, announced a 7.5 billion euro
rights offer on Jan. 4 as part of a bid to plug its capital
shortfall and comply with the EBA targets.  “I don’t see them retreating rapidly from the 9 percent
because that would be to say that the system is now OK,”  Karel
Lannoo , chief executive officer of the Centre for European
Policy Studies, a Brussels-based policy group, said in a
telephone interview. “The situation will last for several
years.”  Enria said the EBA didn’t support requests from banks to
delay or cancel the introduction of the 9 percent rule, as to do
so would undermine attempts to overcome the crisis.  “If the recapitalization is canceled, banks’ problems
won’t disappear,” Enria said. Doing so would foster investors’
perceptions that lenders are “weak” and would increase
uncertainty, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  