-- Tebow, Broncos Prepare to Face Ex-Coach McDaniels at New England Patriots
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/tebow-broncos-prepare-to-face-ex-coach-mcdaniels-at-new-england-patriots.html
Tim Tebow  will have more than the
challenge of trying to beat Tom Brady and Bill Belichick this
weekend when the Broncos meet the  New England Patriots  in the
second round of the National Football League playoffs.  He’ll also be playing against the coach who drafted him in
Denver.  Josh McDaniels , who used a first-round pick on Tebow in
2010, rejoined the Patriots this week as an offensive assistant.
The former Broncos head coach was also the Patriots’ offensive
coordinator from 2006 to 2008.  The hiring of McDaniels came the same day Tebow led the
Broncos to an upset win against the Pittsburgh Steelers in the
first round of the playoffs. Tebow yesterday tried to downplay
the insights his former coach may bring to the Patriots for
Denver’s visit on Jan. 14.  “I’m happy for him and his new situation,” Tebow said on
a conference call. “It’s not about that. It’s about the Broncos
versus the Patriots and it’s about us going into a hostile
environment and trying to play a good game and playing a great
team and playing Tom Brady and  Bill Belichick .”  Brady, who’s won three Super Bowl titles as the Patriots’
quarterback, said McDaniels’s experience in Denver will be a
benefit as  New England  prepares for Tebow and the Broncos.  “He obviously has some inside information on that team and
those players, as he coached them,” Brady said two days ago
during his  weekly radio appearance  with WEEI in  Boston . “Coach
Belichick has a pretty good idea of what he’s going to want Josh
to do.”  Broncos coach John Fox said the idea of McDaniels giving
the Patriots an added advantage is “a lot about nothing.”  Patriots Favored  New England, the top seed in the American Football
Conference after going 13-3 in the regular season, is favored by
13 1/2 points, according to oddsmakers.  “He doesn’t even know our offense,” Fox said when asked
about McDaniels. “Our offense is completely different.”  Belichick said Tebow and the Broncos offense present a
unique challenge for his defense, which ranked next-to-last in
the NFL in total yards and passing yards allowed this season.
Tebow passed for a career-high 316 yards and two touchdowns in
last week’s 29-23 overtime win against Pittsburgh, which had the
top-ranked defense in the NFL.  “They’re a tough team to prepare for because they do a lot
of different things,” Belichick said at a news conference.
“There aren’t really any other teams like them in the league,
so there’s no other team you can really draw that experience
from. You can try to simulate it in practice and play against it,
but it’s a little bit different.”  The Last Time  The Broncos had a 16-7 lead against the Patriots in their
Dec. 18 meeting in Denver before committing three second-quarter
turnovers and losing 41-23. The loss snapped a six-game winning
streak for the Broncos, who rushed for 167 yards against New
England in the first quarter.  Tebow rushed for two scores while passing for 194 yards in
that game and said he’s looking forward to facing the Patriots
again. He said Denver doesn’t need the motivation of being a
heavy underdog or facing a former coach.  “Just playing the Patriots is enough motivation for us.
Going to Foxboro and playing  Tom Brady , playing Bill Belichick,
that’s enough,” Tebow said. “Let alone it’s a huge playoff
game, so all those things added up, I’m sure there will be a lot
of motivation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  