-- Hedge Fund CEO Brownstein Gets One Year for Insider Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-12T00:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/hedge-fund-ceo-brownstein-gets-one-year-for-insider-scheme.html
Drew “Bo” Brownstein, the founder
and chief executive officer of Denver-based Big 5 Asset
Management, was sentenced to one year and a day in prison for
trading on inside information about a corporate merger.  U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson in  Manhattan  today
also ordered Brownstein to perform 500 hours of community
service and to forfeit $2.44 million. Brownstein also will serve
six months house arrest after his prison release and was fined
$7,500.  Brownstein, 35, made more than $2.5 million in illegal
profits for his hedge fund and for relatives by trading on a tip
in advance of  Apache Corp. (APA) ’s $2.7 billion acquisition of  Mariner
Energy Inc. (ME)  in April 2010, prosecutors said.  “I want to tell you how sorry I am for having made a
terrible mistake,” Brownstein told the judge just before his
sentencing. “I take full responsibility for my actions
and I will have to live with this for the rest of my life.”  Patterson told Brownstein he considered his offense
serious.  “Indications are people are complaining,” the judge said.
“They’re complaining about the money made on Wall St. Greed is
what they’re concerned about and most of us would agree with
them.”  Home Confinement  While U.S. sentencing guidelines give a range of 37 to 46
months, Brownstein, who pleaded guilty on Oct. 11, had asked for
probation with home confinement and community service.  His lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , noted that probation officials
recommended a term of six months in prison as well as 500 hours
of community service because Brownstein had expressed “genuine
remorse” for his conduct.  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Michael Levy and Antonia Apps
argued in court papers that Brownstein’s crime merited a prison
term “far more substantial” than six months.  Prosecutors said probation officers had incorrectly
calculated that Brownstein made just $130,000 in illegal profits
from the scheme. The bulk of the almost $2.5 million in illegal
gains were based on trades he caused his hedge fund to make,
prosecutors said. Brownstein benefited from his crimes, both as
an investor in the fund and as a recipient of management fees
generated by the successful trading, the U.S. said.  ‘Just’ Punishment  In insider trading cases, “we have to provide an adequate
deterrence to reflect the seriousness of the crime and to
provide a just punishment,” Patterson said today, adding
“People think if they see a light sentence, they think ‘why not
take a chance?’”  “There is too much greed in this country these days, and
it’s not just confined to  Wall Street , either,” he said.  The tip originated with H. Clayton Peterson of Denver, a
retired former Arthur Andersen partner who served on Mariner
Energy’s board of directors, prosecutors in the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said.  Peterson, who was also a director of Re/Max International
Inc. and Lone Pine Resources Inc., pleaded guilty to conspiracy
and securities fraud in August. His son, Drew, a Denver
financial adviser, also pleaded guilty to the same charges in
August.  Clayton Peterson admitted passing information about the
planned transaction in April 2010 to his son. At his guilty
plea, Drew Peterson said he bought shares of Mariner stock based
on the tip and passed the information to another unidentified
person who also traded on it.  Mariner Securities  Clayton Peterson was sentenced by Patterson to three
months’ home detention and ordered to pay a $400,000 fine in
October. Drew Peterson hasn’t been sentenced.  During his guilty plea, Brownstein said he purchased
Mariner securities on April 13 and April 14, 2010. On April 13,
he admitted having had several phone conversations with Drew
Peterson, a lifelong friend, who told him Mariner had agreed to
be acquired.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil
action against Brownstein and Big 5 Asset Management that
accused H. Clayton Peterson of tipping Drew Peterson to
confidential information about the acquisition of Mariner.  Apache, the largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas
producer by market value, announced April 15, 2010, that it had
agreed to buy Mariner Energy for $2.7 billion in cash and stock
to boost production and reserves in deep waters off the  Gulf of
Mexico .  Mariner Energy’s stock rose 42 percent on the news,
according to the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission, which
filed a civil suit against the Petersons. The purchase was
completed on in November 2010.  The case is U.S. v. Peterson, 11-CR-665, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 