-- Hedge Funds Try to Profit From Greece Debt Swap
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-12T15:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/hedge-funds-trying-to-profit-from-greece-as-banks-face-losses.html
Hedge funds in  New York  and London
are trying to profit from trading Greek government bonds as
European banks brace for losses from a debt swap.  Saba Capital Management LP, founded by former  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  credit trader  Boaz Weinstein , York Capital Management LP, the
$14 billion fund started by Jamie Dinan, and London-based
CapeView Capital LLP are among managers that now hold Greek
bonds, according to people with knowledge of the transactions
who declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak publicly about the trades. Officials at the three firms
declined to comment.  They’ve amassed the stakes as the government lobbies
investors to accept a swap that would cause losses of more than
50 percent for bondholders. For the deal to avoid triggering
credit-default swaps that could cause losses for more of the
region’s banks, the agreement has to be voluntary.  Hedge funds 
may not agree to the deal.  “I would expect to see some holdouts,” said Sudeep Singh,
a hedge fund manager at Matrix Group Ltd. who doesn’t own Greek
debt. “The industry breaks down into guys who want to keep on
fighting and into guys who just want to get the best deal and
move on. It’s all a question of what price you got in at.”  Some fund managers say they have little incentive to accept
the swap, and are seeking full payment. If Greece refuses to pay
the funds what’s owed to them, the funds may seek to trigger the
credit-default swaps. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Credit Event’  European officials, including former European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , have tried to avoid a default
that would cause what he called a “credit event.” Triggering
the CDS could encourage traders to increase their bets against
other indebted European nations such as Italy, Portugal and
 Spain , worsening the debt crisis.  Saba bought Greek debt maturing in one year, Weinstein said
at an investment conference in September. The price paid
factored in at least a 75 percent chance of default, said
Weinstein, whose New York-based hedge fund oversees about $5
billion. His biggest fund climbed 9.3 percent last year,
according to a person briefed on its performance. New York-based
York Capital also owns Greek sovereign debt, according to
another two people.  Greek officials held meetings last year with CapeView
Capital, the fund started by former Deutsche Bank executive and
Trafalgar Asset Managers Ltd. founder Theo Phanos, to discuss
the firm’s sovereign debt investments, said another two people,
who declined to be identified because the meetings were private.  Sarkozy, Merkel  Officials led by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  persuaded banks in October to agree to
exchange their Greek bonds for new securities with longer-dated
maturities and lower coupon rates, as part of a tentative accord
aimed at slashing the nation’s debt and halting the spread of a
crisis that has plagued  Europe  for more than two years. Banks
and politicians are still negotiating the exact level of losses
imposed on private bondholders in the swap.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said yesterday
that discussions with private bondholders on the swap “have
advanced and are now at a very good point,” according to a
government statement. Venizelos met in  Athens  today with  Charles Dallara , managing director of the  Institute of International
Finance , which represents banks that hold Greek debt.  ECB Holdings  Of the 355 billion euros ($450 billion) of outstanding
Greek debt, about a third is held by the ECB, the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund , according to estimates by
Open Europe, a research Group based in  London  and Brussels.  The swap would slice about half of Greek’s remaining 200
billion euros of debt, most of which is owned by banks. About 80
billion euros is held by overseas investors such as insurers,
sovereign wealth funds and hedge funds, Open Europe said.  The ECB has purchased about 36 billion euros of Greek debt
since 2010, according to a Jan. 6 report by  Laurent Fransolet ,
head of fixed income strategy at  Barclays Capital  in London.  Trichet, who was succeeded by  Mario Draghi  in November,
repeatedly said he was opposed to any bond restructuring that
forces investors to accept haircuts. ECB council member
Athanasios Orphanides last week called in a Financial Times
column for euro-area leaders to drop haircuts to convince
markets it’s safe to invest in the region again.  PSI Debate  The ECB continues to take the view that the so-called
private sector involvement of bondholders accepting losses on
Greek debt doesn’t include EU and government institutions,  Vitor Constancio , the central bank’s vice president, said at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  today.  “The stance is the same as it was before,” he said. “PSI
by definition is private sector. We are not involved in those
negotiations.”  Losses from the ECB’s holdings of Greek debt could require
it to raise new capital from its euro-zone member central banks.  Hedge funds shouldn’t swap their Greek bonds for new debt
as long as the ECB refuses to do so itself because it’s legally
difficult for a sovereign to default on payments to one holder
while providing full payment to another, said Andreas Koutras,
an analyst at InTouch Capital Markets Ltd. in London. Funds
stand a good chance of getting paid out at face value,
especially on debt maturing in coming months, should the ECB
decline to take part in any exchange, he said.  ‘Free Ride’  “If the ECB is out, then for sure you should try to free
ride on the back of the ECB,” Koutras said. “You’d be stupid
to actually participate if the ECB does not.”  The first test of that trade is in March, when about 14.4
billion euros of debt matures.  Government bonds  redeemable on
March 20 fell to a 52-week low of about 40 cents on the euro on
Nov. 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds
rebounded to 49 cents on Dec. 19 and traded at about 44 cents as
of yesterday.  Trun-Tin Nguyen, a hedge fund manager at TTN AG in Zurich,
said he’s been buying the bonds, expecting that policy makers
will fail to reach an agreement before March.  “The bet is that either way, they will repay this one,”
Nguyen said in an interview. “Before March, no solution should
be achieved, whether it’s a haircut or a default.”  Officials may include collective actions clauses in any
agreement, which would blur the voluntary nature of the swap,
said a person with direct knowledge of the negotiations. Such a
clause would give  Greece ’s lenders the right to impose the
exchange on all holders if a majority of holders agree to it.  Policy makers expect the clause would push more investors,
including hedge funds, to agree to the swap, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the negotiations are
private. Inserting the clause wouldn’t be a credit event, while
a decision by Greece to act on it would probably trigger the
CDS, the person said.  Still, CDS prices show investors are wagering that Greece
will default and that swaps will be triggered. Contracts
insuring against a default within the next five years have more
than doubled to 7,819 basis points since October, when officials
announced the debt swap. A basis point is one-hundredth of a
percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Dusseldorf via 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 