-- Egypt Offers Dollar Treasury Bills to Cut Borrowing Costs
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-01-11T14:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/egypt-offers-dollar-treasury-bills-to-cut-borrowing-costs-1-.html
Egypt plans to raise $1 billion from
the sale of one-year dollar-denominated treasury bills next week
as it seeks to contain record local-currency borrowing costs.  The central bank invited domestic and foreign financial
institutions to the auction Jan. 17, the regulator said in a
statement today. The  Finance Ministry  will also offer 15.5
billion Egyptian pounds ($2.6 billion) of bills and bonds over
the next week.  The sale of the dollar bills is the third in as many months
as domestic borrowing costs have surged to their highest levels
since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2006. The country
issued $2.53 billion in one-year notes in two offerings at the
end of last year, paying an average yield of about 3.9 percent.
That compares with an average yield of 15.471 percent at the
previous sale of  one-year local -currency notes on Jan. 5.  “It’s cheaper for them to borrow in dollars than in the
local currency and it keeps dollars in the country, easing
pressure off the balance of payments,” said Antoon De Klerk, a
London-based economist who helps manage $5 billion in emerging
markets debt at Investec Asset Management. “But you don’t want
this to go on forever because you will need more dollars for
repayment.”  Redirecting Funds  The  Finance Ministry  yesterday canceled about 14.3 billion
pounds in sales of  three-month bills  this quarter and is
planning to issue more dollar-denominated local debt to help
meet its budget deficit target. Longer maturity debt will help
Egypt stretch out interest payments and funds will be raised
through six-, nine- and 12-month securities, Finance Minister
Momtaz el-Saieed said yesterday.  The North African country will seek bids for 3.5 billion in
 six-month  notes and 4 billion pounds in one-year securities at
an auction tomorrow, according to central bank data on
Bloomberg. It will sell 4 billion pounds in  nine-month bills  on
Jan. 15, and 2 billion pounds each of three- and five-year
bonds.  The yield on  Egypt ’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bonds due
April 2020 rose 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to a
record 8.72 percent at 3:44 p.m. in Cairo.  The pound  was little
changed at 6.037 a dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  