-- Bank of America Criticizes Lehman’s Statement on Archstone
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-12T22:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/lehman-judge-to-rule-on-1-3-billion-purchase-of-archstone-stake-from-bofa.html
Bank of America Corp.  faulted Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. for telling the press that there were no
limits on the amount of damages the defunct firm could seek from
the bank and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  over a disputed deal involving
Archstone.  The bank termed the statement, cited in a published story
last week about New York-based Lehman’s fight to control its
biggest real estate asset, “incorrect and prejudicial,” in a
letter yesterday to a judge that was filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  Manhattan .  Bankrupt Lehman plans a $1.3 billion purchase of
26.5 percent of Archstone from the banks, as a first step in
buying the banks’ 53 percent Archstone stake for as much as
$2.7 billion, according to the parties’ comments in court last
week.  Lehman and the banks have been fighting over Archstone and
how to dispose of it. Lehman has said it now wants to control
Archstone’s fate by buying the banks out.  Lehman, after failing to stop the banks from giving  Sam Zell ’s  Equity Residential (EQR)  an option to buy the second half of
their stake, told a reporter that the banks had waived any
limits on monetary damages Lehman can seek from them as a result
of their actions.  Bank of America and Barclays “respectfully request that
the court once again instruct plaintiffs not to comment on this
lawsuit in the media,” Bank of America said in the letter.  Judge’s Decision  According to  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, Lehman is entitled only to a refund if a judge deems
that it overpaid for the second half of the banks’ stake. Lehman
has said the Zell company will probably bid more than $1.3
billion for that piece of Archstone, forcing Lehman to match his
bid if it wants to gain control.  If Lehman pays $1.445 billion for the banks’ second piece
of Archstone, as the judge said it might have to, compared with
$1.325 billion for the first piece, it would be entitled to a
refund of $120 million if U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck says
it overpaid, not unlimited damages, according to Bank of
America, which said it was writing on behalf of London-based
Barclays too.  Lehman responded today with its own letter to Peck, saying
it wasn’t attempting to try the case in the media.  ‘Real Purpose’  The “real purpose” of the banks’ letter is to try to
“withdraw or narrow the scope of their waivers made in open
court,” said Lehman, which has sued the banks alleging breach
of contract.  Lehman’s letter cites Peck’s comments in court as he
declined to stop the banks from giving the Zell company an
option on half of their stake in Archstone.  “We ended up with what amounts to on-the-record
acknowledgements and admissions by the banks that limitations of
liability will not be asserted in limitation of claims that
Lehman continues to have in this litigation,” Peck said,
according to Lehman’s letter.  Lehman is embarking on a $65 billion liquidation plan after
three years in  bankruptcy court  that would pay the average
creditor less than 18 cents on the dollar. It has said it aims
to sell Archstone later for as much as $6 billion to help pay
creditors. Archstone is Lehman’s biggest real estate asset.
Lehman currently owns 47 percent.  Apartment Developments  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from  Washington 
and  New York  to  San Francisco . Lehman and the banks made loans,
which they later converted to equity after Archstone faltered in
the 2008 credit crisis.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 