-- Elbit Imaging Surges Most in Month on Shopping Centers Sale
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-01-11T15:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/elbit-imaging-surges-to-month-high-on-shopping-centers-sale-1-.html
Elbit Imaging Ltd. (EMIT)  rallied the most
in more than a month after an affiliate of the investor in real
estate and medical companies sold shopping centers in the U.S.
for $1.43 billion.  The  shares  jumped 20 percent, the biggest gain since Nov.
28, to 12.44 shekels, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The
yield on the company’s 5 percent bond due April 2020 dropped
3.48 percentage points to 32.27 percent.  “The deal will generate a high  cash flow , which will
enable the company to meet the payments to bondholders at least
for the coming year,” Shay Lipman, an analyst at I.B.I.-Israel
Brokerage and Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv said by phone. “This
buys time for the company.”  Tel Aviv-based Elbit has about 5.2 billion shekels ($1.4
billion) of debt outstanding,  according to data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Moody’s Midroog Ltd. on Nov. 3 lowered the ratings on
the company’s Series A through G and Series 1 bonds to Baa1 from
A3, citing “challenges in improving its cash flow situation.”  Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII (PEF3096) , a fund managed by the
New York-based private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , will own
95 percent of a venture formed to buy the properties, with the
rest owned by an affiliate of DDR Corp., a Beachwood, Ohio-based
real estate investment trust, according to a statement
yesterday.  New Financing  The retail centers are being sold by  EPN Group , an
affiliate of Tel Aviv-based Elbit. The purchase price includes
assumed debt of $640 million and at least $305 million of new
financing, according to the statement. DDR also will invest $150
million in preferred equity in the venture and provide leasing
and management services.  Plaza Centers NV (PLAZ) , the Elbit unit that owns the malls that
are being sold in the U.S., surged 24 percent at 3:15 p.m. in
 London , headed for the biggest gain since at least October 2006,
when Bloomberg started tracking the shares. Following the
transaction, Plaza will own two malls in the U.S. valued at
about $43 million, the company said in a separate statement.  “We intend to continue our operations in the U.S. together
with our existing partners, using our experience to attract new
investors, so that the U.S. continues to be an important part of
our operations in the coming years,” Elbit’s Co-Chief Executive
Officer Dudi Machluf said in a separate statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  