-- Most Emerging Stocks Rise as U.S. Expansion Beats Europe Recession Concern
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-01-11T22:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/emerging-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-on-europe-manila-shares-rally.html
Most emerging-market stocks advanced
as an improving U.S. economic expansion outweighed concern that
 Europe  may be headed for a recession.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed at
948.65 at the close in  New York  as 412 stocks rose and 358
declined.  Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index advanced for a fourth day
after a measure of prices unexpectedly dropped. Turkish shares
gained 1.2 percent. Czech, Polish and Hungarian equities
declined. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose to a record
after the central bank said monetary policy may be eased this
quarter.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at “a modest to moderate pace”
from late November through December, according to the U.S.
central bank.  Germany  may be on the brink of recession after the
sovereign debt crisis caused the economy to contract in the
final quarter of 2011. Europe’s largest economy shrank
“roughly” 0.25 percent in the fourth quarter from the third,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today in an
unofficial estimate.  “The outlook in the U.S. is for modest growth this year,
and that’s better than Europe. Expectations are Europe will be
in a recession,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of
investment markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management, which oversees about $150 billion.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has gained 3.5 percent this
year, while the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed nations added 1.8
percent. The gauge of developing nations is valued at 9.6 times
 estimated profit , compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
11.7 times.  Hungarian Bonds  Hungary will auction 33 billion forint ($135 million) in
notes maturing in 2014, 2017 and 2022 at a biweekly bond sale
tomorrow, according to data from the Debt Management Agency on
Bloomberg.  The benchmark  BUX (BUX)  stock index fell 1.8 percent, led by  Mol
Nyrt. (MOL) , the country’s largest refiner.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  of commodity prices slid 0.7
percent, its first decline in four days. Oil futures dropped 1.3
percent in New York.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  rose 0.3 percent in Sao Paulo. Steelmaker
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA led gains on the index
after metal prices rose.  Gerdau SA (GGBR4) , Latin America’s largest
steelmaker, advanced 1.3 percent after saying it plans to buy
back as many as 2.69 million preferred shares.  The first preview of Brazil’s IGP-M index of wholesale,
construction and consumer prices showed the measure declined
0.01 percent this month, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said on
its website today. That compares to a median estimate for a 0.10
percent increase in a Bloomberg survey of 13 economists.  In  China , consumer prices will probably slow to 4 percent
in December, according to the  median estimate  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. China may raise both lending and
deposit rates by 25 basis points this year, Robert Prior- Wandesforde and Dong Tao, analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG,
wrote in a report.  China Shares  “Although economic activity is likely to soften further in
2012, inflation will probably remain above the government’s
comfort zone, making a policy rate increase far more likely than
a rate cut in our view,” the analysts wrote.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902)  slid 2.5 percent in Hong
Kong, leading declines among electricity producers, after the
Xinhua News Agency said the nation’s power consumption growth
may decelerate this year.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.  fell 3.5
percent amid concern competition will increase among carriers in
the mainland.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rose 1.9 percent to
4,645.86, a record close.  Philippine National Bank  gained 2.6
percent and Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. rose 1.6 percent after
the central bank said commercial bank loans net of overnight
placements with the monetary authority grew 22.5 percent in
November from a year earlier.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 433, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  