-- England Makes 15 Changes to Squad for Six Nations; Farrell Among Call-Ups
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-11T13:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/england-makes-15-changes-to-squad-for-six-nations-farrell-among-call-ups.html
England  made 15 changes to its last
rugby squad following an unsuccessful World Cup campaign, with
interim head coach Stuart Lancaster including nine uncapped
players among the group for the Six Nations.  Brad Barritt and Owen Farrell of Saracens, Northampton’s
Lee Dickson and Calum Clark, and Scarlets No. 8 Ben Morgan are
among the new players in the squad, the Rugby Football Union
said in a statement today.  Lancaster, who was appointed last month after  Martin Johnson  quit in November, said the changes are part of a long-
term view toward the next World Cup, which England will host.  “Lots of players have been putting their hands up and
there were some tough calls to make,” Lancaster said in the
statement. “However, in line with the selection philosophy
about starting new era for English rugby, we have taken the
chance to make changes and give players opportunities to be part
of the journey towards 2015.”  Mike Tindall ,  Mark Cueto  and Nick Easter are among senior
players omitted, while England’s record points scorer Jonny Wilkinson, Lewis Moody and Steve Thompson have retired.  Danny
Care  was not considered following an arrest for drunk driving.  Ten changes are allowed in a Rugby World Cup year over and
above international retirements and long-term injuries, the RFU
said.  Dave Attwood, Alex Goode, Geoff Parling and Henry Trinder
will join the squad from England’s development team, known as
the Saxons, as temporary replacements for Courtney Lawes,  Toby Flood , Louis Deacon and Manu Tuilagi who are struggling with
injuries.  Lancaster will remain in charge until the RFU names a
permanent replacement for Johnson. The governing body has said
it plans to do so by June. He is assisted by Graham Rowntree and
Andy Farrell, the father of 20-year-old Owen.  “We are looking both at the present and just as importantly
the future,” Lancaster said. “We wanted to get the right
balance in potential and experience and giving us the
flexibility to play in different ways.”  The squad will meet for a training camp on Jan. 23, with
England’s opening Six Nations match against  Scotland  in
Edinburgh on Feb. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 