-- Lennar Rises to Highest Since ’07 as Orders Surge
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-01-11T21:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/lennar-quarterly-profit-declines-on-homebuilder-s-rialto-investments-unit.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, rose to its highest level in more than
four years after reporting a 20 percent jump in new orders as
the U.S. housing market shows signs of stabilizing.  Orders increased to 3,027 for the fourth quarter ended Nov.
30 from 2,520 a year earlier, the Miami-based company said in a
statement today. The shares gained $1.49, or 7.2 percent, to
$22.25 in  New York , their highest close since October 2007.  The 11-member Standard & Poor’s 1500 Homebuilding  index 
rose 4.1 percent, led by KB Home. The Los Angeles-based builder,
which targets first-time buyers, climbed 12 percent to $8.62
after Lennar Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said he is
seeing improvement in demand for housing.  “As I look ahead to 2012, I’m cautiously optimistic that
we’re seeing a real bottom form and we’re beginning to see a
recovery,” Miller said on a conference call today.
“Stabilization will emanate from the most desirable markets and
spread slowly outward.”  U.S. housing starts climbed to a 19-month high and builder
confidence rose for a third consecutive month in November. While
there are signs that the market may be starting to pick up, new
homes sold at an annual pace of 315,000 in November, putting
2011 on pace to be the slowest year in Commerce Department
records dating to 1963.  ‘Short Squeeze’  KB Home (KBH) ’s rise is a sign that investors are putting their
money into riskier homebuilders, said Jack Micenko, an analyst
with Susquehanna International Group LLP. KB Home is the builder
with the highest percent of its shares held by short sellers,
who have been betting that the stock will go down, he said.  “Throw a nice dose of short squeeze and you get fireworks
today,” Micenko said in an e-mail from New York.  Lennar’s fourth-quarter sales improved in markets that have
been hit hard by the real estate collapse, including  Florida ,
Atlanta, Phoenix,  Las Vegas  and parts of  California , according
to Miller. More people are considering buying, including some
who lost homes to  foreclosure , as the cost of owning compares
favorably with renting, he said.  “They are looking to reconsider the rental lifestyle where
rental rates have been rising and are likely to continue to rise
for the foreseeable future,” Miller said.  Revenue Increases  Fourth-quarter revenue increased to $952.7 million from
$860.1 million a year earlier. Homebuilding revenue rose 9.6
percent to $834 million and deliveries of homes to buyers
increased 9 percent to 3,375.  Net income for the fourth quarter dropped to $30.3 million,
or 16 cents a share, from $32 million, or 17 cents, a year
earlier. Lennar was expected to earn 16 cents a share, the
average  estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The builder has been cutting costs and buying distressed
real estate through Rialto Investments. The unit had operating
earnings of $6 million in the fourth quarter, down from $25.1
million a year earlier. Rialto’s revenue climbed to $46.5
million from $19.7 million. The unit’s earnings declined as
Rialto reported mark-to-market unrealized losses of $7.6 million
related to a portfolio of investments in the U.S. Treasury’s
Public Private Investment Program, which finances purchases of
distressed mortgage securities.  Gross margin on home sales, a measure of profitability,
widened to 21.6 percent from 20.8 percent and the average price
rose 2 percent to $243,000, Lennar said.  “Each of the company’s operating segments was profitable
despite challenging housing-market conditions, and its
homebuilding operations performed slightly ahead of our
expectations,” Vincent Foley, senior research analyst with
Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said in a note to investors.  Lennar is the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue after
 PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  and  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)   To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net . 