-- Lenovo CEO Says Tablets Make Up Niche Market Dominated by Apple
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-01-11T03:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/lenovo-ceo-says-tablets-make-up-niche-market-dominated-by-apple.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  Chief Executive
Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said there’s scant room for growth in the
tablet market, and that devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG)  software --
including his company’s machines -- will keep trailing the iPad.  “Tablets will not replace the traditional” personal
computer, Yang said in an interview yesterday at the  Consumer
Electronics Show  in Las Vegas. “The traditional PC is changing
to adapt to the customer requirements. The tablet is an extra
market for some niche customers.”  While Lenovo makes tablets, it’s also an early entrant into
the market for so-called ultrabooks, a term coined by  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  to describe light, thin laptops. A year after tablets
dominated much of the talk at CES, computer makers used press
briefings and erected elaborate booths to focus showgoers’
attention on the newer category of slim PCs.  “This will become a trend to replace part of the notebook
market,” Yang said of ultrabooks.  Ultrabooks will account for more than 40 percent of all
notebooks by 2015, researcher IHS said in November. Lenovo’s
Yang said he expects the category to make up 30 percent to 40
percent of notebooks in the next 18 months.  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPad controls more than 65 percent of the worldwide
market for tablets, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based
researcher IDC. Google’s Android tablets, including Lenovo’s
IdeaPad A1, represent 32 percent of all tablet sales.  “Apple is the leader,” Yang said. “For the Android
ecosystem, we still need to learn something, we still need to
improve something.”  Lenovo on Jan. 9 touted a hybrid device called the IdeaPad
YOGA, a laptop that uses a swiveling screen to function both as
a touch-screen tablet and as a more full-featured ultrabook.
Products like this, which combine features of smartphones and
PCs, will win out over tablets in the long run, Yang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  