-- EON Buys Stake in Billionaire Batista’s MPX for $471 Million
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-01-11T20:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/eon-to-acquire-10-of-mpx-as-part-of-brazil-energy-joint-venture.html
EON AG (EOAN) , Germany’s biggest utility,
will pay 850 million reais ($471 million) to take 10 percent of
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  and set up a
power-generation joint venture.  The two companies plan to jointly generate 20,000 megawatts
in Brazil and Chile and will each own 50 percent of the
business, Rio de Janeiro-based MPX said today in a statement.
MPX will spin off Colombian coal assets to form a company called
CCX and list it in  Sao Paulo .  EON is expanding overseas after profits declined at home as
Germany shutters nuclear reactors in response to the Fukushima
disaster in  Japan . Batista is seeking partners after his
companies sold about $7.3 billion of shares in five years to
finance investments in energy, mining and transportation.  “The deal fits with EON’s strategy to generate growth in
quickly growing non-European markets and minimize risks by
teaming up with partners,” Bernhard Jeggle, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg AG, said by telephone.  The deal comes less than a month after EON said it would
invest 7 billion euros ($8.9 billion) in renewable energy
projects in the next five years.  The joint venture will “enable us to create significant
value in thermal and renewable power generation in  Brazil ,” EON
Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen said today in a
statement. MPX owns 11,000 megawatts in licensed power plant
projects, EON said.  Declining Profits  The utility in November posted a 64 percent slide in nine-
month profit because of the accelerated nuclear phaseout and
lower earnings on gas wholesaling.  The companies expect to close the transaction in the second
quarter.  EON fell 0.8 percent to 16.735 euros in Frankfurt trading.
MPX dropped 5.9 percent to 46.11 reais in Sao Paulo, the biggest
fall since Aug. 4, 2011.  “The stock is going down because of the dilution factor,”
said Eric Conrads, who manages $1.2 billion in Latin American
stocks at ING Groep NV in  New York , by telephone. “You have a 1
billion capital increase that will come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  