-- White-Collar Workers Join Crowd Straining Food Banks
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-01-11T23:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/mercedes-owners-ph-d-holders-join-swelling-crowd-straining-soup-kitchens.html
After losing her job as a consultant
for nonprofits, Martha Heassler and her husband, a graphic
artist, no longer had money for their daughter’s college
education, new clothing or groceries.  “We’re waiting for my husband’s paycheck, and we probably
have less than $200 to our name,” Heassler, 55, said by phone.  She now makes weekly trips to the  Open Door Food Pantry  in
Gloucester,  Massachusetts , to pick up bags of food that include
meat, eggs, yogurt and vegetables.  “Without the network of food pantries around us, I don’t
know how we would have eaten,” said Heassler, who holds a
bachelor’s degree in English literature from Gordon College, in
Wenham, Massachusetts.  As the sluggish economy idles more middle-class individuals
and families, their donations to food banks and soup kitchens
have evaporated, hitting the nonprofits from both ends.  “We’re seeing many faces from the middle class who had
been donors who now need support from our food bank,” Terry
Shannon, president and chief executive officer of the Phoenix,
Arizona-based  St. Mary’s Food Bank Alliance , said by phone.
“Right now, our donations are softer than we would like them to
be.”  The  Greater Boston Food Bank , which supplies food to Open
Door, has had a 23 percent increase in need since 2008 when the
 U.S. economy  entered a recession. Last year, it distributed
about 37 million pounds of food, or about 28.2 million meals.  “We’re acquiring more food and distributing more food, and
the demand always outpaces the source,” Catherine D’Amato,
president and chief executive officer of the food bank, said by
phone.  Corporate Jobs Lost  In the past year, corporate dismissals have left middle-
class and white-collar workers stranded from the job market,
causing many to seek public assistance and help from food
charities.  The portion of college-degree holders in New York who said
they had difficulty affording food increased to 30 percent in
2011 from 24 percent in the previous year, according to a  survey 
of 827 adults released today by the nonprofit  Food Bank for New
York City .  Only about 7 percent of those who lost jobs after the 2008
financial crisis have found work that matched or exceeded their
previous job, according to a study released last month by the
John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at  Rutgers
University . The survey of 1,200 unemployed U.S. workers selected
at random was conducted between August 2009 and August 2011.  “The group surveyed was better educated and more affluent,
relative to the people who are usually unemployed in this
country,” Cliff Zukin, a Rutgers professor of public policy and
co-author of the study, said by phone.  Food Stamps   The percentage of households in the U.S. using food stamps
has more than doubled in 6 of the nation’s 10 wealthiest
counties, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I see people who look like they would be on a lunch break
from work,” said Violet DeSantis, 46, an unemployed worker in
 San Francisco  who became a volunteer at the St. Anthony
Foundation’s dining room, which she also turned to for food. “I
wouldn’t have ever imagined that they would look like that.”  The  Atlas of Giving  LLC forecasts that donations to social-
service organizations will rise 4.9 percent in 2012, said Rob
Mitchell, chief executive of the Dallas-based company. Still,
high unemployment “will have a lingering impact” on giving for
at least two years, he said.  At  Fisherman’s Mark , a social-services center in
Lambertville,  New Jersey , some of the out-of-work regulars have
doctoral degrees and “drive up in luxury cars such as Mercedes-
Benz,” says Gina Davio, Fisherman Mark’s program director of
social services, by phone. The nonprofit’s  Hunterdon County  had
a median household income of $97,874, the highest in the state
and the fourth-highest in the U.S. Hunterdon’s food-stamp usage
rose 513 percent between 2007 and 2010.  “One guy who came in worked at a plant where he made
hundreds of thousands of dollars, and he got cut, and I see a
lot of people who have a great amount of job experience and big
salaries,” Davio said. “I see women coming in designer clothes
such as  Ralph Lauren  and who are physically fit.”  Peanut Butter  The rising cost of food-pantry staples such as peanut
butter, one of the most requested items by families with
children, has “put more strain” on St. Mary’s Food Bank’s
financial resources, Shannon said. The cost of peanut butter
distributed in about 40,000 food boxes monthly has increased 15
percent to 20 percent during the past three years.  Although  Citymeals-on-Wheels  has boosted its fundraiser
efforts, direct-mail donations are down about 2.4 percent from a
year ago, executive director Beth Shapiro said by phone.  “December is a nail-biting month for us,” said Jilly
Stephens, executive director of City Harvest, about her hunger
charity, which raises 42 percent of its budget between November
and January. “It feels like we’re always pushing hard, and we
continue to see more  New Yorkers  turning to emergency food.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 