-- Erdogan Will Fight ‘Interest-Rate Lobby’ in Turkey, Says Rates Should Fall
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 2012-01-11T16:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/erdogan-will-fight-interest-rate-lobby-in-turkey-says-rates-should-fall.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
said Turkey will make “strong, pointed responses” to a lobby
he said is pressing for higher  interest rates , as surging
borrowing costs threaten to pare  economic growth .  “The interest-rate lobby is working and on the attack
right now,” Erdogan said in Ankara, according to state news
agency Anatolia. “We won’t let the lobby work in comfort”
because their success means “the spending power of citizens of
this country who consume declines.”  The central bank has more than doubled the cost of funding
it provides to banks to curb a slump in the lira and cap
 inflation  that accelerated to a three-year high of 10.5 percent
last month. Banks such as  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  are
charging borrowers as much as 20 percent annually, from a little
over 10 percent a year ago. The economy may slide into recession
in early 2012, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last month.  Erdogan said the gap between the central bank’s  benchmark
interest rate  of 5.75 percent and market rates must close
because “however high the market rate is, inflation will be
that high,” Anatolia reported. “The lower we can bring market
rates, the slower inflation will be.”  Close to Zero  Erdogan and Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan say the
“interest-rate lobby” is trying to force Turkey to raise rates
to help create higher returns. Erdogan said last May that real
rates, after inflation, should be close to zero.  Economists such as Mert Yildiz at  Renaissance Capital  say
the lobby doesn’t exist and the government is finding an enemy
to deflect blame for its economic policy decisions.  Erdogan’s comments “tend to raise concern again over the
independence of” the central bank, Tim Ash, chief emerging-
market economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  London , said
in an e-mailed note today.  The premier’s comments probably won’t influence central
bank policy, Bulent Topbas,  fund manager  at Strateji Menkul Degerler in Istanbul, said by e-mail. “If you don’t want high
inflation, interest rates have to rise to stabilize exchange
rates. Facts of the economy restrict wants.”  The decline in the lira and accelerating inflation have
helped make  yields  on  Turkey ’s two-year bonds the highest among
19 major  emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg. Yields rose 6
basis points to 11.43 percent at 5:00 p.m. in Istanbul today.
They were about 7 percent a year ago. Hungary follows with 9
percent and  India  with 7.8 percent. The inflation rate in Turkey
is also the highest among its peers.  Lira Decline  The lira gained 0.4 percent to 1.8609 per dollar. The
currency reached a record low of 1.9219 per dollar on Dec. 28
and fell 18 percent last year, the biggest decline among the
main global currencies.  “Unfortunately, with the market rate approaching 14
percent recently, you have seen that inflation jumped to about
10.45 percent,” Erdogan said, according to Anatolia.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci has attributed the
acceleration in inflation to the declining lira and government
tax increases.  The central bank knows its job and has acted to support the
lira by selling dollars on the market, Erdogan said. “It may do
so again,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  