-- Merkel Will Struggle to Pass Transaction Tax, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-11T16:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/merkel-will-struggle-to-pass-transaction-tax-lawmaker-says.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  will
struggle to pass a financial-transaction tax for the euro-area’s
17 members through the German parliament amid resistance from
her coalition partner and within her own party, a senior
lawmaker said.  Germany’s lower house, or Bundestag, would probably veto
any such levy that doesn’t include the U.K., said  Michael Fuchs ,
the deputy floor leader for Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union.
Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler, who leads the chancellor’s Free
Democratic Party coalition partner, this week rejected a
transaction tax only for countries that share the euro.  “It doesn’t make much sense to weaken continental European
financial centers and give a boost to the English,” Fuchs said
by telephone today from his office in Berlin. “It’s important
that our caucus knows that it’s necessary we don’t do it on a
central European basis.”  His position undermines Merkel’s backing this week of
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s intensified campaign for a
euro-area tax on transactions. The so-called  Tobin tax  has been
rejected by the U.S. and the U.K., who say it will hurt their
financial industries and prefer bank levies.  Merkel today said her support for Sarkozy on this issue was
her “personal opinion” and any policy would have to be
formulated as part of a consensus with the FDP. After meeting
with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , she said there was no
agreement on the issue among the European Union’s 27 members.  The European Commission has suggested a tax of 0.1 percent
on equity and bond trades, and 0.01 percent on derivatives,
which it said could raise 55 billion euros ($70 billion) a year.
EU finance ministers will discuss the levy in March.  U.K. Rejection  The dim prospects for passing such a tax in  Germany  could
weigh on Sarkozy, who faces elections in a two-round vote in
April and May and had pushed for a Tobin tax, as well as greater
international regulation of financial industries.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has said he’ll block any
attempt by the EU to impose a financial-transaction tax in
Britain, even if he’s not against a worldwide tax. London is
Europe’s largest financial center.  Fuchs, who coordinates economic policy for the CDU’s
parliamentary group, said he would welcome a Tobin tax among all
27 EU members and criticized the U.K. for resisting it.  “I know that our British friends are not so greatly
excited,” Fuchs said. “It’s important to say to them that
 Europe  means a bit of solidarity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  