-- Merkel Praises Italy’s Debt Cuts as Monti Urges Recognition From Investors
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-11T15:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/merkel-praises-italy-debt-cuts-as-monti-calls-for-recognition-of-progress.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
praised the Italian government’s deficit-reduction steps as
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said investors shouldn’t see Italy as
a source of contagion in the debt crisis.  Italians have supported “very tough” austerity measures
brought in by his government and Italy deserves recognition for
that, Monti told reporters in Berlin today after talks with
Merkel. Italy “should be seen as doing its part alongside
 Germany ,  France  and other countries in steering Europe toward
stability.”  Monti’s visit yielded a renewed vote of confidence by
Merkel and a plea for a breather from investors who before he
took office in November drove Italian  10-year bond yields  to
levels that preceded bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  Germany has “great respect” for how quickly Monti has
pushed through austerity measures, Merkel said. “The speed and
the substance of these measures are something that will
strengthen Italy and improve its economic circumstances.”  The leaders of Europe’s No. 1 and No. 3 economies met as
policy makers strive to tamp down the crisis that began in
Greece in late 2009 and infected Italy, Spain and France last
year. Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy are due in
 Rome  on Jan. 20 to set the stage for a European summit in
Brussels 10 days later that’s meant to focus on boosting  jobs 
and growth in the euro region as recession looms.  Italian Debt Sales  Monti, who spent his first month in office enacting 30
billion euros ($39 billion) in austerity and growth measures,
faces almost half a trillion euros of debt sales this year.
Italian bond yields don’t adequately reflect his debt-cutting
efforts, he said.  “What Italians are hoping and what I hope for is that,
before the months it takes for good economic policy to translate
into higher growth, there will be a decline in high  interest
rates  in financial markets that may have been more or less
justified when there was a lot of concern about  Italy , but that
aren’t justified anymore,” Monti said.  He suggested that Italy can’t achieve that goal alone. Each
European country must reach “a healthy economic structure”
that will boost growth, he said. “The European context must
become more favorable, thus permitting in time a reduction in
interest rates.”  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 14 basis points to
6.98 percent today. Spanish two-year yields fell to the lowest
in nine months as lawmakers approved Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s first austerity measures. The euro fell 0.6 percent to
$1.2712 at 3:45 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  German ‘Ringleader’  Monti warned in comments published before he met Merkel
that his austerity measures might trigger anti-European protests
in Italy without signs of economic progress.  “I am demanding heavy sacrifices from Italians,” the
German newspaper  Die Welt  quoted him as saying in an interview
published today. “I can only do this if concrete advantages
become visible.” Otherwise, “a protest against  Europe  will
develop in Italy, including against Germany, which is seen as
the ringleader of EU intolerance, and against the  European
Central Bank .”  While Monti said German “discipline” is the best way to
overcome the debt crisis, Merkel rebuffed the notion that she is
seeking to impose German order across the euro area.  “We are not doing all of this just so one of us can
torture the other a little bit,” she said. “In politics,
there’s never a final reform. The world is changing pretty
quickly and we constantly have to adapt to those changes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  