-- Ethiopia Sale of State Assets Would Raise $7.6 Billion
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-11T14:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/ethiopia-sale-of-state-assets-would-raise-7-6-billion-correct-.html
(Corrects currency conversion in headline.)  Ethiopia’s government would raise
132 billion birr ($7.6 billion) if it sold the country’s five
biggest state-owned companies to private investors, Access
Capital SC said.  The sale of Ethiopian Airlines Enterprises, sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s second-biggest carrier, Ethiopian Shipping Lines, Ethio
Telecom, the Ethiopian Insurance Corp. and Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia would generate funds needed to finance infrastructure
projects in the country, the Addis Ababa-based research company
said in its annual economic report. Proceeds from 81 other
public enterprises earmarked for sale by the government would
raise more than $1.9 billion, it said Jan. 9.  “Ethiopia needs cash now and it makes perfect sense to
liquidate the net worth held in long-accumulated assets for
something as grand as ensuring a transformative change in the
country’s economic history,” Access said.  A five-year growth plan unveiled by the government in 2010
calls for 569 billion birr to be invested in projects including
roads, dams, sugar factories and railways by mid-2015.
Privatization is necessary because Ethiopia doesn’t have the
savings to finance the “needed, justified and on the whole
appropriate” public spending, Access said. The sale of assets
would also boost foreign investment in sub-Saharan Africa’s
fourth-biggest economy, it said.  The government has no plans to sell its biggest state-owned
companies, Communications Minister Bereket Simon said in a phone
interview today from  Addis Ababa .  ‘Arms of Government’  “These are development arms of the government that
definitely need to contribute to national development
programs,” he said. “That is why the government wants to
retain control.”  Privatization would also reduce inflationary pressures and
“potentially dangerous external debt” that might result from
the government’s need to borrow 422 billion birr, or 14 percent
of annual gross domestic product, to finance investments, Access
said. Ethiopia sold three state-owned breweries to international
firms for $388 million last year.  Ethiopia’s annual inflation rate of 38.1 percent in June
was the second-highest in the world last year, Access said.
Prices surged partly as a result of a 10 billion-birr increase
in central bank lending to the government, while external debt
has also tripled in the past five years, it said.  Ethiopia will continue to see “rapid” economic expansion
in “coming years” because of the benefits of public
investment; transformations in small-holder and commercial
agriculture; a “consumer goods revolution”; and the growth of
exports including minerals and electricity, said Access.  The economy grew 7 percent to 8 percent annually in the
five years to July 2010, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . Growth may slow to 5.5 percent this year, from 7.5 percent
last year, before accelerating again to 6.5 percent in 2016,
according to the IMF’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 