-- EU Steps Up Pressure on Hungary as Cabinet Seeks Aid Talks
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2012-01-11T15:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/eu-steps-up-pressure-on-hungary-as-goverment-seeks-bailout-negotiations.html
The European Union escalated its
standoff with  Hungary , keeping bailout talks on hold and
threatening to cut subsidies as punishment for flouting the
bloc’s rules on central-bank independence and deficit overruns.  The European Commission may take Hungary to court for
possibly violating EU laws on the independence of the central
bank, the judiciary and the data protection authority, the EU’s
executive said today in separate statements. The commission will
decide on Jan. 17 whether to start legal proceedings.  Hungary is trying to revive bailout talks with the EU and
the  International Monetary Fund  after the organizations
suspended them last month on concern a new central bank
regulation violates monetary policy independence.  Fitch Ratings 
on Jan. 6 followed Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s  in downgrading Hungary’s sovereign-credit grade to junk.  “The commission remains preoccupied that a number of the
new provisions may violate EU law,” the commission  said .
“Without prejudging the final outcome of this analysis, the
commission is committed to fully use all its powers to analyze
the compatibility of national law with EU law and reserves the
right to take any steps that it deems appropriate, namely the
possibility of launching infringement procedures.”  The forint weakened 0.1 percent against the euro to 310.97
at 3:06 p.m. in Budapest. The forint has lost 14 percent against
the euro in the past six months, the worst performance among
more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Hungary respects its obligations for cooperation and awaits
the commission’s findings on the disputed bills, “trusting they
will be thorough and unbiased,” the government spokesman’s
office said in a statement today. The Cabinet is open to
consultations, according to the statement.  Fund Suspension Threat  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
told reporters today that he will meet next week with Tamas Fellegi, Hungary’s chief negotiator for financial aid. Fellegi
is in  Washington  this week to meet IMF officials on the nation’s
request for a bailout.  Hungary may face the suspension of so-called cohesion funds
from next year if it fails to correct its budget policies, Rehn
said.  Hungary’s budget sustainability underwent a “severe
deterioration” last year, which was masked by one-time
measures, the commission said today. Hungary has failed to take
“effective action” to rein in the  budget deficit  in a
“sustainable nature.”  “Although in 2011, Hungary formally respected the 3
percent of GDP reference value, this is only thanks to one-off
measures worth some 10 percent of GDP,” the Brussels-based
commission said. “This budgetary outcome masks, however, a
severe deterioration in the underlying structural balance.”  Orban’s Measures  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  effectively nationalized $12
billion of private pension funds and levied extraordinary taxes
on energy, financial, retail and telecommunication companies to
plug budget holes from tax cuts that failed to boost economic
growth. Gross domestic product may expand 0.5 percent this year,
the slowest in the eastern EU, the commission said on a Nov. 10.  The shortfall without one-time measures reached 252 percent
of the government’s initial year-end target, the Economy
Ministry said on Jan. 9. The government can meet its 2.94
percent of GDP goal for 2011 because of pension-fund revenue,
the ministry said.  The commission said Hungary “has not made sufficient
progress” in tackling its budget shortfall and recommended
moving to the “next stage” of the EU’s excessive-deficit
procedure. If EU finance ministers endorse the report, the
commission will issue new recommendations for the government to
cut its budget.  Hungary is ready to discuss measures proposed by the EU and
will reduce its deficit to below 3 percent of GDP in 2012 and
2013, the  Economy Ministry  said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  