-- EU to Open Tender for Temporary CO2 Platform This or Next Month
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-11T11:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/eu-to-open-tender-for-temporary-co2-platform-this-or-next-month.html
The European Union plans this or
next month to open a tender for a transitional platform to carry
out sales of carbon allowances for airlines and early auctions
of post-2012 permits for manufacturers and power plants.  The timing of the tender will keep the 27-nation bloc on
track to start early auctions of allowances for the next phase
of the EU emissions trading system in the second half of this
year, the European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, said
in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions.  “The commission seeks to get approval of the tender
documents by the  member states  and launch the tender for the
transitional common auction platform in January or February,”
it said. “As a next step, the commission aims at launching the
tender for the single auction monitor soon after the launch of
the tender for the transitional common auction platform.”  The EU emissions trading system, known as the ETS, is
moving toward selling a greater proportion of allowances in the
next eight-year trading period starting in 2013 after giving
most permits to companies for free since 2005. The world’s
biggest cap-and-trade program expanded this year to include the
aviation industry, which is due to buy a part of its allocation
at auctions.  While 24 of the EU’s 27 nations agreed to have a common
auctioning platform,  Germany ,  Poland  and the U.K. opted to
develop national systems. The temporary common platform will
remain in place until a definitive one becomes operational.  Auction Calendar  The contractor will be required to submit to the commission
within two weeks from the entry into force of the agreement a
draft auction calendar for 2012 and 2013 and will have to start
conducting auctions within one month, according to draft tender
specifications published on the EU  website .  As a default, the chosen platform should carry out two
auctions of general allowances per week and one auction of
aviation permits per month, the document shows. For auctions in
2012, the commission may require more frequent sales, according
to the draft.  The EU decided last year to auction 120 million tons of
post-2012 permits for manufacturers and power plants in the
second half of next year to limit price shocks as the bloc
phases out free allowances. In 2013, the EU will auction about
60 percent of all CO2 permits and that proportion will increase
in coming years.  Airlines will get 85 percent of their allocation for free
and will have to buy 15 percent at auctions in the first year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  