-- EU Weighs Rules to Spur Competition in Payments Industry
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-01-11T12:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/european-union-may-draft-rules-for-payments-industry-by-2013.html
European Union regulators may draft
new rules for the payments industry by next year to tackle
possible obstacles to competition.  The European Commission is seeking views on potential
problems in the market for payments made via cards, the Internet
and mobile phones, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Inefficient payments systems within the European Union
unduly raise transaction costs, undermine the global
competitiveness of the European economy and limit its potential
for growth,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said
in the statement.  The EU is seeking to boost payments by mobile phones and
the Internet as other regions take the lead in services,
attracting investments from companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Visa Inc. (V)  The Brussels-based commission is
already investigating whether a group of banks shut out a rival
payment provider from talks to create standards for online
payments. This follows earlier probes into Visa  Europe  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  into the fees they charge on card payments made
outside a user’s home country.  Regulators said they will decide by the middle of this year
whether new rules are necessary and, if so, may follow up by
publishing draft rules in late 2012 or early 2013.  ‘Too Slow’  EU antitrust action to crack down on card fees is “proving
too slow in the short term” and may “leave too much scope for
workarounds in the long term,” EuroCommerce, an association
representing the region’s retailers, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “A payment is a service for which a fair, competition-
based fee should be charged, not a profit mechanism for the
banking sector,” EuroCommerce said.  The commission is considering allowing retailers across the
EU to impose surcharges on consumers who use payment cards with
relatively high fees,  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services chief, told reporters. Such surcharging is currently
banned in some countries.  Any surcharges would have to be strictly limited to
covering the cost of card fees, the commission said.  The commission’s position was opposed by  Visa Europe , which
said in a statement that the EU should seek “an end to
surcharging.”  The commission, the EU’s executive arm, is responsible for
proposing legislation that covers the 27-nation region. It’s
also the region’s competition authority.  “The payments sector needs to have a sustainable business
model to fund innovations that will keep Europe ahead of the
rest of the world,” MasterCard said in a statement.  Regulators separately pledged to boost the sale of goods
and services on the Internet in the bloc by examining possible
problems with online payments and parcel deliveries as well as
bolstering consumer protection for online purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 