-- Euro Weakens for First Time in 3 Days on Debt-Crisis Concern; Pound Drops
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-11T14:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/euro-erases-its-decline-against-the-yen-pares-a-drop-versus-the-dollar.html
The euro weakened for the first time
in three days against the dollar and the yen as  Fitch Ratings 
added to concern the region’s debt crisis will spread.  The euro slid versus 14 of its 16 most-traded counterparts
after Fitch’s head of sovereign ratings,  David Riley , said the
 European Central Bank  should boost bond purchases to avert a
collapse of the shared currency. The bank meets tomorrow. German
data showed the region’s largest economy may be on the brink of
recession.  “Risk is coming off a bit and is weighing on the euro,”
said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist at Gain Capital
Group LLC in New York. “Headlines from speakers and news from
the ratings agencies are moving the market, but we’re looking on
to tomorrow for the big event with the ECB.”  The euro dropped 0.5 percent to $1.2713 at 9:12 a.m. in  New
York  after gaining 0.5 percent during the past two days. The 17-
nation currency declined 0.4 percent to 97.83 yen. The dollar
gained 0.1 percent to 76.95 yen.  Sterling was the worst performer against the dollar after
data showed the U.K. trade deficit increased more than forecast
and retail-store inflation slowed to the least in 16 months,
fueling bets the Bank of England will need to add stimulus to
aid the economy.  The pound dropped 0.7 percent to $1.5383 and depreciated
0.5 percent to 118.38 yen. It fell 0.1 percent to 82.63 pence
per euro.  ‘Cataclysmic’ Collapse  Italy faces a “significant chance” of a rating downgrade,
Fitch said yesterday. The company is reviewing nations including
Italy and  Spain  and will make a decision by the end of the
month. Fitch’s action followed reviews announced by  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service on euro-area nations.  “Fitch is suggesting a cataclysmic collapse of the euro
unless the ECB ramps up bond buying,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. The comments are “weighing on the euro,” he said.  The ECB will keep its key  interest rate  at 1 percent at a
policy meeting tomorrow, according to the median estimate of 53
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That would follow
quarter-point rate reductions at each of the bank’s two meetings
since  Mario Draghi  succeeded  Jean-Claude Trichet  as president in
November. Six economists predict the central bank will lower
rates to a record-low 0.75 percent.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, gained 0.4 percent to 81.235 after rising to
81.503 on Jan. 9, the highest level since September 2010.  Taiwan’s Dollar  Taiwan’s dollar was the best performer against the U.S.
currency on speculation President Ma Ying-jeou will be re-
elected this weekend.  The currency rose to its strongest level in more than two
months, gaining as much as 0.5 percent to NT$29.896 to the
greenback before trading at NT$29.960. Overseas investors bought
$318 million more local equities than they sold yesterday, the
biggest net inflows since Dec. 1, according to exchange data.  The euro briefly pared its losses after German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel , after meeting today with Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti , said her nation may put more money into the
permanent European bailout fund. Contributing more upfront
capital to the fund would offer an “important message” to
markets that European leaders are ready to resolve the crisis,
she told reporters in Berlin.  ‘More Capital’  “Germany is prepared -- if other partners are as well --
possibly to contribute more capital at the beginning of the
launch” of the fund, Merkel said.  The euro has dropped 2 percent against the dollar this year
amid concern policy makers will struggle to contain the region’s
sovereign debt woes.  The German economy shrank “roughly” 0.25 percent in the
fourth quarter from the third, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today, adding it may revise its assessment by the
time official data are published on Feb. 15.  Industrial  production  in the euro region is forecast to
have shrunk for a third month in November, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before a report tomorrow by the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg.  “We see Europe deteriorating this year with the economy
moving formally into recession,” said  Imre Speizer , a
strategist in Auckland at Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s
second-largest lender. “Over the next three months, the euro
may drop to at least $1.20.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in  London  at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  