-- Euro Falls to Lowest in 16 Months Before ECB Meeting; N.Z. Dollar Advances
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-11T22:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/euro-approaches-16-month-low-on-speculation-france-s-aaa-rating-may-be-cut.html
The euro weakened to a 16-month low
versus the dollar as investors speculated the  European Central
Bank  won’t announce any new measures at a policy meeting
tomorrow to stem the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency fell for the first time in three
days versus the yen and dollar amid bets France’s top credit
rating may be cut, even after French Finance Minister  Francois
Baroin  denied having been notified of such a move by a ratings
firm. New Zealand’s dollar extended a gain versus the greenback
as the  Federal Reserve  said U.S. economic expansion improved.  “The market will probably be disappointed tomorrow in
terms of what the ECB will do with buying bonds or lowering the
 interest rates , and that may weigh on the euro,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in
New York. “You’re getting stark adjustments to expectations for
European growth versus U.S. growth.”  The euro declined 0.6 percent to $1.2707 at 5 p.m. in New
York. It touched $1.2662, the weakest level since Sept. 10,
2010. The 17-nation currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 97.67
yen, approaching an 11-year low of 97.28 yen reached Jan. 9. The
dollar was unchanged at 76.85 yen.  New Zealand ’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, erased losses
and touched a two-month high as American stocks reversed a
decline. The Fed said in its Beige Book survey the  U.S. economy 
“expanded at a modest to moderate pace” from late November
through year-end while hiring was limited and housing remained
stagnant. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  was down 0.1 percent
after falling 0.5 percent earlier.  Kiwi’s Advance  The kiwi gained 0.3 percent 79.70 U.S. cents after
weakening 0.2 percent earlier. It touched 79.75 cents, the
strongest since Nov. 9.  Sterling was the worst performer against the dollar among
major currencies after data showed the U.K. trade deficit
increased more than forecast. British retail-store inflation
also slowed to the least in 16 months, fueling bets the  Bank of
England  will need to add stimulus to aid the economy.  The pound dropped 1 percent to $1.5329 and fell 0.5 percent
to 82.90 pence per euro.  The euro weakened earlier after  Fitch Ratings  said the ECB
should boost its bond purchases to avert a collapse of the
shared currency.  Ratings Reviews  Standard & Poor’s  put the ratings of 15 euro nations,
including AAA rated Germany and  France , on review on Dec. 5 for
possible downgrades, saying it may cut the French grade by as
many as two steps. Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 12 it
will review European Union countries’ ratings after a Dec. 9
summit failed to produce “decisive policy measures” to end the
debt crisis.  “Rumors of potential French downgrades underscores the
problems existing in  Europe ,” said John McCarthy, managing
director of currency trading at ING Groep NV in New York. “The
whole tenor of the problem has not changed one iota and in some
respect is getting worse because downgrade is a reflection of
worsening conditions, not improving. So in the back of one’s
mind it gives more credence to a lower euro.”  The ECB will keep its key  interest rate  at 1 percent at a
policy meeting tomorrow, according to the median estimate of 53
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That would follow
quarter-percentage-point cuts at each of the bank’s two meetings
since  Mario Draghi  succeeded Jean-Claude Trichet as president.  German Economy  The German economy shrank “roughly” 0.25 percent in the
fourth quarter from the third, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Industrial  production  in the euro region
is forecast to have shrunk for a third month in November,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before a report tomorrow.  “The European data builds the case that Draghi can be a
little more dovish tomorrow,” said  Kathy Lien , director of
currency research at the online currency trader GFT Forex in New
York. “I’m a big proponent of euro weakness, and I think it’s
headed below $1.25. I think today’s move only cements the fact
there’s a good fundamental reason why the euro is falling.”  The euro lost 4.9 percent over the past three months in the
worst performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar
gained 3.8 percent and the yen added 2.7 percent.  The U.S. currency rose today against most major peers as
investors sought the safety of Treasuries, pushing yields on 10-
year notes to a one-week low of 1.90 percent.  Dollar Index (DXY)   The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, gained as much as 0.7 percent to 81.493,
approaching Jan. 9’s 81.503, the highest since September 2010.  Brazil ’s real fell for the first time in three days versus
the dollar after a report showing prices declined unexpectedly
in January bolstered bets the central bank will speed the pace
of borrowing-cost cuts. Policy makers have lowered the benchmark
rate 1.5 percentage points since August to 11 percent to shore
up the economy.  The real sank as much as 0.7 percent to 1.8120 to the
greenback before trading at 1.8025, down 0.2 percent. It reached
a one-month high of 1.7949 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  