-- If Europe Can Learn From U.S., Why Not Vice Versa?: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-01-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/europe-learns-from-u-s-so-why-not-vice-versa-commentary-by-clive-crook.html
Mitt Romney  likes to contrast the
U.S. economic system with  Europe ’s welfare state. You can have a
merit society, he says, or an entitlement society, but not both
-- and an entitlement society is where the U.S. is heading if
 Barack Obama  and the Democrats get their way.  It’s a favorite Republican theme, and you can see why.
For one thing, there’s some truth to it. Contrasting the
American model of capitalism with the European alternative isn’t
absurd. The gap is narrower than it used to be, but they’re
still different.  Also, Obama and the Democrats do want to move the U.S. in a
European direction. Best of all, from the Republican point of
view, they are generally embarrassed to admit it. American
voters still see their country as a model for the rest of the
world, not the other way round. Nobody will ever be elected
president of the U.S. on a pledge to make the country more like
 France .  Democrats therefore find themselves having to deny the
obvious. Obama wants to make the country more like Europe?
Ridiculous. A straw man.  But it isn’t ridiculous. What’s ridiculous is the idea that
Republicans take for granted and squirming Democrats tacitly
endorse -- that making the U.S. more like Europe would be a
disaster.  Europe’s Many Models  The biggest step the U.S. needed to take in Europe’s
direction, and the longest overdue, was health-care reform. The
Affordable Care Act is a start. When Romney championed his very
similar health-care reform in  Massachusetts , he was arguing for
the invention of a new entitlement (universal access) and trying
to make his state more like France. Good for him.  Europe has other things to teach the U.S. -- and the U.S.
has plenty to teach Europe. Looking abroad for guidance is no
cause for shame.  Obviously, political cultures differ in deep ways, so there
will never be One True Capitalism, right for everybody. The idea
of a single European model is itself a simplification -- a
permissible one, but a simplification nonetheless. European
countries guarantee access to basic  health services , for
instance, but they do so in very different ways. Their tax
systems vary, too. They each have their own approach, within
limits, to education, industrial policy, employment protection,
social safety nets and so on.  Still, Europe’s biggest economies all reflect a social-
democratic tradition that puts more emphasis on collective
provision and the guiding hand of government than seems natural
in the U.S. The American political tradition stresses the rights
and responsibilities of individuals; it exalts private
enterprise and almost celebrates risk. These are choices that
countries should be free to make.  While thinking them over, the U.S. has plenty to learn from
Europe, and vice versa. In the past 30 years, most of the
learning has been on Europe’s side, until the Great Recession
called some of it into question. The European Union’s single-
market project aimed to create an economy that would rival the
U.S. in vitality and innovation: hence the emphasis on un-
European ideas such as deregulation, cross-border competition,
lower taxes, lower  government spending  and curbs on state
subsidies for failing industries.  Europe’s politicians looked at the U.S. and decided they
needed, among other things, more American incentives and more
American creative destruction. That was how to achieve faster
growth and higher  living standards . They said so explicitly:
Unlike their U.S. counterparts, they weren’t embarrassed to
point to the other model. And notwithstanding some of the
exaggerations about the success of the American model, European
countries have been right to move a good way in the U.S.
direction. How strange, therefore, to see Romney’s fellow
Republicans attack him for his time in the private-equity
business, that quintessentially American force for creative
destruction.  Workers Not Jobs  On the other hand, Europe can teach the U.S. a thing or two
about social insurance -- and not just in health care, the most
egregious failure of the American economic model. Help for the
unemployed has traditionally been ungenerous in the U.S. In the
past it didn’t matter because the country’s flexible labor
market sped people back into jobs. Now, a severe recession and a
slow recovery have caused long-term  unemployment  to surge, and
negative housing equity has made moving to find work harder.
Income support and help for retraining and relocation need to be
rethought. Don’t be embarrassed. Look to Europe to see what
might work.  Republicans might also ask whether America is living up to
the merit-society ideal. Success in the U.S. is richly rewarded
and a meritocracy doesn’t concern itself too much with equality
of outcomes. Fine, but a merit society ought to provide ladders
out of poverty -- starting with good schools -- for those
willing to make the effort. The American social contract says,
work hard and do well. In one way, the country is failing to
keep its promise. In America, land of opportunity, if you are
born poor, your  chances  of staying poor are higher than in
Europe.  The trade-off between economic vitality and economic
security cannot be eliminated. But its terms can be improved in
the U.S. and Europe, if each pays closer attention to the other.
My watchword in this is a maxim of the late Rudiger Dornbusch, a
professor at MIT and one of the most brilliant economists of his
generation. “Protect the worker, not the job.”  In the past, Europe tried too hard to protect jobs; the
U.S. hasn’t tried hard enough to protect workers. Something for
Republicans and Democrats to think about.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the author of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 