-- Euro Falls Versus Dollar Before Europe Debt Sales, Industrial Output Data
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2012-01-11T06:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/euro-falls-versus-dollar-before-europe-debt-sales-industrial-output-data.html
The euro dropped versus the dollar
before a report that may signal  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
is hurting the region’s prospects for economic growth.  The 17-nation currency slid against most of its major peers
before Spain and Italy sell securities this week amid concern
the nations will struggle to meet funding needs. Gains in the
dollar were limited before a report tomorrow forecast to show
inflation is slowing in China, spurring speculation the Asian
nation’s central bank will have more scope to support growth in
the world’s second-biggest economy. Thailand’s baht fell as
investors reduced holdings of the nation’s stocks.  “We see Europe deteriorating this year with the economy
moving formally into recession,” said  Imre Speizer , a
strategist in Auckland at Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s
second-largest lender. “Over the next three months, the euro
may drop to at least $1.20.”  The euro lost 0.2 percent to $1.2755 as of 6:55 a.m. in
 London  from yesterday in  New York . It fell 0.1 percent to 98.12
yen. The dollar was at 76.92 yen from 76.85.  Industrial  production  in the euro region is forecast to
have shrunk for a third month in November, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg releases the data tomorrow. The
median estimate is for a 0.3 percent contraction.  The  European Central Bank  will keep its key  interest rate 
at 1 percent at a policy meeting tomorrow, the median estimate
in a separate Bloomberg poll showed. That would follow quarter-
point rate reductions at each of the bank’s last two meetings.  ‘Warning Signal’  Spain  will auction as much as 5 billion euros ($6.4
billion) of bonds due 2015 and 2016 tomorrow, while Italy is
scheduled to sell 12 billion euros of bills. Germany will
auction 4 billion euros of five-year notes today.  “Even a small sign that says the German bond auctions
aren’t going so well is a warning signal for Europe, suggesting
that even the best of the European economies is being affected
by the deterioration in  credit quality ,” said Westpac’s Speizer.
“We’re watching all of them.”  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday Italy faces a “significant
chance” of a downgrade. The company is reviewing nations
including Italy and Spain and will make a decision by the end of
the month. Fitch’s action followed reviews announced by  Standard
& Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service on euro-area nations.  Greek Debt Restructuring  The euro also weakened after Reuters  reported   hedge funds 
may resist a 100 billion-euro plan to restructure Greece’s debt.
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  expects to have an outline
for the plan next week, when talks on the terms for a second
financing deal with European Union and International Monetary
Fund officials start in Athens.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  discussed Greece and efforts to resolve the
euro-area debt crisis during talks in Berlin yesterday. They
“renewed their commitment to the goal of strengthening growth
and employment in Europe in a sustainable way,” Steffen Seibert,
Merkel’s chief spokesman, said in a text message.  The dollar declined against 15 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts yesterday on speculation  China ’s central bank may
take steps to spur growth.  China’s Inflation  Consumer prices  in China may have risen 4 percent in
December from a year earlier, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a report from the
statistics bureau tomorrow. The figure was 4.2 percent the
previous month.  The People’s Bank of China announced in November that it
would cut the reserve requirement ratio for the nation’s banks
by 50 basis points, the first reduction since 2008.  Demand for the dollar was also limited before a report that
may signal economic recovery in the U.S. is gaining momentum.  Retail sales  in the U.S. probably advanced 0.3 percent last
month after gaining 0.2 percent in November, the median forecast
in a separate Bloomberg survey showed. The Commerce Department
will release the figures tomorrow.  “The good economic and corporate data from the U.S. is
painting a more positive commodities picture for the year,”
said Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency sales in Sydney
at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage. That “is
helping currencies like the Australian and  New Zealand dollar 
against the  U.S. dollar .”  Best Performers  The Australian dollar has advanced 1.2 percent this month,
while its New Zealand counterpart gained 2.8 percent, the two
best performers among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Australia ’s currency slid 0.1 percent to $1.0301 and was
little changed at 79.24 yen. New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.1
percent to 79.52 U.S. cents.  Thailand’s baht approached its weakest level in 16 months
against the dollar after exchange data showed international
investors sold $57 million more local shares than they bought
yesterday, their biggest net sales since Dec. 15.  The baht dropped 0.3 percent to 31.75 per dollar, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 31.83 on Jan.
9, the weakest level since August 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at   greynolds1@bloomberg.net  