-- Euro Trades 0.4% From 16-Month Low Before Debt Sales, ECB Policy Meeting
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-01-12T08:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/euro-is-near-16-month-low-before-ecb-meeting-european-manufacturing-data.html
The euro was 0.4 percent from a 16-
month low against the dollar before  Spain  and  Italy  sell debt
today, amid concern the nations will struggle to meet funding
needs after increases in borrowing costs.  The 17-nation currency was little changed against its U.S.
counterpart amid concern  European Central Bank  policy makers
won’t take steps to support growth at their meeting today. A
report may show European output shrank for a third month in
November, according to economist estimates. The yuan fell for a
seventh day, the longest losing streak since 2006, on bets U.S.
pressure on China to strengthen its currency is lessening.  “The Europe contagion story will linger around for quite a
bit longer,” said  Matthew Brady , executive director for foreign
exchange at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “There’s the ECB,
as well as the Spanish and Italian auctions today, so it should
be interesting to see whether there’s demand. If they don’t go
off well, I think certainly the euro will be under pressure.”  The euro was little changed at $1.2715 at 8:22 a.m. London
time, after sliding to as low as $1.2662 yesterday, the weakest
level since September 2010. It fetched 97.85 yen from 97.67 in
 New York  yesterday. The euro dropped to 97.28 yen on Jan. 9, the
least since December 2000. The dollar was little changed at
76.95 yen.  Spain will auction as much as 5 billion euros ($6.4
billion) of bonds due 2015 and 2016 today, while Italy is
scheduled to sell 12 billion euros of bills.  Shrinking Industrial Production  The ECB will probably keep its key  interest rate  at 1
percent at a policy meeting today, the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News showed. The bank cut its
benchmark rate by a quarter of a percentage point at each of its
last two meetings.  Industrial  production  in the euro region is forecast to
have shrunk in November, according to a separate poll before the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg releases the
data today. The median forecast is for a 0.3 percent
contraction.  “ Europe  is going into a recession and the U.S. is
definitely not,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian currency
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. “Even without
the crisis, we still have euro-dollar going lower.”  The euro will fall to $1.20 by March 31, he predicted.  ‘Take Back Control’  Corporate ratings downgrades in Europe, the  Middle East  and
 Africa  will “substantially” exceed upgrades this year as the
euro-area crisis hampers economic growth, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. “The current trend for corporate rating
actions is strongly negative,” analysts wrote in a report
published today.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy said yesterday “markets
and rating agencies exasperate” French voters and that the
country needs to “take back control” of its destiny by cutting
the  budget deficit .  The euro has depreciated 3.3 percent in the past month, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The New
Zealand and Australian dollars, the two best performers, gained
5.5 percent and 3.3 percent respectively.  New Zealand’s currency touched a two-month high versus the
dollar today on prospects slowing inflation in  China  may provide
policy makers in the Asian nation with scope to spur growth,
boosting investor appetite for higher-yielding assets.  Consumer prices in China rose 4.1 percent in December from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on its
website today. The figure was 4.2 percent the previous month.  Making a Difference  “The fact that they’re looking at more stimulatory polices
in China now, and people think that’s turned the corner, is
making a big difference,” said  Tony Allen , global head of
foreign-exchange trading in Sydney at  Australia  & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. “The commodity indexes are starting to move
up as well,” supporting currencies such as the Australian and
 New Zealand  dollars.  The so-called Aussie traded at $1.0303 from $1.0310
yesterday. New Zealand’s dollar fetched 79.50 U.S. cents from
79.70 after touching 79.81 cents, the most since Nov. 9.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB (CRY)  index of raw materials
has gained 2.7 percent this month.  The People’s Bank of China announced in November that it
would cut the reserve requirement ratio for the nation’s banks
by 50 basis points, the first reduction since 2008. China is
Australia’s top trading partner and New Zealand’s second-largest
export destination.  The central bank set its yuan fixing 0.12 percent weaker at
6.323 per dollar today. U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said the U.S. and China had a “strong cooperative
relationship” on economic growth and financial stability after
holding talks with Premier Wen Jiabao in Beijing yesterday.  The yuan weakened 0.08 percent to 6.3207 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It’s
allowed to trade 0.5 percent on either side of the daily fixing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  