-- Teva Seeking Acquisitions in Asia to Bolster Sales Growth, CFO Desheh Says
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2012-01-11T23:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/teva-seeking-deals-in-asia-to-bolster-sales-growth-cfo-says.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s biggest generic-drug maker, is seeking acquisitions
in  Asia  to bolster sales in the region and to expand its product
lines, two company executives said.  “A lot of the future growth of the generic industries is
going to happen in Asia,” said Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh in an interview at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference
in  San Francisco . “The population is very large.”  Last year, the Petach Tikva-based company purchased a 57
percent stake in Japan-based Taiyo Pharmaceutical Industry Co.
for $460 million in cash. Similar purchases may follow, he said.  “The key is very local businesses,” he said, listing
countries such as  China ,  India ,  Philippines , Vietnam and
Korea. “We’ll have to go one by one, a lot of footwork, country
by country. None of these will be huge acquisitions and this
push may take a few years.”  Other than Asia,  Brazil  is a potential “major market”
that Teva needs “to get into” for deal, Desheh said. “We will
find a way to do it.”  The Israeli company last week named Jeremy Levin, a former
executive at Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. who helped develop
research alliances for the New York-based drugmaker, as its new
chief executive officer. While generic medicines remain the key
focus at Teva, it’s likely the company will generate more deals
involving companies with experimental medicines once the new CEO
comes on board in May, said Bill Marth, president of the
company’s America’s Unit.  Branded Business  “I think there will be a focus on our branded business to
create value for Teva over the mid-term to long-term,” he said.  Until Levin’s arrival, Teva will continue to pursue
business development activities, Marth said.  “I don’t want people to think that between now and May it
will shut down,” he said. “We are pursuing some interesting
things right now on a product level.”  With Teva’s $6.2 billion acquisition of Cephalon Inc. last
October being integrated, Marth said there may be a few “pieces
to spin out, some of the small, large molecule discovery,” and
some individual products might be sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  