-- Evans Says ‘Only Modest’ Pickup in Economy Warrants Federal Reserve Action
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-11T15:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/evans-says-only-modest-pickup-in-economy-warrants-federal-reserve-action.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said signs of improvement in the economy
are modest and the central bank should push forward with
“substantial” monetary stimulus.  “The somewhat firmer tone of recent economic data suggest
some welcome traction, but the data are not strong enough, or
uniform enough, to assert that momentum for growth is
building,” Evans said today in a speech in Lake Forest,
Illinois. “The data shows only modest improvement in growth to
rates that are near or just somewhat above the economy’s longer-
run potential.”  Fed policy makers are divided on whether more steps will be
needed to bolster an expanding U.S. economy. The  unemployment
rate  fell to 8.5 percent in December, the lowest in nearly three
years, according to the Labor Department. Employers last year
added 1.64 million workers, the best year for the American
worker since 2006. Even with the gains, little headway has been
made in recovering the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the
recession that ended in June 2009.  With  unemployment  so high there will probably be downward
pressure on prices, pushing inflation below the Fed’s goals,
Evans said in his speech to the Rotary Club of  Lake Forest  and
Lake Bluff, Illinois.  “The traditional course of action when inflation is below
target and real output is expected to be below potential is to
run an accommodative monetary policy,” Evans said. “I support
such accommodation today. And I believe the degree of
accommodation should be substantial.”  ‘Lower End’  During 2013 and 2014 inflation will probably run “at the
lower end” of 1.5 percent to 2 percent, Evans said. The Chicago
Fed chief’s forecast for prices is similar to that of San
Francisco President  John Williams , who said yesterday he sees a
“strong” case for new Fed purchases of mortgage bonds as
inflation may fall below 1.5 percent this year.  “We might have to do more,” Evans said today in response
to audience questions, referring to whether the Fed should
increase accommodation. “We should do more,” Evans said,
“even at a cost of slightly higher inflation than most central
bankers would like.”  Action is warranted as the central bank continues to miss
its mandate from Congress to foster maximum employment, Evans
said.  “As I look at how you value our mandate we’re doing
woefully poorly on the employment side and we’re not really
doing that great on inflation but it’s certainly low,” he said.
Any new central bank plan to buy bonds, if needed, could start
with a commitment of $600 billion in purchases and be increased
over time if necessary, he said to reporters after his speech.  Concern Deepened  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3 percent to
1,287.73 at 9:57 a.m. in  New York , retreating from the highest
level since July 29, as concern deepened that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will stifle economic growth and Microsoft Corp. damped
expectations for computer sales. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury fell 4 basis points to 1.93 percent. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Fed presidents rotate voting on the policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee . Evans does not vote in 2012 yet returns
to voting in 2013. He dissented from the FOMC’s November and
December meetings, preferring additional policy accommodation.  The Fed said last week that it would unveil policy makers
own expectations for the path of  interest rates  at the central
bank’s Jan. 24-25 meeting. Evans said he supported this step.  ‘First-order Improvement’  “This is a substantial, first-order improvement in policy
communications, and this greater clarity may have significant
additional value for improving how the economy operates,” Evans
said. “I have strongly supported the publication of our policy
projections, and I strongly support the adoption of a more
explicit consensus framework statement.”  The 53-year-old regional bank chief said this framework
statement could use his proposal, first suggested last year, to
keep the fed funds rate near zero until either unemployment
falls below 7 percent or the medium-term inflation outlook rises
above 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Timothy R. Homan in Lake Forest,  Illinois  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  