-- Evergreen Eyes Close as Ex-Goldman Traders Top Hedge Funds
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-01-11T05:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/evergreen-eyes-close-as-ex-goldman-traders-top-hedge-funds-1-.html
Evergreen Capital Partners Ltd.’s
Australian hedge fund, which gained 58 percent in its first 18
months by buying resource stocks and short-selling retailers,
will close to outside investors in six to 12 months to remain
focused on its investments, co-founder Tim Hannon said.  Evergreen’s long-short equities fund will stop accepting
new money when it reaches A$200 million ($206 million) from its
current A$100 million, Hannon, a former Goldman Sachs JBWere
Ltd. asset manager, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “We don’t want to manage a lot more money; our size is one
of our chief competitive advantages,” Hannon, 39, said. “I’m
not doing any more marketing.”  Melbourne-based Evergreen was the best performer among 157
Australian  hedge funds  over the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. While most of the industry’s funds
stagnated or shrank amid 2011’s market turmoil, Hannon made
money by betting against Australian retailers such as  Harvey
Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN)  and  David Jones Ltd. (DJS)   Evergreen, which aims to deliver a return after fees of 15
percent per year, advanced in all but two of its first 18 months
through to the end of November, company reports show. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index fell 13.2 percent in the first 11
months of last year, while the fund added 19.2 percent.  “These guys have put Australia on the map,” said Damien Hatfield, director at Triple A Partners  Australia , a Sydney-
based hedge-fund adviser. The global “hedge-fund industry is
down about 5 percent for 2011 and a strong positive returner
like Evergreen is attracting attention. As they gather assets
under management they have to pump out consistent returns to
maintain that boost.”  Tough Climate  The fund -- founded by Hannon and Chief Operating Officer
Jo Rylance -- began trading in May 2010 as the first round of
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis roiled global stock, currency and
bond markets. Hannon and his team of five, which includes former
Goldman Sachs JBWere analyst David Tay and ex-Goldman Sachs
Asset Management Executive Director  Andrew Smith , use short
sales that involve selling borrowed shares and buying them back
later to make money from stocks they expect to fall.  The fund remains “extremely bearish” on so-called
“retail landlords,” including  David Jones , Australia’s second-
largest department store chain, and its larger rival  Myer
Holdings Ltd. (MYR) , he said.  The 26-member Australian  S&P/ASX 200 Consumer Discretionary
Index  tumbled 20 percent in the past year as Europe’s debt
crisis and the developed world’s highest central bank borrowing
costs prompted consumers to slash spending and increase savings
close to the highest pace in a quarter century.  Resource Bets  “We think there’s a structural change which needs to
occur” among retailers, which “have been in a protected
industry for decades,” he said.  Evergreen, whose investors include wealthy families, has
increased bets on potential gains by resource companies
including  Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT) ,  Drillsearch Energy Ltd. (DLS)  and  Senex
Energy Ltd (SXY) ., he said. The trio search for shale gas in
Australia’s  Cooper Basin , an outback region straddling the
Queensland state and South Australia state border.  If larger energy companies such as  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  find
themselves short of gas for their LNG plans “you might see some
acquisition activity in that area,” Hannon said.  Beach Energy rose 1.5 percent in Sydney trading today.
Senex advanced 2 percent to the highest since March 2000, while
Drillsearch slipped 3.8 percent.  Evergreen says it hasn’t been hurt by being domiciled far
from traditional hedge fund centers such as  London  and  New York .  “We hear this a lot but that’s certainly not our
experience,” said Hannon. “You really can manage as much
capital as you want. We’re getting inundated with calls from
funds-of-funds and family offices,” including from Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  