-- Ex-Sullivan & Cromwell Lawyer Gets 28 Months for Tax Crime
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-01-11T23:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/ex-sullivan-cromwell-lawyer-gets-28-months-for-tax-crime-2-.html
John J. O’Brien, a former partner
with the  New York  law firm  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP  specializing
in mergers and acquisitions, was sentenced to 28 months in
prison for failing to pay his income tax.  O’Brien, who earned about $10.8 million from 2001 to 2008,
didn’t pay federal taxes or file tax returns for those years,
according to the government. He used his unreported income to
fund a rare-book business and for travel and a weekend home,
according to prosecutors.  Calling it “a very odd case and a very troubling case,”
U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman today rejected O’Brien’s
request to avoid prison in a hearing in Manhattan federal court.
As part of a plea agreement, O’Brien must pay $2.9 million in
back taxes plus interest.  O’Brien, 48, is a graduate of  Princeton University  and  New
York University School of Law . He earned a masters degree in
politics from the  London School  of Economics. He told Pitman
today that he began neglecting his tax filings when he became a
partner with  Sullivan & Cromwell  in 2001.  “By 2004 my problem had grown to be enormous and was only
growing bigger,” O’Brien said.  The crimes committed by O’Brien, a gay man, were caused in
part by a psychological disorder and by his relationship with an
unstable partner, his lawyer, Russell Neufeld, said in court
papers seeking leniency in sentencing. O’Brien poured $3 million
of the money he made practicing law into his partner’s failing
book business, Neufeld said.  O’Brien told Pitman today that he hopes to resume the
practice of law in the future. He is the subject of a legal
disciplinary proceeding in New York, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Stanley Okula told the judge. Because he pleaded guilty to four
misdemeanor charges, he won’t be automatically disbarred.  The case is U.S. v. O’Brien, 11-cr-0652, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 