-- Ex-Taiwan President Lee Backs Tsai, Spurning His Former Kuomintang Party
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2012-01-11T03:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/ex-taiwan-president-lee-backs-tsai-spurning-his-former-kuomintang-party.html
Former Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui
today publicly endorsed presidential candidate Tsai Ing-wen,
chairwoman of the opposition  Democratic Progressive Party , three
days before the election.  Lee, 88, took out a half-page hand written advertisement in
major newspapers asking people to vote for Tsai, who is running
against President Ma Ying-jeou and James Soong of the People
First party on Jan. 14.  Ma, the Kuomintang party leader who is seeking a second
four-year term, has pledged to press ahead on improving
relations with China that he says helped power 6.6 percent
growth in the first quarter of 2011. A victory for Tsai, who
says Ma’s policies have made Taiwan too dependent on China,
could shake cross-straits ties.  “China must realize that it’s not dealing with a party,
it’s facing the Taiwanese people,” Lee said in the statement.
“I have told Tsai Ing-wen to insist on democracy, to be
tolerant and to choose the right people. I believe Tsai Ing-wen
can do it.”  Tsai, 55, helped pen the “state-to-state relations”
doctrine for the former president that led  China  to brand him
“a rat” and “the sinner of 1,000 years.” Lee also supported
the DPP’s candidate Frank Hsieh in 2008, who lost the
presidential election to Ma.  The former president resigned as chairman of the KMT in
2000 at the end of his two terms and party infighting helped
hand the victory to Chen Shui-bian’s pro-independence DPP,
ending 50 years of Nationalist rule. Lee was expelled from the
KMT the following year.  Ma was widening his narrow lead over Tsai in public opinion
polls taken prior to a blackout period for voter surveys that
began Jan. 4. Taiwanese law bars publication or release of polls
10 days prior to presidential elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ; 