-- Exercise-Related Hormone May Help Obesity, Harvard Study Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-01-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/exercise-related-hormone-may-lead-to-obesity-therapy-harvard-study-says.html
A hormone naturally found in muscle
cells that triggers the calorie-burning benefits of exercise,
may have potential as an obesity drug, according to  Harvard
University  scientists.  The researchers found that the hormone, called irisin,
rises during exercise, converting white fat into brown fat, a
substance whose primary function is to generate body heat,
according to a study published today in the journal  Nature . When
they injected irisin into obese, pre-diabetic mice, the animals
lost weight and their blood sugar levels improved.  The research may lead to treatments for obesity and
diabetes, as well as other disorders where exercise may benefit
patients who are too weak to engage in it, said study author
 Bruce Spiegelman , a cell biologist at the Dana Farber Cancer
Institute and a professor at  Harvard Medical School . The
compound has been licensed by Boston-based  Ember Therapeutics
Inc. , a closely held company co-founded by Spiegelman.  “We’re not trying to replace diet and exercise,”
Spiegelman said in a telephone interview. “That’s still
important.” Irisin may amplify the effects of eating well and
working out, he said. Also, irisin won’t build muscles, because
it doesn’t appear to make them stronger, Spiegelman said.  Ember Therapeutics is meeting with potential pharmaceutical
partners at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in  San
Francisco , said Chief Executive Officer Louis Tartaglia. A
version of irisin may be tested in humans as soon as two years
from now, he said in a telephone interview.  Potential Partners  While it’s still too soon to consider a sale or a public
offering, the company is interested in developing partnerships
with companies that are also doing work on brown fat, Tartaglia
said. He declined to say which.  “We are in fact seeing quite a lot of major pharma
companies and have been approached by quite a number, and have
been in discussions to see what deal structure makes sense for
us,” he said. “Perhaps there will be a partner in the future
to develop a broad relationship in brown fat.”  Researchers began their study with a notion that something
must increase energy expenditure in addition to exercise in
tissues besides muscles. They found the hormone in mice and in
human muscles from people who’d been engaging in endurance
exercise.  Irisin appears to make white fat, which stores energy,
behave more like brown fat, which burns energy and was thought
to be found only in babies until 2009, said C. Ronald Kahn, an
endocrinologist at the Joslin Diabetes Center in  Boston . Kahn,
who was involved in one of three research groups that showed
brown fat is found in adults, wasn’t involved in today’s study.  Slimmer Mice  As part of the study, the researchers dosed obese mice on a
high-fat diet with irisin. Within 10 days, the mice had better
blood sugar levels and lost a small amount of weight. There were
no signs of toxicity or side-effects, the study found.  “There’s considerable interest in trying to find different
ways to stimulate brown fat itself or the browning of white
fat,” said Kahn, who is also a professor at Harvard Medical
School and a co-founder of Ember, in a telephone interview. “We
really have very few and limited tools to address the epidemic
of obesity, which is driving the epidemic of  type 2 diabetes ,
and almost no tools to help increase energy expenditure.”  Though the study looks interesting, cold exposure is a
better way to increase brown fat and can be achieved with less
effort than exercising, said  Leslie Kozak , a researcher at the
Institute of Animal Reproduction and Food Research of the Polish
Academy of Sciences in Olszyn, who has worked with brown fat in
mice.  “It will be interesting to see if a drug can emerge from
this,” he wrote in an e-mailed statement.  Ember Therapeutics is also looking at ways of making the
hormone more effective and allowing it to stay in the blood
longer, Tartaglia said. The company didn’t sponsor today’s
study. Ember Therapeutics, formed by Third Rock Ventures LLC,
was launched last December with startup funds of $34 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 