-- Textron Gains Amid Report of Review That May Include Spinoff
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2012-01-11T22:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/textron-gains-amid-report-of-review-that-may-include-spinoff-1-.html
Textron Inc. (TXT)  rose to a five-month
high after Reuters reported the maker of Cessna planes and Bell
helicopters is reviewing strategic options that may include
spinning off some businesses.  The shares climbed 5.7 percent to $21.32 in New York, the
highest closing price since Aug. 1. No strategy changes are
expected soon,  Reuters reported , citing people it didn’t
identify. David Sylvestre, a company spokesman, declined to
comment, citing a policy of not reacting to “market rumors.”  While Textron is an obvious candidate for a breakup because
of a portfolio of  unrelated businesses , the company “needs its
diversity near term to ride out cyclical weakness at Cessna,”
Jeffrey Sprague, co-founder of Vertical Research Partners, wrote
in a note to clients today.  Sales at the  plane-making unit  dropped 55 percent in the
two years through 2010 as the financial crisis and an economic
slump trimmed sales. Cessna accounted for 24 percent of
Textron’s revenue in 2010, down from 40 percent in 2008. The
company also makes armored vehicles and unmanned aircraft.  Chief Executive Officer Scott Donnelly’s relatively recent
arrival and his focus on improving results also weigh against a
near-term breakup, Sprague wrote. Donnelly joined the
Providence, Rhode Island-based company in 2008 and became CEO in
December 2009.  ‘Iconic’ Cessna  “Management views internal improvements as a prerequisite
to any major strategic change to maximize value,” said Sprague,
who’s based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The business aircraft cycle would make operating Cessna as
a stand-alone company difficult, “but it is an iconic franchise
which would attract significant interest if it was for sale,”
wrote Sprague, who has a “hold”  rating  on Textron’s stock.  “The defense assets of Textron may be best positioned in a
larger defense conglomerate” if pressure to cut U.S. military
spending continues, Sprague said.  Relational Investors LLC, led by activist shareholder Ralph Whitworth, had reviewed Textron as a possible investment
opportunity in the past, without viewing it as a “serious
prospect,” Reuters reported separately. Earlier, the news
service said Whitworth had looked at the company about a month
ago, citing an unnamed person familiar with the situation.  The cost to protect Textron’s debt from default for five
years climbed to the highest since Nov. 25. Credit-default swaps
on the company’s debt increased 17.8 basis points to 242.5 basis
points as of 3 p.m. in  New York , according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  