-- Extract Says Potential China Takeover Gets Namibia Approval
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-01-11T17:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/extract-says-potential-takeover-by-china-gets-namibia-s-approval.html
Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , owner of the
world’s fourth-largest uranium deposit, said Namibia approved a
potential acquisition of the company should a Chinese bid for
its biggest shareholder  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH)  succeed.  The Namibian  Competition Commission  has endorsed the
proposed acquisition by  China  Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co.,
and Extract’s directors “are continuing to review all available
opportunities to maximize  shareholder value ,” the uranium
explorer said in a statement today. The regulator’s approval is
one condition of the takeover proposal to Kalahari shareholders.  China is pursuing new sources of the fuel to feed rising
demand for atomic power in the world’s second-largest economy.
Kalahari, whose directors recommended the Chinese bid announced
last month, owns 43 percent of Extract. Guangdong Nuclear said
today the Kalahari stake pledged to it by the company’s
directors is now 3.7 percent, up from 2.2 percent after Chairman
Mark Hohnen exercised options over 4 million shares.  Extract, developer of the Husab uranium deposit in Namibia,
was unchanged at A$8.49 at the close of trade in Sydney, valuing
the Perth-based company at about A$2.1 billion ($2.2 billion).
Guangdong Nuclear has agreed to buy Kalahari for 243.55 pence a
share. The stock gained 0.4 percent to 243 pence by the close in
London.  Rio Tinto Stake  Australian regulators have ruled that Guangdong Nuclear
must offer A$8.65 a share for Extract should the Chinese state-
owned company’s 632 million-pound ($969 million) offer for
London-based Kalahari succeed.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-biggest mining company
and owner of the Rossing mine near Husab, holds a 14 percent
stake in Extract and an 11.5 percent share in Kalahari,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Rossing mine is the third-biggest producer of uranium,
accounting for about 6 percent of global supply, data from the
World Nuclear Association show. Husab is about 7 kilometers (4.4
miles) from Rossing and 30 kilometers from Paladin Energy Ltd.’s
Langer Heinrich project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  