-- Exxaro Agrees to Acquire Australia’s African Iron for $349 Million in Cash
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-01-11T16:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/exxaro-agrees-to-acquire-australia-s-african-iron-for-349-million-in-cash.html
Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX)  agreed to buy
 African Iron Ltd. (AKI)  for about A$338 million ($349 million), paying
a 43 percent premium to the market for a first controlling stake
in an iron ore project after its failed bid for a mine in 2011.  Exxaro will pay as much as 57 cents a share and 37 cents an
option for Perth-based African Iron, they said today in a joint
statement. The Australian company closed at 40 cents on Jan. 9.  The deal would allow Exxaro, which part owns Kumba Iron Ore
Ltd.’s Sishen mine in  South Africa , to control and operate the
project following its failed bid for Territory Resources Ltd. in
2011. The transaction will curb  investment risk  for the African
Iron Mayoko development, which is scheduled to begin production
by 2013, according to an analyst at Foster Stockbroking Pty.  “Up to A$300 million in development finance would have
been required for Mayoko later this year, a challenge given the
current capital markets landscape,” Mark Hinsley, at Foster
Stockbroking’s equity research sales desk in Sydney, wrote in an
e-mailed report. A competing offer is unlikely, he said.  African Iron (AKI) , which has operations in the Republic of
Congo, rose 40 percent to 56 cents by the close in Sydney.
Exxaro will pay a base 51 cents a share and raise that to 57
cents when it gains 75 percent or more in the target. It fell
0.9 percent to 172 rand by the close in Johannesburg.  “We see the acquisition price as being fair when compared
to a company such as African Minerals,” Heidi Sternberg, an
analyst at SBG Securities Ltd., wrote in a report today. The
deal is “positive in the long term” for Exxaro, she said.  Other Suitors  While Equatorial Resources Ltd. is the most probable rival
for Exxaro’s bid, “it is unlikely Equatorial would have the
capacity to match Exxaro’s offer on a cash basis,” Ambrian
Partners Ltd. analysts wrote today in a research note.  Exxaro, with a market value of about $7.6 billion, offered
to pay 1.46 times African Iron’s total asset value, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a median multiple
of 1.36 times for nine comparable deals, the figures show.  African Iron hasn’t held talks with other suitors, Chairman
Ian Burston told reporters on a conference call. The Australian
company’s biggest  shareholder ,  Cape Lambert Resources Ltd. (CFE) , has
also agreed to the deal, according to the statement.  Equatorial
Resources Ltd. (EQX) , the second-biggest shareholder, said it welcomed
Exxaro’s interest in the Mayoko region, according to an e-mailed
statement. Cape Lambert rose 2.9 percent in Sydney trading.  Rail Upgrade  African Iron’s projects in the Republic of Congo “will
provide Exxaro with the opportunity to realize its stated
ambitions of developing a significant iron ore asset in this
rapidly emerging and prospective region,” Exxaro Chief
Executive Officer Sipho Nkosi said in the statement.  The company, outbid for Territory Resources by Noble Group
Ltd., is being advised by Investec Bank Ltd. and Gilbert + Tobin
is its legal adviser. African Iron’s legal adviser is Freehills.  The South African company will probably complete a review
of African Iron’s project development plan by June or July,
Ernst Venter, a business development manager, said today on a
conference call. A railway line to Pointe-Noire, and the port
itself, would need upgrading for shipments that would probably
be headed to European and “Eastern” markets, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  