-- Facebook Claimant Fined $5,000 for Failuring to Produce E-Mail Accounts
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-01-11T22:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/facebook-claimant-ceglia-fined-5-000-for-failure-to-produce-e-mail-data.html
Paul Ceglia , the New York man
claiming to own a stake in  Facebook  Inc., was fined $5,000 for
failing to provide access to his e-mail accounts in his lawsuit
against the company.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in Buffalo, New York,
ruled yesterday that Ceglia showed “a plain lack of respect”
for a court order requiring him to turn over to Facebook the
addresses and passwords for all e-mail accounts he has used
since 2003.  Foschio ordered Ceglia to pay the fine and reimburse
Facebook for its legal fees connected to the e-mail dispute.
Foschio said Ceglia disregarded his lawyers’ advice to comply
with the order.  “Plaintiff, fully advised by his attorneys not to do so,
chose to knowingly ignore the unambiguous orders of the court,”
Foschio wrote.  Ceglia’s attorney, Dean Boland of Lakewood,  Ohio , said his
client won’t seek to appeal the ruling. The failure to follow
the e-mail order occurred before Boland took over as Ceglia’s
lead counsel in October, he said. Three other legal teams have
left the case since Ceglia sued in June 2010.  “When a judge orders you to do something, you’ve got to do
it,” Boland said in a phone interview.  Orin Snyder, a lawyer who represents  Palo Alto , California-
based Facebook in the suit, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment on the ruling.  2003 Contract  Ceglia claims a 2003 contract entitles him to half the
Facebook holdings of the social-networking company’s co-founder
and chief executive officer,  Mark Zuckerberg .  In an amended complaint filed in the case, Ceglia quoted
e-mails between him and Zuckerberg that he says support his
suit. Facebook has said that the e-mails were fabricated and
that the two-page contract produced by Ceglia is a forgery.  The requirement that Ceglia turn over his e-mail accounts
was part of an expedited discovery process in which the parties
exchange evidence to determine whether Ceglia’s contract and
e-mails are genuine.  Both sides agree that Zuckerberg signed a contract with
Ceglia in 2003, when Zuckerberg was a freshman at  Harvard
University , to do computer coding for StreetFax.com, a company
Ceglia was trying to start. Ceglia claims the contract included
a provision giving him a partnership stake in Facebook, now the
world’s biggest social-networking site.  StreetFax Work  The company said its computer experts have found the
genuine contract between Ceglia and Zuckerberg, which concerns
only the StreetFax work, on one of Ceglia’s computers. The
contract makes no mention of Facebook, according to the company.  In a separate decision yesterday, Foschio denied Ceglia’s
request that the judge sanction Facebook for failing to disclose
the existence of five computers, used by Zuckerberg when he was
a student at Harvard, which were part of an earlier suit. In
that case, former Harvard students Cameron and  Tyler Winklevoss 
and Divya Narendra claimed Zuckerberg stole the idea for
Facebook from them.  The Winklevosses and Narendra settled in 2008 for
$65 million, then tried to reopen the case, claiming Facebook
may have improperly withheld instant messages and other
information in the suit.  Foschio said Facebook didn’t mislead the court about
Zuckerberg’s Harvard computers and didn’t improperly try to
destroy forensic copies of the computers created for the earlier
case, as Ceglia claimed.  “We will eventually get those computers in discovery,”
said Boland. “And that will be an interesting day, to see
what’s on those.”  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 