-- Falcons’ Mularkey Returns to Florida as Head Coach of Jacksonville Jaguars
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-01-11T05:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/falcons-mularkey-returns-to-florida-as-head-coach-of-jacksonville-jaguars.html
Mike Mularkey will become the new
coach of the  Jacksonville Jaguars , returning to the state where
he was born, played college football and began his National
Football League coaching career.  Since 2008, Mularkey has been offensive coordinator for the
 Atlanta Falcons , who lost 24-2 to the  New York Giants  in the
first round of the playoffs on Jan. 8. A press conference
introducing Mularkey will be held today, the team said on its
 website  last night.  Mularkey, 50, is a Miami native and attended the University
of Florida. He began his coaching career at the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers and spent two seasons with the  Miami Dolphins  before
joining Atlanta, where he worked for head coach Mike Smith, a
former Jacksonville defensive coordinator.  After a 3-8 start to the season, the Jaguars fired Jack Del Rio Nov. 29, the same day Wayne Weaver said he was selling the
team to  Shahid Khan  for an undisclosed amount. Weaver bought the
Jaguars for $208 million in 1993, two years before they started
play as an expansion team. Jacksonville, which finished this
season 5-11, is valued at $725 million by Forbes.  The Falcons averaged a team-record 376.6 yards per game
this season on their way to a 10-6 record and back-to-back
appearances in the playoffs for the first time in franchise
history.  Mularkey went 14-18 as coach of the Buffalo Bills before
joining the Dolphins as offensive coordinator nine days after
leaving Buffalo in January 2005.  Mularkey played playing tight end for nine seasons in the
NFL through 1991 with the  Minnesota Vikings  and the Pittsburgh
Steelers, where he was also offensive coordinator for two years
before joining Buffalo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 