-- Farmers Must Cut Antibiotic Use, Animal-Health Organization Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-11T17:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/farmers-must-cut-antibiotic-use-animal-health-organization-says.html
Livestock farmers must reduce
preventive use of antibiotics and avoid feeding them as growth
promoters to combat rising resistance of bacteria to the
medicines, the World Organization for  Animal Health  said.  Countries should act against counterfeit antibiotics and
ensure the medicines are prescribed by veterinarians rather than
leave application to farmers to prevent misuse, according to
Bernard Vallat, director general of the Paris-based
organization, known as OIE.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  plans to bar most
unapproved veterinary uses of some antibiotics in cattle, pigs,
chickens and turkeys as of April 5. It aims to prevent bacteria
that cause diseases in humans from developing resistance to the
drugs.  “The greatest risks are in intensive livestock holdings,
particularly chickens and pigs,” Vallat said at a press
conference in the French capital today. “In most cases it’s
dangerous to use antibiotics in a preventive manner.”  Vallat said about 100 countries, including the poorest
African and Asian nations, “need to progress” in terms of
limiting antibiotic use.  Pharmaceutical companies are failing to introduce new
antimicrobial molecules to overcome bacterial resistance because
they consider development costs too high and return on
investment insufficient, according to the OIE director general.  “In the race between bacteria and the intelligence of man,
for the time being the bacteria are winning,” Vallat said.  The European Union has banned use of antibiotics as growth
promoters in livestock, reducing productivity compared with the
rest of the world by about 5 percent, “which is enormous in
terms of margin,” Vallat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  