-- FDA Suspends Orange Juice Imports to Examine for Fungicide
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-01-12T01:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/fda-halts-orange-juice-imports-to-check-for-banned-fungicide-carpendazim.html
The U.S. has temporarily halted
shipments of imported  orange juice  from all countries while
they’re being tested, and said it will destroy or ban products
containing even low levels from a banned fungicide.  If levels of the chemical, carbendazim, are found to be
below trace amounts, the products may be released and sold,
according to the  Food and Drug Administration . Initial tests on
shipments from  Canada  didn’t turn up the chemical, the FDA said.  The fungicide, linked in studies to higher risk of liver
tumors in animals, was found in trace amounts last month in
products from Brazil after  The Coca Cola Co. (KO) , which owns the
Minute Maid brand, said it notified the FDA that some Brazilian
growers had sprayed their trees with the chemical.  “This is an industry issue that affects every company that
produces products in the U.S. using orange juice from  Brazil ,”
the Atlanta-based company said in a statement.  Brazil produces almost one in every six glasses of orange
juice consumed in the U.S., according to  CitrusBR , an export
industry association. The FDA announcement about its testing
spurred calls by a consumer group for the agency to set
standards on chemicals that can be used for screening going
forward.  “We’re glad they will be testing for this fungicide, but
we would like there to be standards they could enforce for
residue levels in food -- for this chemical and others, like
arsenic or lead that have been found in other juices,” said
Patty Lovera, assistant director of the Washington-based  Food
and Water Watch , an advocacy group.  More Inspections Sought  “We think FDA needs to do more inspections of imported
food, including juice,” she said.  Americans consumed 1.2 million gallons from the 2009-2010
growing season, U.S. Department of Agriculture data shows. The
agency hasn’t previously tested for the chemical because it
wasn’t a risk, said  Siobhan DeLancey , an agency spokeswoman.  While carbendazim, is used in crops in many countries, it
isn’t approved for use in oranges in the U.S. Brazilian growers
expressed frustration with the testing.  “Our main concern is how this move will affect consumption
and image of our product,” said Flavio Viegas, head of Brazil’s
citrus growers association, known as Associtrus, which
represents about 1,300 orange growers.  ‘Widely Accepted’  “Carbendazim is widely accepted for other crops, including
apples, which are consumed fresh,” he said by phone from
Bebedouro, Brazil. “I don’t understand what’s the deal with
frozen concentrated orange juice.”  Carbendazim is used to combat black spot, a fungus that
doesn’t affect taste or crop yields, but makes fruits less
appealing to consumers, Brazil’s grower-run Fund for Citrus
Plant Protection, known as Fundecitrus, said today in an e-mail
to Bloomberg News.  The FDA is also screening juice that’s already for sale in
the U.S. market, the FDA’s DeLancey said. That’s because
products often contain a mixture of imported and domestic juice.  The FDA said it was alerted to the fungicide Dec. 28, when
a company detected low levels in its own and other products,
according to a letter the agency sent to the Juice Products
Association, a Washington trade group. The fungicide was found
in products from Brazil’s 2011 crop.  Juice Futures  Orange juice futures rose the most in five years after the
FDA investigation was announced, combined with freezing weather
that’s damaged citrus crops in  Florida .  The “test and hold” policy extends to all orange juice
imports, not only those from Brazil and the FDA doesn’t believe
levels reported so far pose a public health risk, Delancey said,  Imported juice that tests at concentrations of 10 parts per
billion or higher will be refused or destroyed, DeLancey said.  For products on the market, the benchmark is below 80 parts
per billion because the Environmental Protection Agency’s risk
assessment says they don’t have safety concerns at that level,
said Dale Kemery, a spokesman for the agency. This level is
1,000 to 3,000 times lower than the levels that would indicate a
health concern, he said in an e-mail.  “Based on monitoring data provided to EPA by FDA, the EPA
has no reason to expect that residues of carbendazim in oranges
grown in Brazil would ever approach levels that would raise
safety concerns,” Kemery wrote.  Drinking orange juice with the levels of carbendazim
reported “does not raise safety concerns,” according to the
FDA letter to the industry trade group.  Apples, Grape Juice  Ten percent of 88 samples of apple and grape juice tested
had total arsenic levels exceeding federal drinking water
standards, according to a November report by  Consumer Reports .  As consumer groups called for new guidelines on the
chemical, the FDA this year enhanced its surveillance for
arsenic in apple juice. The FDA is working with the EPA on steps
the agencies can take to reduce overall arsenic levels in food,
according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  