-- Fed’s Lockhart Avoids a ‘Rigid Position’ on Further Easing
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-01-11T16:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/fed-s-lockhart-avoids-a-rigid-position-on-further-easing-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said that while the economy should
improve this year, he’s not taking a firm stance on whether the
central bank should try to lower  interest rates  again.  “The Atlanta Fed’s outlook anticipates a moderate pace of
improvement but real progress on most points,” Lockhart said
today in a speech that reiterated remarks from a Jan. 9 talk.
Given inflation near 2 percent and “slow progress” reducing
 joblessness , Lockhart said he didn’t want to “lock into a rigid
position” on additional Fed policy easing.  Lockhart’s views fall between Fed officials who want to try
further measures to reduce borrowing costs and others who are
reluctant to support additional steps. The central bank’s
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  next meets Jan.
24-25, where officials for the first time will publish their
projections for the benchmark federal funds rate.  “Speaking for myself only, steady if unspectacular growth
accompanied by inflation in the range of 2 percent justifies me
being somewhat reluctant to change, or to support change, in
either direction, the FOMC’s accommodative policy,” Lockhart
said to the Georgia Center for Nonprofits in Atlanta. “At the
same time, I think slow progress toward full employment
justifies that we continue to consider whether more can or
should be done. So for me as a policy maker, as I enter this
year, now is not a time to lock into a rigid position.”  Responding to audience questions after the speech, Lockhart
said that “the problems are still pretty profound” in the
housing market. “The continuing decline of housing prices
indicates maybe we haven’t seen the bottom,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 David Beasley  in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  