-- Fed Officials Raise Asset-Purchase Option Even as U.S. Economy Improves
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-11T22:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/fed-officials-raise-asset-purchase-option-even-as-u-s-economy-improves.html
Some Federal Reserve officials are
saying the central bank should keep the option of further asset
purchases on the table even as the economy strengthens,
deepening divisions with colleagues who oppose further action.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  in a speech today said
economic growth is modest and called for “substantial”
accommodation. During the past week, New York Fed President
 William Dudley , Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  and San Francisco’s  John
Williams  have also backed consideration of a third round of bond
buying.  The calls preceded release of the Fed’s Beige Book today
indicating the expansion improved last month in most of the U.S.
on increased holiday retail sales, demand for services and oil
and gas extraction. Other data in the past week showed the
 unemployment rate  dropped to the lowest level in nearly three
years and consumer credit jumped.  “The financial market has taken recent Fed commentary as
generally dovish and as a signal that the Fed is perhaps
exploring more easing measures,” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief
U.S. economist for Deutsche Bank Securities in  New York , using a
term used to refer to policy makers who tend to favor easing.  Central bank officials are far from unanimous on the option
of buying more assets. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said today that policy makers should watch “very
carefully” for the risks of accelerating inflation, and
Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker  said he is “nervous” about the Fed’s
independence because of its forays into fiscal policy.  For First Time  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee next meets
in Washington on Jan. 24-25. The Fed’s 12 presidents and five
governors will, for the first time, publish their own
expectations for the future course of monetary policy. Not all
policy makers agree, as recent speeches from U.S. central
bankers have demonstrated.  The Fed’s  Beige Book , an anecdotal survey of economic
conditions in the central bank’s regions, may reinforce the
views of a majority of Fed officials, who see an economy that’s
expanding without being strong enough to reduce joblessness as
quickly as they would prefer. The report said most industries
saw “limited permanent hiring,” and the housing market
remained “sluggish.”  At its next policy meeting, Fed officials will update their
forecasts for unemployment, growth and inflation for the first
time since November.  Most Fed officials in November saw inflation between 1.4
percent and 2 percent in 2012 and expected 2.5 percent to 2.9
percent growth in gross domestic product.  More Fed Action  The Chicago Fed’s Evans said today he supported more Fed
action in part because his forecast for inflation is at the
“lower end” of his colleagues’ expectations.  “The traditional course of action when inflation is below
target and real output is expected to be below potential is to
run an accommodative monetary policy,” Evans said. “I support
such accommodation today. And I believe the degree of
accommodation should be substantial.”  Evans, who dissented at FOMC meetings in November and
December in favor of greater accommodation, doesn’t vote on
policy decisions this year after a rotation among Fed
presidents.  Evans, Plosser, Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher and
Narayana Kocherlakota of the Minneapolis Fed rotate off the
committee this year. Replacing them are Williams, Lacker,
Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  and Cleveland’s  Sandra Pianalto .  Of the new voting members, Williams said yesterday that he
sees a “strong” case for new purchases of mortgage bonds given
his expectation that inflation will fall below 1.5 percent this
year.  More Purchases  Lockhart said in a November speech that he was “skeptical
that further asset purchases will produce much gain in terms of
increased economic activity.”  In a speech today in Atlanta, Lockhart repeated Jan. 9
remarks in which he said given inflation near 2 percent and
“slow progress” reducing joblessness, he didn’t want to “lock
into a rigid position” on additional Fed policy easing.  Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto said yesterday
that, according to some economic models, further action may be
needed.  “While it is true that the federal funds rate has been
near zero for some time, some economic policy models indicate
that monetary policy should be even more accommodative than it
is today,” Pianalto said in a speech in Wooster,  Ohio . “And
this is true even after accounting for the large-scale asset
programs the FOMC has initiated to compensate for the fact that
the federal funds rate cannot go below zero.”  Cut Main Rate  Fed officials lowered their benchmark  interest rate  to near
zero in December 2008 and at their most recent meeting said they
expect to leave it there through at least mid-2013. The Fed also
initiated two rounds of large-scale asset purchases, or
quantitative easing, buying $2.3 trillion in assets. In
September the Fed announced it would sell $400 billion of short-
term bonds and buy $400 billion of longer-term bonds in a move
known as Operation Twist.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent
to 1,292.48, the highest level in five months, at the close of
trading in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
declined six basis points to 1.90 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  In an interview on CNBC, Richmond’s Lacker said he is
concerned how the central bank will be treated in the 2012
elections.  “I haven’t seen as much threat to our independence in my
career here as we’ve been seeing in the last couple of years,”
Lacker said. “I’m a little nervous about how the Fed’s going to
be treated in this electoral cycle.”  Criticized by Republicans  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the central bank were
criticized by Republicans this week for a housing study sent to
Congress that, in the words of Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah,
“intrudes too far into fiscal policy advice and advocacy.”  Hatch, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, was joined in his criticisms by Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker , who said Dudley’s suggestion last week that  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  reduce the principal of the loans they guarantee
was “absolutely egregious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  