-- Fed’s Plosser Says Inflation Calls for ‘Careful Watching’
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-11T20:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/fed-s-plosser-says-inflation-calls-for-careful-watching-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said policy makers should watch the
risk of accelerating mid-term inflation “very carefully” after
injecting record stimulus into the economy.  “With the very accommodative stance of monetary policy,
the inflation situation is one that bears careful watching in
order to ensure that inflation pressures remain contained over
the medium run,” Plosser said today in a speech in Rochester,
New York. “Inflation most often develops gradually, and if
monetary policy waits too long to respond, it can be very costly
to correct.”  Fed policy makers are divided over whether they should
increase accommodation to bolster an expanding economy. Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans  said today in  Lake Forest ,  Illinois ,
that signs of improvement in the economy are modest and the
central bank should push forward with “substantial” easing.  Plosser told reporters after his speech that he’s been
“pretty encouraged” by recent economic data and questioned
whether more stimulus is necessary.  “Inflation is higher and unemployment is lower” than
before the Fed embarked on its second round of bond buying,
Plosser said. “If someone wants to engage in more
accommodation,” then “you sort of have to say ‘Why?’”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,291.83 at 3:24 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note fell to 1.9 percent from 1.97 percent.  ‘Steady Rise’  Plosser, who dissented against the central bank’s stimulus
measures in August and September, said the “potential costs
outweighed the potential benefits of further accommodation.”
The steps risked a “steady rise in inflation over the medium
term without much of a drop in the unemployment rate,” he said.  The Fed’s pledge in August to keep interest rates near zero
until mid-2013 “raised particularly difficult communication
challenges,” Plosser said. He reiterated his view that the Fed
may need to raise rates before then.  “Despite past challenges, I remain optimistic about the
economy’s future,” said Plosser, who predicted U.S. economic
growth of 3 percent for 2012 and 2013. “Prospects for labor
markets will continue to improve, with job growth strengthening
and the  unemployment rate  falling gradually over time.”  May Drop Further  Plosser forecast that the “uncomfortably high”
 unemployment rate  would fall to about 8 percent this year, while
saying that in his “more optimistic moments,” he thought it
might drop further. The unemployment rate fell to 8.5 percent in
December, the lowest in almost three years, according to the
Labor Department.  “While there is a long way to go in restoring a vibrant
labor market, I am encouraged by the employment reports released
over the past several months,” Plosser said. Payrolls rose by
200,000 last month, more than economists forecast.  Inflation expectations will be “relatively stable” and
price acceleration will “moderate’ as commodity prices
stabilize or decline, Plosser said.  The economy still faces “downside risks,” with the
largest being the impact of the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe ,
Plosser said. The U.S. government’s “inability to establish a
clear plan to put our fiscal policy on a sustainable path” and
consumers “restoring the health of their balance sheets” may
also weigh on growth, Plosser said.  Plosser told reporters that the “housing market still
remains a big problem for the recovery,” and that the study
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  sent Congress last week was an
“effort” to outline some policy options to help boost real
estate. The 26-page staff study said  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
might have to bear greater losses to stoke a broader recovery.  ‘Too Engaged’  The Fed needs to be “careful” about “becoming too
engaged in fiscal policies” because it threatens the central
bank’s independence, Plosser said. “I’m not sure the Fed can do
much about the housing problem,” he said. “I would prefer we
engaged in things that were less confused with fiscal policy.”  Plosser said he “fully” supports the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s decision to start releasing policy makers’ interest
rate forecasts after their Jan. 24-25 meeting.  “Greater clarity helps monetary policy become more
effective at promoting its congressionally mandated goals of
 price stability , maximum employment, and moderate long-term
interest rates,” he said.  Easing Measure  Revealing the forecasts isn’t intended as an easing measure
and is “about being clear about what we’re doing,” Plosser
said. “What we’re doing is describing to the public the range
of policy views that the committee has,” and the goal is to
“align the expectations of the market with the views of the
committee,” he said. While pushing back expectations for when
the Fed will raise its benchmark  interest rate  may be a
“consequence,” it isn’t an “objective,” he said.  The forecasts also shouldn’t be viewed as a “commitment,”
and won’t reduce the central bank’s flexibility to alter its
policies in part because they’re released every quarter, Plosser
said.  The Fed should go further to improve the transparency of
its policies, Plosser said, reiterating his call for the
adoption of an “explicit numerical inflation objective.”
Policy makers should also explain why they can’t do the same for
their goal of full employment, he said.  “I do not believe the FOMC should set a fixed numerical
objective for something that it does not directly control and
cannot accurately measure,” Plosser said.  While the Fed’s dual mandate poses a “communications
challenge” for that reason, it isn’t an “impediment” to
adopting an inflation target, he told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  