-- Fed Says U.S. Economic Growth Improves While Hiring Limited
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2012-01-11T23:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/fed-says-u-s-economic-growth-improves-while-hiring-limited.html
The U.S. economic expansion improved
last month across most of the country while hiring was limited
and housing remained stagnant, the central bank said.  The economy “expanded at a modest to moderate pace” from
late November through the end of December on increased holiday
retail sales, demand for services and oil and gas extraction,
the Fed said in its  Beige Book  anecdotal business survey
released today in  Washington . At the same time, most industries
saw “limited permanent hiring,” and the housing market
remained “sluggish.”  The report may reinforce the views of a majority of Fed
officials, who see an economy that’s expanding without being
strong enough to reduce joblessness as quickly as they would
prefer. The  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.5 percent in December
from 9.4 percent a year earlier. Fed officials are also urging
lawmakers to try more housing-aid programs.  “The reports on balance suggest ongoing improvement in
economic conditions in recent months,” the Fed said in today’s
report, which comes out two weeks before each meeting on
monetary policy. “The combination of limited permanent hiring
in most sectors and numerous active job seekers has continued to
keep a lid on general wage increases.”  Most U.S. stocks rose and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
reached a five-month high for a second day as gains in banking
and technology shares helped the market recover from an early
slump. The  S&P 500  climbed less than 0.1 percent to 1,292.48 at
the close in New York as almost three stocks advanced for every
two that fell on U.S. exchanges.  ‘Better Tone’  The beige book report reflects a “slightly better tone,
slightly better data,” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. Even so,
“the financial market has taken recent Fed commentary as
generally dovish and as a signal that the Fed is perhaps
exploring more easing measures.”  The last Beige Book, released Nov. 30, said the economy
expanded at a “slow to moderate” pace in 11 of 12 districts,
led by gains in manufacturing and consumer spending.  St. Louis 
was the only region to report a “decline in economic
activity.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  next gathers Jan. 24-25
in Washington as officials debate whether to try new actions to
lower borrowing costs. Fed policy makers will for the first time
publish projections for the benchmark federal funds rate and
will also update their forecasts for economic growth,
unemployment and inflation.  San Francisco  Staffers  Today’s report reflects information collected on or before
Dec. 30. The 12 regional banks’ reports were summarized by
staffers at the San Francisco Fed.  The economy probably expanded at a 3.3 percent annual pace
in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to an estimate by
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC yesterday, after a 1.8 percent rate
in the prior three months.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News last month forecast 2.1
percent growth in 2012, based on the median of 69 estimates.  The Beige Book said that “upward wage pressures were
modest overall” for workers across the U.S. The Labor
Department said Jan. 6 that 200,000 jobs were added to payrolls
in December, the most since September. The jobless rate declined
for a fourth straight month to the lowest since February 2009.  Even so,  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said last
week that the “outlook for unemployment is unacceptably high”
and that it’s “appropriate” for the Fed to consider steps to
ease monetary policy, he said.  ‘Held Steady’  The residential real estate market “largely held steady at
very low levels” except for increasing construction of
multifamily homes, the Beige Book said. The rental market
“tightened in some areas,” the report said.  Last week, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues
began pushing harder for the Obama administration and Congress
to try new programs to revive the housing market. The advocacy
sparked criticism from two Republican senators,  Tennessee ’s  Bob Corker  and  Utah ’s  Orrin Hatch , who said central bankers were
supporting plans that would put taxpayers at risk.  The Fed said today that inflation and pressures to raise
prices “were very limited” at the end of last year. Several
district banks reported that “upward price pressures from
rising commodity and input prices have eased substantially,”
the Fed said.  Price Gauge  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and energy costs, rose 1.7 percent in November from a year
earlier. Fed policy makers prefer a long-run inflation rate,
including all items, of 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  Lending “edged up overall” on higher demand from
businesses, with the New York and Cleveland regions reporting
increased loans in commercial mortgages, the Fed said. Consumer
lending “was largely flat compared with the prior reporting
period,” the central bank said.  A separate Fed report Jan. 9 showed that consumer borrowing
in the U.S. rose in November by the most in 10 years. Credit
increased by $20.4 billion, the biggest jump since November
2001, to $2.48 trillion.  Most regions said holiday retail sales “were up noticeably
over last year’s season,” and  consumer spending  and confidence
have improved, the Fed said.  Macy’s Inc., the Cincinnati-based retailer, last week
reported a 6.2 percent increase in December same-store sales,
topping analyst estimates. The company boosted its fourth-
quarter earnings forecast to as much as $1.60 a share, after
earlier projecting a maximum of $1.57 a share.  Commercial and industrial loans from banks have increased
to $1.34 trillion as of Dec. 28, the highest since October 2009,
from $1.21 trillion a year earlier. They peaked at $1.62
trillion in October 2008.  ----With assistance from Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco.
Editors: Christopher Wellisz, Kevin Costelloe  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  