-- Fed’s Williams Sees Case for Easing as George Warns of Risks
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-11T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/fed-s-williams-sees-case-for-easing-as-george-warns-of-risks.html
One Federal Reserve bank president
said further asset purchases may be needed to spur the world’s
largest economy while another warned that even the current
policy of easing carries the risk of financial turmoil.  Fed Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  said
yesterday he sees a “strong” case for new purchases of
mortgage bonds given his expectation that inflation will fall
below 1.5 percent this year. His counterpart in Kansas City,
Esther George, said more time is needed to judge the impact of
record-low interest rates.  The remarks underscore the division on the  Federal Open
Market Committee , which next meets Jan. 24-25 in Washington.
Officials disagree on whether more steps are needed to bolster
the two-year expansion amid signs of improvement in the labor
market. The unemployment rate fell to 8.5 percent in December
from 8.7 percent the previous month, government data showed last
week.  The jobs report “wasn’t in any way a game changer,”
Williams, 49, told reporters after a speech in  Vancouver ,
Washington. The  San Francisco  Fed chief took office in March
2011 and casts his first vote as a policy maker this year.  The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent to
1,292.08 in  New York  yesterday, while yields on 10-year
Treasuries rose one basis point to 1.97 percent.  In his speech, Williams credited the Fed’s emergency
lending to financial institutions with keeping the  U.S. economy 
from falling into an abyss in 2008 and 2009. He said it’s
“vital” for policy makers to support an economy hobbled by
high unemployment, anemic spending and a weak housing market.  Lower Inflation  Williams told reporters that given his forecast for lower
inflation than predicted by private forecasters, “there’s a
strong argument for buying more mortgage-backed securities.”
That suggests a need for policy that is “more stimulative.”  George appeared in Kansas City yesterday to deliver her
first speech since becoming a regional Fed president in October.
Her comments indicate that she shares a concern of her
predecessor,  Thomas Hoenig , who dissented from all Fed policy
decisions in 2010 with the warning that a prolonged period of
zero- interest rates  could provoke turmoil in financial markets.  “My view is that the economy is going through a
deleveraging process and that takes time,” George said in
response to an audience question. “Efforts to speed up that
process run some risks. It’s going to take things other than
interest rates to stimulate that economy,” she said.  “The actions we’ve taken will have some time to play out
as it is and we’ll have to see how data come in to make the
decision about whether any further action is appropriate,” she
said.  Unemployment Dropped  Payroll growth in the U.S. beat forecasts in December, and
the unemployment rate dropped to the lowest level in almost
three years as the economy gained strength heading into 2012.  Employers added 200,000 jobs in the final month of 2011 and
the jobless rate fell to 8.5 percent, down from 9 percent in
September and 9.4 percent in December 2010.  The economy should grow by 2.5 percent this year and about
3 percent next year, not enough to bring down an  unemployment
rate  that will stay above 8 percent in 2013 and around 7 percent
at the end of 2014, Williams said in his speech.  With the labor market far from full employment and
inflation likely to decelerate, “it’s vital that the Fed use
all the tools at its disposal to achieve its mandated employment
and price stability goals,” he said.  Preferred Price Gauge  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, the Commerce Department’s
measure that excludes food and fuel and is tied to  consumer
spending , was up 1.7 percent in the year ended in November, at
the lower end of Fed policy makers’ long-run projection of 1.7
percent to 2 percent. Inflation should fall under 1.5 percent
this year and next, from about 2.5 percent in 2011, Williams
said.  Williams was the first Fed official to signal the
possibility the central bank would release interest rate
forecasts, telling reporters in November such a move would be
“useful” and has worked well in other countries. The Fed plans
to distribute its anticipated path for the fed funds rate after
its next meeting this month.  The San Francisco Fed chief, who oversees the central
bank’s largest district, served as a senior economist for the
 Council of Economic Advisers  during the Clinton administration.
He succeeded  Janet Yellen , now the Fed board’s vice chairman.  No. 2 Official  George was the  Kansas City  Fed’s No. 2 official under
Hoenig, who retired last year. She joined the Fed in 1982, spent
much of her career in bank supervision, and became first vice
president in 2009.  “Policy choices that attempt to speed improvement in the
housing and labor markets can be attractive given these
circumstances,” George said in her speech, referring to the
“weak housing market, high unemployment and impaired bank
balance sheets.”  “But this desire must be traded off against the need to
foster long-term stability within our financial sector,” she
said, without saying whether the Fed’s current policy stance is
appropriate. George starts voting on the FOMC in 2013.  From 2001 to 2009 she was senior vice president in charge
of the Division of Supervision and Risk Management, overseeing
regulation of the Kansas City Fed district’s 170 state-chartered
member banks and almost 1,000 bank and financial holding
companies. She worked in  Washington  in 2009 as acting director
of bank supervision for the entire Fed system.  A third Fed official, Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto , also spoke yesterday in Wooster,  Ohio . She said the
economic recovery remains “frustratingly slow” and faces
“headwinds” such as “depressed” housing markets, the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and government spending cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Kansas City, Missouri at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  