-- Fiscal, Income Gaps Most Likely Risk to Prosperity, WEF Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-01-11T11:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/fiscal-imbalances-threaten-to-harm-globalization-wef-says.html
Greater income disparity and fiscal
imbalances are the most likely threats to global prosperity in
the next decade, the  World Economic Forum  said.  Budget gaps and social inequality will hurt economic growth
by fanning protectionism and nationalism if they are not
addressed by policy makers and business leaders, the forum said
in a report released at Bloomberg’s London headquarters. The
bulletin also cited outlier “X-factors” which pose potential
threats to the world economy, such as a volcanic winter and
cyber attacks on businesses and governments.  “We’ve got these big structural deficits facing us and
pension funding so we’ve got a very sticky long-term issue if we
don’t address this,” said Steve Wilson, chief risk officer for
general insurance at  Zurich Financial Services AG. (ZURN)  “There’s the
risk of more riots, more dissatisfaction, more property damage
and that has a spiraling effect of dragging economies down.”  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis will be a drag on global
economic growth, causing the region to slip into recession this
year, according to forecasters including Morgan Stanley. The
economic turmoil may create the same conditions for inequality
that spurred the Arab Spring revolutions in Tunisia, Egypt and
 Libya , the forum said.  The  World Economic Forum  holds its annual meeting in the
Swiss ski resort of Davos in two weeks’ time.  Water Wars  A major systemic financial failure and water supply crisis
were found to be the biggest risks in terms of impact, the
report said. A year ago, meteorological and hydrological
catastrophes were cited as the most likely dangers, with a
fiscal crisis and climate turmoil viewed as threatening the
biggest fallout.  The eruption of the Eyjafjallajoekull volcano in Iceland in
2010 reminded risk managers of how nature can cause chaos to the
world’s transport systems, the report said. The
interconnectedness of businesses, governments and individuals
through technology is also become a more concentrated risk, it
said.  “There’s a whole new range of cyber risk,” Wilson said.
“Everything runs through technology such as power grids. This
is a huge exposure.”  The report was based on a survey of 469 experts, including
executives at insurance companies and policy institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  