-- For EU Bailout, Hungary Should Reverse Slide to Autocracy: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-11T00:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/for-eu-bailout-hungary-should-be-made-to-reverse-slide-to-autocracy-view.html
Even as the sovereign-debt
crisis has bared drastic flaws in the euro area’s
economic institutions, a standoff between  Hungary  and
the European Union has exposed weaknesses in the
continent’s political integration.  In recent months, the nationalist government of
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has steadily chipped away at
the democratic gains that Hungary has achieved since it
broke away from Soviet domination after the fall of the
 Berlin Wall .  This drift toward autocratic rule accelerated
sharply on Jan. 1, when a new Constitution and laws
took effect that give Orban’s Fidesz party
unprecedented control over the news media, courts,
central bank and even the practice of religion. U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  warned that the power
grab raised “significant and well-founded concerns”
about the government’s commitment to individual
liberties and democratic checks and balances.  The EU and the  International Monetary Fund ,
meanwhile, have withdrawn from talks on a line of
credit that Hungary’s flailing economy desperately
needs. The main bone of contention is new regulations
that undermine the Hungarian central bank’s
independence, a potential violation of EU treaty
obligations.  Downgraded to Junk  Orban and his government have suggested that they
may be willing to bend on this point and have
dispatched an envoy to  Washington  to negotiate with the
IMF. They may have no choice but to give in: The
government’s policies -- including the nationalization
of pension funds -- have led three credit rating
companies to downgrade Hungary’s debt to junk in the
last two months. Yesterday, the government sold 45
billion forint ($183 million) at average yields of 7.98
percent, the  highest cost  in 2 1/2 years. The  credit line 
may be Hungary’s last defense against default.  Yet it would be a mistake for the EU to limit its
conditions for aid to the restoration of the central
bank’s independence. That would leave on the books
equally alarming recent measures, including the curbs
on press freedom and the independence of the judicial
system, and a so-called law on the status of churches
that establishes 14 state-recognized religions and
decertifies many other observances, including Islam,
Buddhism, Hinduism as well as those of Episcopalians,
Mormons and Methodists.  Hungary claims these measures are all sovereign
issues, and that’s technically true. But as we have
seen in  Greece , sometimes a bailout means giving up
autonomy. The EU (and the markets) would be justified
in looking for political changes that would make the
country more economically viable. This set-to with
Hungary should also give the EU some impetus to devise
stronger  sanctioning mechanisms  within its treaty
system to ensure that all member states live up to the
union’s ideals.  More than a mere market for goods and capital, the
EU was devised as a way to spread democracy,
particularly to countries such as Hungary that emerged
from decades of totalitarian rule. It should be made
clear to Orban that being part of  Europe  means
adopting not just its best economic practices but also
its values of liberty and human rights.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 