-- Fracking Political Support Unshaken by Doctors’ Call for Ban
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/fracking-s-political-support-unshaken-by-doctors-call-for-ban.html
Tremors in Ohio, murky drinking
water in  Pennsylvania  and a call for a moratorium by doctors
isn’t eroding political support for hydraulic fracturing in the
 U.S. Congress  and the Obama administration.  With the Environmental Protection Agency not scheduled to
issue a report on fracking safety until 2014, the administration
is resisting calls for curbs as reports of tainted water near
gas wells mount.  The White House isn’t considering a ban because spurring
natural gas development “is critical not only to our  energy
security  but our economic security as well,” Clark Stevens, a
White House spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Natural gas development using fracking has sparked a land
rush, pushed down the price of the gas and created jobs in
depressed communities in politically important swing states such
as Pennsylvania and Ohio.  The use of fracking by companies including  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp . in states from
Pennsylvania to  Wyoming  has been hailed as a boon by Republican
lawmakers and President  Barack Obama . Democrats in Congress such
as Representative  Edward Markey  of Massachusetts urged further
restrictions on fracking, a call so far unheeded.  “There are a number of ways the federal government could
do more,” Kate Sinding, senior attorney at the  Natural
Resources Defense Council  in New York, said in an interview.
“But there aren’t strong indications that this Congress or this
administration are looking to do so.”  Moratorium Call  A group of doctors called on Jan. 9 for a moratorium on
fracking in populated areas until the health effects of the
process using a mix of water, chemicals and sand are better
understood.  “We’ve got to push the pause button, and maybe we’ve got
to push the stop button” on fracking, said Adam Law, an
endocrinologist at Weill Cornell Medical College in  New York , in
an interview at a conference in Arlington,  Virginia , that was
the first to examine criteria for studying the process.  The U.S. holds an estimated 2,543 trillion cubic feet of
gas, enough to meet domestic demand for more than a century at
current consumption rates, according to the Energy Department in
Washington. Natural  gas  prices dropped 32 percent in 2011,
driven mostly by an increase in fuel pulled from shale
formations. Fracking accounts for a third of the U.S. gas
supply, up from 14 percent in 2009.  In one of his first news conferences after Republicans won
control of the  House of Representatives  in 2010, Obama cited the
untapped supplies of natural gas, and pledged to work with
Republicans to do “everything we can to develop those.”  ‘Common-Sense Standards’  The administration is now “working across the federal
government to conduct research and development, to provide
support to state regulators, and to put in place common-sense
standards to supplement state programs where necessary,”
Stevens said.  The EPA is now moving forward with some regulations, which
has prompted criticism from groups such as the  American
Petroleum Institute  in  Washington , the largest energy trade
group in Washington.  Mounting public pressure will force Obama to issue tighter
standards in areas where the federal government has authority,
said Deb Nardone, director of the natural gas campaign at the
San Francisco-based Sierra Club.  Calls for a moratorium “put the spotlight on the number of
environmental or human health effects and pushes for a minimal
national standard,” Nardone said in an interview.  Disclosing Chemicals  The EPA is weighing rules to force disclosure of the
chemicals used to break up rock and free trapped gas, wastewater
disposal, the use of  diesel fuel  in drilling and air emissions.
Its major study will examine any contamination of the water in
aquifers used for drinking.  As the EPA has moved to set some national standards,
Republicans in Congress have pushed back.  “The EPA is really trying to come in and regulate what the
state departments of the environment do best,” Jeff Urbanchuk,
a spokesman for Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania
Republican, said. “States know best.”  Companies are doing their part with voluntary disclosure
programs of chemicals used in fracking, said Chris Tucker, a
spokesman for Energy in Depth, which represents companies such
as Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake. Tucker replied to an e-mail
sent to a Chesapeake spokesman asking for comment.  Disclosure isn’t the only issue states are debating.  The state of  Ohio  issued a moratorium in Youngstown for new
injection wells used in wastewater disposal from fracking after
a 4-magnitude earthquake in the area on New Year’s Eve, the 11th
since injections began at the well in December 2010.  Wyoming Contamination  In December, the EPA linked fracking to groundwater
contamination in Wyoming. In Dimock, Pennsylvania, where  Cabot
Oil & Gas Corp . drills for gas, residents say they were told by
EPA officials at the end of last year that their water wasn’t
safe to drink. Local EPA officials initially offered to deliver
water to them, and then called back later to rescind the offer.
The EPA is now doing its own test of local wells.  The combination of local issues and a call for a moratorium
by the doctors’ group may prompt lawyers to file more suits and
might influence the debate in statehouses and in Washington,
said Greg Hoffnagle, a lawyer at Edwards Wildman in New York.  “It’s going to embolden the plaintiffs’ bar,” he said in
an interview. And if those lawsuits are successful, that will
create a push for tighter laws and regulations, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  