-- French Department Stores See Growth, Gloom
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-01-11T11:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/french-department-stores-see-growth-amid-gloom-in-winter-sales.html
French consumers will lift spending
on fashion and household items during this month’s sales amid
concerns the country is tipping into a recession, according to
department-store operators  Galeries Lafayette SA (GL)  and Printemps.  Galeries Lafayette expects 250,000 shoppers to spend
10 million euros ($12.8 million) at its Paris store today, the
first day of the winter sales, Agnes Vigneron, the unit’s
manager, said in an interview.  “I don’t think the economic climate is going to impact us
during the sales period,” Vigneron said. “It’s a celebration
time, something the French don’t want to miss. Right now is when
they want to indulge themselves.”  The retailer expects revenue to rise 14 percent during the
winter sales, which run through Feb. 14, she said. Rival
Printemps, whose flagship Paris store is opposite Galeries
Lafayette, forecasts that sales will increase 15 percent to
20 percent, store manager Pierre Pelarrey said. The winter and
summer sales account for about 20 percent of each retailer’s
annual revenue.  “I’m rather confident for the sales,” said French Finance
Minister  Francois Baroin , who cut a ribbon at Galeries Lafayette
to mark the start of the discount period. “In those difficult
times that some say are gloomy, in those uncertain times we need
to do everything to support  consumer spending , which is the main
driver of the French economy.”  Consumer confidence  in the country held near its lowest in
almost three years in December as the public remained concerned
about unemployment and said financial conditions were worsening,
national statistics office Insee reported last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Paris at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  