-- French Resignation to Losing AAA Shifts Focus to Size of Cut: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-01-12T12:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/french-resignation-to-losing-aaa-shifts-focus-to-size-of-cut-euro-credit.html
After weeks of handwringing about a
possible loss of France’s top  credit rating , President  Nicolas Sarkozy  now gives a Gallic shrug.  Investors are interpreting the insouciance -- with Sarkozy
saying that losing the AAA rating isn’t “insurmountable” -- to
mean that France has accepted the inevitable. The question now
is whether  Standard & Poor’s  will follow through with a threat
of a two-level cut.  Sarkozy’s shift, intended to ready voters for the blow
ahead of April’s presidential elections, contributed to the
increase in the premium France pays over  Germany  to borrow for
10 years. Since Dec. 5, when S&P said that it may downgrade 15
euro nations amid a deepening regional debt crisis,  the spread 
has widened by 32 percent to 122 basis points.  “They’re preparing the ground for something they see as
inevitable,” said Nicola Marinelli, who manages $150 million at
Glendevon King Asset Management in  London . “The market is
expecting France to be a strong AA; expecting it to be AA+. If
any rating change goes lower than that the spread with Germany
can widen further.”  France, Europe’s second-largest economy and the No. 2
backer of the region’s rescue fund after Germany, was singled
out among the six euro-region holders of the top AAA rating by
S&P as the one that risked a two-level lowering of its credit
rating. The country’s downgrade would affect the rating of the
European Financial Stability Fund, making the bailout of the
region’s troubled economies more expensive.  ‘Priced In’  That would endanger efforts to put an end to the more-than-
two-year-old sovereign debt crisis as  Europe  slides into
recession, economists said.  “The one-notch downgrade, our base scenario, is more or
less priced in,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in London. “The wider consequences are not
necessarily priced in. It will weaken confidence and could fuel
the European debt crisis in a self-fulfilling spiral.”  French 10-year bonds yielded 3.05 percent today, about 122
basis points more than similar German securities. The spread was
less than 50 points a year ago. The extra yield investors demand
to hold French bonds instead of benchmark German bunds rose to
as much as 204 basis points on Nov. 17, the most since 1990, as
concern deepened the region’s debt crisis was spreading.  It costs 219 basis points to insure French debt for five
years, more than twice as much as AAA rated U.K. and more than
the cost of insuring debt issued by  Indonesia  or the  Philippines 
against a default, CMA prices showed today.  Election Fever  Sarkozy, who has sought to protect his government’s
creditworthiness by announcing tax increases and spending cuts,
has attempted to position himself for a 2012 re-election
campaign as the most credible candidate on economic matters.  After earlier painting the loss of the AAA rating as a
catastrophe, he and his ministers have said they’re going to
focus on growth and competitiveness rather than worry about what
ratings companies might do.  Yesterday, Sarkozy said France needs to focus less on
markets and ratings companies.  “Markets and ratings agencies exasperate our citizens,”
he said at a reception for lawmakers in Paris. “We must take
back control of our destiny.”  Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said in an interview last
week that the government “isn’t working for the rating
agencies.”  ‘Heightened Risk’  Sarkozy trails his main rival, Socialist Party candidate
 Francois Hollande , by about 14 points in voting intention for
the second round of the election, according to a BVA poll for Le
Parisien newspaper published Jan. 9.  Moody’s said Dec. 12 it will review the ratings of all EU
countries after a summit on Dec. 9 in Brussels failed to produce
“decisive policy measures” to end the region’s debt turmoil.
S&P placed the ratings of 15 euro nations, including Germany, on
review for possible downgrades on Dec. 5.  Fitch Ratings  cut  France ’s credit outlook on Dec. 16 on the
“heightened risk of contingent liabilities” from the euro-
region crisis. 17. This week Fitch said it probably won’t
downgrade France in 2012 unless the regional debt crisis
intensifies.  Since the ratings companies’ announcements, markets have
been roiled by frequent speculation about a French downgrade.
Finance Minister Francois Baroin yesterday denied having been
notified about a downgrade, calling it “false.”  Headwinds  France’s woes, like those of other euro-area countries, are
compounded by an economy that’s edging toward recession as
budget cuts to contain the fiscal crisis bite.  The French economy is probably already in a recession that
will last through March, national statistics office Insee said
last month. France has the biggest debt burden of the six top-
rated euro nations, at 85 percent of gross domestic product.  A ratings cut would be “another headwind for Sarkozy’s
reelection,”  Standard Chartered ’s Costerg said. “He first
tried to raise the stakes to defend AAA and now is trying to
downplay it. Why? It’s the election.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  