-- German Banking Groups Say They Oppose Financial-Transaction Tax
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-01-11T15:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/german-banking-groups-say-they-oppose-financial-transaction-tax.html
German private and public banks are
opposed to plans by  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to impose a financial-transaction tax
in the euro zone, associations representing both groups said.  “If a financial-transaction tax cannot be introduced
internationally, you have to do without it,” Hans Reckers,
managing director of  Germany ’s VOeB association of public banks,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “We firmly oppose the
creation of  tax havens  in the EU.”  Such a levy would mostly hurt private individuals as they
couldn’t move to more favorable countries as easily as
institutional investors, Andreas Schmitz, president of the BdB
Association of German Banks, said at an event in Berlin today.  France  will lead the way on taxing financial transactions
in an effort to spur other countries into joining, Sarkozy said
yesterday. Merkel said today her expression of support for a
financial-transaction tax levied among the 17 countries that
share the euro was her “personal opinion” and depends on
support from her party and coalition.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has said the tax won’t
work unless it’s applied worldwide. U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  has called the plan an “attack” on
London firms, which his government estimates would pay 80
percent of the tax.  The European Commission in September suggested a tax of 0.1
percent on equity and bond transactions and 0.01 percent on
derivatives, which it said could raise 55 billion euros ($70
billion) a year. European Union finance ministers are due to
discuss the levy in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  