-- German Stocks Decline as Economy Contracts; Metro, Douglas Shares Retreat
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-01-11T17:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/german-stocks-fluctuate-metro-falls-as-munich-re-shares-rise-in-frankfurt.html
German stocks  dropped, after
yesterday’s biggest rally in a week, as a report showed that
Europe’s largest economy contracted in the final quarter of
2011, indicating it may be headed for a recession.  Metro AG (MEO) ,  the nation’s largest retailer , slid after UBS AG
advised selling the shares.  Douglas Holding AG (DOU)  tumbled 9.8
percent after the retailer said earnings this year will decline.
Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank AG advanced.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.2 percent to 6,152.34 at
the close in Frankfurt. The gauge earlier gained as much as 0.3
percent as Germany received bids for more than twice the debt it
had planned to sell at an auction. The DAX  retreated 15 percent 
last year as euro-area leaders struggled to contain the region’s
debt crisis. The broader HDAX Index was little changed today.  “Certainly from a clients’ perspective, European markets
are a bit overbought, especially from the point of the
fundamentals of the debt crisis,” said Will Hedden, a sales
trader at IG Index in London. “We were expecting overall
European Union growth figures not to be great, but if  Germany 
itself will struggle, what’s left for the others?”  Stocks slipped after a report showed that the debt crisis
caused the economy to contract 0.25 percent in the fourth
quarter from the third. Growth slowed to 3 percent in 2011, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said in an unofficial
estimate.  Economists including  Christian Schulz  at Berenberg Bank
predict that gross domestic product will contract again in the
current quarter. A recession is defined as two consecutive
quarters of declining GDP.  German Debt Sale  Germany received bids for 8.97 billion euros ($11.4
billion) of five-year notes at an auction today, more than
double its sale target of 4 billion euros, the Bundesbank said.
It sold the 0.75 percent notes maturing in February 2017 at an
average yield of 0.90 percent.  David Riley , head of the sovereign-debt unit at  Fitch
Ratings , today said the  European Central Bank  should increase
its purchases of  government bonds  to ease pressure on yields.  “We need to have a credible buyer put in place and we
don’t have that at the moment,” which is “why we have a number
of sovereigns under review,” Riley said at an event in
Frankfurt today. “The ECB needs to be more actively engaged,
but it can’t save the euro on its own.”  Metro, Douglas Fall  Metro (MEO)  retreated 3.3 percent to 28.36 euros. The stock was
cut to “sell” from “neutral” at UBS. Analysts Benjamin Peters and Mike Tattersall wrote in a report that the shares
will probably “come under increasing pressure from earnings
downgrades.”  Douglas Holding tumbled 9.8 percent to 25.39 euros, its
biggest decline since June 2001.  Europe ’s largest retailer of
makeup and perfumes said earnings this year will drop as its
Thalia book shop division struggles with consumers’ shift to
buying literature online.  Deutsche Bank, the nation’s biggest lender, rose 1.7
percent to 27.94 euros. Commerzbank, Germany’s second largest,
surged 5.1 percent to 1.3 euros. UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest
bank, gained 5.5 percent as its shares were upgraded by Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. and WestLB AG. The bank plans to raise 7.5
billion euros in a rights issue.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  advanced 3.4 percent to 46.88 euros, gaining
for a second day. The  construction company  will form a venture
with its owner, Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA, to
build power lines, allowing it to benefit from the change in
energy policy in Germany, the Financial Times Deutschland said,
citing a Hochtief spokesman it didn’t name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  