-- Germany on Brink of Recession as Euro Debt Crisis Damps Exports: Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-01-11T11:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/germany-on-brink-of-recession-as-sovereign-debt-crisis-weighs-on-exports.html
Germany  may be on the brink of
recession after the sovereign debt crisis caused the economy to
contract in the final quarter of 2011.  Europe ’s largest economy shrank “roughly” 0.25 percent in
the fourth quarter from the third, the Federal Statistics Office
in Wiesbaden said today in an unofficial estimate. Economists
such as Christian Schulz at Berenberg Bank expect gross domestic
product to contract again in the current quarter. A recession is
defined as two consecutive quarters of declining GDP.  “If the euro crisis does not get worse or is finally
brought under control after another wave in early 2012, the
German economy can rebound nicely from the summer onwards,”
said Schulz, a senior economist with Berenberg in  London .
“However, we see a 25 percent chance of the euro crisis
remaining out of control longer, or completely spiraling out of
control with a series of sovereign and bank defaults. In such a
scenario, Germany would enter a major recession.”  Growth slowed to 3 percent in 2011 from 3.7 percent in
2010, which was the most since German reunification two decades
earlier, the statistics office said. The economy last  contracted 
in 2009, when it was in the throes of the global financial
crisis. Unemployment at a two-decade low may bolster growth this
year by supporting  consumer spending .  Domestic Demand  Domestic demand was the main contributor to GDP growth last
year, adding 2.1 percentage points, today’s report showed.
Private consumption increased 1.5 percent in the year, while
 government spending  rose 1.2 percent. Investment in plant and
machinery gained 8.3 percent.  The euro rose after the 2011 GDP report before giving up
its gains to trade at $1.2755 at 11:50 a.m. in Frankfurt.
European stocks fluctuated, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
little changed. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.3 percent
today, while Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures gained less
than 0.1 percent.  The weaker global economy and waning demand from debt-
stricken euro-area neighbors have eroded German foreign sales,
the main pillar of its economic expansion. Net trade contributed
0.8 percentage point to growth last year, with exports up 8.2
percent and imports gaining 7.2 percent. In 2010, exports
increased 13.7 percent.  “All in all, the German economy has remained relatively
resilient,” said Annalisa Piazza, an economist at Newedge Group
in London. “Signs of moderation have recently emerged but we
expect the German economy to remain afloat in the coming
quarters, maintaining its role as the major engine of growth for
the euro area.”  2012 Forecast  German growth will slow to 0.6 percent this year before
recovering to 1.8 percent in 2013, the Bundesbank predicted on
Dec. 19. The  European Central Bank , which has cut  interest rates 
to a record low and flooded the banking system with cash during
the debt crisis, last month reduced its 2012 growth forecast for
the 17-nation euro region to just 0.3 percent.  Spanish industrial production fell the most in two years in
November reflecting a contraction in the euro area’s fourth-
largest economy as the government prepares to implement a new
wave of austerity. Output at factories, refineries and mines
adjusted for the number of working days declined 7 percent from
a year earlier, the most since October 2009, the National
Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said today.  In the U.K., the goods-trade deficit widened more than
economists forecast in November as exports dropped, the  Office
for National Statistics  said. The  trade gap  widened to 8.64
billion pounds ($13.6 billion) from 7.87 billion pounds in
October. Exports fell 1.5 percent on the month while imports
rose 1.1 percent.  Beige Book   The effects of Europe’s debt crisis may cost the U.S. as
much as half a percentage point in economic growth this year,
Goldman Sachs Chief Economist Jan Hatzius said at an event in
Frankfurt today.  The U.S. Federal Reserve will release its Beige Book survey
later today, and the  Mortgage Bankers Association  will give data
on mortgage applications for the week ended Jan. 6.  “The debt crisis is unprecedented and economic forecasts
in this environment are very difficult,” said  Joerg Kraemer ,
chief economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , who expects the
German economy to contract “a little” in the first three
months of this year. “For 2012 as a whole, we expect
stagnation,” he said.  There are signs Germany’s economic downturn will be
shallow. Business confidence unexpectedly rose for a second
month in December and  service industries  expanded.  The statistics office said today it may revise its fourth-
quarter GDP assessment by the time official data are published
on Feb. 15.  “Minus 0.25 percent is a too-pessimistic call both on the
basis of hard and soft data,” said  Andreas Rees , chief German
economist at UniCredit in Munich. “Our bottom line: Don’t worry
too much about 2012, and let’s be grateful about last year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  