-- German Economy May Have Shrunk at End 2011
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-01-11T08:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/german-growth-slowed-in-2011-on-exports.html
The German economy probably
contracted in the final quarter of 2011 as the sovereign debt
crisis damped demand for exports.  Europe ’s largest economy shrank “roughly” 0.25 percent in
the fourth quarter from the third, the Federal Statistics Office
in Wiesbaden said today, adding it may revise its assessment by
the time official data are published on Feb. 15. Growth slowed
to 3 percent in 2011 from 3.7 percent in 2010, which was the
most since German reunification two decades ago, the office
said.  Germany ’s budget deficit amounted to 1 percent of  gross
domestic product  last year.  German growth is slowing as the weaker global economy and
waning demand from debt-stricken euro-area neighbors erodes
foreign sales. Germany may still avoid a recession as
unemployment at a two-decade low supports consumer spending.  “Last year was a good year even if the situation
deteriorated toward the end of 2011,” said  Aline Schuiling , an
economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “While the industrial
sector has suffered a blow from the sovereign debt crisis, more
resilient domestic demand could prevent the economy from
contracting too strongly.”  Domestic demand was the main contributor to GDP growth last
year, adding 2.1 percentage points, the statistics office said.
Private consumption increased 1.5 percent in the year, while
 government spending  rose 1.2 percent. Investment in plant and
machinery gained 8.3 percent.  Net Trade  Net trade contributed 0.8 percentage points to growth, with
exports up 8.2 percent and imports gaining 7.2 percent. In 2010
exports increased 13.7 percent.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-biggest car-parts maker,
said on Dec. 29 that revenue in the fourth quarter will be
slightly higher than in the third as the company’s tire and
electronics businesses grew faster than competitors.  At the same time,  Fresenius Medical Care AG (FME) , the world’s
biggest provider of  kidney dialysis , on Dec. 20 cut its 2011
revenue forecast, blaming the weaker euro.  “Last year we had more and more evidence that the recovery
was broadening out, with domestic demand and investment
strong,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London . “There’s a constant tug-of-war
between the positive of domestic demand and the negative drag of
the sovereign debt crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  