-- Geron Hires Stifel Nicolaus to Sell Stem Cell Assets, CEO Scarlett Says
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-11T21:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/geron-hires-stifel-nicolaus-to-sell-stem-cell-assets-ceo-scarlett-says.html
  Geron Corp. (GERN)  hired  Stifel Nicolaus (SF)  &
Co. to sell its embryonic stem cell therapy, the first approved
in the U.S., as the company changes its focus to cancer drugs,
Chief Executive Officer John Scarlett said.  Geron is actively talking to interested parties, Scarlett
said today during a presentation at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare
conference in  San Francisco . The  Menlo Park , California-based
company announced in November it would end its program testing
the stem cell therapy in spinal-cord injury patients because of
financial reasons. The shares declined the most in 11 years.  “Every company has to make decisions about what they can
do, not just what they aspire, or like, to do,” Scarlett said.
“Today, more than ever, the resources of every biotechnology
company at this conference are very finite.”  The company has two cancer therapies in or beginning the
second of three clinical trials generally required for U.S.
approval. One treatment, called Imetelstat, is being tested in
non-small cell lung cancer,  breast cancer , the blood disorder
thrombocythemia and multiple myeloma. The second medicine,
GRN1005, is being tested against brain metastases stemming from
non-small cell lung cancer as well as from breast cancer.  Cash Situation  Geron ended 2011 with $150 million in  cash , and will spend
$65 million this year, Scarlett said, allowing the company to
conclude the trials without having to raise additional
financing. Results from the studies will start to be available
in the fourth quarter, at which point Geron will consider
partnerships or mergers and acquisitions to fund further trials,
Scarlett said.  “I don’t think we want to take anything off the table,”
Scarlett said in an interview. “These are maturing assets, and
golly, what are you going to do with those? Well, we’ll see what
the results show.”  Last week, Geron announced the hiring of Graham Cooper as
chief financial officer. Cooper, 42, held the same position at
 Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)  from 2006 until last year, and prior
to that was director of health care investment banking at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., where he worked on about 50
health care deals, he said in an interview.  Geron closed unchanged at $1.73. The stock has fallen 67
percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  