-- Goldman Sachs Appoints Paradise, Ueda to Run Securities Division in Asia
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-11T16:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/goldman-sachs-names-paradise-ueda-to-run-securities-in-asia.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the U.S.
bank that gets more than 60 percent of its revenue from trading,
named James R. Paradise and Eiji Ueda co-heads of the firm’s
securities division in Asia.  Paradise, who is based in  London , and Ueda, who works in
 Tokyo , will move to  Hong Kong  to assume their new
responsibilities, according to an internal memo obtained by
Bloomberg News. They will report to Katsunori Sago, deputy
president of Goldman Sachs Japan, and to David C. Ryan,
president of Goldman Sachs Asia Pacific Ex-Japan.  Paradise and Ueda are assuming some of the responsibilities
previously held by Yusuf Alireza, who left Goldman Sachs in
November after 19 years at the company. Alireza, who oversaw the
securities division in  Asia , was promoted a year ago to be co-
president of the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan with Ryan.  Goldman Sachs’s securities division, which handles sales
and trading of equities, fixed-income, currencies and
commodities, has been managed globally since 2008 by David B. Heller, Edward K. Eisler, Pablo J. Salame, and Harvey M. Schwartz. The company generated $14.2 billion in revenue from
its institutional client sales and trading business in the first
nine months of 2011, down 22 percent from a year earlier.  Paradise, 47, has been co-head of Goldman Sachs’s global
securities services, futures and execution business since 2008,
according to the memo. A British citizen, he joined the firm in
1989, was promoted to managing director in 2000 and became a
partner in 2004. In his new role he will be a member of the Asia
Pacific Management Committee as well as co-chair, with Ueda, of
the Securities Division Asia Pacific Operating Committee,
according to the memo.  Ueda’s Committee Memberships  Ueda, a Japanese citizen who joined Goldman Sachs in 1991
and has been a partner since 2002, has been co-head of fixed-
income, currencies and commodities in Japan since 2009,
according to the memo. He is co-chair of the Asia Pacific Risk
Committee and is a member of the Asia Pacific Management
Committee, Securities Division Asia Pacific Operating Committee,
Korea Operating Committee and Firmwide Risk Committee.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman in  New York ,
confirmed the contents of the memo, which was signed by Heller,
Eisler, Salame and Schwartz. Reuters reported Paradise and
Ueda’s new assignments earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 