-- Goldman’s Tax-Free Building Loan Makes Liberty Bonds Renewal a Tough Sell
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/goldman-s-tax-free-building-loan-makes-liberty-bonds-renewal-a-tough-sell.html
A tax-free bond program that
provided below-market financing to build  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s headquarters is expiring while New York developers say
the city’s commercial real estate market still needs support.  Congress created the Liberty Bond program in March 2002
with $8 billion in tax-exempt funds to rebuild lower Manhattan
after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The allocation ran out
last month, and the tax exemption ended on Dec. 31 along with
dozens of other breaks for manufacturers, energy companies and
transit commuters.  Critics that include affordable housing advocates say the
bonds were little more than a subsidy for fancy Manhattan
 apartments  and office towers for Goldman Sachs and  Bank of
America Corp . Developers counter that, more than a decade after
the attacks, low-cost financing remains necessary to help lower
Manhattan’s commercial market recover.  “The Liberty Bonds made available to the  World Trade
Center site  are only enough to support rebuilding a little less
than 60 percent of the  office space  lost on 9/11,”  Larry Silverstein , the World Trade Center’s developer, said in an e-
mail. “In an ideal world, more such resources would be made
available to help jump-start construction of the remaining 40
percent of the office space that was destroyed by terrorists.”  His company, Silverstein Properties Inc., received almost
$3 billion through the Liberty Bond program to help redevelop
the World Trade Center site. Goldman financed construction of
its headquarters at 200 West St. with about $1.5 billion in
Liberty Bond financing. Bank of America’s tower across from
 Bryant Park  was financed with $650 million in Liberty Bonds.  No Quick Extension  Another allocation of the bonds paired with a  tax exemption 
isn’t in the offing. Congress may not consider reviving any of
the expired tax breaks until the end of 2012. New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said policy makers should consider the city’s
financing needs before deciding what to do about the Liberty
Bonds.  “Just going and raising money because you want to waste it
is not something that’s smart,” he said during a Jan. 9 news
conference in the Bronx. “Don’t start out with the Liberty Bond
program. Start out with what are the needs of the state. What
are the needs of the city? What are the needs of the region? And
then we’ll have to figure out how to finance it.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Bonds Debate  A decade after creation of the Liberty Bonds, there is
still debate about what they were intended to accomplish.
Richard Froehlich, the chief operating officer of the  New York 
City Housing Development Corp., an agency created by the state
legislature to fund affordable housing, says the bonds have
helped foster residential life downtown.  “It’s becoming an interesting neighborhood,” he said.  The New York City Housing Development Corp. issued Liberty
Bonds that helped create 3,396 residential units. Almost all of
that housing is in high-end apartment buildings.  Two-bedroom apartments at 63  Wall Street  and 90 West
Street, financed with Liberty Bonds, are renting for $4,200 a
month. Another building financed with the bonds, at 2 Gold
Street, is renting three-bedroom units for $5,400 a month.  “There were too many lost opportunities with the Liberty
Bonds,” said Bettina Damiani, project director with Good Jobs
New York, a labor-backed research group. “Around Sept. 11,
people in public service were heralded, but we decided to build
housing that totally excluded those types of people from living
in lower  Manhattan .”  The housing agency required developers who used Liberty
Bond financing to pay a 3 percent fee that would go toward
building affordable housing in other New York neighborhoods.
Froehlich said the fees have added about 800 affordable housing
units outside of lower Manhattan which, he said, was always
expensive.  “It was not a low-income community before and it’s not
now,” he said. “When you think about it at the time when there
was concern about just keeping life downtown, focusing on
affordability wasn’t the right issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  