-- Goldman Sachs Trading Co-Heads Eisler, Heller to Leave Firm
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-01-12T15:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/goldman-s-heller-eisler-to-retire-as-co-heads-of-global-securities-unit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said two
leaders of its biggest division are leaving the company a week
before it reports what some analysts predict will be the lowest
annual profit since the firm went public.  Edward K. Eisler, 42, and David B. Heller, 44, are retiring
from the company, where they helped lead the securities trading
division since February 2008, according to two internal memos
obtained by Bloomberg News yesterday. Eisler, an Austrian based
in  London , joined the bank 18 years ago and has a background
trading interest-rate products, currencies and commodities.
Heller, a U.S. citizen who lives in New York, spent more than 22
years at the firm, mainly in equities and equity derivatives.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
derived more than 60 percent of its revenue from trading in the
first nine months of last year. The business is contracting as
investors become more cautious and regulators demand banks hold
more capital and curb proprietary bets, leading Goldman Sachs
Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, to cut jobs and
other expenses.  “This is not as appealing a sector to work in for the
time-being,”  Roger Freeman , an analyst at Barclays Capital in
New York who has an “equal-weight” rating on Goldman Sachs,
said in a phone interview. For executives like Eisler and Heller
who already have accumulated wealth “this could be a great time
to just take a few years off, spend it with your kids, and
you’re not missing anything.”  Succession Plans  The departures will add to speculation about succession
plans at the top of New York-based Goldman Sachs, where
Blankfein has held the chairman and CEO roles since mid-2006.
Heller sometimes is brought up as a possible future CEO, even as
president and chief operating officer Gary D. Cohn, 51,
Blankfein’s top deputy, continues to be the leading candidate.  Isabelle Ealet, 48, the bank’s London-based global head of
commodities since 2007, will become one of three co-heads of the
securities division alongside Pablo J. Salame, 45, and Harvey M. Schwartz, 47, according to another internal memo obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the company,
confirmed the memos’ contents and declined to comment further.  Ealet, a French citizen who started at Goldman Sachs as an
oil trader in 1991, already is a member of the management
committee and will continue to be based in London. As the only
woman on Goldman Sachs’s management committee to oversee a
revenue-producing unit, she’s one of the most powerful women
working at a Wall Street firm. She started her Goldman Sachs
career at the commodities trading division J. Aron, as did
Blankfein and Cohn.  Rutgers University   Schwartz also started in Goldman Sachs’s commodities
division, joining in 1997. A New Jersey native based in  New
York , Schwartz helped run fixed-income sales and the financing
group before taking his current role. In October 2010, Schwartz
 donated  $1.5 million to Rutgers University, from which he
graduated in 1987.  Ealet and Schwartz are close to Cohn, according to former
Goldman Sachs employees.  Salame, an Ecuadorian who moved to New York from London
last year, joined the firm in 1996 and helped manage global
credit, mortgages, emerging-markets trading and equity
derivatives before taking his current role.  Eisler  and Heller join about 50 Goldman Sachs partners who
left the firm in the past 12 months, according to company
filings, internal memos and news reports. The bank elects its
most successful employees to a so-called partnership every other
year, granting them access to a special compensation pool, to
maintain the culture of the partnership the firm ended when it
went public in May 1999.  Gasvoda, Hunt  Other recent departures include James B. Clark from asset
management, Kevin S. Gasvoda from fixed-income, Linnea K.
Roberts from  investment banking , and Edith A. Hunt, who helped
manage the personnel division, according to a company filing.
All are based in New York and none responded to e-mails seeking
comment.  Charles Manby, a British citizen based in London, retired
as global chairman of technology, media and telecommunications
banking, the firm said in a memo to employees last month. The
dealmaker, who advised companies including Deutsche Telekom AG
and Vodafone Group Plc, joined Goldman Sachs’s corporate finance
unit in London in 1990 before becoming a partner in 2000.  In  Asia , Hong Kong-based Rumiko Hasegawa, who was most
recently head of corporate sales for Asia outside  Japan , retired
at the end of the year after 19 years at the company, according
to a memo in November. Daisuke Toki, who was vice chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Japan, left at year end after 21
years at the company, a September memo showed. All of the memos’
contents were confirmed by company spokespeople.  ‘Greener Pastures’  Eisler and Heller will become senior directors, according
to the memos. Senior directors advise the firm on matters
related to their areas of expertise and aren’t employees.  “Both of these executives have a risk-taking background at
Goldman and are relatively young and may have perceived greener
pastures elsewhere,” Gregory Cresci, an executive recruiter at
Odyssey Search Partners in New York, said in a phone interview.  Heller, who didn’t respond to phone and e-mail messages
seeking comment, has demonstrated an interest in politics,
helping to raise money for President Barack Obama’s election in
2008, and in sports. Heller became a  part-owner  of the
Philadelphia 76ers basketball team last year, according to the
 National Basketball Association , and was part of a group that
tried to buy the New York Mets baseball team, according to the
New York Post. Eisler didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Lane, Scherr, Varadhan  “The vast majority of traders at Goldman who leave go on
to start their own  hedge funds ,” William Cohan, author of
“Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World”
and a Bloomberg View columnist, said on Bloomberg television.  Eric S. Lane, Stephen M. Scherr and Ashok Varadhan were
named to the firm’s management committee, according to a
separate memo yesterday from Blankfein and Cohn.  Lane, who former Goldman Sachs executives say is also close
to Cohn, was promoted last month to be co-head of the firm’s
investment-management division with  Timothy O’Neill . Scherr is
global head of the financing group within investment banking and
also assumed responsibility for  Latin America  when Kevin W. Kennedy retired last year. Varadhan is global head of currencies
and  emerging markets .  Paradise, Ueda  Goldman Sachs named James R. Paradise, 47, and Eiji Ueda as
co-heads of the trading business in Asia, according to a
separate internal memo dated Jan. 10. Paradise, who’s based in
London, and Ueda, based in  Tokyo , will move to  Hong Kong  to
assume some of the responsibilities previously held by Yusuf A. Alireza, who left in November after 19 years at the company.  Paradise and Ueda will report to Katsunori Sago, deputy
president of Goldman Sachs Japan, and to David C. Ryan, who
serves as president in Asia outside Japan, according to the
memo.  Goldman Sachs may post fourth-quarter profit of 75 cents a
share when it reports results on Jan. 18,  Barclays Capital ’s
Freeman wrote in a research note last month. That would be down
from $3.79 a share a year earlier and would mean the lowest
annual  earnings  attributable to common stockholders since 1998,
the year before Goldman Sachs went public, according to Freeman.  Changes Beginning  The changes at Goldman Sachs are just beginning, Freeman
said in the phone interview. He pointed to still-incomplete
areas of regulation such as derivatives, the so-called Volcker
rule, which places limits on proprietary trading, and the
adoption of the  Basel  Committee on Banking Supervision’s rules
on  capital requirements .  “As the rule sets around Volcker, derivatives and Basel
get finalized over the course of the first half of this year,
that frees up these firms to finally move forward in
restructuring these businesses, and that may result in further
headcount or management changes,” Freeman said. “You could see
something broader this year or maybe next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 