-- Google Wins Biggest Enterprise Deal as Spain’s Banco Bilbao Reduces Costs
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-01-11T21:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/google-wins-biggest-enterprise-deal-as-spain-s-banco-bilbao-reduces-costs.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , vying with  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  for corporate customers, will provide Web services to the
Spanish bank  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in the Internet-
search giant’s biggest enterprise contract ever.  About 110,000 employees in more than 26 countries at
 Spain ’s second-largest lender will start using the Google Apps
offering which includes e-mail service Gmail, time-management
tool Calendar, data-storage service Docs and Website-creation
program Sites, the companies said.  “We are confident we can have more and more larger
companies from all over the world because of the benefits we are
bringing,”  Sebastien Marotte , Google Enterprise vice president
for  Europe , said in an interview in Madrid. BBVA picked Google
over other systems because of a better price, security and
experience in the market, said  Carmen Lopez , director for BBVA’s
Innovation Observatory.  Google, grappling with slowing growth from its traditional
online advertising business, is stepping up competition with
Microsoft by selling  business software  as an alternative to
Office programs. Google’s programs are accessed through the Web,
just as its search engine is. Spanish companies such as BBVA,
based in the northern city of Bilbao, need to cut costs and
improve productivity amid a weakening economy with the highest
 unemployment rate  in the European Union.  ‘Big Name’  “This is a very important deal for Google because BBVA is
a big name and it’s a first step to get other contracts from the
financial sector,” said Marco Guenther, a Hamburg-based analyst
at  Hamburger Sparkasse . “As advertising faces more competition,
Enterprise is becoming more and more important as it widens
prospects for the company.”  Customers at average often save about 50 to 70 percent
compared to their previous software solutions as  Mountain View ,
California-based Google only charges for the specific programs
used by a client, Marotte said.  BBVA was little changed in Madrid trading today, closing at
6.28 euros. Google gained less than 1 percent to $625.96.  Google said the agreement is its biggest enterprise
contract win so far based on the number of users. A BBVA
spokesman said the contract initially runs for one year and will
be automatically renewed until one of the partners wants to end
it. Both companies declined to give a value for the deal.  Daimler Mapping Deal  Google Enterprise, which was created seven years ago to
deliver Google products to the enterprise world, has now 4
million companies as customers and 5,000 new clients adopt the
technology every day, according to Marotte.  Carmaker  Daimler AG (DAI)  said today it signed a strategic
partnership with Google to work on automotive applications. The
Stuttgart, Germany-based company will get access to Google’s
technology to offer drivers mapping and cloud-computing
services.  Other existing Google Enterprise clients include carmaker
Jaguar Land Rover, the University of  Washington  and the City of
 Los Angeles .  “Our main goal is to promote innovation and improve our
employees’ efficiency and productivity,” Lopez said. “We live
in a very competitive and fast-changing environment and we want
to operate in a faster and more collaborative way.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  announced last month
14.9 billion euros ($19 billion) of spending cuts and tax
increases as public finances were in worse shape than the
previous government and the EU had expected.  BBVA’s operating costs rose 9.9 percent in the first nine
months of 2011 from the same period a year earlier. Technology
is important to tap growth opportunities, BBVA Chief Financial
Officer Manuel Gonzalez Cid said today in  Madrid , according to a
presentation on the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  