-- Ichimoku Cloud May Signal Dollar Weakness, Citi Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-11T21:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/ichimoku-cloud-may-signal-dollar-weakness-citi-says-technical-analysis.html
The dollar will be confined to a
range of 75 yen to 80 yen in 2012 and is more likely to
depreciate, Citigroup Inc. said, citing ichimoku-cloud chart
analysis.  The weekly cloud at 78 yen to 80 yen this year will provide
strong resistance, and risks of  U.S. dollar  depreciation versus
the yen exceed those that tilt toward appreciation,  Osamu Takashima  and Issei Suzuki, foreign-exchange strategists at
Citibank Japan Ltd. in  Tokyo , wrote in a note to clients today.
Resistance refers to the upper boundary of a trading range,
where sell orders may be clustered.  “Our overall bias is U.S.-dollar bullish, so I suspect if
we see 80 that U.S. dollar is much stronger against other
currencies,” Tom Fitzpatrick, Citigroup’s New York-based chief
technical analyst, said in an e-mail message. “Unless and until
the  Federal Reserve  shifts course, this looks like range trade
with a slight downside bias.”  The dollar was little changed at 76.89 yen at 4:46 p.m. New
York time. The yen gained to 75.35 per dollar on Oct. 31, the
strongest level since World War II. That prompted the government
to sell the currency to curb its strength, following previous
interventions in March and August.  Ichimoku charts are used to predict a currency’s direction
by analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows. The
conversion line plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low
over the past nine trading days. The baseline is the same
calculation over the past 26 days.  The cloud refers to the area between the first and second
leading span lines on the chart and is used to show an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  