-- Microsoft Says Fourth-Quarter PC Shipments May Have Fallen Short
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-01-11T00:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/microsoft-says-fourth-quarter-pc-shipments-may-have-fallen-short.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, said industrywide sales of personal computers
will probably be lower than analysts projected in the fourth
quarter because supply was hurt by flooding in Thailand.  Analysts have estimated that total PC shipments fell about
1 percent in the period, Tami Reller, chief financial officer of
Microsoft’s Windows unit, said at an investment conference
yesterday. The actual number is probably lower, she said. Bill Koefoed, Microsoft’s general manager of  investor relations ,
echoed those remarks at a separate event.  “As the numbers come out, you’ll likely see that number
decline further as the impact has been felt faster than people
had anticipated,” Koefoed said at a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
conference. Reller told the audience at a Nomura Holdings Inc.
event that there could potentially be more downward adjustments.
Both conferences were held in  Las Vegas , where the Consumer
Electronics Show is under way.  Last year’s flooding in Thailand, which knocked disk-drive
factories off line, took a toll on a PC market that was already
suffering from competition with smartphones and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad. Sales in Microsoft’s  Windows unit , which makes the
operating system software that runs most PCs, have missed
estimates in three of the past four quarters. The comments
probably mean they will fall short again, said Brendan Barnicle,
an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Oregon.  ‘Under Siege’  “The Windows business is under siege,” said Barnicle, who
had estimated that PC shipments dropped 1 percent in the
quarter. He rates Microsoft shares “sector perform.” “Windows
is their most profitable business. If that’s not stable for
whatever reason --  Thailand , Apple -- it just becomes difficult
for the stock to gain momentum.”  Shares of Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft  slipped  1.8
percent in extended trading after the comments were reported.
The stock had closed at $27.84 at the close in  New York .  Analysts on average predict the company’s total sales in
the fiscal second quarter, which ended in December, will rise
5.3 percent to $21 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Microsoft is working to release a new operating system,
Windows 8, that’s designed to work on iPad-like tablets, helping
it compete with Apple. A public test version is set for
February, and Reller gave a preview last night during Chief
Executive Officer Steve Ballmer’s keynote address at the
 Consumer Electronics Show .  The executives declined to comment yesterday on when the
final version will go on sale. Analysts expect it later this
year.  PC Makers, Intel  PC shipments rose 3.6 percent in the third quarter,
according to market researcher IDC, less than the 4.5 percent
growth the firm had predicted.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  was the
world’s biggest PC seller in the quarter, according to IDC,
followed by  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)   Intel Corp ., the world’s biggest computer-chip maker, cut
its fourth-quarter revenue forecast by $1 billion last month,
citing the disk-drive shortages.  The floodwaters engulfed much of the industrial heartland
north of Bangkok, sidelining production of disk drives and
components. The affected area produces about a quarter of the
world’s drives, IDC estimated in November.  Drive manufacturers are still working to recover, though
some have bounced back faster than they had expected.  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC) , one of the harder-hit companies, has resumed
production and raised its quarterly revenue forecast.  Still, these types of shortages take time to go away,
Microsoft’s Reller said.  “It tends to take a few quarters to work its way through
the system,” she said. “It would be naive to believe
otherwise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  