-- Microsoft Is Said to Plan Marketing Reorganization That Includes Job Cuts
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-01-11T19:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/microsoft-said-to-be-planning-reorganization-of-marketing-job-reductions.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is making plans for
a companywide restructuring of its marketing operations, a move
that may include hundreds of job cuts, according to people
familiar with the matter.  The plans haven’t been settled and could change, according
to the people, who asked not to be named because the review
isn’t public. Job cuts are unlikely to involve thousands of
 employees , the people said. Initial steps could be announced
within the next 30 days, according to one person.  The changes would eliminate overlap in job responsibilities
and are designed to help the company better respond to threats
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google (GOOG)  Inc. and Amazon.com Inc., which are
increasingly targeting Microsoft’s corporate-computing
customers. Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer 
doesn’t think the company is getting enough return on the
billions it spends annually on marketing, the people said.  The review is being lead by Chris Capossela, who took over
as the company’s chief marketing officer last year, according to
the people. Capossela is working with senior marketing
executives for each of Microsoft’s business groups, such as
Yusuf Mehdi from the Xbox unit and Tami Reller from Windows, one
of the people said.  Moving People Around  Changes may include shifting some of the more technical
marketing workers to engineering groups, cutting employees who
don’t have needed skills or whose work is duplicated by other
workers, and revamping how marketing groups are organized and
where they fit into the rest of the company, the people said.  Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment.  Microsoft spent $13.9 billion on sales and marketing in
fiscal 2011, which ended on June 30, up 5.5 percent from the
previous year. Microsoft said then that it had 25,000 workers
devoted to those tasks, without breaking out how many are
focused on marketing. The company had about 90,000 full-time
employees in total.  Consumer-focused technology companies like Apple are making
inroads in the business world, forcing the information-
technology industry to regroup. Apple will sell $10 billion
worth of iPads and $9 billion of Mac computers to corporate
customers this year, a 58 percent jump,  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR) 
said in a report last week.  Google announced a deal earlier today to supply e-mail and
business services to the Spanish bank Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, marking the biggest corporate contract for the
Internet-search company.  Microsoft also is facing rising costs because of a shift to
cloud software, which is stored in the company’s data centers
and delivered over the Internet. Its $8.5 billion purchase of
Skype Technologies SA and Xbox gaming products are increasing
expenses as well.  Microsoft announced its first-ever companywide firings in
January 2009, a move that included more than 5,000 jobs by the
time it concluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  