-- Skyscraper Boom Matching China’s May Signal Indian Bubble, Barclays Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-01-11T03:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/india-s-skyscraper-boom-matching-china-s-may-signal-bubble-barclays-says.html
India , which is building the world’s
second-tallest skyscraper, is catching up with China in an
office building boom that may indicate that an economic slowdown
is imminent, according to Barclays Capital Research.  India is scheduled to complete 14 new skyscrapers taller
than 240 meters (787 feet) over the next five years from the
current two, Barclays’s analysts led by  Andrew Lawrence  said in
a report yesterday. China will increase the number of
skyscrapers to 141, from the current 75, by 2017, according to
the bank’s annual Skyscraper Index report.  Over the past 140 years, completion of the tallest
buildings has coincided with periods of economic turmoil such as
the Great Depression, the Asian financial contagion and the
global credit crisis, Barclays said.  China  is home to 53 percent
of all skyscrapers being built around the world, up from 44
percent a year earlier, according to Barclays.  “India, it seems, is playing catch-up,” the Barclays
analysts, based in  Hong Kong , wrote. “If history proves to be
right, this building boom in China and India could simply be a
reflection of a misallocation of capital, which may result in an
economic correction in the next five years.”  The 720-meter India Tower will be the world’s second-
tallest skyscraper when work on the building finishes,
overtaking the 632-meter Shanghai Tower that is scheduled for
completion in 2014, according to the  Council on Tall Buildings
and Urban Habitat . Dubai’s 828-meter Burj Khalifa is the world’s
tallest building.  Inland Skyscrapers  India,  Asia ’s third-largest economy, expanded 6.9 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, the smallest advance
in more than two years, government data on Nov. 30 showed.  More than half of China’s skyscrapers will be built inland
and away from the wealthier coastal areas and Pearl River Delta
region by 2017, indicating a move toward second-tier and third-
tier cities, according to the Barclays report.  China’s home prices fell for a fourth month in December
after the government reiterated plans to maintain curbs that
include higher down-payment and mortgage requirements, according
to SouFun Holdings Ltd. Housing values dropped in 60 out of 100
cities tracked by the nation’s biggest real-estate website owner,
including the 10 largest cities such as  Shanghai  and Beijing.  The government said last month at an annual economic
planning meeting that it won’t back away from real-estate
industry curbs this year that are damping home sales and pulling
down prices. The nation’s financial center of Shanghai and some
other Chinese cities have also said they will continue to impose
the home purchase restrictions this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  