-- Innovate or Be Overtaken, Energy Secretary Tells Automakers
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-01-11T16:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/innovate-or-be-overtaken-u-s-energy-secretary-tells-automakers.html
U.S. automakers must “innovate”
and make more fuel-efficient vehicles to capitalize on the
assistance provided by President Barack Obama’s administration,
Energy Secretary Steven Chu said.  “We’ve weathered the storm,” Chu said in a speech to the
 Detroit  Economic Club today. “But we can’t rest. It’s a very
competitive world out there. Our choice is very clear. We have
to continue to innovate or we’ll be overtaken.”  Automakers selling cars in the U.S. are operating under the
first mandated fuel-economy increases in more than two decades.
The Obama administration, which Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  has criticized for its auto bailout, is
requiring fuel-economy increases of about 4 percent per year
from 2012 to 2016.  Chu was among four Obama Cabinet-level officials to tour
the North American International Auto Show in Detroit this week.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, Commerce Secretary John Bryson and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator  Lisa Jackson  discussed the administration’s role in the U.S. auto-
industry recovery and investment in new vehicle technologies
while at the Detroit event.  Chu defended his department’s loan-and-grant programs for
automakers and suppliers to support development of electric
vehicles. Lawmakers including Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican, have questioned the agency’s loan
programs following the failure of solar-panel maker Solyndra
LLC, which received a $535 million loan guarantee.  Global Competition  “To compete in the global economy, it’s not only necessary
for the  United States  to invent these technologies, we need to
make them in the United States and sell our products
worldwide,” Chu said.  Severstal OAO (CHMF) ,  Russia ’s second-largest steelmaker, didn’t
receive the $730 million loan that won a conditional commitment
in part because work on the project being backed was well
underway, Chu said.  The Energy Department last week canceled the loan to
Severstal, which was to be used to make high-strength steel for
the  auto industry .  “We shouldn’t really be giving loans to projects that are
complete,” Chu said. “I hope it will continue. But we also
have to weigh risks to the taxpayer.”  Chrysler, Tesla, Fisker  The agency is still talking with Chrysler Group LLC about
its request for a loan, he said.  Chrysler Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said
this week that regulators reduced the amount of financing being
considered in their latest discussions with the company and that
the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company is weighing whether to
keep pursuing the loan if it’s offered too little. Chrysler is
seeking $3.5 billion.  “We hope to move forward,” Chu said today about the loan.
“There are no promises of what will happen.”  The department is continuing to review applications as the
White House reviews existing loans, Chu said.  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) ,
a battery supplier, and Bright Automotive Inc., which plans to
make electric vehicles for fleets, are among the applicants to
the program.  Chu said he is “very hopeful” that auto-industry
newcomers Fisker Automotive Inc. and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  will be
able to repay their loans. The two sports carmakers received
about $1 billion between them.  Congress spent money to cover loan losses, Chu said.  “There are no guarantees in this world,” he said. “Any
new company is risky. Having said that, they’re both very
promising companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  