-- Insurers Offer Gym Memberships With Medicare Programs
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-12T18:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/insurers-use-fitness-clubs-to-get-healthier-elderly-study-finds.html
The offer of a fitness club
membership is helping insurers including  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) 
and  Humana Inc. (HUM)  draw healthier and less costly patients to their
Medicare programs, said researchers reporting in the New England
Journal of Medicine.  The study found 35.3 percent of new enrollees in a fitness
membership benefit plan reported “excellent” or “very good”
health, compared with 29.1 percent in the group without the
benefit. The number of plans offering the memberships rose to 58
in 2008 from 4 in 2002, the researchers said.  The five largest insurers are looking to expand their roles
in offering government-subsidized health plans as the number of
Americans covered by them grows under the 2010 U.S. health law.
In doing so, the companies may try to “cherry pick” members
who are more likely to be healthy using the fitness memberships,
said Amal Trivedi, an assistant professor of community health at
 Brown University  in Providence,  Rhode Island , and the author of
the report released yesterday.  “In general, the government’s goal is to have plans
compete on their value to Medicare beneficiaries, and not on
their ability to cherry pick the healthiest patients,” Trivedi
said in a telephone interview. “They have still found a way to
do that in a market that’s very regulated.”  Researchers compared about 5,000 people using 11 Medicare
Advantage plans offering fitness-club memberships with those who
didn’t receive the benefit. The research by Trivedi and Alicia
Cooper was based on patient self-reporting, and the groups
weren’t randomly assigned to plans.  Advantage Plans  Medicare Advantage is a U.S.-supported program in which
managed-care health plans are sold by commercial insurers. The
plans cover and help coordinate medical services, physician fees
and hospitalizations and offer benefits not offered by
traditional Medicare plans. The U.S. prescription drug program
for the elderly is regulated so companies can’t deny coverage
for high-risk members.  Cigna Corp. (CI)  has a Medicare Advantage HMO plan in  Arizona 
that offers a program that reimburses $200 for fitness classes,
said Leigh Woodward, a spokeswoman for the Philadelphia-based
company, in an e-mailed response to questions.  “The Golden Vitality program isn’t part of a strategy to
get a healthier risk pool, but part of our overall health and
wellness strategy, which aligns with Cigna’s mission to help the
people we serve improve their health, well-being and sense of
security,” she said.  ‘Popular’ Program  Humana’s program “is very popular with our members,” said
Jim Turner, a spokesman for the Louisville, Kentucky-based
insurer, in an e-mail. “The main reason is to help our members
stay physically active and live healthier lives.”  Advantage programs are required to offer benefits that
aren’t part of the traditional Medicare plans, said Tyler Mason,
a UnitedHealth spokesman. “We work hard to combine a benefit
package that offers value to our members. This includes gym
memberships when possible,” he said in an e-mail.  Cynthia Michener , an  Aetna Inc. (AET)  spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail that the company provides health incentives in programs
besides Medicare and government programs, and is not reacting to
regulation. Jill Becher of  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  didn’t return a
request for comment.  The government has added standard benefits packages, risk-
adjusted payment and guaranteed coverage to balance the
industry, said Trivedi, whose study was sponsored by the
National Institute on Aging.  The commercial business accounts for less than half of the
combined revenue for insurers for the first time in at least two
decades, according to a Bloomberg Government report. Quarterly
revenue from Medicare, the U.S. program for the elderly and
disabled, increased by one third, to $16.4 billion, from the
third quarter of 2008 to the same period in 2011 for the four
largest insurers that reported figures.  Advantage plans may produce a $10 billion increase in
revenue by 2015 as more  baby boomers  retire, industry analysts
have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 