-- Intel Says Motorola, Lenovo to Use Its Processors in Smartphones
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-01-11T02:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/intel-says-motorola-lenovo-to-use-its-processors-in-phones-1-.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , making headway on a
decade-long effort to sell mobile-phone chips, said  Lenovo Group
Ltd. (992)  and  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  will start using its
processors in smartphones this year.  Lenovo, a personal-computer maker pushing into the
smartphone business, will begin selling its model in the second
quarter, Intel said yesterday at the Consumer Electronics Show
in  Las Vegas . Motorola Mobility, which is being acquired by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , plans to roll out its device in the second half.
Both models will run Google’s Android operating system.  For Intel Chief Executive Officer Paul Otellini, the
announcement marks a breakthrough in his attempt to parlay the
company’s dominance in PCs into a foothold in mobile phones.
Even after years of targeting the market, there are no phones
currently on sale that are based on an Intel microprocessor.  “There’s a lot of excitement and innovation around Intel
technology in smartphones,” Otellini said. The company’s so-
called reference design -- a test model based on its chips --
compares favorably in several performance areas to smartphones
available today, he said.  The new phones will use Intel’s Atom chip, a scaled-down
version of a processor designed for PCs. Lenovo’s phone, called
the K800, will go on sale in  China  running on  China Unicom (600050) ’s
network. Intel’s chips also will power a Lenovo tablet device.  Long-Term Relationship  Intel, based in  Santa Clara ,  California , said its
relationship with Motorola Mobility will lead to multiple phones
and tablets over a number of years.  The move into smartphone chips sets up a showdown with
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest seller of processors for the devices.
Intel also is challenging a technology standard developed by ARM
Holdings Plc that Qualcomm and other chipmakers license.  Qualcomm, meanwhile, is waging a counterattack on Intel’s
PC turf. Its CEO, Paul Jacobs, also was at the electronics show
yesterday, demonstrating a tablet based on his company’s new
Snapdragon S4 processor. The device will run  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp.’s
Windows 8 operating system.  “This is a game changer,” Jacobs said. “Our leadership
with Snapdragon is really enabling us to work with PC
manufacturers to deliver the lightest and thinnest PCs that are
always on.”  Microsoft’s Shift  Microsoft, the world’s top software maker, helped Qualcomm
enter the PC market by letting Windows run on a broader range of
chips. After years of working exclusively with Intel’s x86
technology, in a partnership known as “Wintel,” Microsoft’s
planned Windows 8 operating system will also support designs
from ARM.  Warren East, CEO of Cambridge, England-based ARM, doesn’t
expect Intel to overtake companies using his technology.  “We’re going to see some Intel chips in smartphones for
sure,” he said yesterday on “Bloomberg West.” “But we actually
see the ARM partnership in the lead and likely to stay there.”  The market for mobile-phone chips will grow 40 percent to
$29.9 billion by 2015, according to  the Linley Group . That’s
outpacing the PC processor industry, where Intel controls more
than 80 percent of sales. While Intel previously announced deals
with Nokia Oyj and LG Electronics Inc. to create phones, the
devices never came to market.  Intel  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $25.59 yesterday
before the announcement. The stock gained 15 percent last year.
Qualcomm, up 11 percent in 2011, fell less than 1 percent to
$55.75 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  