-- Iran Bazaar Sees Rush to Dump Rial as Sanctions Hurt Economy
-- B y   J a s o n   R e z a i a n
-- 2012-01-12T19:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/iran-bazaar-sees-rush-to-dump-rials.html
In Tehran’s shopping district, a
crowd gathers round a man standing on a raised platform with
arms aloft to display his merchandise: a stack of 500-euro bills.  The Bazaar Arz, the narrow 19th-century arcade that’s the
center of  Iran ’s foreign exchange market, is crammed with people
trying to sell their currency as sanctions tighten and tensions
with the U.S. escalate. In nearby shops, imported laptops and
smart-phones change price hourly. The rial weakened 20 percent
in the past month at the official rate offered to Iranians
traveling abroad, and by even more in the bazaar, where demand
for dollars and euros is surging.  It’s increasingly tough for Iranians to satisfy that demand.
Websites posting currency rates were blocked last week, many
official change bureaus were closed, and the government has
halved the amount of dollars that Iranians planning trips abroad
can buy. Central Bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani denied the
sanctions are causing problems, then linked the rial’s plunge to
the political standoff. “The enemy is depending on creating
psychological tensions,” he said. “If we are intimidated, we
will be playing into the enemy’s hands.”  The rush for hard currency shows those tensions spreading
among Iranians, even before the latest sanctions are fully
implemented. The U.S. and European Union are moving toward an
embargo on oil purchases from the world’s third-biggest exporter
and restricting dealings with its central bank.  ‘Real Pressure’  “The run on Iran’s currency is significant because it
shows the sanctions are having a true impact,” said Ted Karasik,
director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East
and Gulf Military Analysis. “Iran, while being extremely clever
with skirting around previous rounds of sanctions, is perhaps
facing real pressure this time.”  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation on Dec. 31 to
deny access to the U.S. financial system for companies or
countries that do business with Iran’s central bank. The EU is
discussing the terms of an oil embargo, though an official from
the bloc said today that it may not enter force for six months.
Obama and his allies say the sanctions aim to halt what may be a
covert effort by Iran to acquire nuclear weapons.  Iran says its atomic program is for peaceful purposes. Vice
President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27 that Iran may
close the  Strait of Hormuz , passageway for about a fifth of
globally traded oil, if sanctions are imposed. Crude jumped to
an eight-month high above $103 a barrel last week.  Before the sanctions, growth in Iran’s $480 billion economy
was set to accelerate on higher  oil prices . The  International
Monetary Fund  predicted an expansion of 3.4 percent this year in
an  August report , up from 2.5 percent in 2011.  ‘Symbolic Defeat’  The central bank’s official exchange rate today was 11,262
rials per dollar, according to its website. The second official
rate, offered to Iranians who can prove their foreign travel
plans, was 13,630 per dollar, up from 10,800 less than a month
ago. Iran last week halved the maximum amount of foreign
currency that would-be tourists can buy to $1,000. At the Tehran
bazaar, the rate was 16,900.  The trifurcation of exchange rates is “a symbolic defeat”
and “embarrassing for the leadership,” which has spent two
decades trying to eliminate such differentials, said Kevan
Harris, a researcher at  Johns Hopkins University  who visits Iran
often. “Because there’s no functioning currency market in the
traditional sense, the swings in prices become much wider.”  Parliament passed a law on Jan. 8 to penalize unofficial
currency trades, with the penalty set at twice the transaction
amount. The law hasn’t yet been implemented and it’s not clear
when it will enter force.  ‘Economic Shock’  The central bank will increase the rates that banks are
required to pay on deposits to above the inflation rate, as it
seeks to ease currency volatility, the official  Islamic Republic
News Agency  reported yesterday, citing Kazem Delkhosh, a member
of the central bank’s Council of Money and Credit. Bank deposit
rates currently range from 12.5 percent on one-year money to 15
percent for five years.  Inflation is 20.6 percent, IRNA said. Prices have surged
since Iran scrapped more than $50 billion of subsidies, mostly
on energy, a year ago under a plan praised by the IMF. Inflation,
which has averaged about 15 percent in the past decade,
 according to IMF data , may reach 21.6 percent by the end of the
Iranian calendar year on March 19, if the country doesn’t
experience any “economic shock,” Deputy Economy Minister
Mohammad-Reza Farzin said on Dec. 20.  Profit Squeeze  The recent exchange-rate movements may threaten that
forecast. Karim, who runs an information-technology business and
declined to give his surname on the grounds authorities can
penalize people who talk to foreign media, says the prices he
pays for basic products from  China , such as hard drives,
monitors and memory chips, have jumped 20 percent in two weeks.  Vendors at Paytakht, Tehran’s main electronics center, now
make him pay upfront for computers and parts instead of offering
payment terms as they used to, Karim said. His clients still
expect to be given time to pay, and the lag is eroding profits
as the rial slides, he said.  For most Iranians, a higher priority is the price of food
staples, which may also be pushed up. Iran will import 1.3
million tons of rice this year, almost as much as its own
harvest, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture
Organization. Total cereal imports are forecast at 6 million
tons, about a quarter of consumption.  Currency Reserves  Iran’s oil output, which averaged about 3.6 million barrels
a day in 2011, keeps trade and current-account balances in
surplus and has helped the country build up defenses that will
cushion the blow from sanctions.  Foreign currency reserves of almost $80 billion as of last
year were enough to cover 9.5 months of imports, according to
the IMF. That compares with coverage rates of about four months
in  Egypt (EGIRES)  and  Turkey , the two comparably large regional nations.  Oil-dependence is also a vulnerability. The government will
fund about a quarter of this year’s spending from taxes, and the
rest from oil revenue, according to the IMF.  If EU nations stop buying, “Iran can find more customers
for that crude,” albeit at a discount, said Crispin B. Hawes,
director for the  Middle East  and North Africa at the Eurasia
Group, a political risk analyst. A bigger threat is sanctions
which “could affect countries’ ability to trade with Iran,
specifically to clear payments” through its central bank, he
said.  At the currency bazaar, traders said the government sought
to intervene last week by fixing the rate at 14,000 per dollar,
a price that no sellers of hard currency were willing to accept.  Get There Earlier  There are no visible signs of security, other than cameras
monitoring the fluorescent-lit courtyard.  “You never know what you’ll see here, and that’s what I
love,” Mehdi, a trader in his mid-forties, said in an interview
there on Jan. 5. “Yesterday, for the first time, I saw two
women in the bazaar. They came in, bought $100,000 in U.S.
dollars, and left.”  Availability at official outlets is limited. At a branch of
Bank Melli, one of Iran’s biggest lenders, in the Tehran suburb
of Sadeghieh, an official told disappointed customers to get
there earlier next time, since dollars typically run out by
about 8:15 a.m., a quarter-hour after the bank opens.  Iranians were already stepping up purchases of gold and
foreign currency before the latest sanctions, as inflation
eroded the rial’s purchasing power. Now demand has intensified.  Rasool, a 33-year-old office worker who declined to give
his full name, earns about $600 per month and bought $300 from a
co-worker last week at 15,900 rials. Asked why he wanted dollars
so badly, he replied that all of his colleagues were buying them
and he didn’t want to be left behind.  “A rumor is good enough to create these sorts of
effects,” said Harris at  Johns Hopkins .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Rezaian in Tehran via the Dubai bureau.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 