-- Iran Says Nuclear Scientist’s Murder Shows Foreign-Backed Terror Campaign
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-01-12T10:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/iran-nuclear-scientist-killed-by-magnetic-bomb-under-his-car-fars-reports.html
The Iranian government said in a
letter to United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon that a
civilian nuclear scientist who was killed by a bomb yesterday
was the latest victim of a foreign terror campaign.  “Based on the existing evidence collected by the relevant
Iranian security authorities, similar to previous incidents,
perpetrators used the same terrorist method in assassinating
Iranian nuclear scientists, i.e. attaching a sticky magnetic
bomb to the car carrying the scientists and detonating it,”
 Mohammad Khazaee ,  Iran ’s ambassador to the UN, said in the
letter yesterday. “Furthermore, there is firm evidence that
certain foreign quarters are behind such assassinations.”  Iranian officials have accused the U.S. and Israel of
targeting Iranian nuclear scientists in an effort to halt Iran’s
nuclear program, which Western nations say may be aimed at
producing atomic weapons. Tensions have risen over U.S. and
European efforts to increase economic sanctions on Iran because
of the nuclear program.  Khazaee said Mostafa Ahamdi Roshan, who was killed in a
Tehran bomb blast, was the fourth prominent Iranian scientist to
be targeted in similar attacks. Roshan, a deputy director at the
Natanz uranium enrichment facility in Isfahan province, and
another person died in the latest attack, Khazaee said.  “This terrorist action was undertaken by elements of the
Zionist regime and those who claim to fight against terrorism,”
the official  Islamic Republic News Agency  cited Iranian Vice
President Mohammad-Reza Rahimi as saying.  Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said by
telephone that he had no comment on the reports.  Clinton’s Comment  “I want to categorically deny any United States
involvement in any kind of act of violence inside Iran,”
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told reporters yesterday in
Washington. “There has to be an understanding between Iran, its
neighbors and the international community that finds a way
forward for it to end its provocative behavior, end its search
for nuclear weapons and rejoin the international community.”  Some Republican presidential candidates in the U.S. have
supported efforts to halt Iran’s nuclear program by attacking
its scientists. In a November debate, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  endorsed “taking out their scientists,” and former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  called it ”a wonderful
thing” when Iranian scientists are killed.  Previous attacks against Iranian nuclear scientists
involved the assassination of Massoud Ali-Mohammadi, killed by a
bomb outside his Tehran home in January 2010, and an explosion
in November of that year that took the life of Majid Shahriari
and wounded Fereydoun Abbasi-Davani, who is now the head of
Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization.  Possible Attackers  “While it is difficult to gauge the impact of the
scientists’ deaths on the country’s nuclear development, Iranian
officials have already acknowledged they have a human resources
problem in the program, largely because of the sharp political
differences within the country,” Meir Javedanfar, lecturer on
Iranian politics at the Herzliya Interdisciplinary Center in
 Israel , said in a telephone interview.  The attacks on scientists may be the work of a foreign
intelligence agency such as Israel’s  Mossad , according to a U.S.
official who agreed to speak on condition of anonymity because
intelligence matters are classified. They also could have been
carried out by an Iranian exile group such as the People’s
Mujahadeen Organization of Iran working independently or in
cooperation with a foreign intelligence agency, the official
said in a telephone interview.  Attributing the murder to the Mujahadeen is “absolutely
false,” the group said in an e-mailed statement.  Locating Targets  It’s also possible that internal opponents of the Iranian
regime might have helped the Mujahadeen e-Khalq or foreign
agents identify, locate and target important figures in  Iran’s
nuclear program , the official said.  That alone is difficult, said Reuel Marc Gerecht, a former
Central Intelligence Agency specialist on Iran who is now at the
Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, a Washington foreign-
policy research organization.  “It’s not as if you can look people like this up in the
Natanz phone book,” he said in a telephone interview.  It’s conceivable that Iran’s Interior Ministry may have
targeted at least some of the scientists because it suspected
they were disloyal, according to Gerecht and the U.S. official.
Using magnetic bombs attached to their vehicles would make it
appear that Israel was behind the killings.  Mossad was suspected of using such a “sticky bomb” to
kill Lebanese Hezbollah terrorist leader Imad Mughniyeh in
Damascus in February 2008, although that was never proved, the
official said.  Explosion, Stuxnet  Other incidents in Iran in recent months have raised
suspicions of sabotage against the country’s nuclear program.  A November explosion at a military base west of Tehran
killed at least 17 people including a director in the Iranian
Revolutionary Guard Corps, state media reported at the time.
Last year, malicious software known as Stuxnet affected computer
systems controlling several centrifuges used in Iran’s uranium-
enrichment program, Iranian officials have said.  The latest killing also follows an Iranian court’s Jan. 9
decision to sentence an American of Iranian descent, Amir
Mirzaei Hekmati, to death for spying. U.S. State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  has said allegations that Hekmati
worked for the CIA were “simply untrue.”  EU Meeting  Iran is under increasing pressure to curb what the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  and a number of western
nations have said may be a program to build nuclear weapons. The
IAEA reported in November, citing unidentified sources it called
“credible,” that Iranian work toward a nuclear weapon
continued until 2010 -- seven years after U.S. Intelligence
agencies determined with high probability that Tehran’s
government had stopped.  European Union foreign ministers plan to meet on Jan. 23 to
discuss imposing an oil embargo on Iran. Iranian officials have
threatened to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for a
fifth of the world’s oil, if crude exports are sanctioned.  Crude rose 0.7 percent to $101.53 at 8:30 a.m. in  London ,
after reaching an eight-month high above $103 last week. Futures
are up more than 10 percent in the past year.  Yesterday’s attack “comes in the middle of heightened
tensions, and it helps Iran to play on a sense of threat that it
is under a lot of pressure,” Gala Riani, a Middle East analyst
at London-based forecaster IHS Global Insight, said by
telephone. “It can also be beneficial to more extremist
elements in the government who are supporting further military
drills in the Strait of Hormuz.”  Iran conducted naval exercises near the Strait for 10 days
that ended early this month. Iran also announced on Jan. 6 plans
for “naval war games” to be conducted by the Revolutionary
Guard Corps next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  