-- Nuclear Arms Charge Against Iran Is No Slam Dunk: Robert Kelley
-- B y   R o b e r t   K e l l e y
-- 2012-01-11T00:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/iran-nuclear-weapons-charge-is-no-slam-dunk-commentary-by-robert-kelley.html
The conflict between  Iran  and the
West just keeps heating up,  with the Iranians announcing  over
the weekend that they have begun to enrich uranium at a second
major facility, a well-defended site outside the city of Qom.  Given the high stakes, it’s valuable to take another look
at the main source of the tension: Iran’s nuclear-weapons
program. That this enterprise is active is widely considered a
given in the U.S. In fact, the evidence, contained in a  November
report  of the  International Atomic Energy Agency , is sketchy.
And the way the data have been presented produces a sickly sense
of deja vu.  I am speaking up about this now because, as a member of the
IAEA’s  Iraq Action Team  in 2003, I learned firsthand how
withholding the facts can lead to bloodshed. Having known the
details then, though I was not allowed to speak, I feel a
certain shared responsibility for the war that killed more than
4,000 Americans and more than 100,000 Iraqis. A private citizen
today, I hope to help ensure the facts are clear before the U.S.
takes further steps that could lead, intentionally or otherwise,
to a new conflagration, this time in Iran.  It’s accepted that Iran at one time had a nuclear-weapons
program. The country’s enormous investment in a secret
underground uranium-enrichment complex in the city of Natanz is
essentially proof of clandestine intentions. The military
plutonium-production reactor in Arak is yet another indicator.  However, it must be remembered that in the 2007  National
Intelligence Estimate , U.S. agencies concluded that Iran halted
its nuclear-arms program in 2003 under international pressure.
It’s rare for intelligence officials to determine that they have
sufficient evidence to say a program has ended, so their
information presumably was very good. Similarly, until this
year, the IAEA has consistently reported that it had no
information suggesting Iran had a nuclear-weapons program after
2004.  So the issue is not whether there is evidence of such a
program, but whether there is evidence that it was restarted
after being shut down in 2003.  The Nov. 8, 2011, report of the IAEA, under the leadership
of Director General Yukiya Amano, is long on the former and very
short on the latter. In the 24-page document, intended for a
restricted distribution but widely available on the Internet,
all but three of the items that were offered as proof of a
possible nuclear-arms program are either undated or refer to
events before 2004. The agency spends about 96 percent of a 14-
page annex reprising what was already known: that at one time
there were military dimensions to  Iran’s nuclear program .  Three Indications  What about the three indications that the arms project may
have been reactivated?  Two of the three are attributed only to two  member states ,
so the sourcing is impossible to evaluate. In addition, their
validity is called into question by the agency’s handling of the
third piece of evidence.  That evidence, according to the IAEA, tells us Iran
embarked on a four-year program, starting around 2006, to
validate the design of a device to produce a burst of neutrons
that could initiate a fission chain reaction. Though I cannot
say for sure what source the agency is relying on, I can say for
certain that this project was earlier at the center of what
appeared to be a misinformation campaign.  In 2009, the IAEA received a  two-page document , purporting
to come from Iran, describing this same alleged work.  Mohamed ElBaradei , who was then the agency’s director general, rejected
the information because there was no chain of custody for the
paper, no clear source, document markings, date of issue or
anything else that could establish its authenticity. What’s
more, the document contained style errors, suggesting the author
was not a native Farsi speaker. It appeared to have been typed
using an Arabic, rather than a Farsi, word-processing program.
When ElBaradei put the document in the trash heap, the U.K.’s
Times newspaper published it.  This episode had suspicious similarities to a previous case
that proved definitively to be a hoax. In 1995, the IAEA
received several documents from the Sunday Times, a sister paper
to the Times, purporting to show that  Iraq  had resumed its
nuclear-weapons program in spite of all evidence to the
contrary. The IAEA quickly determined that the documents were
elaborate forgeries. There were mistakes in formatting the
documents’ markings, classification and dates, and many errors
in language and style indicated the author’s first language was
something other than Arabic or Farsi. Inspections in Iraq later
in 1995 confirmed incontrovertibly that there had been no
reconstitution of the Iraqi nuclear program.  Today’s Regrets  I regret now that ElBaradei did not speak out more
vehemently, before the U.S. went to war, about the 1995 faked
documents, additional forgeries provided to the agency in 2003
and other falsifications. A good man, he had been an
international lawyer with years of experience dealing with half-
truths and prevarications. But he was trapped between telling
the whole story and overtly insulting the U.S., which supplied
25 percent of the IAEA’s funding.  For example, ElBaradei labeled documents provided to the
IAEA about Iraq’s attempts to acquire uranium from  Africa  “not
authentic.” A better description would have been “blatant and
amateurish forgeries.” He provided evidence that aluminum tubes
the U.S. said were for nuclear centrifuges were actually for
rockets. But he did not supply the supporting engineering
details publicly. The truth was lost in the U.S. Secretary of
State  Colin Powell ’s scandalous detailing of Iraq’s supposed
weapons of mass destruction, which was wrong in almost every
respect.  ElBaradei’s successor also has fallen short by failing to
note in his report the earlier doubts that Iran was continuing
to develop a neutron-producing device. If Amano has found new
reasons to overlook the many questionable aspects of this story,
he should present them. Given past doubts about the episode, the
agency’s reporting on it should be above reproach.  When it comes to accurately accounting for potential
diversions of nuclear materials, the IAEA’s main mission, the
agency has gone about its work with precision. It needs to be
just as exacting when it delves into allegations about Iran’s
weapons intentions.  I should be clear: Iran deserves tough scrutiny. It claims
to have given up its nuclear-weapons ambitions, yet repeatedly
acts as if it has something to hide. I am a skeptic; I suspect
the Iranians may have an ongoing weaponization program. And the
uncertainty must be resolved.  At the same time, we should not again be held hostage to
forgeries and the spinning of data to make the worst case. If
Iran is developing nuclear weapons, let it be proved through the
analysis of current, solid information -- not recycled,
discredited data. If there is to be a war with Iran, let’s not
have a repeat, afterward, of the anguished articles and books
from officials who kept their misgivings to themselves. Let’s
get all the facts on the table now.  ( Robert Kelley , a nuclear engineer, was a director at the
IAEA, where he worked for nine years. He gained his weapons
expertise over 30 years at the University of California’s
nuclear-weapons laboratories. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Kelley at  R.kelley@atomicreporters.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 