-- Iran Cuts Crude Export Prices to Asian Buyers for February
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-01-11T10:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/iran-cuts-crude-export-prices-to-asian-buyers-for-february-1-.html
Iran , the second-largest producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, cut the price
of crude supplies loading in February to Asia relative to
benchmark levels, said an official at National Iranian Oil Co.  NIOC lowered  Iranian Light (AOSPLTAS)  exports to a premium of $2.26 a
barrel above the average of Dubai and Oman oil, said the
official, who asked not to be named, citing company policy. That
compares with $4.36 for January. Iran Heavy, Forozan, Norooz and
Soroosh were also lowered.  Iran pumped 3.58 million barrels a day of crude last month,
according to Bloomberg estimates. The Persian Gulf nation has
threatened to block the  Strait of Hormuz  in response to U.S. and
European sanctions aimed at reducing Iranian oil revenues. The
waterway carries 17 million barrels of crude a day, according to
the U.S. Energy Department, almost 20 percent of global
consumption.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is visiting
China and  Japan  this week to seek support for sanctions against
Iran and lobby for a curtailment of crude purchases from the
country. The Asian nations are the largest importers of Iranian
oil, with China accounting for 22 percent and Japan buying 14
percent during the first half of last year, according to the
U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Iran Pricing  Producers such as  Saudi Arabia  and Iran sell the majority
of their crude under long-term contracts to refiners. As the
largest producer in the OPEC, Saudi Arabia creates the standard
for the region. NIOC pegs selling prices to Saudi Arabian grades
for Asian customers using  differentials  that are adjusted
quarterly. For the first quarter, NIOC set Iranian Light 21
cents above Saudi’s Arab Light. Iranian Heavy cost 1 cent  below 
Arab Medium and Forozan 17 cents  above  the same grade.  The following table gives differentials of Iranian crude
supplied to five regions in relation to benchmark prices and the
month-on-month change. Prices are in U.S. dollars a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  