-- Iran Oil Risk Sends Refiners’ Bond Yields to One-Year High: India Credit
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-01-12T05:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/iran-risk-sends-refiner-yields-to-one-year-high-india-credit.html
Borrowing costs for India’s biggest
refiners are surging to the highest level in at least a year as
the prospect of tighter sanctions against Iran threatens
supplies to the world’s fourth-largest oil consumer.  Yields on the 4.75 percent dollar-denominated debt of
 Indian Oil (IOCL)  Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, rose 19 basis
points in the past month to 4.28 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on the 2016 dollar convertible
bonds of Indian refiner and power plant operator  Essar Energy
Plc (ESSR)  jumped 232 basis points to 19.74 percent. At the same time,
yields on London-based BP Plc’s 2019 notes dropped 35 basis
points to 2.72 percent.  Disruption to shipments from Iran, India’s second-biggest
oil supplier, may deepen losses for oil companies that are
required by the government to sell fuels below cost. Costlier
energy imports would also stymie central bank efforts to rein in
 inflation  of more than 9 percent and worsen an economic slump
that fueled a 16 percent tumble in the rupee in 2011.  “The  oil companies  will have to bear higher costs if they
have to buy oil from elsewhere,” Raj Kothari, a bond trader in
 London  at Sun Global Investments Ltd., said in an interview on
Jan. 10. “The bonds that are related to this issue, like those
of Indian Oil, are definitely going to get affected
negatively.”  U.S. Law  U.S. President Barack Obama signed into law on Dec. 31
measures that block foreign lenders that conduct business with
the central bank of Iran from accessing the U.S. financial
system. The European Union will also consider restrictions on
Iran, including a ban on crude imports, in response to the
country’s nuclear program when the bloc’s foreign ministers meet
on Jan. 23.  Indian Oil and Essar Energy may struggle to find banks
willing to handle payments to Iran because of sanctions against
the Gulf state’s lenders.  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals
Ltd. (MRPL) , a unit of India’s largest energy explorer, is the biggest
local buyer of  Iranian crude .  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS, which has been routing India’s
payments for Iranian crude, told the refiners it may no longer
be able to do so, four people with knowledge of the matter said
this week, asking not to be identified because the information
is confidential.  “This is a serious issue,”  Praveen Kumar , an oil and gas
analyst at Facts Global Energy in  Singapore , said in an
interview on Jan. 10. “India doesn’t seem to have a plan B at
the moment. The refiners will be worried about what they are
going to do.”  Exploring Options  India, which got 11 percent of its crude imports from Iran
last year, is exploring the option of making payments to the
Gulf state through  Russia ’s  OAO Gazprombank (GZPR) , though no deal has
been reached, according to three of the people.  “Essar is not being impacted by the Iranian situation,”
the company, which operates the nation’s second-largest private
refinery at Vadinar in western India, said in an e-mail on Jan.
9. “At our Vadinar refinery, we continue to be able to source
the crude we require from Iran, while our Stanlow refinery does
not process Iranian crude.”  Two calls made yesterday to Ajit Pathak, a New Delhi-based
spokesman for Indian Oil, weren’t answered.  Rising Oil  The risk of supply disruptions threatens to further boost
energy costs and fuel inflation in  Asia ’s third-largest economy,
which imports almost 80 percent of the oil it uses. The value of
 India ’s  oil imports  averaged above $11 billion during the first
11 months of 2011, 34 percent more than a year earlier, as
international crude prices gained and the rupee fell, government
data show. The  Reserve Bank  of India raised  interest rates  by a
record 3.75 percentage points in the last two years to moderate
wholesale-price gains that averaged 9.6 percent in 2011.  Crude oil in  New York  climbed 8 percent in 2011, completing
a third annual advance, and touched an eight-month high of
$103.74 per barrel on Jan. 4, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. India’s rupee lost 16 percent last year in the worst
performance among Asian currencies and touched a record low of
54.305 per dollar on Dec. 15. It rose 0.1 percent to 51.8575
today.  “India is much more vulnerable to the price of oil than
similar developing economies,” Taina Erajuuri, a  money manager 
in Helsinki at FIM Asset Management Ltd., overseeing about 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) of emerging-market assets, said in
an interview on Jan. 10. “I worry that soon India will have to
import 90 percent of its oil needs and it will always be an
inflation threat. You can’t get rid of that kind of inflation by
raising  interest rates .”  Record Losses  A sliding rupee and higher borrowing costs worsened losses
at state-controlled oil companies, which are required to sell
fuels at a discount under a government plan to cap consumer
prices. The firms may lose as much as 1.3 trillion rupees ($25
billion) from such sales in the financial year ending March 31,
Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi said on Nov. 22. Every one-rupee
drop in the currency against the dollar boosts annual revenue
losses for government-owned refiners by 80 billion rupees, Oil
Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said on Oct. 10.  Indian Oil,  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)  and  Bharat Petroleum
Corp. (BPCL) , the three biggest state refiners, reported a combined
loss of 141 billion rupees for the three months ended Sept. 30,
the most on record, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Total
interest expenses at the companies climbed to an all-time high
of 22.4 billion rupees last quarter. Combined net debt, or
liabilities minus cash, jumped 34 percent in the first half of
the financial year to 1.27 trillion rupees.  Dollar Bonds  Oil companies in India are favoring dollar-denominated debt
to shield earnings from the rupee’s decline and the surge in
local interest rates. They raised at least $1.17 billion last
year from overseas loans and bond sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Indian Oil plans to market a $250 million
five-year loan next month, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said this week, asking not to be identified as details of
the transaction are private.  Benchmark five-year bond yields for AAA rated borrowers in
India rose 34 basis points, or 0.34 percentage point, in the
past 12 months to 9.43 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Yields on 7.7 percent rupee-denominated debt due April 2013 of
Hindustan Petroleum jumped 67 basis points to 9.47 percent,
according to prices from the Fixed Income Money Market and
Derivatives Association of India.  Default Swaps  Ten-year sovereign  yields  added four basis points in the
same period to 8.22 percent. They fell 2 basis points today,
according to the central bank’s trading system. The  extra yield 
demanded by investors to hold the notes over similar-dated U.S.
Treasuries widened 153 basis points to 635. India’s sovereign
notes earned 7.7 percent in the past 12 months, while Indonesian
securities returned 24.6 percent in the biggest gain among 10
Asian fixed-income markets tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The cost to protect the debt of  State Bank  of India, a
proxy for the nation, against non-payment for five years using
credit-default swaps jumped 213 basis points in the past year to
392 basis points, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets. The swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Adds to Costs’  Indian refiners’ debts to Iran for purchases rose to as
much as $5 billion in July, said Central Bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani, according to the  Islamic Republic News Agency . The
outstanding payments threatened to jeopardize about $9.5 billion
in annual trade between the nations, with Iran telling customers
that they wouldn’t receive August shipments unless the bills
were paid, according to the Fars news agency. The refiners
started clearing the outstanding payments in August after
Turkey’s Halk Bank agreed to make transfers.  “Refineries are calibrated to process particular kinds of
oil,” Hemant Dharnidharka, head of credit research in  Hong Kong 
at SJS Markets Ltd., said in an interview on Jan. 10. “Even if
the companies were to get replacements from elsewhere, the price
may be higher and they may need to recalibrate their plants, all
of which adds to their costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  