-- Italian-Thai to ‘Renegotiate’ After Myanmar Scraps Coal Plant
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-01-11T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/italian-thai-to-renegotiate-after-myanmar-scraps-coal-plant.html
Italian-Thai Development Pcl (ITD) ,
 Thailand ’s biggest construction company, may change the fuel
supply for a power plant in a planned $8.6 billion industrial
zone in Myanmar after the government scrapped plans to use coal.  The company has yet to receive a formal notice from
Myanmar, after media reports this week said the government
rejected plans for a 4,000 megawatt coal-fired power plant, said
Somchet Thinaphong, managing director of the Dawei Development
Co., an Italian-Thai unit. The company’s November agreement with
 Ratchaburi Electricity Generating Holding Pcl (RATCH)  to build the plant
remains unaffected, he said.  The government’s decision “only means we have to
renegotiate the source of fuel,” Somchet said in an interview
in Bangkok yesterday. “With Ratchaburi, the intention was to
use coal. If we change the source of supply, Ratchaburi has to
sit down and recalculate.”  Italian-Thai plans to secure financing and woo companies to
invest in a deepsea port and industrial estate located in
Myanmar on the  Indian Ocean  about 300 kilometers (186 miles)
west of Bangkok. Myanmar’s 11-month-old government, whose
democratic reforms have prompted the U.S. and  Europe  to reassess
sanctions, has canceled two power-plant projects in the past six
months because of environmental concerns.  Italian-Thai  shares  fell 1.1 percent yesterday. They have
dropped 14 percent over the past year, compared with a 3.8
percent gain for Thailand’s  SET Index. (SET)  Ratchaburi shares fell
1.1 percent yesterday.  ‘Nothing Dramatic’  Myanmar’s decision is “nothing dramatic,” Somchet said,
adding that the company would explore using natural gas from the
Indian Ocean instead. He said it remained unclear how changing
the fuel supply for the power plant would affect cost
projections or deadlines for the Dawei development.  PTT Pcl (PTT) , Thailand’s biggest energy company, is studying
whether to invest in a power plant in the Dawei project, Chief
Executive Officer Pailin Chuchottarworn told reporters in
Bangkok yesterday. A gas-fired power plant may be problematic
since no pipelines currently run near the project, he said.  “We have to look for signs from the government there,”
Pailin said.  Myanmar suspended the project over environmental concerns,
Xinhua reported, citing Cabinet member Khin Maung Soe. Myanmar
President Thein Sein on Sept. 30 suspended a $3.6 billion
hydropower dam backed by China Power Investment Corp.  Italian-Thai Chairman Premchai Karnasuta said last month he
expects to sign loan agreements next year valued at $12.5
billion to develop the project.  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation  will probably provide most of the funding for the
port, road and railway links in Dawei, he said on Dec. 26.  Petronas, Mitsubishi  Representatives from Thailand-based  Bangkok Bank Pcl (BBL) , Krung
Thai Bank Pcl and Siam Commercial Bank Pcl have expressed
interest in financing the project, Somchet said. Potential
investors include  Malaysia ’s  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. (PET) , known as
Petronas, and Japanese companies including Mitsubishi Corp. and
Mitsui & Co., he said.  “I have faith and confidence” in Myanmar’s government,
Somchet said, adding that he would give their relationship an
“A-plus” grade. “They understand what they are doing.”  Italian-Thai is still seeking partners and financing for an
integrated steel mill, an oil, gas and petrochemical complex,
and fertilizer plants. The company expects to gain income from
selling 50,000 rai (80 square kilometers) of land, an area
equivalent to about a 10th of  Singapore , and serving as the main
contractor on infrastructure projects, Premchai said on Dec. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  