-- Italian Regulator Extends Short-Selling Ban on Banks to Feb. 24
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-01-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/italian-regulator-extends-short-selling-ban-on-banks-to-feb-24.html
Italy ’s securities regulator
extended a ban on short selling financial shares until Feb. 24,
according to an e-mailed statement from Commissione Nazionale
per le Società e la Borsa.  The restrictions, in place since August, prohibit investors
from betting against the shares and equity derivatives of banks
and insurance companies, Rome-based  Consob  said yesterday.  The short-selling ban covers securities such as  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , which has plunged 40 percent in 2012 and slumped to a
record low this week. Regulators in France, Spain, Italy and
Belgium imposed temporary bans on the bearish bets in August to
stabilize markets amid Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “The risk is that they’re not allowing investors to get a
clear signal about which of these stocks are healthy and which
ones are sickly,” Kevin Byrnes, a  West Chester , Pennsylvania-
based analyst at TFS Capital LLC, said in a phone interview.
“That can clog up the price discovery for the entire Italian
stock market.”  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, slumped this year after
announcing a rights offering meant to bolster its capital.
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, the
nation’s second- and third-biggest lenders, retreated 32 percent
and 65 percent, respectively, last year as the European debt
crisis spread to Italy, the region’s third-largest economy.  While Italy’s 40-stock  FTSE MIB (FTSEMIB)  stock index lost 25 percent
in 2011, its loss was 1.2 percent through year-end after the
short-selling ban was announced on Aug. 11. The Bloomberg  Europe 
Banks & Financial Services Index fell 32 percent and 6.9
percent, respectively, in the same periods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  