-- Italy, Spain Offer 17B Euros in Debt Sales
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-01-12T08:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/italy-spain-offer-21-5-billion-of-debt-in-first-auctions-of-the-new-year.html
Italy  and Spain will seek to sell as
much as 17 billion euros ($21.5 billion) in debt as Premier
 Mario Monti  seeks recognition for austerity efforts and Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  vows to meet his budget-deficit goal.  In their first auctions of 2012, Spain will sell as much as
5 billion euros of bonds, including a new three-year benchmark
security. Italy, which needs to repay more than 50 billion euros
in bonds in the first quarter, will sell as much as 12 billion
euros of bills today and 4.75 billion euros of bonds tomorrow.  “Spain is going to place plenty of paper and the Italians
will have a more modest result, but good enough to keep
liquidity going,”  Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-rate
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
London, said in a phone interview. “This has been the trend and
I have no reason to think this is going to change.”  Monti and Rajoy are struggling to convince investors that
they can put their nations’ finances in order and tame surging
borrowing costs amid  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. Yesterday,
Spain’s Parliament approved Rajoy’s 15 billion-euro austerity
package, while Monti urged investors to reward his efforts to
cut Italy’s 1.9 trillion-euro debt after a meeting with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Yields Fall  While the yield on Italy’s 10-year bond remains near the 7
percent level that prompted Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
bailouts, it was down 10 basis points at 6.88 percent at 9:15
a.m.  Rome  time. Spanish debt has fared better with its 10-year
yield at 5.24 percent, down eight basis points from yesterday.  “Despite a worse-than-expected outcome for Spain’s 2011
fiscal deficit and ongoing concerns over banks’ bad debts,
yields on Spanish  government bonds  have fallen in recent days on
better sentiment across the region,”  Sarah Hewin , a senior
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , said by e-mail.
“Italy has substantial rollover requirements, so the outcome of
upcoming bill and bond auctions” will be “closely watched.”  Before the sale, Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit
rating of the Spanish region of Valencia for the second time in
a month after it missed a 123 million-euro payment to Deutsche
Bank AG. Moody’s also placed the ratings of Spain’s 16 other
regions on review for a downgrade, citing concerns over their
ability to meet this year’s budget-deficit target.  Meeting Goal  Regional overspending is responsible for Spain missing its
2011 deficit goal. The shortfall is expected to be a third
larger than the forecast 6 percent of gross domestic product,
the government said on Dec. 30. Rajoy has pledged to meet this
year’s goal of 4.4 percent.  Spain and Italy have benefited from the support of the
 European Central Bank , which began buying their bonds in August
and has purchased 213 billion euros of euro-region  government
securities  since May. The Frankfurt-based ECB also loaned banks
a record 489 billion euros for three years on Dec. 21 to avert a
credit crunch. Lenders have parked almost all of those funds
back at the ECB, thwarting attempts to ease the flow of credit.  Both Italy and Spain are on the verge of a recession along
with the rest of the euro area, which grew 0.1 percent in 2011’s
third quarter, less than previously estimated.  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, shrank “roughly” 0.25 percent in the fourth
quarter from the third, the nation’s Federal Statistics Office
in Wiesbaden said in an unofficial estimate yesterday.  Investors are set to get their first glimpse of the ECB’s
2012 strategy as President  Mario Draghi  chairs a policy-setting
meeting of the Governing Council for a third time. The central
bank will leave its key refinancing rate at 1 percent, according
to the median of 53 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The
decision will be announced at 1:45 p.m. Frankfurt time.  Two-Year Gain  Spain ’s two-year notes gained for a fourth day, with the
yield dropping 16 basis points to 2.93 percent at 9:19 Rome
time, the lowest since April. Similar-maturity Italian yields
fell 8 basis points to 4.62 percent.  Spain today will auction securities maturing in July 2015
with a coupon of 4 percent and sell additional 3.25 percent
notes due April 2016 and 4.25 percent debt maturing in October
2016. Spain on Dec. 1 was forced to pay 5.187 percent to borrow
until 2015, compared with the 3.9 percent Germany last paid to
sell similar-maturity debt.  Last Sales  Italy sold 7 billion euros of one-year bills at an auction
on Dec. 12 at 5.952 percent. That was less than the 6.087
percent the Rome-based Treasury paid at the previous auction of
similar securities on Nov. 10, the highest rate in 14 years.  Monti, who spent his first month in office enacting 30
billion euros in austerity and growth measures, faces almost
half a trillion euros of debt sales this year. Italian bond
yields don’t adequately reflect his debt-cutting efforts, he
told a press conference in Berlin yesterday.  “What Italians are hoping and what I hope for is that,
before the months it takes for good economic policy to translate
into higher growth, there will be a decline in high  interest
rates  in financial markets that may have been more or less
justified when there was a lot of concern about Italy, but that
aren’t justified anymore,” Monti said.  European leaders, who are striving to tamp down the debt
crisis that began in  Greece  in 2009 and infected Italy, Spain
and  France , are setting the stage for a European Union summit on
Jan. 30 meant to focus on bolstering jobs and growth. Pressure
is meanwhile growing to complete a Greek debt swap agreed on in
October that is needed to put a second rescue plan in place and
keep the euro area together.  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  are scheduled
to travel to Rome on Jan. 20 for joint talks with Monti, who
heads the euro area’s third-largest economy. Both have expressed
support for Monti’s effort to cut Italy’s debt. The premier has
also pledged to unveil an economic growth plan on Jan. 23.  “Monti’s new growth plan is more than welcome, but at this
stage implementation is the key,” Achilleas Georgolopoulos, a
fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in
London, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 