-- Gerrard’s Penalty Gives Liverpool 1-0 Carling Cup Semifinal Lead Over City
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-12T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/liverpool-tops-manchester-city-1-0-to-open-carling-cup-semifinal.html
Record seven-time winner Liverpool
beat Manchester City 1-0 to open its Carling Cup semifinal and
send the Premier League leader to a second straight home loss.  Steven Gerrard  scored the only goal last night with a
first-half penalty kick at Manchester’s Etihad Stadium.
Liverpool, which tied Arsenal’s record of 14 semifinal
appearances in English soccer’s second-tier club competition,
hosts the return match Jan. 25.  “There is no way this game is over,” Gerrard told the
British Broadcasting Corp. “The job is half done.”  It was the first time City, which was beaten 3-2 by
Manchester United in the F.A. Cup four days ago, lost back-to-
back home games since February 2008. The league leader was
without captain Vincent Kompany, who was suspended for a red
card against United, the injured David Silva and Yaya and Kolo Toure, who are at the African Cup of Nations.  “It is clear that without three or four players it’s
difficult,” manager  Roberto Mancini  told the BBC.  The winner of the series advances to the Feb. 26 final at
Wembley Stadium against Crystal Palace or Cardiff. Palace will
take a 1-0 lead into the second game of that semifinal Jan. 24
in Wales.  Liverpool started quickly as City goalkeeper Joe Hart made
saves against Andy Carroll and Gerrard before scrambling to
knock away Stewart Downing’s deflected shot.  Liverpool’s Goal  The visiting team went ahead from Gerrard’s spot kick after
Stefan Savic fouled  Daniel Agger  in the area. Carroll then sent
a header wide midway through the first half.  Samir Nasri had City’s first shot on target in the 43rd
minute, which was saved by Pepe Reina, and  James Milner  followed
by firing over the goal just before halftime.  City went on the offensive after the break as  Sergio Aguero 
shot over after intercepting Martin Kelly’s back pass. Reina
then stopped Micah Richards’s header and caught Aguero’s shot.  The Blues continued to control play with Nasri and Milner
missing with shots. Liverpool’s defense held to leave the Reds
needing a home draw to reach the final for the first time since
2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 