-- Johnson & Johnson Paid Texas Official to Speak Around the U.S., Jury Told
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-01-11T21:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/johnson-johnson-paid-texas-official-to-speak-around-the-u-s-jury-told.html
Johnson & Johnson’s  Janssen unit
paid a  Texas  mental health official to speak around the U.S.
about state guidelines on prescribing antipsychotic drugs that
gave preference to medicines like the company’s Risperdal, the
official said.  Steven Shon accepted honorariums to fly to Arizona,  Florida 
and  New Jersey  to discuss Texas guidelines developed in 1999
advising doctors that a newer class of drugs like Risperdal were
a “first choice or option” for schizophrenia, he testified
today in state court in Austin. Texas is suing J&J, saying the
company fraudulently promoted Risperdal and overbilled Medicaid
by at least $579 million.  State lawyers say Janssen’s payments to Shon were part of a
scheme to influence development of the guidelines, known as the
Texas Medication Algorithm Project, or TMAP, and tout them as a
model for other states trying to advise doctors on prescribing
drugs. Shon was asked how often he went around the U.S. to talk
to other states about the TMAP.  “I would say once or twice a month for a period of several
years,” Shon said in a video deposition shown to jurors on the
trial’s second day of testimony. “I knew that Janssen paid for
a substantial number of those trips.”  Texas also claims that  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J,
the world’s largest health-care products company, defrauded the
state Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal for uses not
approved by U.S. regulators, including for children with
psychiatric disorders. The state joined a lawsuit filed by a
whistle-blower, Allen Jones, a former investigator for the
Pennsylvania Office of Inspector General.  Medical Director  Attorneys for Jones questioned Shon, who served as medical
director of the Texas Department of Mental Health and Mental
Retardation until he involuntarily retired in 2006.  Shon testified that he served on Janssen advisory boards,
was a board member of a Janssen publication called “Mental
Health Issues Today” and was a continuing medical education
speaker in programs sponsored by the company.  Shon was asked about six trips in which he got honorariums
of $3,000 from Janssen to discuss the TMAP project. In several
cases, he kept those payments, he said.  In testimony yesterday, a Texas Medicaid investigator said
Shon signed several consulting agreements with Janssen, and the
company paid him $47,587 over several years.  Jones’s attorney Thomas Melsheimer asked Shon about Texas
regulations that bar a public official from “soliciting,
accepting or agreeing to accept any honorarium for doing
services” that he wouldn’t be asked to provide “but for that
person’s official position or duties.”  Outside of Texas  Shon said his TMAP talks outside of Texas didn’t conflict
with his official duties, and he gave them during compensatory
time. When asked about a 2000 trip to Scottsdale,  Arizona , when
his timesheet showed he was at work, he said: “It appears that
things were not recorded correctly.”  On cross-examination, Shon said Janssen had no influence
over the development of the TMAP guidelines.  He said a state attorney, Cathy Campbell, told him that his
appearances in other states were proper. He said he usually gave
his honorariums to the state, based on Campbell’s advice.  In those cases when he kept the payments, Shon said, the
lawyer advised him that his actions were proper.  ‘Something Wrong’  “Did anybody ever tell you that you were doing something
wrong in conjunction with your work with TMAP?” a J&J attorney
asked Shon.  “No,” he answered.  Shon said he left his state job when he was told “it was
time to move on,” he testified.  “Did anybody ever tell you that you had done something
wrong, and that’s why it was time to move on?” he was asked.  “No,” he said.  In his opening statement yesterday, Melsheimer said J&J
made $34 billion in Risperdal sales after its launch in 1994.  J&J denies wrongdoing and never acted illegally, attorney
 Stephen McConnico  told jurors yesterday in his opening
statement.  The case is State of Texas ex rel. Jones v. Janssen LP, D-
1GV-04-001288, District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Austin at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 