-- JPMorgan’s Zombies Memorize Pi, Google’s Seekers Squirm: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-01-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/jpmorgan-s-zombie-hordes-memorize-pi-google-s-job-seekers-squirm-books.html
A word to the wise job seeker:  At  Google Inc. (GOOG) , interviewers might urge you to cite the
world’s most beautiful equation.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  may expect
you to trot out the value of pi (in more than six digits,
please). And the folks at  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  might ask what you
would charge to wash all the windows in  Seattle .  This is just a sample of the questions, logic puzzles and
brain-breaking riddles packed into  William Poundstone ’s amusing
and sometimes creepy guide to interviewing in an (almost)
jobless recovery, “Are You Smart Enough to Work at Google?”  Poundstone is a prolific author of energetic books about
mathematics, science and money, including “Fortune’s Formula”
(on a betting system that beat Vegas and  Wall Street ) and
“Priceless” (all about pricing psychology). Now he’s back with
a sequel to his take on fiendishly tricky  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
interrogations, “How Would You Move Mount Fuji?”  With  15.2 percent  of Americans unemployed or underemployed,
interviewers are no longer wowed by a strong CV, a Harvard
diploma and a clever answer to the now-familiar poser, “Why are
manhole covers round?” Companies are skimming for cream and
subjecting applicants to “harder, ruder, more invasive vetting
than ever before,” Poundstone says.  “We live in an age of desperation,” he writes. “Never in
living memory has the competition for job openings been more
intense. Never have job interviews been tougher” for what he
calls the “zombie hordes” hunting for work.  Rogues and Hazings  And not just at Google and Microsoft. These days, job
applicants far from Silicon Valley may be subjected to bizarre
interrogations from corporate interviewers who have, as
Poundstone says, gone rogue.  At AT&T Inc., he says, applicants are asked what superhero
they would choose to be.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  sometimes requests the
square root of 0.01. Many questions amount to screening:  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , for example, may ask, “What happened in 2001?” (No
points for saying 9/11; we’re talking about the year the iPod
was introduced.)  Even after proving your mettle during one of these hazings,
you may be called back again and again and again, suspended in
what Poundstone calls “the Kafka interview.” Eventually, you
may be offered only a trial position, which amounts to an on-
the-job interview with no promise of lasting employment.  The book addresses a wide audience. For those in the job
market, Poundstone provides a handy survey of killer questions
and how to answer them. For others, he offers the challenge of
matching wits with people at America’s most innovative
companies. As for employers, he presents a timely warning about
creative thinking and why job interviews don’t work.  ‘Smart Losers’  Testing for inventiveness is tricky. IQ alone proves a
fickle guide. In a random sample of creative, successful people,
nigh on 100 percent are very intelligent, Poundstone writes. The
opposite isn’t true: “ Mensa meetings  are filled with smart
losers,” he says.  Each chapter closes with a selection of questions. There
are classic riddles, numeracy tests, demands for impromptu
estimates, algorithmic conundrums and tricks designed to elicit
“technically correct but useless answers.” Consider this:  “You have 10,000 Apache servers and one day to generate $1
million. What do you do?” (Hint: What would a trader do?)  The answers are tucked into 120 pages in the back of the
book, for easy reference. The format affords Poundstone room to
display his scientific knowledge, mathematical fluency and knack
for explaining the arcane in playfully precise sentences.  Putting Google in the title is more than a come-on.
Poundstone introduces us to engineers and the folks in “People
Ops,” Googlespeak for human resources. We also meet job
applicants who sweated though unnerving questions at the
“ Googleplex ” in  Mountain View ,  California .  “You are shrunk to the height of a nickel and thrown into
a blender,” one begins. What do you do before the blades begin
to whirr in 60 seconds?  This query, however odd, is grounded in serious science.
Grillings at other outfits can get just plain goofy. Designed to
establish if a candidate fits the corporate personality, they
may reveal more about the company itself.  At  Bank of America Corp. , an aspiring personal banker was
asked to picture himself as a cartoon character: Which would he
be and why? “ Yogi Bear ,” the applicant replied, winning a
round of applause and an immediate hire, we read.  Did someone mention Yogi’s weakness for “pic-a-nic
baskets”? Poundstone doesn’t say.  “Are You Smart Enough to Work at Google?” is from Little,
Brown (290 pages, $19.99). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 