-- Kazakhs Study Bid to Boost Kashagan Oil Cost to $46 Billion
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-01-12T10:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/kazakhs-consider-bid-to-boost-kashagan-oil-cost-to-46-billion.html
Kazakhstan ’s government is
considering a request from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  and other partners to raise the budget for the first phase
of the  Kashagan  oil project by 20 percent to $46 billion,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The international partners, which include  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Total
SA (FP) , will bear the extra cost themselves, the person said,
declining to be identified as the information isn’t public.
Kazakhstan’s state energy producer, which also has a stake, will
reimburse them with barrels of oil for its share once output
starts, the person said.  Kashagan, once touted as the world’s biggest discovery in
four decades, has been plagued by cost overruns and delays over
the past decade. An early estimate of $24 billion for the first
phase was revised up to $38.6 billion.  “It would be difficult for both sides,  oil companies  and
the Kazakh government, to swallow” a potential cost increase 
if one is under discussion, Dominic Lewenz, director of oil and 
gas research at Visor Capital in Almaty, said. “Both sides have
a common interest to make sure the project meets its initial 
startup deadline of 2012-13, as every delay pushes back the 
revenue stream.”  Artificial Islands  The venture underestimated the cost of building artificial
islands for equipment and to house workers in a region that’s
frozen almost half the year, while construction expenses also
surged.  Shell, Exxon, Eni and Total each hold a 16.8 percent stake
in the field, as does state-owned KazMunaiGaz National Co.,
according to the website of the North Caspian Operating Co., or
NCOC, which manages the project.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  holds 8.4
percent and  Japan ’s  Inpex Corp. (1605)  has 7.56 percent.  The costs and schedule of the field’s development are
“currently being considered” with the government after a
review was carried out, NCOC said in an e-mailed statement.  KazMunaiGaz referred questions to  Kazakhstan’s (OLPDKAZA)  Oil and Gas
Ministry, which declined to comment on talks. Shell declined to
comment, as did Eni and Total. Charlie Engelmann, an Exxon
spokesman based in Irving,  Texas , directed a request for
comments to the project’s joint operator.  The Caspian Sea field will produce 370,000 to 450,000
barrels of oil a day in the first phase, which may double in the
second phase in 2018 or 2019, then Deputy Oil and Gas Minister
Lyazzat Kiinov said last month. Production is slated to begin in
June 2013 “at the latest,” he said at the time.  The Kazakh Oil and Gas Ministry may refuse to reimburse $6
billion to $7 billion of costs claimed by Kashagan partners,
said a person with knowledge of the matter on June 10. The
ministry oversees Kashagan’s production-sharing agreement, which
allows the investors to recoup costs before the government takes
its share of oil revenue.  The Kashagan partners have invested $33 billion in the
development of the Caspian Sea oil deposit, the state-owned
Kazinform news service reported in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  