-- Naira Trade Limited for Third Day as Strike in Nigeria Continues
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-01-11T15:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/naira-trade-limited-for-third-day-as-strike-in-nigeria-continues.html
Naira trading was limited for a
third day on  Nigeria ’s interbank market as a general strike to
protest the end of fuel subsidies shut banks for a third day.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer was little
changed against the dollar at 161.91 naira as of 4 p.m. in
Lagos, the commercial capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The stoppage “continues to effectively shoot down the
economy,”  Leon Myburgh  and Coura Fall, Johannesburg-based
Africa strategists at Citigroup Inc., wrote in an e-mail note to
clients today. “Both the interbank foreign exchange and money
market are effectively closed, even as the  Central Bank  of
Nigeria continues with its normal operations.”  The Nigerian Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress,
representing more than 8 million workers, called an indefinite
action to force President  Goodluck Jonathan  to reverse a
decision to scrap fuel subsidies from Jan. 1. The strike shut
down banks, businesses and ports across the West African nation.  “Trading remains lull on the demand and supply side of the
foreign exchange market” as there are hardly any import and
export activities, Tunde Ladipo, chief executive officer of
Lagos-based Valuechain Investment Ltd., which trades currencies,
said by phone today.  Nigeria  sold  $171.8 million at a foreign-currency auction
today, less than the $200 million offered to lenders, the Abuja-
based central bank said in an e-mailed statement. The  marginal
rate , which is also used as the prevailing exchange rate,
strengthened 0.1 percent to 156.70 naira compared with 156.71
naira at the previous auction Jan. 4.  Petrol Prices  At least eight people were killed in protests, the Nigerian
Labor Congress and Trade Union Congress said yesterday. The
government’s resolve to keep petrol prices at over 138 naira per
litre, “will be tested over the coming days and weeks,”Gregory
Kronsten and Olubunmi Asaolu, analysts at Lagos-based FGN
Capital, said in an e-mailed note to clients today.  Jonathan, who won a four-year term in April, has pledged to
use savings from the 1.2 trillion naira ($7.4 billion) subsidy
to invest in  power plants  and roads in sub-Saharan Africa’s
second-largest economy. He’s also vowed to curb wages and create
a sovereign wealth fund.  Ghana ’s cedi depreciated to at least the lowest in almost
18 years against the dollar as traders bought the U.S. currency
to import goods and foreign investors sought to sell their local
investments. It depreciated 1.6 percent to 1.6845 per dollar as
of 4 p.m. in Accra, the capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  