-- Dubai Palm-Shaped Island to Get First New Development Since Nakheel Rescue
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-01-11T10:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/nakheel-plans-its-first-new-palm-island-project-since-dubai-market-crashed.html
Nakheel PJSC, Dubai’s biggest
developer, plans to start its first new project on the Palm
Jumeirah artificial island since the company received a
government bailout in 2009.  The Pointe at Palm Jumeirah will include shops, computer-
controlled fountains, a marina and a public walk on the tip of
the palm-shaped island, Chairman Ali Rashed Lootah said at a
press conference today. Nakheel is in talks with banks to raise
at least 300 million dirhams ($82 million) for the project,
which will be operated by the company when it’s completed.  “The retail sector is strategic for Nakheel,” Lootah
said, adding the company is looking to increase its sources of
recurring income.  Developers in the  United Arab Emirates , which includes
Dubai and  Abu Dhabi , canceled or postponed more than $500
billion worth of planned construction work since the property
market crashed in 2009. Projects on hold include Nakheel’s Palm
Jebel Ali and Palm Deira islands as well as most of its world
map-shaped island chain.  Nakheel wrote down the value of its real estate by 78.6
billion dirhams after the credit crisis caused the emirate’s
speculation-driven property market to collapse. The company
received an $8.6 billion bailout from Dubai’s government as part
of a $10.5 billion debt restructuring that included issuing an
Islamic bond, or sukuk, to repay trade creditors.  Nakheel plans to issue an Islamic bond, or sukuk, before
June to settle claims by contractors, Lootah said today. The
value won’t exceed 1 billion dirhams, he said.  The Pointe  The Pointe, located across the water from the Atlantis
hotel, will include 120 restaurants, 75 shops and landscaped
areas for visitors with a view of the offshore fountain. The
plan includes a new station for the monorail running up the
center of the palm-shaped island and parking for 1,200 cars.  While demand for housing in Dubai has waned and values have
dropped by more than 60 percent, retail has been one of the
bright spots of Dubai’s  property market . Lootah said 60 percent
of an extension to Nakheel’s Dragon Mart mall was booked by
renters within a week of its announcement.  “They didn’t just book the space, they also paid
deposits,” he said. “That shows there is demand.”  Nakheel expects the new project to be completed in about 18
months, Lootah said today. Nakheel hasn’t decided whether to
borrow or raise funds by issuing bonds for the development, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 