-- Navy Using Northrop Grumman High-Altitude Drone to Monitor Persian Gulf
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-11T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/navy-using-northrop-high-altitude-drone-to-monitor-persian-gulf.html
The U.S. Navy is using its first
high-altitude drone, part of a potential $11 billion program, to
monitor Iranian military activity and vessel transit in and
around the  Strait of Hormuz , according to service officials.  The unmanned aerial vehicle built by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
is providing broad coverage of the strategic waterway from
60,000 feet, Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Jonathan Greenert
said yesterday in an interview.  Black-and-white still images from the drone, known as the
Broad Area Maritime Surveillance UAV, are beamed to a ground
station in Maryland and re-transmitted to 5th Fleet naval
vessels in the region within minutes on average, Program Manager
Captain Jim Hoke said.  The drone operation, a 24-hour mission every three days,
complements the 12-hour sorties flown by manned P-3 aircraft,
with the potential to alert the P-3 to focus on specific
targets, according to the officials. The drone been used in the
region since 2009.  “You get a look at the entire Hormuz swath,” Greenert
said. While the BAMS drone currently provides still images, the
Navy’s goal is “to get full mission video,” Greenert said in
 Washington . When airborne, it can survey about half the Gulf,
officials said.  The drone’s use demonstrates the importance of unmanned
aircraft in the Pentagon’s strategy unveiled last week. The Navy
by 2019 wants to base a BAMS drone in five locations, including
in the Pacific region, for worldwide coverage.  Resolution, Clarity  “It’s got persistence, it’s got nice resolution and
clarity,” Greenert said. “It’s durable and operating very
reliably.”  The head of  Iran ’s army warned the U.S. against sending an
 aircraft carrier  back through the Strait into the Persian Gulf,
the state-run Fars news agency said Jan. 3. A week earlier,
Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi was quoted by the
 Islamic Republic News Agency  as saying that his nation would
block oil shipments through the Strait if economic sanctions are
imposed to pressure Iran to abandon it nuclear program.  Iran has the ability to block the Strait “for a period of
time” and the U.S. would take action to reopen it, U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey said in an
interview broadcast January 8 on the CBS “Face the Nation”
program.  70 Aircraft  The BAMS UAV is the leading edge of what  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based Northrop Grumman anticipates will be an $11
billion program to produce 70 aircraft. Five demonstration
models, such as the one in the Gulf, are on contract.  The Navy plane is part of an international  task force  that
includes aircraft of the U.S. 5th Fleet, which is based in
 Bahrain .  The drone was first deployed to the Gulf in 2009 on a six-
month stint to demonstrate the technology. Navy officials in
2010 extended the deployment a year at the request of the 5th
Fleet in Bahrain. The Navy late last year “indefinitely”
extended the drone’s Gulf region deployment, said service
spokeswoman Jamie Cosgrove.  Defense Secretaries Donald Rumsfeld and Robert Gates
pressed the military to make greater use of drones. The
Pentagon’s current aviation plan calls for increasing by 2020
the number of high-altitude drones to more than 800 from the 220
today, most operated by the  Air Force .  Oil Chokepoint  The Strait, which connects the  Persian Gulf  with the Gulf
of Oman and the  Arabian Sea , is a chokepoint for seaborne oil
trade, according to the U.S. Energy Department. Almost 17
million barrels a day, or about a fifth of oil traded globally,
crossed the waterway last year, the department said in a report
Dec. 30.  Northrop Grumman in 2008 beat Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  of Bethesda, Maryland, for a $1.8 billion
contract to develop and build the first two demonstration
aircraft in the Navy program. Northrop will also build three
more advanced models under contract.  The Navy will seek Pentagon permission in 2013 to begin
building the remaining 65 aircraft, Hoke said.  “The current plan is that Northrop Grumman would be the
prime” contractor throughout the program, Hoke said in a
telephone interview.  Northrop Grumman spokesman  Randy Belote  referred all
questions to the Navy.  BAMS imagery is beamed via satellite to a ground processing
station at the Naval Air Systems Command, Patuxent River Naval
Station,  Maryland . The black and white images are re-transmitted
within minutes to the Gulf and can be accessed with computers by
5th Fleet vessels equipped with the Pentagon’s secure SIPRNET
Internet, said Hoke.  “They’ve got it down to minutes from the time something is
imaged and customers are ready to look at it -- anybody with a
SIPRNET terminal would be able to look at product,” he said.
The 5th Fleet watch office is also sending out the BAMS images
to Navy vessels, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  