-- New York Jets Hire Ex-Dolphins Coach Sparano to Replace Schottenheimer
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-11T20:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/new-york-jets-hire-ex-dolphins-coach-sparano-to-replace-schottenheimer.html
The  New York Jets  hired former Miami
Dolphins coach  Tony Sparano  as their offensive coordinator to
replace Brian Schottenheimer, who resigned after the team missed
the playoffs with an 8-8 record.  Sparano, 50, was fired by the Dolphins on Dec. 12 after
compiling a 29-33 record over three-plus seasons, including a 4-
9 mark in 2011.  “When we sat down with Tony, I knew that he was the right
person at the right time for our offense,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan 
said in a statement. “I’ve admired his work as a competitor in
the division for the past three seasons. His teams were always
physical, tough and hard-nosed.”  Sparano led the Dolphins to an 11-5 record in his first
season in 2008 and then had back-to-back 7-9 campaigns. The
Dolphins started 0-7 in 2011 and then rebounded with four wins
in five games before Sparano was fired following a Dec. 11 loss
to the  Philadelphia Eagles .  The Dolphins under Sparano incorporated the “Wildcat”
offense, in which the quarterback is replaced in the backfield
by a running back who takes a direct snap from center.  Sparano also had four starting quarterbacks during his
tenure and wasn’t able to develop Chad Henne, who was the
Dolphins’ second-round draft pick in 2008. Now he’ll work with
25-year-old  Mark Sanchez , who’s completed 55 percent of his
passes over three seasons with 55 touchdowns and 51
interceptions.  Welcomes Challenge  “I know this division very well and I’m looking forward to
that challenge,” Sparano said in a statement. The Jets and
Dolphins are members of the American Football Conference’s East
division.  Schottenheimer said he wanted a fresh start in stepping
down yesterday after six years running the Jets’ offense.  Schottenheimer was criticized this season for the struggles
of the Jets’ offense, which ranked 25th of 32 National Football
League teams. He also came under fire for the inconsistency of
Sanchez, who had seven interceptions over the final three games
this season.  Sanchez threw 26 touchdown passes in his third season,
tying Al Dorrow and  Joe Namath  for the second-highest one-year
total in franchise history. He also threw 18 interceptions,
including three in a season-ending 19-17 loss against the
Dolphins. Jets General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said after the
season that Sanchez has to be more consistent.  The Jets reached the AFC championship game the previous two
years with a rushing attack that led the NFL in 2009 and ranked
fourth in 2010. Their running game ranked 22nd this past season.  Team Chemistry  The Jets ended the season with a three-game losing streak
capped by Schottenheimer benching wide receiver  Santonio Holmes 
for a verbal altercation with teammates in the huddle. Ryan said
after the season that a lack of chemistry led to the team’s
struggles and that he expected Schottenheimer to return unless
he got a head coaching job elsewhere.  Before becoming coach of the Dolphins in 2008, Sparano was
assistant head coach for the offense in  Dallas  and called
offensive plays for the Cowboys in 2006. He’s a former offensive
line coach who has focused on the running game and may help the
Jets get back to a rushing-oriented attack.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  