-- Newcastle Wants to Buy Back Liverpool’s Andy Carroll at Discount: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-01-11T08:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/newcastle-wants-to-buy-back-liverpool-s-andy-carroll-at-discount-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Carroll’s Return?  Newcastle is ready to buy back striker Andy Carroll for 10
million pounds ($15.5 million), 25 million pounds less than the
player was sold to Liverpool for 12 months ago,  the Sun said.   Newcastle has already rejected two offers to buy the 23-
year-old, one for 20 million pounds and one asking for 15
million pounds plus add-ons, the newspaper said.  Carroll has scored 6 goals in 31 games since his move to
Liverpool, which made him the most expensive English soccer
player. Newcastle would require the northeast England native to
reduce his 90,000 pounds a week salary as part of any deal, the
Sun said.  Drogba Deal?  New Queens Park Rangers manager  Mark Hughes  wants to make
Chelsea striker Didier Drobga his first signing to help his west
London club stay in the Premier League,  the Daily Star said.   He is also looking to make offers for Tottenham’s  Jermain Defoe , Fulham’s  Andy Johnson , Manchester City’s  Wayne Bridge  and
Brazilian striker Henrique, the newspaper said.  Battle for Teen  Arsenal, Chelsea and Manchester City are fighting over the
signing of 16-year-old Southampton left-back Luke Shaw, who is
valued at 4 million pounds despite not having played for the
first team yet,  the Independent said.   Scouts from several teams are likely to watch the England
Under-17s player in an F.A. youth Cup match against Bolton
tonight, the newspaper said.  Arsenal may have an advantage in the race, having already
bought Theo Walcott and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain from
Southampton, the Independent said.  Milan’s Plans  Inter Milan president Massimo Moratti said his club remains
interested in signing  Carlos Tevez  from Manchester City,  the
Evening Standard said.   Tevez, who fell out of favor with City after leaving the
club without permission in November, is willing to move to
 Italy , the newspaper said. Moratti said “there’s room to act”
to acquire the Argentine in this month’s transfer window, the
Standard said.  Mancini’s Apology  Manchester City manager Roberto Mancini criticized
Liverpool’s handling of the case against  Luis Suarez , who was
banned for 8 games following accusations he racially abused
Manchester United defender  Patrice Evra ,  the Guardian said.   The City manager said Suarez should have apologized
earlier, although he said he didn’t believe the Liverpool player
was a racist, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  