-- Novo Seeks More Company Stakes After Adding to Enzyme Holdings
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-01-11T14:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/novo-seeks-more-company-stakes-after-adding-to-enzyme-holdings.html
Novo A/S, which paid $714 million to
buy PAI Partners’ stake in food-enzyme maker  Chr. Hansen A/S (CHR) , is
hunting for more corporate holdings to diversify its
investments, its chief executive officer said.  The Danish investment arm of Novo Nordisk Foundation has
excess cash of as much as 3.5 billion kroner ($600 million)
annually and is looking for stakes in Scandinavian and European
companies, CEO Henrik Guertler said in an interview today.  Novo, based in Copenhagen, is already the largest
shareholder in global insulin maker  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB)  (NOVOB) and the
investment in Chr. Hansen comes alongside a long-held stake in
enzyme maker Novozymes A/S. It’s seeking targets sporting
similar financial results to its existing holdings to move away
from equity and fixed-income markets.  “We want to place this excess liquidity in well managed,
profitable companies and not just in shares and bonds,”
Guertler said by phone. “Chr. Hansen is the first example of
putting that money to work. There will be more coming of similar
investments.”  Novo invests 1.5 billion kroner in venture companies and
transfers 1 billion to the foundation for distribution, leaving
a 3 billion krone to 3.5 billion krone surplus, he said.  It agreed to pay PAI 117 kroner a share, or about 560
million euros, for a 26 percent stake. The acquisition closes
out the private equity firm’s position in the Danish company,
which it bought for about 1.1 billion euros in 2005 and relisted
in 2010. PAI quadrupled its original investment.  Enzyme Collaboration  Novozymes (NZYMB)  and Chr. Hansen will be left to operate their
businesses independently, without interference, Guertler said.
Novo will seek representation on the board of its latest
investment, he said.  PAI currently has two of its team on Chr. Hansen’s board
and shareholders will assemble in November or December to vote
on any changes to that setup. The company competes in some areas
with  Novozymes (NZYMB) , in which Novo holds shares worth about 13
billion kroner, the executive said.  “They will be left to themselves,” he said. “There will
be no attempts to mix it up. It’s seen as a financial investment
in Chr. Hansen.”  The ingredients maker  climbed  as much as 17 percent in
Copenhagen trading to its highest since its initial public
offering in June 2010. The share gained 14.6 kroner, or 12
percent, to 137.6 kroner as of 2:59 p.m., giving the company a
market value of 19 billion kroner.  Enzyme Empire  Chr. Hansen, based in a northern Copenhagen suburb, sells
dietary supplements, natural food colorings extracted from
beetles and bushes, and enzymes and cultures to make yogurt,
cheese and other milk-based products. Rising sales may enable
the company to buy back shares or pay out more in dividends,
Chief Executive Officer Lars Frederiksen said.  “It’s clear that we will be in a situation by the end of
the year that we’ll be able to pay back further cash to the
shareholders,” Frederiksen said in a phone interview. “The
board will have to take a position later this year on what to do
with the excess cash.”  Chr. Hansen reported a 13 percent increase in first-quarter
net income to 26 million euros, in line with estimates, as sales
climbed 12 percent. Its ratio of debt to earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization fell by nearly a
third, to 1.8 times, before dividend payments.  The company targets a debt to EBITDA ratio of between 2 and
2.5, Frederiksen said.  Dividend-Based Diet  Novo’s annual revenue totals about 6 billion kroner, from
investments and dividend payments from Novo Nordisk and
Novozymes, Guertler said. .  “Novo’s goal is simply to provide the best profits for the
Novo Nordisk Foundation,” he said. To that end, the  investment
company  is looking for businesses with financial results that
match Novo Nordisk’s and Novozymes’, he said. The size of the
deal “doesn’t really matter,” he said.  “We will see what pops up,” Guertler said. “We are
looking actively at similar cases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  