-- NYC Actuary Said to Seek Lower Pension-Fund Rate of Return of 7% From 8%
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-01-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/nyc-actuary-said-to-seek-lower-pension-fund-rate-of-return-of-7-from-8-.html
New York ’s chief actuary is
recommending that the city’s $115.2 billion pension plans lower
their assumed annual rate of return on assets to 7 percent from
8 percent, which would open a funding gap of at least $2 billion
next year, according to two people familiar with the proposal.  Robert North, the actuary, is presenting his plan to
overseers of funds for police, firefighters, teachers, civilian
employees and school administrators, the people said. They spoke
on the condition of anonymity because the proposal hasn’t been
made public. The New York Post reported on the plan yesterday.  The city has already set aside $1 billion for the fiscal
year beginning July 1 to cover an increase in its annual pension
contribution.  “To pay it all at once would be a big hit,” said Domenic Recchia, chairman of the City Council’s Finance Committee,
adding that a 7 percent assumed rate of return on investments
seemed “sensible.”  “We’ll make it up, but over time,” he said.  In the 10 years through June 2010, America’s biggest state
pension systems -- battered by the Internet stock bubble, the
financial crisis of 2008 and the longest recession since the
Great Depression -- earned an annualized return of less than 4
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Reduced Assumptions  As a result, public pensions have been forced to reevaluate
the projected returns that determine how much money taxpayers
and retirees need to pour into retirement funds.  Some systems, including in New York,  Rhode Island  and the
California State Teachers’ Retirement System, have reduced their
assumptions. Lowering projected gains can widen funding gaps,
forcing lawmakers to put even more money into the programs.  New York City ’s pension costs have increased to $8.5
billion this year -- including the reserve -- from $1.5 billion
in 2002, when Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  first took office,
representing almost 13 percent of the $66 billion budget for
fiscal 2012.  If the city’s pension-fund boards and the state Legislature
approve the actuary’s new assumptions, 11 of 126 public-employee
pension plans surveyed by the National Association of Retirement
Administrators would have a 7 percent investment return
assumption, said  Keith Brainard , research director for the
association.  Higher Cost  Spreading the increased pension costs spurred by lower
return assumptions over time, rather than making the full
payment all at once, will cost taxpayers more, Brainard said.  “It’s like shorting your mortgage payment,” he said.  “If you take a holiday on your mortgage you’ll have to
catch up later on,” Brainard said. “At the same time these
plan sponsors and policy makers are weighing competing
objectives, which include maintaining some predictability and
stability in the budget process.”  Actuaries look at a number of factors in coming up with an
assumed return including inflation, historical and projected
returns of various asset classes, the pension fund’s historical
returns and employee demographics, Brainard said.  Matthew Sweeney, a spokesman for New York City Comptroller
 John Liu , declined to comment citing the draft nature of the
recommendation.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  