-- NYSE Says Media Reports Indicate Deutsche Boerse Will Be Blocked
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-01-11T16:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/nyse-says-media-reports-indicate-deutsche-boerse-will-be-blocked.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive
Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said that press reports indicate the
exchange’s takeover by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  will be blocked by
European regulators.  “It certainly appears, if you look at all the news
reports, that the preliminary conclusion they have reached will
be to recommend that the proposed merger with DB be
prohibited,” Niederauer said in the transcript of a
presentation to employees obtained by Bloomberg News. The New
York-based company hasn’t received a formal decision from the
European Commission, he said.  Niederauer is meeting with his counterpart at  Deutsche
Boerse ,  Reto Francioni , in  New York  today as they seek to
overcome opposition to their plan for building the world’s
biggest exchange operator, according to two people familiar with
the matter said. Concessions offered by the two exchanges didn’t
go far enough for European Commission staff to approve the
merger, negotiators informed the companies at a Dec. 21 meeting
in Brussels, two people familiar with the talks told Bloomberg
at the time.  The companies still have room to maneuver. Commissioners
from each European Union country vote on a final decision after
receiving the case team’s advice, which is non binding.  ‘Serious Flaws’  “Any preliminary recommendation by the case team is
subsequently vetted and acted on by the entire European
Commission,” Niederauer said in the presentation. “We’re going
to continue to press our case directly with various
Commissioners in the EU, both to highlight the serious flaws in
the case team’s core argument, and to ensure that there is a
clear understanding of the strong benefits that our combination
will bring.”  Niederauer and Francioni have been working since February
to convince authorities that their agreement won’t stifle
competition in derivatives trading. Topics of today’s meeting
will include opposition in the European Commission and among
regulators in the German state of Hesse, according to people
familiar with the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  