-- NYSE-Deutsche Boerse Deal Hangs in Balance as Francioni Visits Niederauer
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-01-11T23:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/nyse-deutsche-boerse-deal-hangs-in-balance-as-francioni-visits-niederauer.html
Time is running out on efforts by
 Reto Francioni  and  Duncan Niederauer  to win approval for the
merger of  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext.  The chief executive officers met in  New York  today, seeking
to overcome opposition to their plan for building the world’s
biggest exchange operator. Niederauer said in a message to
employees that European Commission antitrust regulators appear
likely to block the transaction, according to a transcript
obtained by Bloomberg.  Concessions offered by the exchanges to allay competition
concerns didn’t go far enough and the EC was likely to prohibit
the deal, negotiators informed the companies at a Dec. 21
meeting in Brussels, two people familiar with the talks told
Bloomberg at the time. Losing the transaction would cap 15
months of futility in exchange combinations after nationalist
outcry and antitrust concern prevented the completion of more
than $37 billion in announced takeovers.  “There would definitely be some backlash because they were
very confident that the deal would be done,” said Tim Hoyle,
director of research at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford
Trust, which manages $6 billion and owns  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  shares.
“I personally would not blame the management, would not blame
Duncan, for this happening. The EU is very tough to game and
prognosticate.”  Derivatives Trading  Niederauer, in a video presentation to employees, said
regulators’ analysis of the takeover by Deutsche Boerse is
fundamentally flawed, and vowed to fight to complete the deal.  “We have not received a formal decision from DG
Competition, but it certainly appears, if you look at all the
news reports, that the preliminary conclusion they have reached
will be to recommend that the proposed merger with DB be
prohibited,” Niederauer said. “We’re going to continue to press
our case directly with various commissioners in the EU.”  Niederauer and Francioni have been working since February
to convince authorities that their agreement won’t stifle
competition in derivatives.  Richard Adamonis , an NYSE spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement that the meeting ended.  More Options  “The parties used the occasion to reaffirm their commitment
to the proposed merger and to working together to persuade the
European Commission of the strong benefits that our combination
will bring to a broad set of stakeholders in  Europe ,” the
statement said.  The companies still have room to maneuver. Commissioners
from each EU country vote on a final decision after receiving
the case team’s advice, which is non binding.  “That’s the stage at which there may be lobbying,” Stuart
Richards, a London-based lawyer specializing in antitrust issues
at Fasken Martineau LLP, said in a phone interview. “They could
say this isn’t a positive step for Europe at the moment with the
 economic  problems it has, and that it would be detrimental to
not allow the deal to go ahead. However, it’s rare that a
recommendation isn’t followed.”  NYSE slipped 0.1 percent to $27.77 in New York trading
today.  Deutsche Boerse  fell 0.9 percent to 41.63 euros.  “Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext have not received yet
an official decision by the European Commission regarding the
requested merger,” Deutsche Boerse spokesman  Frank Herkenhoff 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Deutsche Boerse (DB1)  agreed to acquire NYSE Euronext on Feb. 15
for stock worth $9.5 billion. The value of the acquisition has
fallen 31 percent as opposition mounted and stocks around the
world tumbled.  Germany ’s DAX Index is down 16 percent since the
discussions were first reported Feb. 9.  Share Ratio  Terms of the merger call for Deutsche Boerse to exchange
shares worth $25.21 for each NYSE Euronext share, based on their
closing prices. Today’s gain lifted NYSE stock to 10.2 percent
above the offer. The gap reached almost 12 percent on Jan. 6,
the widest since May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Fundamental investors see the value in a deal not going
through,”  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based merger
arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc, said in a phone
interview. “Those people may be coming back in because they’ll
see the value is potentially much higher than where it’s
currently trading.”  Scrutiny of the proposed acquisition has been greatest in
Europe where it would unite the region’s two biggest derivatives
exchanges, NYSE’s Liffe and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex. In the
U.S., trading in interest-rate, agricultural and commodity
futures is dominated by one company, Chicago-based  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , after it merged with the Chicago Board of Trade in 2007
and the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in 2008.  Concentrating Derivatives  The takeover would put more than 90 percent of the European
exchange-traded  derivatives market  and about 30 percent of the
region’s stock trading in the hands of one company.  Deutsche
Boerse’s (DB1)  Eurex is the region’s biggest derivatives exchange,
with products including fixed-income futures, while Liffe is the
second-largest. Eurex is owner of New York-based  International
Securities Exchange , which has a 31.5 percent stake in Direct
Edge Holdings LLC. Brokers own the rest.  “I don’t think people are surprised that there are delays
at the last second, but the facts are a lot of people were
betting that this deal would go through,” said  Matt McCormick ,
a  money manager  at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which
oversees $4.5 billion, in a phone interview. “Sensitivities are
high and even if it makes economic sense in some cases, that’s
not enough to seal the deal.”  Fee Caps  In Europe, the companies have offered capping fees on
derivatives trading and clearing for three years, selling NYSE’s
Liffe single-stock derivatives business, and the licensing of
the Eurex trading system to a third party.  The takeover was cleared by the U.S. Justice Department on
Dec. 22. U.S. regulators, who in May blocked  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  from pursuing a hostile bid for the New York Stock Exchange
owner, agreed to allow the purchase by Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse as long as the company sells its stake in Direct Edge,
another U.S. equity market.  Six proposed transactions involving  public companies 
totaling $37 billion failed to close in the past year, the most
for any 12-month period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Russia’s Micex Exchange acquired RTS Stock Exchange on Dec. 19
for $1.5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Exchanges completed $28.7 billion of deals in 2007 and 2008.  The 25-company Bloomberg World Exchanges Index  fell  19
percent in 2011, twice the loss for the MSCI All-Country World
Index. The gauge of market operators has averaged gains of 35
percent a year between 2003 and 2010, falling only in 2008. More
than $21 billion was erased from the market value of exchanges
worldwide in 2011 as deals were delayed or blocked from Sydney
to Toronto and New York, Bloomberg data show.  “The investment community is getting a little bit
impatient,”  Peter Kovalski , a money manager who owns NYSE
Euronext shares at Alpine Woods Capital Investors LLC in
Purchase, New York, said in a telephone interview. His firm
manages about $6 billion. “Personally I would like to see this
get complete. It’s been disruptive for both management teams.
They’re spending a lot of their time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  