-- NYSE Chief Says EU Analysis ‘Flawed’
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-01-11T17:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/nyse-says-eu-analysis-flawed-vows-to-fight-for-deutsche-boerse-merger.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive
Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said European regulators’ analysis of
its takeover by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  is “fundamentally flawed,”
and vowed to fight to complete the deal.  “Their assertions are that the derivatives industry is not
global and that the over-the-counter and exchange-traded
derivatives markets are not converging and therefore do not
compete,” he said in the transcript of a presentation to
employees obtained by Bloomberg News. “That’s a conclusion that
results from a fundamentally flawed technical analysis that
ignores the realities of the marketplace.”  Niederauer is meeting with his counterpart at  Deutsche
Boerse ,  Reto Francioni , in  New York  today as they seek to
overcome opposition to their plan for building the world’s
biggest exchange operator, according to two people familiar with
the matter. Concessions offered by the two exchanges didn’t go
far enough for European Commission staff to approve the merger,
negotiators informed the companies at a Dec. 21 meeting in
Brussels, two people familiar with the talks told Bloomberg at
the time.  The companies still have room to maneuver. Commissioners
from each European Union country vote on a final decision after
receiving the case team’s advice, which is non binding.  “We’re going to continue to press our case directly with
various Commissioners in the EU,” Niederauer said in the
presentation. “Both to highlight the serious flaws in the case
team’s core argument, and to ensure that there is a clear
understanding of the strong benefits that our combination will
bring.”  Niederauer and Francioni have been working since February
to convince authorities that their agreement won’t stifle
competition in derivatives trading. Topics of today’s meeting
will include opposition in the European Commission and among
regulators in the German state of Hesse, according to people
familiar with the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  