-- Obama Said to Reprise Deficit, Tax Proposals for 2013 Budget
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-12T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/obama-said-to-reprise-deficit-tax-proposals-for-2013-budget.html
President  Barack Obama  will reprise
previously rejected deficit-reduction plans and tax increases on
the wealthy while proposing new incentives for companies to
return jobs to the U.S., as part of his fiscal 2013 budget,
administration officials said.  The election-year spending plan, due to be presented to
Congress Feb. 6, is intended to demonstrate the administration’s
intent to chip away at the nation’s long-term deficits.  The nation is at a turning point, Obama told business
leaders yesterday at a White House event, where he promised to
seek tax breaks for companies that make new investments in the
U.S. or bring jobs back from overseas. He didn’t give details.  “After shedding jobs for more than a decade, American
manufacturers have now added jobs for two years in a row,”
Obama said. “But when a lot of folks are still looking for
work, now is the time for us to step on the gas.”  Economic growth and job creation are expected to be the
main issues in the presidential campaign this year.  Mitt Romney ,
a former Massachusetts governor and the front-runner for the
Republican nomination, is making criticism of Obama’s
stewardship of the economy a prime focus of his stump speeches.  The  unemployment rate  has declined for four straight months
to 8.5 percent in December, and the Labor Department has
reported six consecutive months of job gains of 100,000 or more.
Still, the rate has been above 8 percent for almost two years,
and little headway has been made in recovering the 8.75 million
jobs lost as a result of the  recession  that ended in June 2009.  Election Issue  Only one U.S. president,  Ronald Reagan , has been re-elected
since World War II with a jobless rate above 6 percent. Reagan
won a second term with the rate on Election Day 1984 at 7.2
percent, having dropped almost three percentage points in the
previous 18 months.  Obama also is seeking to make headway on the  deficit , which
hit $1.3 trillion in fiscal 2011, the third highest as a
percentage of gross domestic product since 1945.  The president will offer a plan for  deficit reduction  along
the lines of the $4 trillion proposal that he outlined last
September. Two administration officials confirmed the plan on
condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to
discuss it before it’s announced.  The previous plan called for $1.5 trillion in tax increases
over the next decade, including the expiration of Bush-era tax
cuts for families earning $250,000 or more a year. It also would
make changes in mandatory spending programs, cutting Medicare
and Medicaid and  farm subsidies , selling government assets and
reducing federal worker benefits.  Republican Reaction  A spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner  said Congress
would reject the deficit plan, just as it did last September.  “The president isn’t serious if all he’s offering are the
same job-killing tax hikes that even Democrats in the Senate
have already rejected,”  Brendan Buck , the spokesman for the
Republican leader, said in an e-mailed statement. “Our debt is
threatening the economy as well important programs many seniors
rely on. We cannot afford another punt by the president.”  Obama’s last budget said the deficit in the current fiscal
year would be $1.1 trillion, or 7 percent of GDP. By 2015 it
would decline to $607 billion, or 3.2 percent of GDP, according
to the administration’s forecast.  Because a 12-member so-called supercommittee of lawmakers
failed to agree on a deficit-reduction plan in November, the
agreement between the White House and Congress requires more
than $1 trillion in automatic, across-the-board cuts in
discretionary spending beginning in January 2013. Obama has
threatened to veto any attempts to get around the spending cuts
and blamed Republicans for refusing to compromise.  One Budget  One official dismissed speculation Obama would offer two
budgets next month: a conventional version and a second one
reflecting automatic cuts, known as sequestration. The Budget
Control Act of last August doesn’t require the Obama
administration to submit a budget that includes specific details
from a sequester, should it occur.  Stan Collender , a budget expert and managing partner at
Qorvis Communications LLC in  Washington , told reporters at a
Jan. 9 seminar that Congress will spend weeks after the
elections trying to avoid automatic budget cuts.  “This will be the year of avoiding the sequester,” he
said.  Many of the tax and spending proposals in Obama’s $3.7
trillion budget last year were ignored or rejected by Congress.
His fiscal 2013 spending plan probably will encounter even more
resistance in an election year when the presidency, every seat
in the U.S. House and one-third of those in the Senate will be
decided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  