-- Obama Re-Election Campaign Says More Than $68 Million Raised
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-01-12T13:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/obama-seeks-hometown-donors-as-he-awaits-republican-challenger.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
effort raised more than $68 million in the quarter that ended
Dec. 31, campaign manager  Jim Messina  said today. He also said
that expectations for a $1 billion campaign are “completely
untrue.”  The total, which was less than the $70 million taken in
during the third quarter, includes funds raised by Obama’s
campaign and the Democratic National Committee, including
contributions received by the Obama Victory Fund, a joint
fundraising committee run by the two entities, and the Swing
State Victory Fund. Today’s announcement brings the total for
2011 to more than $222 million.  “Too many Obama supporters think we don’t need their money
or they don’t need to give now,” Messina said in a  video
release  this morning. He said he receives e-mails from
supporters who say “‘you don’t need our money now’ or ‘you’re
going to raise a billion dollars.’”  “The billion-dollar number is completely untrue,” he
said.  Obama for America, the president’s re-election campaign
committee, collected more than $42 million in the fourth
quarter, while the DNC received more than $24 million, Messina
said. The remaining money was divided between the smaller
campaign funds.  Messina said more than 583,000 people donated to the
campaign. Of those, more than 200,000 people were new donors.
More than 98 percent of donations were $250 or less, he said.  Obama in  Chicago   Last night, the president was in his home town of Chicago
to raise money and rally his campaign staff. He sought to fire
up supporters at three events where he recounted his record,
including revamping the health-care system and bringing U.S.
troops home from  Iraq , and urged those in attendance to revive
the spirit of his 2008 campaign.  “Because of what you did in 2008, we’ve begun to see what
change looks like,” Obama said at the  University of Illinois  at
Chicago. “Everything that we fought for is now at stake.”  Obama used the appearances to draw out what he said were
the “contrasting visions” for the country that he and his
Republican rivals are offering. He said they would weaken
pollution laws, cut education programs and Medicare and adopt
economic policies that would weaken middle-income families.  “The Republicans in Congress, the presidential candidates
who are running, they’ve got a very specific idea about where
they want to take this country,” he said. “They said they want
to reduce the deficit by gutting our investments in education
and gutting our investments in research and technology, letting
our infrastructure further deteriorate.”  Target of Romney  Obama has been the main target of the Republican front-
runner,  Mitt Romney . The former Massachusetts governor told an
audience in Manchester,  New Hampshire , on Jan. 10 that Obama
“has run out of ideas” and is “running out of excuses.”  Obama’s campaign trip -- one day after the New Hampshire
primary -- followed a forum at the White House on “Insourcing
American Jobs,” to encourage companies to locate jobs in the
U.S. and not abroad. Obama similarly chose the day after the
Jan. 3 caucuses in Iowa for public events, traveling to the
swing state of  Ohio  to announce his recess appointment of
 Richard Cordray  to head the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau.  Responding to Attacks  “President Obama spends the entire caucus and primary
period leading up to each event being rhetorically beaten to a
pulp by these Republican candidates,” said Dennis J. Goldford,
professor of politics at Drake University in  Des Moines ,  Iowa .
“It’s certainly helpful to get yourself out there” to respond,
he said.  Obama dropped by the Chicago headquarters of his re-
election organization to speak to several hundred campaign
workers before making the rounds seeking donations.  The event at the university was the largest of three
fundraisers last night. It featured singer Janelle Monae and
actor Hill Harper. It drew about 500 donors including younger
voters, with tickets starting at $44.  The other two fundraisers were hosted by media executive
Fred Eychaner and by Stuart Taylor, chief executive officer of
the Taylor Group LLC, a private equity firm. Taylor said in
introducing the president that more than 140 people were at his
event, far more than the 80 to 100 that were expected.  $35,800 Ticket  Ticket prices for the more exclusive gatherings ranged from
$7,500 to $35,800 per person, the official said. Donations
benefit the Obama campaign and the  Democratic National
Committee . For the $35,800 tickets, a $5,000 maximum
contribution would go to Obama’s re-election and $30,800 to the
party committee.  The fundraisers and political messaging are designed to
take advantage of a brief lull between Republican primaries,
Goldford said. The South Carolina contest is on Jan. 21.  The jobs forum at the White House gave Obama a platform to
“show that he is the president, not a petty partisan political
figure,” Goldford said.  As for the fundraisers, he said that “any time is a good
time to raise money,” particularly now when supporters “can
actually feel they’re doing something to counteract” the
attacks on Obama.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Chicago at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  