-- Obama Invites Intel, Ford for Forum on Creating U.S. Jobs
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-11T15:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/obama-invites-intel-ford-for-forum-on-creating-u-s-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  has invited
representatives from more than a dozen companies including  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  to the White House for a forum today
on bringing jobs back to the U.S.  The companies are those that have decided to return jobs
from overseas or increase their investments in the U.S.,
according to an administration statement. As part of his fiscal
2013 budget, Obama plans to propose adding $12 million for a
program to promote foreign  direct investment  in the U.S. and
work with state and local governments to attract businesses.  In addition, Obama will propose “in coming weeks” new tax
incentives to reward companies that choose to invest or bring
back jobs to the U.S., and he’ll urge elimination of tax breaks
to companies that moves jobs overseas, the White House said in
the statement.  “I’m calling on those businesses that haven’t brought jobs
back to take this opportunity to get the American people back to
work,” Obama said in the text of remarks he’ll deliver at the
forum on “insourcing.”  Economic growth and job creation will be the main issues in
the presidential campaign this year.  Mitt Romney , a former
Massachusetts governor and the front-runner for the Republican
nomination, is making criticism of Obama’s stewardship of the
economy a prime focus of his stump speeches.  Jobs Gains  The  unemployment rate  has declined for four straight months
to 8.5 percent in December and the Labor Department has reported
six consecutive months of jobs gains of 100,000 or more. Still,
the rate has been above 8 percent for almost two years and
little headway has been made in recovering the 8.75 million jobs
lost as a result of the recession that ended in June 2009.  Only one U.S. president,  Ronald Reagan , has been re-elected
since World War II with a jobless rate above 6 percent. Reagan
won a second term with the rate on Election Day 1984 at 7.2
percent, having dropped almost three percentage points in the
previous 18 months.  Ford plans to add 12,000 jobs in the U.S. by 2015 and has
brought additional production back to the U.S. from  China , Japan
and Mexico, according to the administration. The statement
highlighted Intel’s participation in a $4.4 billion investment
to build a semiconductor research and development facility in
 New York .  Along with Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford and Santa Clara,
California-based Intel, companies taking part in the forum
include  DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest U.S. chemicals company by market
value, and Otis Elevator Co., a unit of  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  