-- Obama Proposes Tax Incentives for Returning Jobs to U.S.
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-11T21:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/obama-to-propose-tax-incentives-for-companies-that-keep-jobs-in-the-u-s-.html
President  Barack Obama  says he will
propose new tax incentives to reward companies that invest in
U.S. expansion or bring back jobs from overseas and elimination
of tax breaks to companies that move jobs outside the country.  At a White House forum this afternoon with representatives
from more than a dozen companies, including Ford Motor Co. and
 Intel Corp ., Obama said more must be done to encourage business
investment and job creation.  The tax initiatives will be part of the fiscal 2013 budget
plan that is set to be sent to Congress the first week of
February. The White House didn’t release details. Obama also
plans to propose adding $12 million for a program to promote
foreign  direct investment  in the U.S. and work with state and
local governments to attract businesses.  The companies at the event are among those that have
decided to return jobs from overseas or increase their U.S.
operations.  “We are in a unique moment, an inflection point, a period
where we’ve got the opportunity for those jobs to come back,”
Obama said in his remarks to the group at the White House. “The
business leaders in this room, they’re ahead of the curve. They
recognize it.”  Economic growth and  job creation  are expected to be the
main issues in the presidential campaign this year.  Mitt Romney ,
a former Massachusetts governor and the front-runner for the
Republican nomination, is making criticism of Obama’s
stewardship of the economy a prime focus of his stump speeches.  Employment Gains  The  unemployment rate  has declined for four straight months
to 8.5 percent in December, and the Labor Department has
reported six consecutive months of jobs gains of 100,000 or
more. Still, the rate has been above 8 percent for almost two
years, and little headway has been made in recovering the 8.75
million jobs lost as a result of the  recession  that ended in
June 2009.  Only one U.S. president,  Ronald Reagan , has been re-elected
since World War II with a jobless rate above 6 percent. Reagan
won a second term with the rate on Election Day 1984 at 7.2
percent, having dropped almost three percentage points in the
previous 18 months.  According to the administration, manufacturing production
has risen at its fastest pace in a decade, with 334,000
manufacturing jobs created over the last two years and
manufacturing production having risen by 5.7 percent on an
annualized basis since reaching a low in the summer of 2009.  More Competitive  Obama said the U.S. is becoming more competitive for
businesses because of productivity gains and rising costs for
doing business in other countries.  “I don’t want America to be a nation that’s primarily
known for financial speculation and racking up debt buying stuff
from other nations,” Obama said. “I want us to be known for
making and selling products all over the world stamped with
three proud words: ‘Made in America.’”  With wages in  China  rising between 15 percent and 20
percent a year, “the economics are favoring the U.S.” for
moving jobs back, Hal Sirkin, an outsourcing expert and senior
partner at  Boston Consulting Group , told reporters after Obama
spoke.  Adding Jobs  Ford plans to add 12,000 jobs in the U.S. by 2015 and has
brought additional production back to the U.S. from China,  Japan 
and  Mexico , according to the administration. The statement
highlighted Intel’s participation in a $4.4 billion investment
to build a semiconductor research and development facility in
 New York .  Along with Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford and  Santa Clara ,
California-based Intel, companies taking part in the forum
include Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont Co., the largest U.S.
chemicals company by market value; Otis Elevator Co. of
Farmington,  Connecticut , a unit of  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ;
and the North American unit of London-based Rolls-Royce.  One of the business leaders at the White House for a
roundtable discussion with administration officials this
afternoon is Angela Selden, co-chairman of Arise Virtual
Solutions Inc., based in Miramar,  Florida , which recruits
workers for  call centers .  Selden said in a telephone interview that she will urge the
administration to appoint a special White House adviser to focus
on bringing more virtual or web-based jobs back to the U.S.  Moving Back  There already has been a surge in U.S.-based new call
centers as companies move them from India, Philippines or
Jamaica, according to Selden. U.S. workers’ familiarity with
American culture results in greater customer satisfaction and
cuts the number of calls needed to resolve issues.  “If I’m trying to get service for a snow blower, odds are
very high” someone in  India  has never seen a snow blower,
Selden said.  Arise, which expects $200 million in global revenue this
year compared with $150 million last year, recruits workers to
act as representatives of American companies from their own
homes. Its clients include cruise line Carnival Corp., Walgreen
Co., Time magazine and the American Automobile Association.  About 22,000 of its agents are located throughout the U.S.,
and Arise is hiring as many as 10,000 people this year in the
U.S.,  Canada  and the U.K., Selden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  