-- Most U.S. Stocks Climb as Bank Rally Overshadows European Growth Concerns
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-11T22:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/oil-australian-dollar-drop-as-u-s-economic-optimism-countered-by-europe.html
Most (.TOTALAD)  U.S. stocks rose and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reached a five-month high for a
second day as gains in banking and technology shares helped the
market recover from an early slump spurred by growing signs
Europe may slip into a recession. Commodities and the euro fell.  The  S&P 500  closed up less than 0.1 percent at 1,292.48 at
4 p.m. in  New York  as about three stocks advanced for every two
that fell on U.S. exchanges. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
slipped 13.02 points to 12,449.45. Treasuries rose, sending the
rate on the 10-year note down six basis points to 1.91 percent,
after an auction drew a record low yield. Natural gas tumbled to
a 28-month low to lead a drop in commodities. The euro lost 0.6
percent to $1.2707 even as Spanish and Italian bonds increased.  Citigroup (C)  Inc. rallied 4.2 percent to lead banks higher
after analyst Dick Bove said the shares could “easily” triple
in five years as earnings recover. Germany’s Federal Statistics
Office said the economy probably shrank in the fourth quarter
from the third and three research institutes forecast in a joint
report the euro-area economy contracted in the fourth quarter
and will continue to decline in the first quarter.  “The U.S. economic backdrop is more favorable even as the
international picture becomes murky,” Eric Teal, chief
investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc., which
manages $4 billion in Raleigh, North Carolina, said in a
telephone interview. “Companies most domestically-oriented,
including financials, are better positioned for this
environment. The fundamentals will remain challenging, but
valuations are attractive.”  The  Federal Reserve  said that the  U.S. economy  improved
last month across most of the country even as hiring was limited
and housing remained stagnant.  Financials Rally  Financial (S5FINL)  shares in the  S&P 500  rose 1 percent collectively
today and contributed the  most  to the index’s advance. The group
has rallied 6.7 percent to help lead the S&P 500’s gain in 2012
after slumping 18 percent last year for the worst drop among the
10 main groups. The group of 81 banks, insurers and investment
firms trades for about 11.8 times earnings, compared with an
average multiple of 16.7 over the past decade.  Citigroup rallied 4.2 percent $31.27, its highest price
since November, and has climbed 19 percent this year after
tumbling 44 percent in 2011.  ‘Earnings Will Skyrocket’  “I think that stock should rise about 25 percent a year in
each of the next five years,” Bove, analyst at Rochdale
Securities LLC in Lutz, Florida, told Bloomberg Television’s  Tom Keene . “That company is easily going to double and triple in
price. I think its earnings will skyrocket relative to where
they are at the present time. It will be a much larger
institution, with a very large international presence and a very
successful company.”    Bank of America Corp. , which tumbled 58 percent in 2011,
climbed 3.6 percent for the second-biggest gain today among the
24 stocks in the KBW Bank Index, which closed at the highest
level since Aug. 3. Options traders are making the most-bullish
wagers in a decade on Bank of America, betting an improving U.S.
economy will spur gains in the stock after it fell the most in
the Dow last year. The ratio of calls  to buy the second-biggest
U.S. lender compared with puts to sell jumped to 1.91 percent on
Jan. 4.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  will be the second company in the Dow
to release fourth-quarter results, with the largest U.S. bank
scheduled to report before markets open on Jan. 13. JPMorgan has
beaten analysts’ average estimate for adjusted earnings per
share for 15 straight  quarters  and 24 of the past 25.  Earnings Season  Earnings season will accelerate next week with 48 companies
in the S&P 500  reporting  and six Dow members, including  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , Intel Corp. and General Electric Co.  Earnings have beaten analysts’  estimates  for 11 straight
quarters and projections of 6 percent growth in the final three
months of 2011 would mark the slowest increase since the third
quarter of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Analysts predict energy companies will post 21 percent growth to
lead gains, with profits climbing 7.6 percent at industrial
companies and 6.8 percent at technology companies. Raw-material
producers and telephone companies are forecast to show declines
in earnings.  Financial companies are projected to report 3.9 percent
earnings growth, with profits up 21 percent at banks and down
the same amount at diversified financial firms, according to a
compilation of analysts estimates.  Natural-Gas Producers Slump  Energy (S5ENRS)  producers, providers of consumer staples and
utilities lost at least 0.4 percent collectively to lead
declines in the 10 main industry groups in the S&P 500 today.
Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. tumbled 11 percent, Southwestern Energy
Co. lost 8 percent and Range Resources Corp. fell 6.3 percent as
forecasts for warm weather triggered a plunge in natural gas.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., the largest U.S. tiremaker,
dropped for a second day after slumping 8.3 percent yesterday as
the company said it’s experiencing weakness in global demand
with sales of replacement tires falling about 3 percent in North
America in last year’s final quarter.  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN) 
plunged 19 percent, the most in three years, after saying Glen
Senk resigned as chief executive officer.  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. slipped 0.4 percent, recovering from a 1.7
percent earlier loss triggered after the world’s largest
software maker said industrywide sales of personal computers
will probably be lower than analysts projected in the fourth
quarter because supply was hurt by flooding in Thailand.
Microsoft will report results for the latest period on Jan. 19
and hasn’t missed analysts’ average forecast for adjusted
earnings per share since 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Oil, Natural Gas  Oil dropped 1.3 percent to $100.87 a barrel in New York,
extending declines after a U.S. government report showed
inventories increased almost five times as much as expected. The
S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities lost 0.7 percent. Natural-gas
futures fell as much as 6.8 percent to $2.74 per million British
thermal units, a 28-month low, as revised forecasts showed mild
weather across much of the U.S. through late January.  Yields on two-year Treasury notes slipped one basis point
to 0.23 percent and 30-year rates decreased six basis points to
2.97 percent.  The Treasury sold $21 billion of 10-year notes at a record
low yield of 1.9 percent amid speculation  France  may lose its
top credit rating as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis worsens,
bolstering the refuge appeal of U.S. government debt. French
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  denied market speculation that
the nation had been notified by a ratings company about an
imminent downgrade of France’s credit rating.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.4 percent after
yesterday’s 1.8 percent rally. Repsol YPF SA, Spain’s largest
oil company, tumbled 5.7 percent after selling 61 million of its
own shares.  Pirelli & C. SpA , Europe’s third-largest tiremaker,
lost 4.5 percent after Goodyear’s update on sales at an investor
conference in Detroit. Chr. Hansen Holding A/S rose 9.8 percent
as Novo A/S agreed to buy a 26 percent stake in the Danish food-
ingredient company.  The euro weakened against all but three of its 16 major
counterparts, declining 0.5 percent versus the yen. The Dollar
Index rose 0.6 percent to 81.299, snapping a two-day retreat.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro region will
shrink 0.2 percent in the three months through March, following
a contraction of 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter of last year,
research institutes Ifo, Insee and Istat forecast in a joint
report. Growth will stagnate in the second quarter, the
institutes forecast. A recession typically is defined as two
consecutive quarters of declining GDP.  “Austerity measures don’t stimulate growth,”  Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co., said in a telephone interview. “The
negative aspect of some of the European countries was well
known. So, if Germany did have an issue, that would be a
negative,” he said.  Debt Sales  Spain auctions as much as 5 billion euros of 2015 and 2016
securities tomorrow, with Italy selling as much as 12 billion
euros of bills tomorrow and as much as 4.75 billion euros of
bonds in two days. The yield on the Greek two-year note tumbled
17.67 percentage points to 166.89 percent.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said her nation is prepared
to contribute more upfront capital to the permanent European
rescue effort and the region’s central bank will help advise the
temporary bailout fund. The ECB should ramp up euro area bond
purchases to support Italy and prevent “cataclysmic” collapse
of the euro,  Fitch Ratings ’s head of sovereign ratings,  David
Riley , told Reuters.  German Auction  The yield on the German five-year note fell nine basis
points to 0.74 percent. The country sold 3.153 billion euros of
five-year debt after receiving 8.97 billion euros of bids. Its
maximum sales target was 4 billion euros. The U.K. sold 3
billion pounds ($4.6 billion) of September 2021 bonds today,
while the U.S. auctions $21 billion of 10-year notes.  Ireland could be the first of three bailed-out euro area
countries to return to the sovereign bond market in six to 12
months, Reiner Back, head of fixed income and currency portfolio
management at Munich Re’s MEAG asset-management unit, said in
Frankfurt today.  Borrowers from Indonesia to  South Africa  and  Brazil  tapped
the debt markets for more than $30.6 billion so far this year, a
record start for dollar-denominated bond sales by developing-
nation issuers.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed as
Turkish stocks rallied 1.2 percent to lead gains, while
Hungary’s BUX Index lost 1.8 percent and the forint currency
slipped against 14 of 16 major peers as the European Commission
said the nation faces suspension of some of its funding and
possible sanctions for breaching deficit targets and for laws
that may contravene European Union rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  