-- Oil Falls From Near a One-Week High as German Economy Approaches Recession
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-01-11T13:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/oil-trades-near-a-one-week-high-as-iran-tension-counters-european-economy.html
Oil fell from near the highest
settlement in almost a week amid concern that a shrinking German
economy may drag Europe into a recession, reducing demand.  Crude fell as much as 1.1 percent, equity markets retreated
and the euro weakened against the dollar after  Germany ’s Federal
Statistics Office said the biggest economy in the euro region
contracted in the fourth quarter. Spanish factory output
declined the most since 2009, a separate report showed. Futures
earlier climbed 0. 2 percent after Iran’s Fars  news agency  said
a nuclear scientist was killed in a bomb attack in Tehran,
sparking concern supplies from Iran may be disrupted.  “The conditions in the euro zone continue to remain quite
tentative, adding pressure on most commodity prices and global
equity markets,” said Myrto Sokou, an analyst at Sucden
Financial Ltd. in London. “Investors were prompted to some
profit-taking, while the dollar rebounded against the euro and
weighed on the oil market.”  Crude for February delivery fell as much as $1.08 to
$101.16 a barrel and was at $101.44 at 1:37 p.m. London time.
The contract yesterday climbed 0.9 percent to $102.24, the
highest close since Jan. 4. Prices are up 2.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for February settlement fell 34 cents to $112.94
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
futures was at $11.49, compared with $11.04 yesterday and a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  European Weakness  Germany may be on the brink of recession after the
sovereign debt crisis caused the economy to contract in the
final quarter of 2011. Gross domestic product declined by about
0.25 percent in the fourth quarter from the third, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.  Spain ’s industrial
output declined 7 percent in November from a year earlier, the
most since October 2009, the National Statistics Institute in
 Madrid  said. The Stoxx Europe 600 index declined as much as 0.8
percent and the euro fell 0.8 percent to $1.2682.  In  Iran , Mostafa Ahmadi Roshana, a director at the Natanz
uranium enrichment facility in Iran’s Isfahan province and a
professor at Tehran’s technical university, was killed in
today’s blast, Fars reported today. A magnetic bomb was placed
under his car by a person on a motorcycle, according to the news
agency, which said the incident was similar to previous attacks
on scientists involved in  Iran’s nuclear program .  Embargo Talks  Four diplomats said European Union talks on blocking
imports of Iranian oil are bogged down. Greece, Italy and Spain
are trying to soften a U.K. push for a blanket ban, on concern
that a supply shock would add to the economic damage from the
European debt crisis, the diplomats said, declining to be
identified because no final agreement has been reached. Foreign
ministers from the 27 EU member states are scheduled to decide
on sanctions on Jan. 23 in Brussels.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is in Beijing
for talks with Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  and visits  Japan 
tomorrow as he lobbies for sanctions against Iran’s atomic
program. The Asian countries are the largest  importers  of
Iranian oil, with China accounting for 22 percent and Japan
buying 14 percent during the first half of last year, according
to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  “China will be less OK with it than Japan,”  Matthew
Levitt , a former financial intelligence official at the Treasury
Department who is now at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy, said about the plan for sanctions.  Rising Stockpiles  An Energy Department report today may show U.S.  crude
inventories  rose 1 million barrels last week, according to the
median of 12 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday that
inventories gained 397,000 barrels.  Gasoline supplies climbed 1.89 million barrels last week,
figures from the API showed. They are forecast to increase 2.25
million barrels in the Energy Department report. Distillate
inventories, a category that includes heating oil and diesel,
rose 846,000 barrels compared with an estimate for a 2.25
million-barrel gain.  Oil has risen this year because of an improving economic
outlook rather than tension with Iran, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in a report dated yesterday. The bank sees little evidence
of an Iran premium in the oil price and has increasing
confidence that Europe’s debt crisis will be contained in the
region, according to the note from  David Greely , head of energy
research at Goldman in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  