-- Oil Advances From Lowest This Year on Nigeria Disruptions, Iranian Tension
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-12T14:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/oil-trades-near-lowest-this-year-on-rising-stockpiles-german-contraction.html
Oil rose from the lowest settlement
in almost two weeks in  New York  on concern that a strike in
 Nigeria  and the threat of sanctions against Iran’s nuclear
program will curb crude supplies.  Futures gained as much as 1.5 percent after sliding 1.3
percent yesterday. A Nigerian union said it started shutting
platforms in Africa’s largest crude producer to support protests
against the end of fuel subsidies. Japan said it may reduce
petroleum imports from Iran, which has threatened to shut the
Strait of Hormuz in response to sanctions on its oil exports.  “Tensions in Nigeria are helping to keep a solid floor
under prices,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
London who correctly predicted crude would end 2011 near $100 a
barrel. “Growing concerns over global crude shipments escalated
as Tehran threatened to shut the  Strait of Hormuz  while the
Pentagon made it clear that closing this vital checkpoint
remains out of the question.”  Crude for February delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  gained as much as $1.46 to $102.33 a barrel in
electronic trading. It was at $101.55 at 1:56 p.m. London time.
The contract yesterday slipped $1.37 to $100.87, the lowest
close since Dec. 30. Prices are up 2.8 percent this year.  Brent oil was trading $1.21 higher at $113.45 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The European
benchmark contract was at an $11.90 premium to West Texas
Intermediate futures. The spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Nigeria Shutdowns  Nigeria’s Nupeng oil union said it withdrew its members
from fields in  Africa ’s biggest crude producer in support of a
nationwide strike to force President  Goodluck Jonathan  to
reinstate fuel subsidies. The Pengassan oil union will start
“systematic shutting down” of oil and gas installations on Jan.
15, the Lagos-based labor union said today.  The strikes, now in their fourth day, follow production
glitches that have already cut shipments. Jonathan and striking
unions are deadlocked over demands that the government reverse
its decision to abolish fuel subsidies, which more than doubled
the price of gasoline. The country pumped 2.2 million barrels of
crude a day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Futures trimmed gains as U.S. reports showed retail sales
missed economists’ estimates and initial jobless claims
increased more than forecast, and as the euro narrowed its
advance against the dollar after ECB President Mario Draghi said
the euro-area economy faces “substantial downside risks.”  The bank held  interest rates  steady after two straight cuts
as signs of respite from the sovereign debt crisis gave it scope
to pause.  Supply Threats  Oil has traded above $100 a barrel for most of this year as
the threat of disrupted supplies from  Iran , the second-biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting countries,
outweighed concern that Europe’s debt crisis will push the
region into recession.  “Crude is stuck between the upside focus from the tensions
from the Persian Gulf, while the focus from the downside is
coming from the European debt crisis and the effect that will
have on the economy,” said Ole Hansen, senior manager of
trading advisory at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, who expects
U.S. crude to stay in a near-term range of $100 to $104.  Iran Sanctions  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner’s efforts to
tighten economic sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program won
backing from Japan a day after  China  rejected limiting oil
imports from the country.  “We want to take concrete steps to reduce our share in an
orderly way as soon as possible,”  Japan ’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said at a press conference in  Tokyo  today after
discussions with his U.S. counterpart. “The world cannot
tolerate nuclear development.”  The U.S. and its allies increased pressure on Iran to halt
what they say may be a covert nuclear weapons program. The
country’s threat to shut the Strait of Hormuz would disrupt the
channel for almost 17 million barrels a day of crude last year,
according to the U.S. Energy Department.  While China is rebuffing American pressure, Premier Wen Jiabao is planning a trip to alternative oil providers. Wen will
visit  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and Qatar from Jan.
14 to Jan. 19 and attend an international meeting on energy, the
foreign ministry said two days ago.  “Iran is one of China’s biggest petroleum suppliers,”
Vice Foreign Minister Zhai Jun told reporters in Beijing
yesterday. “China hopes that petroleum imports won’t be
affected as petroleum is needed for China’s development.”  Limited Impact  An increase in crude prices may reduce the impact of
sanctions on the Middle East nation’s budget, which was based on
a price of $81 a barrel for this year, Petromatrix GmbH said.  “If Iran is not able to send to other customers the oil
that it would not sell to the European Union, it could lose
between 25 and 30 percent of its export volume,”  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director of the Zug, Switzerland-based research group,
said today in an e-mail. “But with  oil prices  40 percent higher
than its budget, it will probably not be enough to make a big
difference for Iran.”  The options market is signaling skepticism that Iran will
block the Strait of Hormuz, as traders are paying more to
protect themselves against a drop in prices for oil futures late
this year than a rise.  Options giving the right to sell June futures for $10 a
barrel less than their current price cost 14 percent more than
those granting the right to buy at $10 above that level as of
yesterday, according to Nymex data.  The so-called skew toward sell options contrasts with the
pattern that emerged last year. Contracts to buy, or “call,”
climbed above those to sell, or “put,” as exports from  Libya 
all but collapsed during the uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  