-- Omnicare Cheated U.S., Illinois, Lawsuit Claims
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/omnicare-cheated-u-s-illinois-ex-pharmacist-says-in-suit-1-.html
Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  was accused in a
lawsuit by a former company pharmacist of overbilling the U.S.
and Illinois governments for drugs it supplied to nursing homes,  The pharmacist, Peter Ordeanu, alleged in a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in  Chicago  that he and others at the
company were required to enter false billing information that
caused the state and federal governments to pay for medications
that were more costly than those actually being dispensed.  “Omnicare regularly overcharged the government,” he
alleged, by compelling pharmacists to enter incorrect National
Drug Codes, the product identifiers assigned by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration to all commercially distributed
pharmaceuticals.  The government may have suffered millions of dollars of
damages from that conduct at a Des Plaines,  Illinois ,
distribution facility operated by Covington, Kentucky-based
Omnicare, Ordeanu said. Omnicare is the biggest U.S. provider of
pharmaceuticals to nursing homes.  Patrick Lee, Omnicare’s vice president for  investor
relations , didn’t immediately respond yesterday to phone and e-
mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit after regular
business hours. Jamie Moser, an outside spokeswoman with Joele
Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher in  New York , also didn’t
immediately reply to e-mail and phone messages seeking comment
after regular business hours yesterday.  Ordeanu also claims his employment was wrongfully
terminated in January 2011 in violation of federal age
discrimination laws. Ordeanu also alleges his firing was in
retaliation for disclosing the company’s illegal activities to
his Omnicare supervisors, managers and directors.  He had worked for the company since February 2008, when Des
Plaines-based Enloe Drugs LLC, then his employer, was acquired
by Omnicare.  The case is  United States of America  ex rel. Ordeanu v.
Omnicare Inc., 12-cv-184, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  