-- Monti Warns of Italian Anti-EU Protests as He Meets With Merkel in Berlin
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-01-11T11:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/monti-says-italy-austerity-plan-may-provoke-protests-before-meeting-merkel.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
made a plea for more help to overcome the debt crisis before he
met with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , warning that his
austerity measures might trigger anti-European protests without
signs of progress.  “I am demanding heavy sacrifices from Italians,” Monti
was cited as saying in an interview with German newspaper  Die
Welt  published today. “I can only do this if concrete
advantages become visible.” If not, “a protest against Europe
will develop in Italy, including against Germany, which is seen
as the ringleader of EU intolerance, and against the  European
Central Bank .”  Monti, the premier who has pushed through budget cuts
demanded by the European Union after Silvio Berlusconi quit,
arrived in Berlin for talks with Merkel on stemming the debt
crisis that began in Greece in late 2009 and infected  Italy ,
Spain and France last year. The two leaders are due to hold a
news conference at about 1 p.m. Berlin time.  The EU could help Italy with “a lowering of the  interest
rate ,” Berlin-based Die Welt quoted Monti as saying. He didn’t
elaborate, according to the interview. If EU policy doesn’t
change, “Italy, which has always been a very Europe-friendly
country, could throw itself into the arms of populists.”  Greek Debt Swap  European leaders are striving to tamp down the crisis on
multiple fronts as they set the stage for an EU summit on Jan.
30 that’s meant to focus on bolstering jobs and growth in the
region. Pressure is meanwhile growing to complete a Greek debt
swap agreed by leaders in October that is needed to put a second
rescue plan in place and keep the euro area together.  Merkel and International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  discussed  Greece  and the euro-area debt crisis
in Berlin late yesterday, said Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief
spokesman. Lagarde is due to meet with French President Nicolas Sarkozy in Paris at about noon today.  Merkel and Sarkozy are scheduled to travel to Rome on Jan.
20 for joint talks with Monti, who heads the euro area’s third-
largest economy. Both have expressed support for Monti’s effort
to bring down Italy’s debt, the EU’s second-highest after
Greece. Two days earlier, Monti will meet with British Prime
Minister  David Cameron  in  London .  After delivering 20 billion euros ($26 billion) of deficit
cuts within weeks of taking office in November, Monti is now
focusing on a package of measures aimed at boosting growth. He
is seeking to open up closed professions to more competition and
overhaul the country’s labor laws, and said he will present an
outline of his plan to EU finance chiefs at a Jan. 23 meeting in
Brussels.  Germany  and France can’t solve Europe’s problems alone,
Monti was quoted as saying in Die Welt.  “We are a strong, a proud country, and basically we have
an effective economy,” he said. “You know, I’ve always worked
for an Italy that resembles Germany as much as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  