-- Too-Big-to-Fail Bank Definition May Be Expanded by Regulators
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-01-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/too-big-to-fail-bank-definition-may-be-expanded-by-regulators.html
Global regulators may expand the
definition of a too-big-to-fail financial firm, signing up
domestic lenders, clearing houses and insurers to capital rules
designed for the world’s biggest banks.  The “framework should be in place for domestically
systemically important banks by the end of the year,” Mark Carney, chairman of the Financial Stability Board, said
yesterday after a meeting of the group in  Basel , Switzerland.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  were among 29 banks subject to the so-called capital
surcharge on globally systemic financial institutions drawn up
by the FSB in November. Banks will have to boost reserves by 1
to 2.5 percentage points above minimum levels agreed on by
international regulators.  “The world contains a whole slew of institutions like that
which are not systemic on a global level but are on a national
level,” Simon Gleeson, regulatory lawyer at Clifford Chance
LLP, said in a telephone interview. “The institution most
interesting in this regard is Erste Bank,” he said. “The more
you look at it the more you think it’s systemically important to
 Hungary .”  Michael Mauritz , a spokesman for  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , based
in Vienna,  Austria , didn’t immediately respond to a message
seeking comment.  Carney said that the FSB was considering putting in place
tougher rules for so-called shadow banks whose failure could
harm the global financial system. This work was less advanced
than rules for systemic insurers, he said, adding that
requirements would vary for different types of institutions.  ‘Vulnerabilities’ Remain  “Despite the important steps that have been taken over the
last couple of years, we are all aware that, in the short term,
vulnerabilities remain,” Carney said.  Shadow banks include money-market mutual funds, special
investment vehicles, credit hedge funds, securities lenders and
government-sponsored enterprises, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac.  The European Central Bank warned last year that shadow-
banks require more scrutiny from regulators on the risks they
pose to the financial system, while Michel Barnier, the European
Union’s financial services commissioner, said that he will “go
as fast as we can” in considering possible rules for them.  The FSB will review its work on shadow banks by March, the
board said yesterday in a statement issued following its
meeting.  Global regulators will also work on rules to ensure the
robustness of clearing houses, the FSB said in the statement.
Regulators should be able to take decisions by June on the
“appropriate form” of central clearers dealing with
derivatives, it said.  Bankers’ Pay  The FSB will also set up a group to examine cross-border
disputes over rules governing banker pay, Carney said,
acknowledging an “enduring mistrust” between banks over how
lenders set their pay.  Regulators will together “address specific level playing
field concerns” raised by their respective banks, the board
said.  “This will be another tough year for the FSB,” Richard Reid, research director for the International Centre for
Financial Regulation, said in an e-mail. “Although much of the
regulatory agenda has been put in place, there remains a huge
amount of work to be done on implementation.”  Carney said that the board may not replace former Swiss
National Bank Governor and FSB Deputy Chairman Philipp
Hildebrand, following his resignation this week over a currency
trade made by his wife.  The decision will be taken “in the fullness of time and in
consultation with G20,” he said.  European Capital  European regulators have demanded the regions’ banks raise
114.7 billion euros ($146.6 billion) in new capital as part of
measures designed to boost their resilience during the euro
area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  German banks need to raise an additional 13.1 billion
euros, Italian banks 15.4 billion euros, and Spanish lenders
26.2 billion euros in core tier 1 capital, the  European Banking
Authority  in London said in December.  The capital shortfalls include 15.3 billion euros for
Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and 7.97 billion euros for  Italy ’s
 UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  Lenders in the region have until the end of June
to raise the money.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net 
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  