-- Options Brace for Euro Rebound Versus Dollar After Drop: Chart of the Day
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-11T00:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/options-brace-for-euro-rebound-versus-dollar-after-drop-chart-of-the-day.html
Demand has faded since mid-November
for options that protect against a slide in the euro versus the
dollar as derivative traders look beyond weakness in the shared
currency and brace for a potential rebound.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the premium for options granting
the right to sell the euro versus those that allow for purchases
has been cut by more than half even as the 17-nation currency
plunged to a 16-month low versus the dollar. A negative reading
for the so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate means implied
volatility, a gauge of price and demand, is higher on euro puts
relative to that on similar value calls. A put grants the right
to sell; a call allows for purchases.  The chart also shows record noncommercial speculative net
short positions in euro futures contracts, according to
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  “The correlation between the risk-reversals and the spot
exchange rate is breaking down, which is often associated with
turning points in currencies,” said Toronto-based  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in a
telephone interview. “However, in the current environment there
are some other reasons for this shift. The market has already
built its short euro position and could be hedging a potential
snap back in the currency. Also, we’ve seen correlations between
markets overall breaking down, leaving traders who were using
euro volatility as a proxy hedge against movements in risk
markets are less likely to do so.”  The euro rose this week as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met in Berlin on Jan. 9 to
revise a rulebook for budgetary discipline negotiated at a Dec.
9 summit as they seek to craft a master plan for rescuing the
euro.  As recently as Nov. 25,  Italy  paid more to borrow for two
years than for a decade, echoing a squeeze that presaged
bailouts for Greece and  Portugal .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  