-- Orange Juice Tumbles Most in Two Years as ICE Boosts Margins
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-01-11T20:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/orange-juice-tumbles-from-four-year-high.html
Orange juice  tumbled from a four-
year high, capping the biggest drop in two years, after ICE
Futures U.S. boosted the amount of cash that traders must
deposit for speculative positions by 95 percent.  Prices soared 17 percent in the past two days on concern
that a freeze in  Florida  damaged citrus groves and that a U.S.
probe of a fungicide used on fruit in  Brazil , the world’s
largest orange grower, may limit imports. The  New York  exchange
almost doubled the initial margin for a speculative contract to
$5,040 from $2,590. As of yesterday, each contract for 15,000
pounds (6.8 metric tons) of juice was valued at $31,162.50.  “Margin calls will force some people out of the market,”
Sterling Smith, an analyst with Country Hedging in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , said in an e-mail.  Orange-juice futures for March delivery slumped 9.5 percent
to settle at $1.881 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE in New York. That
was the biggest drop for a most-active contract since Jan. 11,
2010. Estimated volume rose to 6,762, the highest in three
months.  Yesterday, the contract surged by the exchange limit for a
second straight day. Prices advanced 11 percent, the most in
five years, to $2.0775, the highest since March 2007. The record
was $2.094 on Dec. 7, 2006.  “The market got overdone yesterday,”  Jack Scoville , a
vice president at Price Futures Group in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview.  Imports Halted  U.S. regulators have halted shipments of imported orange
juice from all countries, and plan to destroy or ban products if
tests find even low levels from a prohibited fungicide. Initial
test results are due this week. The imports are being held while
they are tested and may be sold if levels are below trace
amounts, the government said today.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said on Jan. 9 that
it will investigate the use of  carbendazim  on orange trees in
Brazil, which supplied about 25 percent of the juice consumed in
the U.S. in 2010. Florida is the second-biggest producer.  Still, there is “no shortage anticipated,” Judy Ganes- Chase, the president of J. Ganes Consulting in Katonah, New
York, said in an e-mail. This is a “minor disruption or
nuisance,” she said.  Inventories, USDA  Slumping U.S. inventories already had helped send orange-
juice futures up almost 39 percent in New York since the end of
September, just as frigid weather in Florida last week also
trimmed the state’s crop outlook, according to MDA Information
Systems. Stockpiles at facilities monitored by ICE tumbled 58
percent to 22.785 million pounds as of Jan. 10 from a year
earlier, exchange data show.  “While it will be turning cooler in Florida this weekend,
temperatures are expected to remain above frost levels in the
citrus areas,” Kyle Tapley, a meteorologist at Gaithersburg,
Maryland-based MDA, said in an e-mail today. “Fairly dry
weather should continue to favor late citrus harvesting.”  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  may trim its forecast
for Florida’s orange crop by 0.7 percent to 149 million boxes in
its crop update scheduled for tomorrow, according to the average
of six estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. A box weighs 90
pounds, or 41 kilograms.  Tomorrow’s report was taken through Jan. 1 and will not
reflect the potential effect of low temperatures last week, Bill
Curtis, an economic research associate at the USDA, said in a
telephone interview. Any impact from the frost will be reflected
in the February estimate, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  