-- Ortega Hosting Ahmadinejad in Nicaragua Blasts Israel
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-01-11T13:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/ortega-hosting-ahmadinejad-in-nicaragua-blasts-israel-correct-.html
(Corrects first paragraph to remove reference to U.S. role
in Qaddafi’s murder)  Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega
lashed out at  Israel  and condemned the killing of former Libyan
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  while being sworn into office yesterday
alongside Iran’s president.  The former Sandinista rebel accused western nations of
conspiring to keep nuclear technology from  developing countries ,
saying that Iran has a right to develop its own program until
Israel disarms.  “Christ never said, ‘Arm yourself, Israel,’” Ortega said
at an inauguration ration rally in Managua last night, joined by
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  and Venezuelan President
Hugo Chavez.  Ahmadinejad, who stood next to Ortega in front of thousands
of supporters, visited Nicaragua as part of a four-nation tour
of  Latin America , where he joined forces with Chavez allies at
taking shots at the U.S. in its own backyard. Defying attempts
to isolate the country over its nuclear activities, Ahmadinejad
flies to Ecuador today for a meeting with President  Rafael Correa .  Ortega, 66, yesterday also condemned the killing of Gaddafi
and offered a prayer for Iraq’s Saddam Hussein, who was
sentenced to death after being captured by U.S. troops.  Ortega was Marxist rebel who took power in 1979, after
toppling the U.S.-backed dictator Anastasio Somoza. He was voted
out of office in 1990 but returned to power in 2006 and in
November was re-elected by a landslide after improving relations
with business leaders in the Central American nation.  An Iranian scientist who worked on  uranium enrichment  was
killed in a bomb blast in Tehran, the state-controlled Fars news
agency said today. The blast follows an Iranian court’s Jan. 9
decision to sentence an American of Iranian descent, Amir
Mirzaei Hekmati, to death for spying.  Iranian officials have accused the U.S. and Israel of
targeting nuclear scientists in an effort to halt the country’s
nuclear program, which western nations say aims to produce
nuclear weapons and Ahmadinejad says is for peaceful purposes.
The attack comes ahead of a Jan. 23 meeting at which the
European Union will discuss imposing sanctions on  Iran ’s oil
industry.  Iran has threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit
point for a fifth of oil traded worldwide, if sanctions are
imposed on its crude exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  