-- China’s Stocks Drop for First Time in 4 Days Before Inflation Data Release
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-11T08:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/most-chinese-stocks-drop-on-inflation-concerns-property-developers-fall.html
China’s stocks  fell, halting the
benchmark index’s biggest three-day gain since 2010, on concern
inflation will hamper the government’s ability to ease monetary
policies to spur growth.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  paced declines by developers after Credit
Suisse Group AG said the central bank may raise interest rates
this year as consumer-price gains remain above the government’s
“comfort zone.”  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011)  dropped among
electricity producers after the Xinhua News Agency said the
nation’s power consumption growth may decelerate in 2012. The
government will release December inflation data tomorrow.  “We aren’t likely to see an immediate and aggressive
relaxation of monetary policies given inflation is still at a
relatively high level,” said Dai Ming, a  fund manager  at
Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co. “The
doubt over the magnitude and timing of policy easing will limit
room for the rebound we’ve seen over the past few days.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 9.7 points, or 0.4
percent, to 2,276.05 at the close, ending a three-day, 6.4
percent rally. The  CSI 300 Index  declined 0.5 percent to
2,435.61. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, rose 1.1 percent
yesterday in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite advanced 3.9 percent this year
through yesterday on optimism the government will ease monetary
policies to boost economic growth. A central bank report
released over the weekend showed new lending and money supply
exceeded estimates in December. Import growth fell to a two-year
low in December, the customs office said yesterday.  Stock Valuations  The rebound lifted stocks on the Shanghai gauge to 9.3
times estimated earnings from a record low of 8.9 times reached
on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
index fell 22 percent last year after the central bank raised
 interest rates  and reserve requirement ratios.  Savers have had negative returns on their  bank deposits  for
the longest stretch of months in 16 years, leaving Premier Wen Jiabao less scope to cut interest rates to spur growth.
Inflation may have exceeded the one-year deposit rate for the
23rd straight month in December, when consumer prices probably
rose 4 percent, according to the median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The data is due for release tomorrow.  A  gauge  tracking property developers dropped 0.9 percent,
following a two-day, 6.8 percent surge. Vanke, the nation’s
biggest listed property developer, fell 0.9 percent to 7.46
yuan.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the second largest, lost 0.4
percent to 10.31 yuan.  China Merchants Property Development Co. (000024) 
retreated 0.5 percent to 18.34 yuan.  Interest Rates  Property prices in Shenzhen will likely fall to levels seen
in April 2009 with government curbs in place, the  Securities
Times  reported, citing Centaline Property Consultants.
Shenzhen’s new home transactions by area fell to an 11-year low
last year, according to the newspaper.  China  may raise both lending and deposit rates by 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, this year, Robert Prior-
Wandesforde and Dong Tao, analysts at Credit Suisse, wrote in a
report.  “Although economic activity is likely to soften further in
2012, inflation will probably remain above the government’s
comfort zone, making a policy rate increase far more likely than
a rate cut in our view,” the analysts wrote.  Vegetable Prices  China’s average wholesale vegetable price in the country
rose 7.5 percent in the week ended Jan. 8 from the previous
week, the Ministry of Commerce said yesterday. Inflation rate
was 4.2 percent in November, exceeding the government’s annual
target of 4 percent for 2011.  Huaneng Power, the listed unit of China’s largest power
group, fell 1.8 percent to 5.39 yuan.  GD Power Development Co. (600795) ,
the largest electricity producer in northeastern China, lost 1.8
percent to 2.76 yuan. Huadian Power International Corp., the
listed unit of China’s fourth-largest power producer, slid 1.2
percent to 3.31 yuan.  China’s power-use growth may slow to 8.5 percent this year,
Xinhua reported, citing Yu Yanshan, deputy director of the State
Electricity Regulatory Commission. Electricity consumption
slowed to 11.7 percent last year from 14.5 percent in 2010, it
said.  CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets has turned cautious on China’s
stocks because of “downside risk” to the economy from slumping
property prices. Earnings growth may slow to 5 percent compared
with the consensus estimate of 19 percent and the central bank
may undertake “reactive” policy loosening rather than
“proactive, Manop Sangiambut, CLSA’s head of China A-share
research, said in a report dated yesterday.  Monetary Policy   The central bank may reduce reserve ratios in the first
half of the year and any cut in interest rates would happen in
the second half, Helen Zhu, a strategist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  Angang Steel Co. (000898)  added 0.9 percent to 4.72 yuan. Executives
plan to buy shares in the company over the next six months, the
steelmaker said in a statement yesterday.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission started an
investor-protection bureau, which will draft and review laws to
protect investors, Xinhua reported yesterday, citing a press
release from the securities regulator.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  