-- Occupy Wall Street Plans New York March on Federal Reserve Over Weekend
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-01-11T20:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/ows-plans-n-y-marches-over-weekend.html
Occupy Wall Street  protesters in  New
York  plan marches and a candlelight vigil over the coming
weekend to honor Martin Luther King Jr.  Demonstrators plan to assemble on Jan. 15 on the steps of
the  Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine  in Manhattan’s
Morningside Heights, organizers said today in a statement.
From there, they’ll march to nearby Riverside Church for a
candlelight vigil to “honor the spirit” of King, who was born
on that day in 1929, according to the statement.  The vigil at  Riverside Church , where King spoke in 1967,
will feature performances by musicians Patti Smith and Steve Earle as well as speeches by Yoko Ono, the widow of Beatle John
Lennon, and hip-hop entrepreneur  Russell Simmons . The next
morning, protesters plan a march in lower Manhattan from the
 African Burial Ground National Monument  to the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York. Federal and state offices will be closed to
honor King’s birthday.  The marches were announced the day after metal barricades
surrounding the protest’s original home in Zuccotti Park in
lower Manhattan were removed following a request by the  New York
Civil Liberties Union , the Center for Constitutional Rights and
the New York chapter of the National Lawyers Guild. The groups
wrote Buildings Commissioner Robert LiMandri, urging him to
ensure that the park is “open and accessible to all members of
the public,” according to a statement from the NYCLU.  Demonstrators’ Eviction  The barriers went up after police evicted demonstrators
from the park in November.  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the New York City Police
Department, said in an e-mail that the removal was “unrelated
to the letter,” and the barriers could be restored any time
they’re needed.  The demonstrations began on Sept. 17 when several dozen
protesters took up residence in the park to highlight the plight
of average Americans who have suffered from home foreclosures
and soaring unemployment while the largest U.S. banks have
recovered from the 2008 financial crisis.  The protests attracted thousands to Zuccotti Park and
spread to U.S. cities such as  Chicago ,  Los Angeles  and  San
Francisco , as well as overseas to London, Rome and  Tokyo .  The demonstrators refer to themselves as “the 99
percent,” a reference to Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph
Stiglitz ’s study showing the richest 1 percent of the population
control 40 percent of U.S. wealth.  More than 1,800 people have been charged in connection with
the protests in New York since they began in September,
according to Browne.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 