-- Pakistan Army Rift With Gilani Escalates After Sacking, Coup Allegations
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-01-11T12:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/pakistan-s-gilani-violated-oath-by-refusing-to-probe-zardari-judges-say.html
Pakistan ’s army warned of “grievous
consequences” after the Prime Minister accused it of violating
the constitution, and the government sacked the defense
secretary in the latest signs of escalating tensions between the
military and the country’s elected leadership.  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  criticized the army in a
Jan. 9 interview for overstepping its authority in directly
submitting to the  Supreme Court  its response to claims the
government sought U.S. help to stop a possible coup. The
showdown comes hours after Gilani and President Asif Ali Zardari
summoned parliament to garner support following a top court
declaration yesterday that the prime minister had violated his
oath of office by refusing to pursue corruption charges against
the president.  “There can be no allegation more serious than what the
honorable prime minister has leveled,” a statement on the
military’s website said today. “This has very serious
ramifications with potentially grievous consequences for the
country.”  The political upheaval in the nuclear-armed nation
threatens to complicate U.S. plans to bolster security in the
region as it withdraws troops from neighboring  Afghanistan . It
may also hamper efforts to revive Pakistan’s economy that grew
2.4 percent in the year ended June 30, one of its slowest
expansions in a decade.  Shortly after the military issued its statement, Gilani’s
spokesman said the premier had fired the country’s defense
secretary, retired Lieutenant General Naeem Khalid Lodhi, for
misconduct.  Zardari and Gilani convened leaders of their Pakistan
People’s Party and its allies yesterday after the Supreme Court
decision on the graft cases. A separate judicial commission is
investigating whether Zardari and his ambassador to the U.S.
authorized a memo in May that sought American pressure against a
feared military coup following the killing of  Osama bin Laden .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  