-- Pandit’s Risk Idea Makes ‘No Sense,’ Bove Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-11T17:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/pandit-s-idea-for-measuring-risk-makes-no-sense-bove-says-tom-keene.html
Financial institutions shouldn’t be
required to measure risk against a benchmark portfolio because
it makes no sense, said  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale
Securities LLC, in reaction to comments from  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit .  “We do have risk-weighted assets indicated every quarter,
we do have capital indicated, we do have a lot of the things
Pandit is asking for,” Bove said today in a radio interview
with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”
“But this desire for uniformity in a business which is supposed
to be driven by risk, in my view, makes no sense. I simply don’t
believe it could be done.”  A new way to measure risk is needed to “compare apples
with apples,” Pandit wrote in an op-ed article published
yesterday by the Financial Times. Regulators need to create a
portfolio of real investments that represent what financial
firms hold and require companies to measure risk against it to
create a “common frame of reference” and encourage firms to
take a conservative approach to risk, wrote the head of the
 third-biggest  U.S. bank by assets.  “What he’s driving for is a uniform system that would
constrain everyone who’s in the financial market,” Bove said.
“He wants a whole new layer of accounting to be put on top of
the accounting that is already in the industry, and the
accounting in the industry right now is among the worst anywhere
in the world.”  Regulators are moving the industry toward a “planned
financial system,” and it needs to be returned to a “free-
market situation where these banks are able to go where they
think is appropriate, and if they make bad loans, they’re going
to go out of business,” Bove said.  ‘We’ve Accomplished Nothing’  The Dodd-Frank Act financial overhaul is forcing business
out of the banking system and into the “shadow-banking
system,” contributing to the formation of unregulated activity,
Bove said.  “We’ve done nothing, we’ve accomplished nothing,” Bove
said. “I think what Pandit would like to see is a uniform
system that affects all companies that are in the financial
sector, which I don’t believe should be done at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 