-- U.S. PC Shipments Shrank in 2011 for First Time in a Decade
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-01-11T23:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/pc-shipments-fell-1-4-last-quarter-amid-slow-holiday-sales-gartner-says.html
The U.S. personal-computer market
declined for the first time in a decade last year, hurt by
sluggish  consumer spending , supply shortages, and the popularity
of smartphones and tablets.  Shipments slipped 4.9 percent to 71.3 million in 2011, the
worst performance since 2001, research firm IDC said today. The
U.S. market fell 6.7 percent in the fourth quarter, compared
with a 0.2 percent drop for worldwide shipments. A separate
report from  Gartner Inc.  pegged the fourth-quarter U.S. decline
at 5.9 percent, with global shipments decreasing 1.4 percent.  Consumers and small businesses are holding off on orders
while they ride out the sluggish economy, even as many corporate
buyers stock up on PCs. Flood-ravaged disk-drive factories in
Thailand also took a toll on the market, though component
shortages resulting from the disaster will have a bigger impact
in 2012,  Gartner (IT)  found.  “The culprit is the consumer,” David Daoud, an analyst at
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC, said in an interview.
“Consumers and small businesses are the ones that are
struggling the most.”  Worldwide shipments declined to 92.7 million in the fourth
quarter, from 92.9 million a year earlier, IDC said. Gartner put
the number at 92.2 million, down from 93.5 million. In 2001,
when the industry was suffering from a recession and the dot-com
bust, U.S. PC shipments tumbled about 12 percent.  HP’s Lead  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , which decided in October to keep its
PC business in house after exploring a potential spinoff,
remained the industry’s top seller in the fourth quarter. Still,
its global market share slipped to 16 percent from 18.8 percent,
according to Gartner.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  ranked second with 14
percent, up from 11.3 percent.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  was third with 12.6
percent, compared with 11.6 percent a year earlier.  In the U.S., Hewlett-Packard also ranked first, with 23.1
percent of the market, with Dell in second place at 22.4
percent, Gartner said. Apple Inc., which wasn’t even in the top
five a year ago, saw shipments jump 20.7 percent. That put it in
third place, Gartner found.  The first quarter isn’t likely to bring relief to the PC
industry. Shipments in the period may decline by 5.1 percent,
said IDC’s Daoud.  Ultrabook Effort  PC makers are counting on thin, lightweight laptops called
ultrabooks -- a term coined by  Intel Corp . -- to fuel growth
this year. Hewlett-Packard and Dell both unveiled new ultrabooks
at the  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas  this week. All-in-
one desktop PCs, which house their electronics behind the
screen, also are seen as a bright spot for  sales. (MSFT)  The Windows 8
operating system will debut this year as well, giving shoppers
another reason to buy.  Windows PC makers have suffered from the popularity of the
iPad, which has sold more than 40 million units since its 2010
debut. Sales at Microsoft Corp.’s Windows unit, the operating
system software that runs most PCs, have missed estimates in
three of the past four quarters.  “The industry is obviously looking for ways to turn that
around with new technology,” Daoud said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  