-- Pentagon Fires at Budget Targets That Can’t Be Hit: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-01-11T00:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/pentagon-fires-at-an-unhittable-budget-target-commentary-by-peter-orszag.html
At some point in every
negotiation over fiscal policy, once the high-minded
speeches and other pleasantries have been delivered, the
disagreeable details poison the atmosphere. Everyone is in
favor of tax and entitlement reform, after all, until they
see the specifics.  The reaction to the cost-cutting strategy that Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  revealed last week suggests this is
about to happen with regard to Pentagon spending.  Let me be very clear: Substantial efficiencies can and
should be wrung from the defense budget, and Panetta’s
 approach  has many attractive features. But the strategy he
sketched out -- most of the details have yet to be provided
-- reveals the underlying tensions that arise whenever
significant defense cuts are promised.  Officially, we have committed to about $1 trillion in
defense  savings  over the next decade, split roughly evenly
between the reductions called for by the debt-limit deal in
August and the additional ones triggered by the failure of
the supercommittee in November. The Panetta strategy is
aimed at delivering only the first half of this $1
trillion.  In the abstract, reducing defense costs seems pretty
simple: Just cut back on some of the really expensive
equipment. The cost of building the F-35 fighter, for
example, has been estimated at more than $100 million per
plane. The new littoral combat ship, designed to operate in
coastal regions, is projected to cost about $600 million
per ship.  Weapons and Soldiers  The fancy weapons systems that seem like low-hanging
fruit, however, don’t add up to anything close to enough to
hit the budget targets Panetta is aiming for -- even if
there were enough votes in Congress to cancel the new jets
and ships. To save that much money, you need to reduce the
number of U.S. troops.  To see why, look at the defense budget for 2016.
Before the most recent reductions were enacted, the
 Congressional Budget Office  had  estimated  that the Defense
Department’s plans would lead to $594 billion in defense
spending in 2016. Acquisitions, including the cost of
developing and buying expensive weapons systems, were
estimated at $210 billion, or just over a third of the
total. To save $50 billion to $100 billion a year -- which
is what’s needed to reach the promised 10-year targets --
from this part of the budget alone is not plausible.  Most defense spending goes to personnel and operations
costs, which are based on the number of troops we have. For
2016, the CBO projected these to cost more than $350
billion, or about $170,000 per active-duty military person.
When it comes to cutting the  defense budget , this is where
the rubber hits the road.  The Panetta plan, according to  reports , would reduce
the number of troops in the Army from 570,000 to 490,000,
and in the Marines from a bit over 200,000 to 175,000.
Personnel levels for the Air Force and Navy would be held
roughly steady.  Michael O’Hanlon , a Brookings Institution
scholar who is a leading expert on the U.S. defense budget,
 says  such reductions are prudent, and would save about $150
billion over 10 years.  That’s only about a third to a sixth of the needed
spending cuts, which raises questions about where the rest
of the money will come from. But even these proposed force
reductions are generating a furious backlash. Retired Major
General Robert H. Scales  wrote  in the Washington Post that they
show “a degree of a-historicism that exceeds that of any
post-World War II administration.”  Unrealistic Budget Cuts  Clearly, troop reductions are a harder sell even than
weapons cuts -- which is saying something. And that’s true
even assuming that, over the next decade, we don’t face any
new national-security risk, which would undermine any
nascent support for fiscal constraint. So no wise person
should bet that the promised defense-spending reductions
will in the end be fully implemented.  What’s also interesting is that the budget cuts needed
in areas outside defense are, if anything, even steeper and
thus even less realistic. As Richard Kogan of the  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities  has  noted , if the cuts are
actually made, by the end of this decade, non-defense
discretionary spending would wind up at its lowest share of
gross domestic product since 1930. I wouldn’t bet on that,
either.  All of which suggests that both political parties have
locked into inadequate revenue levels for the next decade.
As a result, they are forced to count on spending cuts much
larger than what, in the end, they are likely to implement
-- in some cases, much larger than what they should
implement.  So the game is to feign concern about medium-term
deficits by promising big discretionary spending cuts in
the future, without saying exactly which programs would be
reduced. Once the specifics are revealed, though, it’s
extremely unlikely the promises will become reality.  Secretary Panetta knows all this. I wish him well in
overcoming the odds.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  