-- PGA Tour’s Finchem Gets Extended Contract After Television Deal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-01-11T17:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/pga-tour-s-finchem-gets-extended-contract-after-television-deal.html
Tim Finchem received a four-year
extension as commissioner of the U.S.  PGA Tour  after directing
negotiations on a nine-year television agreement for the world’s
richest golf circuit  The extension, through 2016, was approved by the tour’s
Policy Board and announced in a statement. Financial terms
weren’t disclosed. He made $4.7 million in salary and benefits
in 2009, according to tax forms filed by the tour.  Finchem, 64, has been commissioner since 1994 and has
helped increase tournament purses, charitable contributions and
sponsorships. He also aided in the development of events such as
the FedEx Cup playoffs, Presidents Cup and World Golf
Championships, and the return of golf to the Olympic program
after a 105-year absence.  The PGA Tour reached nine-year extensions in September with
CBS Corp. and Comcast Corp.’s NBC through 2021, as the networks
prepare to focus more on the sport’s rising stars and less on
36-year-old  Tiger Woods , who last won on the tour in September
2009.  “Tim has positioned the tour for continued growth in areas
such as player prize money, charity, sponsor value and growing
the game around the world,” Victor Ganzi, the policy board’s
chairman, said in the statement.  The new television contracts were reached at the same time
Woods, golf’s biggest draw, had slipped to No. 38 in the
Official World Golf Ranking and failed to qualify for the 2011
season-ending FedEx Cup playoffs, leaving questions about the
sport’s popularity in the coming years.  ‘Great Opportunity’  “We have accomplished a lot, but there remains a great
opportunity to continue to grow over the next four years,”
Finchem said.  The tour’s current network contracts, reached in 2006 and
worth $2.95 billion, were set to expire after the 2012 season.
Terms of the new agreements weren’t disclosed by the Tour.
Finchem said the value of the new pacts “increased,” without
being more specific.  During Woods’s struggles, which included injuries and the
end of his marriage following the golfer’s acknowledgement of
repeated affairs, the tour shifted its focus to highlight young
players, such as  Northern Ireland ’s Rory McIlroy, 22, and
Americans  Dustin Johnson , 27, and  Rickie Fowler , 23.  Woods, a 14-time major-tournament winner, boosts television
ratings by as much as 50 percent when he’s in contention,
according to Nielsen Co. figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  