-- Richemont’s Piaget Aims to Lift Sales via Record-Thin Timepiece
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-01-11T08:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/piaget-targets-sales-with-thin-timepiece.html
Piaget is confident new timepieces
including the $53,000 record-breaking Altiplano Skeleton 1200S
will help lift sales this year amid concerns of a recession in
 Europe  and slowing demand in  Asia .  The Swiss watchmaker will introduce the new model, which
features the world’s thinnest automatic skeleton movement and
watchcase, at next week’s SIHH watch fair in Geneva, Chief
Executive Officer Philippe Leopold-Metzger said in a phone
interview yesterday. Also on show will be the Gouverneur range
in white and rose gold, he said, declining to provide more
details.  “Newness is something important in our business,” said
Leopold-Metzger. The executive, who has forecast revenue growth
of more than 10 percent in the current fiscal year, wouldn’t
comment on sales in December ahead of a quarterly update by
Piaget’s owner  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  on Jan. 16. “It’s a
good year and we are looking forward again to what will be a
fairly good year in 2012,” he said.  Watch and jewelry sales will continue to outperform other
 luxury goods  in 2012, according to CA Cheuvreux analyst Thomas Mesmin. Sales at Richemont’s specialist watch unit, which
includes Piaget, will rise 14 percent on a like-for-like basis
in the year ending March 2013, faster than the sector’s overall
growth, Mesmin estimates.  ‘Robust Chinese Demand’  A skeleton movement means the case has openings that reveal
the inner workings of the watch.  Richemont’s watchmaking brands “look set to continue to
benefit from robust Chinese demand both from inside and outside
greater  China ,” Mesmin wrote last month.  While mainland Chinese customers continue to drive sales in
Asia, Piaget’s growth in the region may slow this year because
of a high basis of comparison, Leopold-Metzger said. Korean
sales are rising “very strongly” and  Japan  “is back on the
growth trend,” he said. Piaget gets more than half of revenue
from Asian customers, the CEO said. The  Middle East  and the
Americas are other “bright spots,” he said.  Piaget plans to add about 10 to 15 boutiques a year to its
current total of 79, according to the CEO. The 138-year-old
company expects to hire more staff in stores and manufacturing,
he said, declining to say how much. “Like every other brand, we
would have sold more if we had bigger production,” he said.  Demand has been “pretty steady” across the range, while
ultra-slim watches, in particular the Altiplano line, which
starts at 18,800 francs ($19,780), are performing “very well,”
Leopold-Metzger said.  After the Swiss franc appreciated against the euro in 2011,
“we are looking more at the situation being steady” in 2012,
he said. “We don’t expect any major disturbances on that
side.” Still, Piaget, which makes its timepieces in
 Switzerland , may lift prices, the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  