-- Pimco’s Gross Raises Treasuries in Fund to 30%
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-01-11T23:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/pimco-s-gross-raises-treasuries-in-fund-to-most-in-13-months-1-.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
increased holdings of  U.S. government debt  to the highest in 13
months on concern risks to the global economy are rising.  Gross boosted the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in the $244 billion Total Return Fund to 30
percent of assets in December, the highest since November 2010,
according to a report placed on the company’s  website  today. The
allocation was 23 percent in November.  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly
changes in its portfolio holdings.  Last week, Gross backed away from Pimco’s “new normal”
outlook after lagging behind the majority of his peers during
the biggest bond-market rally in nine years. The period of muted
growth in developed economies, high unemployment and
“relatively orderly” deleveraging that Mohamed El-Erian, who
shares the title of chief investment officer with Gross, coined
in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis is morphing into a
world of credit and zero-bound interest-rate risk, Gross wrote
in his monthly investment  commentary  released Jan. 4.  “There is potential for a paranormal, a bi-model world”
Gross said during a Jan. 6 radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance,” referring to statistical models that signal
about equal probability of different outcomes. The two worlds
are one “of deflation and one of re-flation.”  Reversal in Holdings  Pimco has been advising investors to buy U.S. Treasuries,
long-term inflation-indexed  U.S. debt , “high-quality”
corporates, senior bank debt and municipal securities. The
recommendations are a departure from Gross’s call last year,
when he advised buying emerging-market debt and cautioned
investors to stay away from the U.S., noting that growth would
be higher in developing economies, while excessive borrowing
would lead to inflation.  Gross eliminated his holdings of Treasuries in February and
had a net bet against the securities in the Total Return Fund,
missing the biggest rally in Treasuries since 2008. Gross issued
a “ mea culpa ” to investors in October and boosted the debt to
23 percent of the portfolio by the end of November.  Treasuries returned 9.8 percent in 2011, while bonds
worldwide returned 5.9 percent last year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index. That was the
biggest increase since a gain of 8.9 percent in 2002.  Asset Allocations  Gross’s  fund  has returned 4.53 percent in the past year,
beating 34 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It gained 1.6 percent over the past month, beating 98
percent of peers.  Gross increased its holdings of mortgage securities in
December to 48 percent, the highest since June 2009. The fund
held 43 percent in November.  Pimco kept holdings of emerging-market debt at 10 percent
and cut the bonds of non-U.S. developed nations to 18 percent
from 20 percent in November.  Gross reduced the  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ’s net cash-and-
equivalent position to negative 32 percent from negative 25
percent. It can have a so-called negative position by using
derivatives, futures or by shorting.  Pimco’s Government and Treasury debt category includes fund
holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and inflation-
protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.35 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  