-- Pink Floyd, Madonna, McCartney Eclipsed by Mixtapes: Rock 2012
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-01-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/pink-floyd-madonna-mccartney-eclipsed-by-mixtapes-in-2012-rock-preview.html
Rock music may be about to break out
of the groove it’s been stuck in for too long.  If things just carried on as they were, 2012 would go down
as the year that Madonna returned to reclaim her crown from Lady Gaga and as the year that the  Beach Boys , Stone Roses and just
maybe Pink Floyd got back together amid another flood of
reissues.  Fortunately, things look set to move forward as new acts
break through. Take  Lana Del Rey . The New Yorker’s “Born to Die”
will be released on Jan. 31. Based on samples so far, it will
live up to the hype generated by her moody single “Video Games.”
 Emili Sande , a U.K.-based singer, follows with a debut out on
Feb. 21. Her soulful sound may make her a big star.  “Given to the Wild” by British rockers the  Maccabees , is a
fine poppy way to start 2012.  Skrillex , from  California , is a remixer and producer whose
new EP “Bangarang” reinterprets everyone from the Doors to Ellie
Goulding. For him, the way forward is backward: refreshing the
past, layering unlikely sounds to make something new. Think
again if you say this was all done in the 1980s by the KLF and
other samplers, or by many fans making personal compilations of
favorite tracks. Mixtapes are being taken to a new level.  Mixtapes are back, celebrated by  books , magazines and now
whole records. Some widely downloaded mixtapes of 2011 included
two brilliant ones, “House of Balloons” and “Nostalgia, Ultra.”
Their respective creators,  the Weeknd  and Frank Ocean, are set
for mainstream success.  Goldfrapp, Santigold  Among female singers returning in 2012, I’m looking forward
to hearing U.S. songwriter Cat Power, who mixes her bluesy voice
with Memphis horns; U.K. electropop star Alison Goldfrapp, whose
last, “Seventh Tree,” was uncharacteristically ambient; and  New
York ’s Santigold, who combines hip-hop and reggae. They will be
more challenging than Madonna, whose album, slated for March, is
bound to be expensively produced and catchy.  Leonard Cohen ’s “Old Ideas” is due on Jan. 31 and is sure
to be as deadpan excellent as ever.  Paul McCartney ’s album, with
the cheeky title “Kisses on the Bottom,” arrives a week later
(Feb. 7) and highlights cover versions as well as two originals,
including “Valentine’s Day” with  Eric Clapton ’s guitar.  It will be an important year for British rock as the U.K.
showcases talent for the London Olympics and marks Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee. Fans are hoping Elton John and
McCartney will join big concerts in the British capital -- maybe
with  Pink Floyd  reuniting, though there’s no official word on
that. The year opened with fireworks to the soundtrack of
Britpop from the Kinks to Adele, who stands to scoop  Grammy 
awards on Feb. 12.  Coachella's Radiohead  We still await news on what has happened to U2’s “Songs of 
Ascent,” which was on the roster even before Bono's men played 
at Glastonbury last year. (Glasto is taking a break this year;
the festival season starts with Coachella in April, where the 
lineup announced yesterday includes Radiohead, Black Keys, Dr. 
Dre,  Snoop Dogg  and the Weeknd.)  Two groups have confirmed release of likely impressive 
seventh albums: Spiritualized’s “Sweet Heart Sweet Light ” on 
March 19 and French duo Air’s “Le Voyage Dans La Lune.” Both may 
be trumped by the xx, whose minimalism manages to say more than 
the symphonic rock of the trio in Muse, who also return.  U.S. rockers aren’t left out. Smashing Pumpkins frontman
Billy Corgan is promising his group’s best album in years. Pearl Jam and Queens of the Stone Age crank out new material.
Metallica moves on from its “Lulu” mess with  Lou Reed . Word on 
the street is that rapper  Kanye West  plans two CDs; word from 
West’s penthouse is that they’ll be brilliant. We’ll be the 
judge of that.  Black Keys  The year in indie rock may still be dominated by the Black
Keys, who slipped out the outstanding “El Camino’ in December. 
The band is the inheritor by default of the White Stripes 
crown (or should that be battered Stetson?)  The slow death of the CD and rise of downloads/piracy is
forcing a radical rethink by musicians and record companies. We
are overdue for a shakeup. It may be too much to hope for.  Still, think back to Sam Cooke’s best song, usually seen as
a civil rights anthem, but it might mean something else, too.
Otis Redding’s version says it all with the anguished words:
“It’s been a long, long time comin’, but I know …" and then the
title, “A Change Is Gonna Come.”  Download fees vary across services. The CDs are priced from
about $12 in the U.S. and 9 pounds in the U.K. Release dates are
for the U.S.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 