-- Polish Central Bank Keeps Rates Unchanged as Zloty Drop Spurs Inflation
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-01-11T17:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/polish-central-bank-keeps-rates-unchanged-as-weaker-zloty-spurs-inflation.html
Polish policy makers left borrowing
costs unchanged for a sixth meeting today and said the
probability of interest-rate cuts has declined as the weaker
zloty fuels inflation pressure.  The Narodowy Bank Polski kept the  benchmark seven-day
interest rate  at 4.5 percent, matching the forecast of all 30
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Eastern European policy makers face resurgent price growth
due to weakening currencies and a worsening economic outlook as
their biggest export market, the euro region, nears a recession
under the weight of its debt burden and government austerity
plans. A depreciation of the Polish currency has boosted the
price of imports and lifted inflation to a six-month high of 4.8
percent, almost double the central bank’s 2.5 percent target.  “The likelihood of rate cuts is diminishing,” central
bank Governor Marek Belka told reporters at a news briefing
after today’s decision. He cited “a stubbornly high inflation
rate” spurred by the zloty’s declines in recent months, along
with evidence suggesting “this year’s economic slowdown may be
on a smaller scale than previously expected.”  The zloty, whose 11.7 percent drop since July made it the
second-worst performer among currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
was little changed at 4.4626 per euro at 6:15 p.m. in Warsaw,
less than 0.1 percent weaker on the day. The yield on the
government’s 10-year bond fell to 5.794 percent from 5.798
percent late yesterday.  ‘More Hawkish’  “Today, the central bank sounded quite a bit more hawkish
at its policy meeting, which works well with our view of paying
local rates from a tactical perspective” said  Benoit Anne , head
of emerging-markets strategy at Societe General SA in  London , in
an e-mail. “We do not foresee any rate cut at all this year.”  The French bank is advising clients to pay two-year
interest-rate swaps, which investors use to lock in borrowing
costs in the future, in anticipation they will rise. The two-
year swap traded at 4.825 percent today, increased from 4.795
percent yesterday.  The Monetary Policy Council raised borrowing costs by 1
percentage point last year to tame inflation and has reaffirmed
plans to keep rates unchanged after price growth accelerated.
Since the previous increase in June, the zloty weakened 11
percent against the euro as investors shun emerging markets,
pushing up import costs. Economic growth is forecast to slow to
3.1 percent this year from an estimated 4 percent in 2011.  Core Inflation  Core inflation, which strips out volatile food and fuel
prices, accelerated to 3 percent from a year ago in November,
the fastest pace since April 2002.  “Hope is waning that the inflation rate will fall quickly
this year, while the zloty remains far from stable,” Ernest Pytlarczyk, head of financial markets research at BRE Bank in
Warsaw, said by phone after the decision. “Policy makers will
start to ease rates in a few months, when they see economic
growth begin to stall and fiscal policy staying on track.”  Inflation concerns kept the Czech central bank from
lowering its  two-week repurchase rate  from 0.75 percent on Dec.
21, while Hungary raised its main rate to a two-year high of 8
percent on Dec. 20 and said it may tighten policy further to
boost the forint. The  European Central Bank  cut its  main rate  to
1 percent on Dec. 14 to add fuel to the region’s economy.  The central bank doesn’t want to use monetary policy tools
such as interest rates to influence the zloty, Belka told
reporters today.  ‘External Factors’  “I doubt whether an interest-rate increase would
strengthen the zloty, because the currency is more dependent on
external factors,” he said.  Poland ’s central bank in November cut its economic-growth
forecast for 2012 to 3.1 percent from 3.2 percent. Gross
domestic product grew 4.3 percent from a year earlier in the
third quarter, topping economists’ forecasts and bolstering
projections for a full-year expansion of the $469 billion
economy to 4 percent or more, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said
Dec. 2.  While 23 economists polled by Bloomberg expect the Monetary
Policy Council to lower  interest rates  in the third quarter,
some central bankers, including  Adam Glapinski , Anna Zielinska- Glebocka and  Jerzy Hausner , said last month that monetary
tightening is more probable than rate cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  