-- Property Investors Bet on Rising Demand for U.S. Charter Schools
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/property-investors-bet-on-rising-demand-for-u-s-charter-school-campuses.html
A warehouse where workers once
shaped and cut steel on  Milwaukee ’s north side is getting a
second life. It’s being transformed into a charter school that’s
scheduled to open in August.  A joint venture of Canyon Capital Realty Advisors LLC and
former tennis champion  Andre Agassi ’s business partnerships is
developing the property and will lease it to Lighthouse
Academies of Wisconsin Inc. The Canyon-Agassi real estate fund
has done one warehouse conversion in Philadelphia and is
considering school projects in other U.S. cities, including  New
York  and Houston.  Entertainment Properties Trust (EPR)  and Inland Public Properties
Development Inc. also are among companies that are investing in
buildings for charter schools as demand for campuses grows. More
than 500 of the  schools  opened last year, bringing the U.S.
total to about 5,600, according to the  National Alliance  for
Public Charter Schools, a Washington-based advocacy group. The
investors buy or develop properties and get income from renting
to companies that operate the schools.  “We don’t find a lot of competition right now, and we like
that,” David Brain, chief executive officer of Entertainment
Properties, said in an interview. “We’ll be ahead of the curve
when other people finally wake up to the idea and come to the
party.”  The real estate investment  trust , primarily a movie theater
landlord, owned 34 charter-school properties as of Sept. 30,
accounting for $280.3 million of its $2.9 billion portfolio.
Entertainment Properties spent $36.4 million on charter schools
last year through the third quarter, the  Kansas City , Missouri-
based company said in a regulatory  filing .  ‘Capacity to Grow’  Charter schools “are going to be a substantial portion of
the market and we have a huge capacity to grow there,” Brain
said.  More than 400,000 children nationwide are on waiting lists
for the schools, the national alliance said in a December
statement. Demand has increased as parents seek alternatives to
traditional public schools. About 2 million students were
enrolled in charter schools for the 2011-12 school year,
according to the  alliance .  The schools charge no tuition. They receive funding from
municipal, state and federal tax dollars and operate under a
charter that’s granted by the state or a local authority,
according to a May report by Ernst & Young LLP. Each school has
its own governing board.  Academic Focus  Charters are able to offer longer days than traditional
public schools and may adopt a focus, such as the arts or
preparing for careers, according to the alliance. Like public
schools, they’re subject to state and federal academic
standards.  For Entertainment Properties, the charter-school investment
yield is 9 percent to 10 percent, according to Keith Bokota, an
analyst at Principal Global Investors. That compares with
November’s 7 percent average capitalization rate for commercial-
property deals of more than $5 million, according to Real
Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based property research
company.  The Canyon-Agassi Charter School’s Facilities Fund appeals
to investors seeking a good return on their money while doing
something positive for education, said Glenn Pierce, its chief
executive officer. Investors in the Los Angeles-based fund --
which lists Citigroup Inc.,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the Ewing Marion
Kauffman Foundation and the  University of Michigan  among its
backers -- can expect yields in the “low teens after fees,” he
said.  Fund’s Goal  The fund has about $200 million in equity and will use
loans to reach its goal of $500 million to spend on developing
campuses, according to Pierce. It’s investing about $5.1 million
in the Milwaukee project, he said. The North Point Lighthouse
Charter School will have an art room, library and computer lab.  “We’re taking a former warehouse building and turning it
into a state-of-the-art school,” Pierce said in a telephone
interview.  The fund gives a school the option to purchase the campus
once it has matured to the point where it can obtain financing.
“Our whole premise is not to be a long-term owner of these
assets,” Pierce said.  While school landlords may eventually profit from a sale,
income primarily comes from long-term lease agreements with
operating companies.  Inland Purchases  In 2010, a unit of Inland American Real Estate Trust Inc.,
a public, non-traded REIT based in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , bought
seven charter-school properties for $61 million from operator
Imagine Schools Inc. Arlington, Virginia-based Imagine, which
runs 75 schools in 12 states and the  District of Columbia ,
agreed to lease back the properties from Inland over a 20-year
period.  For Entertainment Properties, income from Imagine accounted
for 9 percent of revenue from continuing operations in the third
quarter.  Charter schools are “going to be a bigger piece of the
business” for the landlord in the long term, Craig Mailman, a
New York-based analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., said in
a telephone interview.  Box office sales in U.S. and Canadian theaters fell 3.4
percent last year, while attendance dropped 4.2 percent to a 16-
year low, according to Hollywood.com Box-Office.  Entertainment Properties said it planned to start
construction on as many as four campuses in the fourth quarter,
according to a Nov. 2 statement.  Investor Risk  Leasing properties can entail risk because schools may be
shut down for reasons including poor student achievement, low
enrollment and financial troubles. About 150 U.S. charter
schools didn’t reopen this academic year, according to the
charter-school alliance.  “That’s just not a risk that’s typical of property
owners,” said Bokota of Principal Global Investors. Its parent
company,  Des Moines , Iowa-based  Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) ,
owned 1.6 million  shares  of Entertainment Properties at the end
of September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors may try to reduce risk by leasing to experienced
companies that operate a number of schools. The Milwaukee school
is part of  Lighthouse Academies Inc. , a nonprofit network of 19
schools in five states. The Framingham, Massachusetts-based
operator was founded in 2003.  Even large operators can run into trouble. Last month, the
charter for one of Imagine’s schools in St. Louis was revoked
and four other schools were placed on probation partly because
of poor academic performance. Entertainment Properties is the
landlord for those schools’ campuses.  Master Lease  Entertainment Properties has a master lease “that covers
all the Imagine properties in our portfolio and ensures payment
should a school close,” Brain, the CEO, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We have a variety of options with the facility to
continue to serve the education market in  St. Louis .”  The school is scheduled to close in June.  Improving academic performance “is vital to the schools
coming off probation” and the 11-year-old company has taken
steps to raise students’ test scores, Lori Waters, a spokeswoman
for Imagine, said in a telephone interview.  Charter schools’ budgets are initially small and the
schools often prefer to lease because obtaining financing for a
building project is difficult and seen as risky. Many schools
start out in temporary space, such as an existing public school
building, shuttered retail store or former offices, said Jim
Griffin, president of the  Colorado League of Charter Schools .  “That’s generally their lot in life,” he said. “It’s
kind of get what you can.”  Starting Small  Most new charter schools start with just a few grades and
try to build enrollment over a number of years. The Lighthouse
school in Milwaukee will open for the fall semester with
kindergarten through fourth grade and plans to add one class
each year until it reaches the 12th grade.  Demolition on the Milwaukee warehouse’s interior started
last month. Classrooms and offices are expected to be finished
in July, a month before classes begin, said Anna Hammernik, the
North Point Lighthouse principal.  Hammernik moved back to her native Milwaukee to lead the
new school, after working in  New Orleans . She’s spent the past
year helping to plan the curriculum and get the word out.  The old warehouse’s transformation will be a “great boost
to the community,” Hammernik said.  “A lot of our kids go to school in really old buildings,”
she said. “I’m super-excited for our kids to have a brand-new
building.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  