-- Qatar Shares Advance Most in Week on Speculation QNB Bank Decline Overdone
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-01-11T13:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/qatar-shares-advance-most-in-week-on-speculation-drop-overdone.html
Qatari shares rallied the most in
more than a week on speculation a drop in  Qatar National Bank
SAQ (QNBK) ’s stock yesterday was overdone given the bank’s earnings and
the nation’s economic growth.  Qatar National, the country’s biggest bank by assets, rose
the most since Oct. 23, after slumping 5.2 percent yesterday.
 Industries Qatar QSC (IQCD) , the Middle East’s second-biggest
petrochemicals company, advanced 0.4 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM) 
gained 1 percent, the most since Jan. 3, to 8,710.89 at the 1
p.m. close in Doha after dropping 2.1 percent yesterday. The
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  rose 0.2 percent.  “The sell-off in Qatar National Bank yesterday prompted by
retail investors who overreacted to their interpretation of a
poor dividend was unjustified,” said Fadi al Said, head of
equities at ING Investment Management (Dubai) Ltd. in Dubai.  The bank’s  full-year profit  increased 32 percent as loans
and advances increased, beating the mean estimate of eight
analysts, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares gained 1.7
percent to 147.5 riyals. Qatar National is the last serious
bidder for Turkey’s  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  after the withdrawal of HSBC
Holdings Plc and  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , people familiar with the process
said yesterday.  Shares of the lender with the  heaviest weighting  on the
benchmark gauge tumbled the most since December 2009 yesterday
as investors were disappointed with its dividend offer of 40
percent cash and 10 percent bonus shares.  Economic Expansion  The economy of the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied
natural gas may expand 19 percent in 2011, the fastest rate in
the world, the  International Monetary Fund  said in an October
report. Local banks are benefiting from a pickup in lending as
the Persian Gulf country, host to soccer’s 2022  World Cup ,
invests in infrastructure and industrial projects.  Industries Qatar, which said last month it is poised for
“very strong full-year result,” advanced the most since Jan. 3
to 132.5 riyals. The company may announce results on March 1.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  increased 0.1 percent. Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 0.2 percent, bringing its
gain for the week to 1.2 percent. Bahrain’s  BB All Share Index (BHSEASI) 
and Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  dropped 0.5 percent. Oman’s  MSM 30
Index  and Kuwait’s  gauge  dropped 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  