-- Rabobank Raises $9.4 Billion in Bonds as Investors Seek Havens
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-01-11T22:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/rabobank-raises-9-4-billion-in-bonds-as-investors-seek-havens.html
Rabobank Nederland (RABO)  sold $2.5 billion
of dollar-denominated five-year notes, bringing its issuance
this year to more than $9.4 billion.  The bank may issue more debt than its refinancing needs in
2012, buoyed by investor confidence since the start of the year,
Michael Gower, its head of long-term funding, said in a
telephone interview. The Utrecht, Netherlands-based bank needs
to raise 20 billion euros ($25.4 billion), or half the amount it
sold in senior debt in 2011, to refinance securities  coming due 
this year, he said.  “There’s always opportunities to finance one’s balance
sheet more efficiently,” Gower said, “If there are
opportunities for us to be able to increase the duration of
liabilities, we’d always look to do that.”  The bank’s dollar bonds yield 258 basis points more than
comparable-maturity U.S. Treasuries, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction who declined to be identified.  Rabobank has also sold securities in euros and pounds this
month, including 2.75 billion euros of floating-rate senior
unsecured notes on Jan. 5, its biggest offering. The yield
spread on the bank’s 1.75 billion euros of senior unsecured
bonds has tightened by 7 basis points to 168 basis points more
than the benchmark mid-swap rate, after the notes were priced at
175 basis points on Jan. 4.  Unsecured Debt  European banks have typically struggled to access the
unsecured  bond market  since mid-2011 as investors remain
concerned that one or more of the region’s governments will
default. Lenders have been forced to turn to repurchase
agreements for short-term loans and covered bonds for longer-
term funding, as well as borrowing 489 billion euros from the
 European Central Bank  for as long as three years.  Banks including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, and a
unit of ING Groep NV have sold top-rated covered bonds this
year, seeking to satisfy investor demand for the safest
securities. Covered bonds are considered safer than unsecured
debt because they’re backed by mortgages or public-sector loans
as well as a guarantee from the issuer.  Rabobank’s ability to attract investors globally is “a
good sign that there are opportunities for European banks to
raise unsecured liquidity,” Gower said, “It’s certainly
reassuring for us that they are supporting these deals.”  The lender is  rated  Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service and AA
by  Standard & Poor’s , after being downgraded from AAA in
November 2011. The bank, the fourth-largest corporate bond
issuer in  Europe , raised more than 40 billion euros from senior
debt sales last year, 43 percent more than it needed to
refinance securities coming due.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  