-- Rail Traffic Surge Shows Canada Economy May Beat Growth Forecasts: Freight
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/rail-traffic-surge-shows-canada-economy-may-beat-growth-forecasts-freight.html
A boom in traffic at  Canadian
National Railways Co. (CNR)  and  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , the
country’s two largest rail companies, may mean  Canada ’s recovery
will be buoyant even after economists and the Bank of Canada
pared their outlook for growth this year.  Canadian freight volumes accelerated in the fourth quarter
to their  fastest  pace in 2011 on a year-over-year basis, while
commodity carloads were up 6.8 percent in December from November
on a seasonally adjusted basis, according to  data  from the
Association of American Railroads. Data from  Statistics Canada 
showing  stronger volumes  in the August-October period also
suggest future economic growth.  Rising rail shipments add to evidence that sales at
Canadian producers such as chemicals maker  Canexus Corp. (CUS)  haven’t
faltered in the face of the European debt crisis and a weak U.S.
recovery. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said last month
risks to the global economy may lead to a “prolonged period of
deficient demand.” Changes in rail carloads have predicted 63
percent of changes in monthly GDP three months into the future
since 2000, according to Bloomberg calculations.  “One of the great challenges right now is there is an
incredible skew among economic indicators,” said  Eric Lascelles , chief economist at RBC Global Asset Management Inc.
in Toronto, which oversees about C$250 billion ($246 billion),
adding that he uses rail freight as part of a set of indicators
to gauge Canada’s economic outlook. “Now is the sort of time
when you want to look at unusual indicators because the
traditional ones just aren’t giving a clear picture.”  Cutting Forecasts  Economists and policy makers have been reducing their
forecasts for the Canadian economy on concerns that the
country’s expansion will slow if the European crisis hampers
confidence, slowing emerging economies curb demand for the
country’s commodities, and debt-laden consumers spend less.  Canada’s S&P/TSX benchmark stock  index (STINDU)   lagged  behind the
U.S.’s S&P 500 in 2011 for the first year since 2003 as
producers of raw materials and energy dropped. Canada’s
expansion in 2012, projected at 2 percent, will trail U.S.
growth for the first time in seven years, according to 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. In May, economists had
forecast 2012 Canadian growth of 2.8 percent.  Canada’s quarterly expansion is expected to average an
annualized 1.9 percent over the 12 months ending September 2012,
almost half the third quarter pace, according to the Bloomberg
survey. That will lead Carney to keep the central bank’s policy
interest rate at 1 percent through 2012, the survey found.  Mixed Data  Carloads of commodities such as chemicals for Canadian
railways, including their U.S. operations, rose 5.3 percent in
the fourth-quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace in
2011, according to  Association of American Railroads  data.
Intermodal carloads, which can move by rail, road and sea and
which often move retail goods, increased at a 4.5 percent pace,
also a 2011 quarterly high.  The rail data point to a more bullish outlook than some
other economic data suggest. The value of building permits has
declined in four of the past five months and home resales have
slowed, suggesting a cooling housing market. The economy has
generated only 7,400 jobs over the last six months, and the
 jobless rate  has risen in each of the past three months, to 7.5
percent in December.  Still, manufacturing business conditions in Canada improved
in December, according to purchasing managers indexes released
this month by Royal  Bank of Canada  and the  University of Western
Ontario . A Bank of Canada survey of executives released Jan. 9
showed companies anticipate hiring more and increasing
investment, even as they predict slower sales growth for the
first time in almost three years.  ‘Good Proxy’  Growth will “be higher than people are expecting,” said
Denis Senecal, head of fixed income in  Montreal  at  State Street
Global Advisors , which manages about C$30 billion in Canadian
assets. Freight volumes are a “good proxy” for the economy, he
added.  Myles Zyblock, chief institutional strategist at Royal Bank
in Toronto, raised his six- to nine-month view of Canadian
equities to “above-benchmark” from “market-weight” in a Jan.
4 report to clients. Ed Sollbach of Desjardins Securities Inc.
forecast in a report on the same day the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index would climb to 14,200, which would be a 19
percent increase from its Dec. 30 close.  Faster growth may benefit materials and industrial
companies most closely tied to economic expansion, such as
Calgary-based Canexus. Its stock has jumped 29 percent over the
past three months.  Industrial Stocks  Canada’s S&P/TSX Industrials  Index (STINDU)  has advanced 13 percent
over the past three months, compared with a 5.9 percent gain for
the  S&P/TSX Composite Index. (SPTSX)   Aecon Group Inc. (ARE) , a Toronto
engineering business, led gainers with a 52 percent return.
Canadian Pacific stock has increased 32 percent in three months,
while shares of Canadian National are up 9.5 percent.  Growth may also fuel demand for Canadian corporate debt,
said State Street’s Senecal.  The extra yield demanded by investors to own debt of
Canadian industrial companies instead of federal  government
bonds  has fallen to 181 basis points on Jan. 10 from 202 basis
points at the beginning of the fourth quarter, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data. The so-called spread on a broad
index of Canadian investment-grade companies narrowed to 179
basis points from 183 basis points in that interval.  Higher Traffic  Railway carloads measured in metric tons rose at an average
year-over-year rate of 11.2 percent in the three months ending
October, according to  Statistics Canada , up from 4.8 percent
average growth in the previous seven months and similar to the
pace in 2010 when the economy was recovering from recession.  Canadian railroads moved 609,000 units in December, a
record for the month and 3.3 percent above December 2007 levels,
the last peak for the industry, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  “Freight volumes for the Canadian rails ended the year on
a strong note,” said  Lee Klaskow , a Skillman, New Jersey-based
analyst with Bloomberg Industries. “Strength was mostly across
the board.”  The average weekly freight volume at Montreal-based
 Canadian National  over the past month was up 9 percent from the
period a year earlier, according to Bloomberg Industries data
that includes the company’s U.S. operations. In December, CN
motor vehicle shipments rose 17 percent, mineral volumes were up
3.6 percent and intermodal traffic climbed 15.8 percent, the
data show.  The four-week moving average at Canadian Pacific showed a
10.1 percent volume increase from a year earlier, led by gains
in automobile shipments, coal and minerals. Auto shipments at
Calgary-based CP were up 48 percent in December and the railway
recorded a 27 percent jump in mineral volumes, according to
Bloomberg Industries.  “Overall, if those sort of numbers were to hold up on the
carloadings, that could provide some indication” of robust
goods-production growth, said  Mark Chandler , head of fixed
income strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s capital markets unit
in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 