-- Rand Drops as Metals Fall on Concern Debt Crisis to Slow Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-01-11T15:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/rand-weakens-as-metals-fall-on-fitch-s-italy-warning-ecb-s-rates-decision.html
The rand weakened against the dollar
after  Fitch Ratings  added to concern the euro region’s debt
crisis will worsen, stifling economic growth and demand for
South Africa’s metal exports.  The currency depreciated as much as 0.7 percent and traded
0.5 percent lower at 8.1473 as of 5:19 p.m. in Johannesburg.
Against the euro, it strengthened 0.3 percent to 10.3326.  Emerging-market stocks  fell and  Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index  of raw materials slipped after Fitch’s head of sovereign
ratings  David Riley  said the  European Central Bank  should boost
bond purchases to combat the debt crisis and prevent a collapse
of the shared currency. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  rejected joint euro-region bond sales as long as there
are no rules in place to enforce coordinated economic policies
in the area, the Stuttgarter Zeitung reported. The euro region
is  South Africa ’s biggest trading partner.  “Most of the news out of Europe today has been negative,
and that has contributed to the adverse market mood,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said by phone. “The problems there seem to be
continuing, especially since Germany again rejected euro bond
sales.”  The euro weakened against all but one of the 16 major
currencies after Germany’s Federal Statistics Office said the
economy probably shrank in the fourth quarter from the third,
and the European Union cut euro-area growth to 0.1 percent in
the third quarter, from 0.2 percent estimated earlier. The rand
often trades in tandem with the euro, with a statistical
correlation of 0.7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
value of 1 would mean they moved in lock step.  South Africa’s $1 billion of 5.875 percent bonds due 2022
declined, driving the yield up three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  