-- Raymond James to Buy Regions’s Brokerage for $930 Million
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-01-12T14:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/raymond-james-agrees-to-buy-regions-s-morgan-keegan-unit-for-930-million.html
Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF) , in a
deal that will combine two of the U.S. Southeast’s biggest
brokerages, agreed to buy Morgan Keegan & Co. from  Regions
Financial (RF)  Corp. for $930 million.  Morgan Keegan also will pay a $250 million dividend to
Regions before the deal is completed, the Birmingham, Alabama-
based seller said yesterday in a statement. The transaction
requires regulatory approval.  Raymond James is taking advantage of Regions’s move to
raise money to help repay a $3.5 billion U.S. government
bailout, the largest sum still outstanding for any institution
under the U.S. Treasury Department’s bank-rescue program. The
deal is a departure from Raymond James’s strategy of expanding
through smaller acquisitions, the  St. Petersburg , Florida-based
firm said in a separate e-mailed statement.  “While our preference is generally organic growth, we have
used strategic mergers to grow throughout our history when the
timing and pricing are right and, most importantly, when there
is a strong cultural fit and clear path for integration,”
Raymond James CEO Paul C. Reilly said in the statement. “This
merger reflects those tenets.”  Raymond James, founded in 1962, hasn’t made an acquisition
with a disclosed value greater than the C$125 million ($123
million) it agreed to pay in 2000 for a Canadian brokerage,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The addition of Morgan Keegan’s more than 1,000 private-
client financial advisers would increase Raymond James’s adviser
ranks to more than 6,000, the acquiring firm said. The deal
creates one of the largest wealth-management and investment-
banking firms beyond  Wall Street , Raymond James said.  Financing the Deal  Raymond James expects to finance the deal with a $600
million bond offering and a $300 million equity issuance, Chief
Financial Officer Jeff Julien said today on a  conference call .
The firm said the deal will break even in 2012 and will be 2
percent to 3 percent accretive to earnings in 2013.  Raymond James fell $1.30, or 3.8 percent, to $32.88 at 9:37
a.m. in New York trading. Regions declined 2.1 percent to $4.70.  “It would take years of organic recruiting, as well as
significant up-front incentives, to grow to the level achieved
through the merger of the two firms,”  Raymond James  said.  Raymond James expects to set aside $215 million in cash and
restricted stock for retention payments, Julien said on the
call.  The firm’s initial bids for Morgan Keegan were “thrown
out” at the start of negotiations because they weren’t as high
as offers from private-equity firms, Raymond James Executive
Chairman Thomas James said on the conference call.  ‘Organic Recruiting’  Founded  with five workers in 1969, the Morgan Keegan unit
has more than 300 offices across the Southeast and Midwest,
including  Texas ,  Missouri ,  Ohio , the Carolinas and  Florida . It
has more than 3,100 full-time employees, 1,200 financial
advisers and 25 senior analysts, according to its website.  “The bigger you are, the more you can pay for better
executives, the stronger you are as a shop,”  Mark Williams , a
lecturer at Boston University’s School of Management, said in a
phone interview before the deal was announced. “A merger like
this would be very positive for Raymond James. They can’t grow
organically in this market.”  Regions said in June that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  would
help evaluate options for Morgan Keegan, which provides
brokerage and investment-banking services.  ‘Helps Us Focus’  The sale “helps us focus on our core banking business,”
Regions Chief Executive Officer Grayson Hall, 54, said in his
firm’s statement. Morgan Asset Management and Regions Morgan
Keegan Trust aren’t included in the sale and will remain part of
Regions’s wealth-management organization.  Hall and Chief Financial Officer  David Turner , in a
conference call with analysts, didn’t say when the company would
return the bailout money to the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief
Program.  “Obviously there’s some expectation that there will be
increases in capital required that would address liquidity as
well as capital relative to TARP repayment,” Turner said. “You
really gotta look at both of those needs. We’d need some
additional cash in the holding company, which we’d expect to get
from that capital raise.”  Fourth-Quarter Loss  Morgan Keegan agreed to be sold to Regions in 2000 for
about $789 million. The unit, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , had a
$26 million third-quarter  profit , Regions said on Oct. 25. That
was up from $22 million a year earlier and a decrease from $60
million in the second quarter.  Regions said it expects to record a fourth-quarter non-cash
impairment of $693 million as a result of the sale. The deal is
expected to be completed in the current quarter, the bank said.  Net loss for the fourth quarter was in a range of $432
million to $633 million, or 34 cents to 50 cents a share, the
lender said. Net income from continuing operations, excluding
the impairment charge, will be $88 million to $119 million, or 7
cents to 9 cents. The average estimate of 26 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey is for earnings per share of 6 cents.  Regions said it expects the transaction to boost  Tier 1
capital  by 13 basis points.  Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan  Hall told investors in September that TARP repayment would
depend on achieving “sustainable profitability” and an
improvement in credit, not just selling Morgan Keegan. Regions
is the 10th-biggest U.S. bank by deposits.  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , a St. Louis-based brokerage, had
also bid for Morgan Keegan, people familiar with the matter said
in December.  In addition to Goldman Sachs, Sullivan & Cromwell LLP is
advising Regions on the transaction.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Morrison & Foerster LLP  are counseling Raymond James.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  