-- Raymond James Said to Near $930 Million Purchase of Broker Morgan Keegan
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-01-11T12:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/raymond-james-said-to-near-930-million-purchase-of-broker-morgan-keegan.html
Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF)  is
nearing an agreement to buy  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) ’s Morgan
Keegan brokerage unit for about $930 million in cash, said a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Raymond James  may tap Morgan Keegan Chief Executive Officer
John Carson as its president and head of fixed income, said the
person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks
are private. The  St. Petersburg , Florida-based brokerage may be
ready to disclose a deal as soon as this afternoon, according to
the person.  Adding Morgan Keegan would bring Raymond James one of the
top underwriters of U.S. municipal bonds and would expand its
retail brokerage network, placing it among the nation’s biggest
firms. Raymond James has about 5,100 financial advisers compared
with 1,200 at Morgan Keegan.  “A merger like this would be very positive for Raymond
James,” said  Mark Williams , a lecturer at Boston University’s
School of Management. “They can’t grow organically in this
market.”  Regions plans to collect a $250 million dividend from
Morgan Keegan before the sale, boosting the amount of cash
proceeds to about $1.2 billion, the person with knowledge of the
talks said.   The talks, while at an advanced stage, could still fail to
result in a deal, the person said. Mel Campbell, a spokesman for
Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions, declined to comment on the
discussions. Representatives of Raymond James didn’t return
calls or an e-mail message seeking comment.  Bailout Repayment  Regions said in June it hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
seek a buyer for  Memphis , Tennessee-based Morgan Keegan. The
bank is seeking to bolster capital and eventually repay a $3.5
billion U.S. bailout, the largest still outstanding for any
institution under the Treasury’s bank-rescue program.  Regions previously discussed a sale of the brokerage with
 Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  and with private-equity investors,
according to people with knowledge of the matter. Stifel, after
being excluded from the talks in December, returned to the
bargaining table last week, the people said.  Stifel submitted its latest offer, of about $875 million in
cash and stock, on Jan. 8, two people said.  Founded with five workers in 1969, Morgan Keegan has more
than 300 offices across the Southeast and Midwest, including
 Texas , Missouri, Ohio, the Carolinas and Florida. It has more
than 3,100 full-time employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  