-- Treatment of Troops’ War Wounds Targeted by U.S. Medical Schools
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/treatment-of-troops-war-wounds-targeted-by-u-s-medical-schools.html
The Obama administration is
unveiling a partnership with U.S. medical schools to improve
training for doctors who treat military veterans suffering from
combat trauma, including brain injuries.  First lady  Michelle Obama  will announce the initiative at
Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia, later
today. She plans to talk about the toll that frequent
deployments take on service members and their families, as well
as the impact of combat injuries and stress, Brad Cooper,
executive director of the White House effort to support military
families, said.  It’s “the largest coordinated commitment from America’s
medical colleges to support our veterans and military
families,” Cooper told reporters on a conference call
yesterday.  The plan is led by the Association of American Medical
Colleges and the  American Association  of Colleges of Osteopathic
Medicine. They have pledges from 130 medical and osteopathic
schools including those at John Hopkins University in Baltimore,
 Stanford University  in  Palo Alto ,  California , and Dartmouth
College in Hanover,  New Hampshire .  The schools will develop clinical trials and research to
help treat veterans and share information among the
institutions, according to the administration. The first lady
met yesterday with representatives from more than 30 medical
associations and organizations to discuss ways to address mental
health issues affecting troops.  Long Term Issue  “This is a long term issue for the nation,” Cooper said.
“Those presently impacted are young, almost all in their 20’s
and 30’s.”  John Prescott, director of academic affairs at the
Association of American Medical Colleges, said on the conference
call that the 105 medical schools that have pledged to take part
have 79 percent of all U.S. medical students.  There will be no federal funding for the effort.  Prescott said the colleges will “share the most up to date
diagnostic and therapeutic information as it relates to
traumatic brain injury also known as TBI and psychological
health conditions such as Post Traumatic Stress Disorder,
PTSD.”  Michelle Obama will visit wounded service members at the
 Virginia  Medical Center’s Polytrauma Unit as part of the event
today. She will also speak at a Democratic National Committee
event in Charlottesville, Virginia, later in the day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  