-- Republican Snyder Woos Immigrants to Refill Depopulated Michigan
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/republican-snyder-woos-educated-immigrants-to-refill-depopulated-michigan.html
Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  calls
himself the most pro-immigration governor in the country, and
he’s out to prove it.  Other Republican governors in  Arizona ,  Alabama  and  South
Carolina  are embroiled in political tumult over their efforts to
weed out illegal immigrants. Snyder assigned agencies to woo
educated immigrants to the only state that lost population in
the 2010  U.S. census . He’s called well-educated, skilled
foreigners crucial to building Michigan’s economy.  “I view it as education, to explain the facts to people,”
Snyder said in an interview at the North American International
Auto Show in Detroit yesterday. “They’re not taking jobs,
they’re creating jobs.”  Snyder, 53, a former venture capitalist and chairman of
computer maker  Gateway Inc. (GTW) , wants Congress to ease the entry of
people with advanced degrees, especially in science and
technical fields, and newly minted foreign graduates to work in
the U.S. The first-term governor’s public embrace of immigrants
is an anomaly in a party more often associated with arguments
for Mexican border fences and deportations.  “It’s a pleasant surprise,” said Nick Schulz, DeWitt
Wallace fellow at the Washington-based  American Enterprise
Institute  for Public Policy and Research, which advocates free
markets. Schulz said he was unaware of other governors so
publicly pushing such moves. Schulz advocates the same changes
as Snyder, which he said are stymied because legal immigration
is politically enmeshed with illegal.  “It’s a tough issue for Republicans,” Schulz, 39, said in
a telephone interview. “You have to have somebody who’s making
the case. Too often immigrants are a lumped mass.”  Send Us Scientists  Embracing skilled immigrants is a common stance among
Republicans, Schulz said, including presidential candidates  Mitt Romney ,  Newt Gingrich  and  Rick Santorum . However, presidential
candidates have hammered at illegal residents without making
much of immigration’s upside, Schulz said.  The governor says immigrants should get green cards if they
can pay $500,000 to start a business and create five jobs. The
current requirement is $1 million and 10 jobs, or $500,000 in
depressed areas.  He says Congress should eliminate the 20,000 annual limit
on H-1B work visas for those with advanced degrees from U.S.
universities. He wants to raise the 65,000 annual cap on  H-1B
visas  for others.  Math Multiplier  A study sponsored by the American Enterprise Institute and
the  Partnership for a New American Economy , a New York-based
coalition of mayors and business people who advocate more
opportunities for immigrants, found that hiring foreigners with
advanced degrees from U.S. universities increases employment for
natives.  That is especially true of immigrants who studied science,
technology, engineering and mathematics, according to the
report. For every 100 such foreign workers added to the
workforce, 262 jobs were created for U.S. natives during
2000-2007, according to the report released last month. The
report said immigration had no effect on employment for U.S.
natives.  That’s disputed by the Federation for American Immigration
Reform based in  Washington , which says many U.S. citizens with
technical and scientific degrees pursue other careers because
foreigners have driven down wages, said Ira Mehlman, a
spokesman.  Cracking Down  A November FAIR report cites data that show no shortage of
U.S.-born students with technical degrees. It notes a 2003
federal survey in which six unnamed employers said H-1B workers
would work for less than U.S.-born candidates.  Such arguments don’t sway Snyder.  “I’m happy to be out in front,” he said yesterday.
“ Michigan  can be a leader in doing this.”  Snyder’s open arms contrast with Republicans who took hard-
line stands.  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer in 2010 signed a law requiring
immigrants to carry documentation, and which requires police to
check the status of anyone they suspect is in the country
illegally. The U.S. Supreme Court will hear a legal challenge in
April.  In Alabama, Governor Robert Bentley signed a law more
sweeping than Arizona’s. That measure, also challenged in court,
spurred legal and illegal immigrants to flee, and in November a
German executive of Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz was arrested
while driving a rental car without a driver’s license.  Parts of similar laws in Georgia and  Indiana  have been
suspended by courts.  Founded by Foreigners  Snyder has opposed legislation in Michigan patterned after
Arizona’s. In a Dec. 1 message on the state workforce, he
highlighted legal immigrants, saying they founded one-third of
the new high-tech businesses in Michigan during 1995-2005. They
started some of state’s large companies such as  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) 
in Midland, the Grand Rapids-based grocer Meijer Inc. and  Masco
Co. (MAS)  of Taylor, which makes bathroom and kitchen fixtures.  The governor’s  Global Michigan Initiative  seeks to attract
foreign-born workers with advanced degrees as well as seasonal
agricultural help and people who want to start businesses, said
Maria Nevai, the program manager.  Snyder safely can call himself pro-immigration because in
Michigan, which borders  Canada , the issue doesn’t evoke alarm as
it does in Southern states, said Bill Ballenger, publisher of
Inside Michigan politics, a Lansing newsletter. Middle Eastern
and Asian immigrants are accepted, he said.  Easy Stand  “There’s no great outcry about it,” Ballenger said.
“He’s being politically adroit. He makes it seem like he’s more
expansively accepting of immigrants than he probably is.”  The  Detroit  metropolitan area has the largest concentration
of Arab Americans in the U.S., an estimated 300,000, according
to the Washington-based Arab American Institute Foundation. The
largest group of newcomers in the past five years is from  India ,
said  Steve Tobocman , director of Global Detroit, a nonprofit-
funded study of the  effects of immigration . In the past two
years, more Iraqis have come than any other nationality, he
said.  Tea Party  activist Wendy Day, a 39-year-old from Howell,
said legal immigrants are welcome but shouldn’t take jobs from
Michiganders. Though she generally supports Snyder, “If you
asked me how to solve Michigan’s problems, bringing in
foreigners would not be on my list.”  It would be for Rupesh Srivastava, 43, president and chief
executive of information-technology companies Youngsoft Inc. and
H2H Solutions Inc. in Wixom, a Detroit suburb.  Snyder’s initiatives can create entrepreneurship, he said.
It is often easier to find foreign-born workers with experience,
he said.  “In all honesty, if people were available from here,
companies would rather have them,” Srivastava said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  