-- Republican Senators Rebuke Fed for Recommending Ways to Spur U.S. Housing
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/republican-senators-rebuke-fed-for-recommending-ways-to-spur-u-s-housing.html
Republican Senators  Orrin Hatch  of
 Utah  and  Bob Corker  of Tennessee rebuked the Federal Reserve for
overstepping its role by making policy recommendations on how
the U.S. government should take new steps to spur the housing
market.  Hatch, the top-ranking Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, said yesterday that a housing study sent by Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke to Congress last week, along with recent Fed
speeches, “intrudes too far into fiscal policy advice and
advocacy.” Corker said New York Fed President William C. Dudley’s suggestion last week that Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
reduce the principal of the loans they guarantee was
“absolutely egregious.”  Fed officials have been increasing their calls for
government measures to boost the housing market after record-low
interest rates failed to revive borrowing. Bernanke last week
sent lawmakers a 26-page staff study discussing policy options
to help boost the housing market that said  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac might have to bear greater losses to stoke a broader
recovery.  “It was kind of unusual for the Fed to get into that kind
of detail on these institutions, which I’m sure everyone at the
Fed knows right off the bat are very controversial political
issues,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC in Charlotte,  North Carolina . “It’s just asking
for criticism.”  Election-Year Debate  Silvia said that while it’s “perfectly reasonable” for
the Fed to try to address the housing slump, he “probably would
not have issued the paper” in an election year, when the Fed is
“unfortunately at this point in time, part of the debate.”
Republican presidential candidates Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich
have said they wouldn’t keep Bernanke, whose four-year term
expires on Jan. 31, 2014, as Fed chairman.  “I believe that it is important to the interests of the
 Federal Reserve , including the independence of monetary policy,
that the Fed refrain from providing any hint of activism
regarding what are clearly fiscal policy choices,” Hatch said
in a letter to Bernanke dated yesterday. “I worry that the
unveiling of your staff’s housing white paper, to ‘provide a
framework for thinking,’ treads too far into fiscal policy, and
runs the risk of being perceived as advocacy for particular
policy options.”  David Skidmore , a spokesman for the Fed in  Washington , said
in an e-mail that the central bank has a copy of the letter and
would respond to Hatch.  2008 Recommendations  Bernanke has given recommendations about Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac before. In October 2008, he said they should retain
some form of government support and oversight even if the
companies were transformed from their federal conservatorship to
become private companies.  Dudley, Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  and Fed
Governor Elizabeth Duke all said last week that the U.S.
government should try new ways to spur the housing market,
without agreeing about how much more the central bank needs to
do to bring down  interest rates .  San Francisco Fed President John Williams yesterday called
for federal programs to support housing and “tax and spending
policies” that would complement the central bank’s moves.  Dudley said Jan. 6 that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should
allow underwater borrowers, those who owe more on their mortgage
than their home is worth, to pay off their loan below par if
certain conditions are met, including that the borrower stays
current on payments.  ‘Wealth Transfer’  “Reducing the principal on home loans for borrowers who
put no money down amounts to a massive wealth transfer from
places like Tennessee, where most homeowners have borrowed
responsibly, to places like  California  and  New York , where
exotic mortgages were widely used to finance a speculative
housing boom,” Corker said yesterday in Nashville, Tennessee,
before the Greater Nashville Association of Realtors, according
to a statement from his office.  “It is absolutely egregious that the Federal Reserve would
insert itself in this manner and ask people in Tennessee who
played by the rules to bail out reckless borrowers in other
parts of the country,” Corker said.  Krishna Guha, a spokesman for the New York Fed, declined to
comment.  In a cover letter to Congress sent with the report,
Bernanke said that “restoring the health of the housing market
is a necessary part of a broader strategy for economic
recovery.” The paper notes that  home prices  have fallen an
average of about 33 percent from their 2006 peak, resulting in
the loss of $7 trillion in household wealth that has weighed on
consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  