-- Tribune Judge Sets May Date for Hearing in Final Bankruptcy Court Fight
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-11T18:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/tribune-judge-sets-may-date-for-hearing-in-final-bankruptcy-court-fight.html
Tribune Co. (TRB)  should face its final
court fight over its bankruptcy-exit plan in May, the judge
overseeing the reorganization of the media company said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey today asked the company
and the  hedge funds  backing its reorganization plan to work out
final scheduling details with opposing creditors.  The Chicago-based newspaper and television company will
still face a “significant time lag” before it can exit
bankruptcy should it win the final court fight with creditors in
May, Tribune said in court papers filed yesterday.  Tribune, the owner of the Los Angeles Times and the Chicago
Tribune newspapers, filed for bankruptcy in December, 2008, one
year after a buyout led by real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  Since then, the company and the hedge funds holding senior
debt owed by Tribune have fought to win approval for a plan to
divide ownership among the lenders that funded the more than
$8 billion buyout. Pre-buyout creditors oppose that plan,
claiming the buyout was doomed from the start.  Tribune, which was valued last year by the company at about
$6.75 billion, owes creditors about $13 billion.  If Carey approves the plan, the company can’t exit
bankruptcy until it also wins favorable rulings from the Federal
Communications Commission, which oversees Tribune’s television
and radio stations, according to court documents. The company
didn’t say how long that may take.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 