-- Fitch’s Riley Says ECB Should Buy More Bonds to Stem Sovereign Debt Crisis
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-01-11T13:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/riley-says-ecb-should-buy-more-bonds-to-combat-debt-crisis-1-.html
The  European Central Bank  should
step up its government bond purchases to combat the euro
region’s debt crisis, said  David Riley , head of the sovereign-
debt unit at  Fitch Ratings .  “We need to have a credible buyer put in place and we
don’t have that at the moment,” which is “why we have a number
of sovereigns under review,” Riley said at an event in
Frankfurt today. “The ECB needs to be more actively engaged,
but it can’t save the euro on its own. The crisis won’t be over
until we have a broad-based economic recovery.”  Investors are shunning the bonds of highly indebted euro-
area governments such as Greece, Italy and  Spain , driving up
their borrowing costs and raising concerns about the future of
the common currency. While Riley said a breakup of the euro
would be “cataclysmic,” he said that is not Fitch’s “base
case.” He made those comments separately to his remarks on the
ECB’s bond-purchase program.  The euro weakened for the first time in three days against
the dollar and the yen, dropping to $1.2700 at 2:42 p.m. in
 Frankfurt  from $1.2756 at 12:15 p.m.  “We are now in a scenario whereby the crisis is clearly
systemic,” Riley said. “Although it is not our base case,”
Fitch is reviewing “who would be potentially vulnerable not
only to an intensification of the crisis but even” to a breakup
of the euro, he said. “Potential consequences of that would be
frankly cataclysmic.”  ECB Bond Purchases  The Frankfurt-based ECB has resisted calls for it to step
up its  intervention  in bond markets, saying it’s up to
governments to end the debt crisis through fiscal reforms.  “Can the ECB save the euro? Well not on its own, clearly
not,” Riley said. “Can the euro be saved without more active
engagement from the ECB? Frankly we don’t think it can.”  Riley said there’s “plenty of scope” for the ECB to
expand its balance sheet and “increase potentially its
sovereign purchases without unleashing a wave of inflation
across the  euro zone .”  The ECB says its bond purchases are aimed solely at
restoring the transmission of its  interest rates  on financial
markets. It has spent 213 billion euros ($270.5 billion) since
the program began in May 2010.  Policy makers, who have also lowered their  benchmark rate 
to a record low and flooded the banking system with cash,
convene tomorrow to discuss monetary policy. All but six of 53
economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect the ECB to keep its
key rate at 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  