-- Robot Ball, Kid-Proof Toys Gamble in Vegas: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-01-11T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/robot-ball-kid-proof-toys-gamble-in-vegas-rich-jaroslovsky.html
One of the pleasures, and risks, of
attending the gigantic  Consumer Electronics Show  is seeing a
bunch of new products that look incredibly cool.  Why a risk? Because things that look incredibly cool under
carefully controlled conditions in  Las Vegas  sometimes turn out
to be less than stellar successes by the time they hit your
neighborhood  Best Buy. (BBY)   So with that caveat, here are a few toys that caught my eye
at this year’s extravaganza:  Asus (2257) , which already has a line of tablets called
“Transformer,” showed off its MeMO 171, a seven-inch Android
tablet that is also a mobile phone. Look for it in the second
quarter.  Since you may not be keen on the idea of holding a seven-
inch tablet to your ear, the MeMO 171 comes with a separate,
transparent-screen Bluetooth-connected device about the size of
an older iPod Nano. It works both as a media player and a phone
handset. Biggest drawback: You still have to dial calls from the
tablet.  My favorite Web surveillance camera of last year was the
 DropCam . It paired a high-quality camera with a simple yet
potent cloud-based service that allowed you to monitor goings-on
in your home, say, through an app on your  Apple (AAPL)  or Android
mobile device. The big drawback was the price: $249 for the
camera, plus a monthly fee for advanced features.  Big Brother  Now Dropcam is replacing the old camera with one of its own
design, cutting the price to $149 and adding new features,
including night vision and two-way audio. Not only is Big
Brother watching over you, he gets to make comments, too.  Known for its hockey-puck-size set-top box that streams
Internet video like  Netflix (NFLX)  and  Major League Baseball  to your
TV,  Roku  unveiled the Streaming Stick, an even smaller device.
It packs all the Roku functionality into what looks like a
biggish thumb drive that plugs into your TV. (Only a few TVs so
far have the special kind of HDMI that’s needed, but Roku says
there will be more by the time the Streaming Stick ships in the
second half of 2012.) Take that, Apple TV.  Speaking of Apple,  Mattel (MAT) ’s Fisher-Price unit is
introducing an alternative to entrusting your precious iPad to
the young ones in the backseat on long car trips: the Kid-Tough
Portable DVR. A dock plugs into your TV and simple controls let
you load the colorful playback unit with up to two hours of
stored content, or more if you make use of the SD expansion
slot.  Kid-Proof  The player has its own screen and runs for about four
hours. Best thing about it: It promises to be largely
indestructible. Worst thing: While the DVR is downloading, you
can only watch what’s being recorded. It will cost $150 and is
due in the second half of the year.  GoPro ’s $300 HD Hero2 has been the wearable camera of
choice for thrill-seekers who want to record and relive that
perfect wave or downhill run. This year, it’s adding a $100
accessory called the Wi-Fi BacPac and Remote Control Kit. The
BacPac affixes to the rear of the camera, while the remote --
which is small enough to fit on your wrist -- allows for hands-
free control. Now you can see everything coming -- and going.  If you’re on a wilderness adventure and need power for your
wireless phone or other electronic device, there’s the
 PowerTrekk , from a Swedish company called myFC. It makes
electricity from water, using fuel-cell technology. It’s likely
to cost in the $200-$230 range, plus $3 to $4 each for the
little cartridges needed to work its magic -- and which have to
be recycled.  Robo-Balls!  Finally, in the time-waster category, there’s  Sphero , which
began shipping in limited quantities a few weeks ago. It’s a
$130 robotic ball that you start, stop and steer through an app
on your mobile device. It’s fun for about 15 minutes, until the
novelty wears off, but now that it’s finally out, the company is
introducing several new apps and games that promise to extend
the excitement at least a few minutes longer.  Among them is a matching game that takes advantage of
Sphero’s ability to glow in thousands of colors, one of which is
undoubtedly “rosy.” In honor of CES, perhaps.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 