-- Robuchon’s Kibo Serves Fatty No-Cal Noodles, Tiny Cones: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/robuchon-s-kibo-serves-fatty-no-cal-noodles-trash-on-tables-ryan-sutton.html
Japonais, a big-box Asian restaurant
that once dispensed fruity saketinis, closed last year, making
way for a big-box Asian restaurant with a DJ booth and zero-
calorie noodles.  This is Kibo, the latest New York offering from Stephen Hanson, the private equity-backed restaurateur behind chains
like Bill’s Bar & Burger, Dos Caminos, and Strip House.  Will there be more Kibos? Perhaps if they’re smaller. The
Gramercy Park spot was half-empty at 7:30 on a Saturday night.
Opening a 299-seat venue in post-recession New York may be the
ultimate hubris.  Coldplay blasted on the sound system. The Houston Texans
routed the Bengals on a TV in the lounge. And in case you got
bored eating a California roll, two additional flat-screens at
the sushi bar showed anime.  Kibo’s chief draw is that the Japanese offerings were
“designed” by  Joel Robuchon . Did he really sign off on the
sriracha spicy tuna rolls, which taste little different from the
maki I used to eat at a Columbia University cafeteria?  Kibo’s crispy shrimp ($12) could easily substitute as an
appetizer at the Outback Steakhouse. Bland chicken teriyaki with
asparagus ($14) proved to be a breast doused in what tasted like
KC Masterpiece barbecue sauce. Sushi was prepared with
overcooked rice.  But Wait  At least things are on the cheap side. Cod is $28 and it’s
pretty great: silky flesh with a sweet hint of miso. Just as
good is sun fish with shallots and peas in ponzu broth ($24).  Tofu, crunchy on the outside, oozes like good ricotta. Beef
tartare is soft and creamy, with a gentle zing of wasabi and the
chili-and-fava bean paste toban djan. Curried cauliflower with
fresh coriander is flavorful enough to satisfy the veggie
phobic.  The room’s “coup de theatre” is a glass cube in which a
man plays with fire, placing skewers of meat, chicken, fish and
vegetables over the robata grill. Boneless chicken wings pack
twice the flavor of regular fowl; branzino skin is gently
crisped. Garlic sausage is a must; skip the $29 wagyu ribeye,
which is merely passable.  Cocktails taste like sugary college bar creations; some are
spiked with the likes of raspberry sake, pomegranate liqueur and
Hawaiian-punch syrup.  Try “Kibosake” on draft, an assertive, almost spirit-like
rice wine that cleanses the plate, just $10 a carafe. Those
looking for a smoother, more floral experience will try the Red
Maple Junmai Ginjo ($22).  Trashy  Service   Order a dry American “Kung Fu Girl” Riesling ($11) to
counteract your spicy cucumber starter.  Waiting for beverages can be a 10-minute affair. Staffers,
some equipped with secret service-style earpieces, might use
your table as an impromptu trash tray, stacking dirty bowls of
soup on top of one another, tossing in ramekins of chili sauce
and used chopsticks for good measure.  Unfinished plates are sometimes ferried away too.  Zero-calorie diet noodles are served in fatty ramen broth.  Instead order the regular noodles in a restorative
coriander-shellfish broth. Pork ramen is generic, with too
little pork flavor, too much ginger. Ho-hum short ribs and
forgettable crab rice are also skips.  Tiny pineapple sorbet ice cream cones come in threes. There
were four of us. Could the kitchen possibly send out a fourth
ice cream cone for a few extra dollars? The server shook his
head.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Question  Price: Most dishes under $30.  Sound Level: Loud, anywhere from 75-85.  Date Place: No.  Inside Tip: Nice yogurt mango parfait for dessert.  Special feature: Great miso soup.  Back on My Own Dime? Nah.  Kibo is at 111 E. 18th Street. Information: +1-212-824-2770
or  http://www.kibonyc.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.) 