-- Rolls-Royce Sells Out Dragon Phantom in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-11T04:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/rolls-royce-sells-out-dragon-phantom-in-china.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Rolls-
Royce sold out a $1.2 million Year of the Dragon Phantom model
introduced to lure buyers in its biggest market of China, where
the company predicts growth will be less “explosive” in 2012.  Chinese customers want highly bespoke cars with features
such as drink cabinets and embroidery, Rolls-Royce Motor Cars
Chief Executive Officer Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes said today. To
meet demand, the company will add dealerships in mainland
China’s so-called second-tier cities, adding to the 14 it has in
Greater China including Hong Kong, the city with the highest
density of Rolls-Royce drivers in that region, he said.  Buyers in China want “marvelous embroidery work, so for
that reason we’ve created a Year of the Dragon special edition
for the Phantom,” Mueller-Oetvoes said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in  Hong Kong . “It is red, of course, also
as being the color of luck.”  Rolls-Royce is catering to a market that has become the
biggest for automakers from Bentley Motors Ltd. to General
Motors Co. and where the number of millionaire households has
surged by almost a third. The London-based maker of luxury cars
faces the prospect of slower demand in China as growth may ease
in the world’s second-largest economy this year.  Rolls-Royce began taking orders for the Dragon-year Phantom
in August and sold out the model within two months, said Hal
Serudin, a Singapore-based company spokesman, who declined to
provide sales figures. Prices for the special model start at 7.4
million yuan ($1.2 million), he said.  Hand-Painted Dragons  Features of the  special-edition Phantom  include a gold
dragon hand-painted on the side of each wheelbase, the mythical
creature embroidered on headrests, and hand-stitched cushions
for rear passengers.  Rolls-Royce will add fewer than 10 dealers in Greater China
this year, Serudin said. The carmaker currently has 14
dealerships in Greater China, which includes mainland China,
Hong Kong and  Taiwan .  “I’m optimistic that we will see growth in the Greater
Chinese market,” Mueller-Oetvoes said. “It might not be as
explosive as it was a couple of years before, but I’m very
confident.”  The number of millionaire households in China jumped 31
percent in 2010 to 1.11 million, ranking it third behind the
U.S. And  Japan , according to a Boston Consulting Group survey
released last year.  Growth at Rolls-Royce may ease in tandem with a slowing
economic outlook for China. The nation’s economy may expand 8.5
percent this year, receding from an estimated 9.2 percent in
2011, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Emerging-Market Push  The carmaker plans to continue expanding in  emerging
markets  and open dealerships in Brazil and  Chile  this year,
Mueller-Oetvoes said.  Rolls-Royce had the highest sales in its 107-year history
in 2011 as growth in all regions drove deliveries 31 percent
higher to 3,538 cars, surpassing the previous record set more
than three decades ago.  Total auto sales in China are predicted to rise 16 percent
to 17.9 million units this year, according to R.L. Polk & Co., a
research company based in Southfield,  Michigan .  The China car market is becoming more important for luxury
carmakers.  China overtook the U.S. to become Rolls-Royce’s biggest
market for the first time in 2011, three years ahead of a target
it set in February. Bentley last week reported a 37 percent
increase in cars delivered in 2011 as its sales doubled in
 China , superseding the U.K. market for the first time in its 92-
year history. The Chinese market has become Maserati SpA’s
second-biggest, the Italian carmaker said Jan. 2.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  