-- Romney Rivals Turn to South Carolina
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-01-11T20:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/romney-rivals-turn-to-south-carolina-crossroads-following-primary-losses.html
Republican presidential candidates
turned their attention to  South Carolina (BEESSC) ’s Jan. 21 primary after
front-runner  Mitt Romney  racked up his second victory last night
in  New Hampshire (NFSENH) .  “This primary is the crossroads for this country,” former
House Speaker Newt Gingrich told a crowd of more than 300 in
 Rock Hill , South Carolina, this morning. Gingrich described his
opponents as too moderate, too inexperienced and too indecisive
to win in November, without ever calling them out by name.  “We have to nominate someone capable of telling the truth
against  Barack Obama , because you’re not going to beat a
billion-dollar machine of dishonesty otherwise,” Gingrich said.  Gingrich and other White House hopefuls are trying to
prevent Romney from claiming a win in South Carolina that might
effectively wrap up the nomination. Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor, is leading nationally and is raking in
more campaign cash than his competitors.  In a fundraising appeal, Gingrich said time is running out
to challenge Romney.  “We’re going to do it next week in  South Carolina  or he’s
almost certain to be the Republican nominee,” Gingrich said.  After winning the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3, Romney made
history yesterday as the first Republican non-incumbent to win
both the New Hampshire primary and the caucuses since Iowa began
kicking off the party’s presidential nominating process in 1976.  New Hampshire Totals  Romney got 39 percent of the vote in New Hampshire,
according to an Associated Press tally. U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas had 23 percent and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. won 17 percent.  Gingrich barely beat former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  for fourth place, each with 9 percent of the vote.
 Texas  Governor  Rick Perry , who didn’t focus on New Hampshire,
got less than 1 percent. All are seeking better showings in
South Carolina and  Florida , which holds its primary on Jan. 31.  Issues such as gay marriage and abortion hold greater sway
with South Carolina voters, and the candidates are playing up
their conservative credentials. Gingrich released an ad that
attacks Romney’s position on abortion, calling him a
“Massachusetts moderate” who “can’t be trusted.”  Romney has said he changed his mind on abortion and now
favors anti-abortion laws.  ‘Uphill Battle’  Romney today said the next primary is a bigger hurdle,
referencing his first run for the presidency in 2008.  “I face more of an uphill battle in  South Carolina (SAEESC)  than in
 New Hampshire ,” he told reporters on a flight to Columbia,
South Carolina. “Last time I came in fourth, so our team
recognizes that this is going to be a challenge.”  Money will help; Romney’s campaign today said he raised $24
million in the last three months of 2011 and had $19 million in
cash. Paul brought in $13 million, and Gingrich raised about $9
million in the same period, according to earlier statements from
their campaigns. All the candidates’ finance reports are due at
the end of the month.  Paul and Perry today told South Carolina voters that they
have a chance to make a difference.  “We are going to have a lot of influence with the future
of this country,” Paul told supporters gathered in an airport
hangar in West Columbia.  Perry Campaigns  “New Hampshire and  Iowa  are wonderful places,” Perry told
about 50 supporters in a backroom of a barbeque restaurant in
Columbia. “They are a place where you go, I guess, to practice
your campaign skills. But they winnow the candidacy down. South
Carolina picks presidents.”  Perry also repeated his line that everyone else in the race
was either a  Washington  or  Wall Street  “insider.”  “I’ve never been associated with what I consider to be
this really corrupt relationship between Washington and Wall
Street,” Perry said.  Romney is trying to address attacks on his career as a
private-equity executive at Boston-based  Bain Capital  LLC. A
film financed by Gingrich backers and set for release in South
Carolina attacks Romney as a child of privilege who is “more
ruthless than Wall Street.”  The film relates the stories of people who say they lost
their jobs after their companies were taken over by Bain,
without identifying the workers. While often relying on news
accounts, the film at times stretches the truth and takes some
reports out of context or selectively edits them, a review by
Bloomberg News shows.  ‘Little Surprised’  “We’ve understood for a long time that the Obama people
would come after free enterprise,” Romney said on the flight
today. “Little surprised to see  Newt Gingrich  as the first
witness for the prosecution.”  Gingrich, under fire from the pro-business group Club for
Growth among others, said today it’s hard to communicate the
issues with Bain Capital. After a voter urged him to back off
the attacks, Gingrich said he agreed it was “an impossible
theme to talk about with Obama in the background.”  Gingrich’s campaign spokesman, R.C. Hammond, said later
that the issue is “not about capitalism, it’s about the
decisions that Romney made as CEO.”  Top South Carolina Democrats earlier tried to emphasize the
attacks, saying that Romney is a Wall Street “high roller.”  Voters are “looking for leaders who are in touch with
ordinary people and who are compassionate with their fellow
human beings,” said Representative Jim Clyburn, a Democratic
leader in the House, at a news conference in Columbia, South
Carolina. “Looking at Romney’s record at Bain and on the
campaign trail, you see someone who is neither compassionate nor
in touch with the dreams and aspirations of ordinary people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in South Carolina at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  