-- Romney Primary Romp Follows Republican Pattern of Losers Who Win
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t
-- 2012-01-11T05:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/romney-s-new-hampshire-romp-hews-to-republican-pattern-of-losers-who-win.html
Since 1976, the best predictor for
winning the Republican presidential nomination has been losing
first.  Mitt Romney , defeated by John McCain in 2008, is positioned
to be next with his 16-point victory in  New Hampshire  as he
heads to South Carolina, where the last eight Republican primary
winners have wound up as the party’s nominee.  In five of the last six presidential elections, Republicans
have chosen candidates they had rejected before --  Ronald Reagan , George H.W. Bush, Bob Dole and McCain. The exception was
 George W. Bush  in 2000, the son of the former president well-
known to party insiders.  “We like our Doles and our Bushes and our McCains,” said
Pat Griffin, a Republican consultant in Manchester, New
Hampshire, not aligned with a candidate. “Mitt is the
Republican brand this time, and it’s his turn.”  This time is different because the party base has become
more conservative on both fiscal and social issues and Romney
has yet to win their backing.  And he has been barely able to increase his percentage of
the vote in either  Iowa  or New Hampshire from his run in 2008, a
pattern he will need to break in South Carolina where he
received 15 percent of the vote in 2008 and finished fourth.  ‘Angry’ Republicans  “This is really a different Republican electorate than we
have seen in the past, said  Andrew Kohut , president of the Pew
Research Center in  Washington . “Our typology study shows that
this is one doctrinaire political landscape and they represent
the nucleus of the party. They are angry and they want change.”  “If a candidate had been in this field who could have
tapped into this new element in the  Republican Party , this
pattern wouldn’t have persisted,” Kohut said.  Those candidates who have attracted the support of the more
conservative elements of the party, Texas Representative Ron Paul, who more than doubled his vote from 2008, former
Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum and former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich , together won about 4 in 10 votes cast.  All have vowed to continue campaigning in  South Carolina ,
as has Texas Governor Rick Perry, a scenario that aids Romney as
the more conservative vote is splintered.  Paul, 76, the oldest candidate in the race, did the best
among younger voters in New Hampshire as he finished second,
winning 46 percent of the vote among those age 18 to 29,
according to CNN exit polls.  Huntsman to Continue  The third-place showing by former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who didn’t compete in Iowa, gave him a rationale
to continue along with an urgent need for more campaign funds,
though his showing wasn’t good enough to claim the mantle of
“Comeback Kid” of Bill Clinton’s surprising second-place
showing in 1992.  A Huntsman campaign official who spoke on condition of
anonymity said the candidate will run aggressively in South
Carolina not so much with the hopes of winning as slowing
Romney’s momentum.  That won’t be easy. Romney has prevailed in two states with
different political profiles, and even those Republicans who
haven’t embraced him are likely to if he goes on to win the
nomination.  Intrade, the online prediction market where one can wager
on the outcome, has the odds of Romney winning the nomination at
86 percent.  Marriage, Not Dating  “Maybe Republicans just don’t have that deep reservoir of
passion,” said  John Pitney , a professor of politics at
Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,  California .
“Republicans are looking for somebody to marry and not somebody
to date.”  Romney’s percentage of the vote almost equaled McCain’s in
2008 and  George H.W. Bush ’s in 1988 even though Romney was the
governor of neighboring  Massachusetts , owns a home in New
Hampshire and has visited the state frequently. He matched the
showing of Henry Cabot Lodge Jr., a former senator from
Massachusetts, in 1964, when he had 36 percent of the vote,
defeating Barry Goldwater, the eventual nominee, by 14
percentage points.  He also has made history as the first non-incumbent to win
both Iowa and New Hampshire, signaling that he can run well
elsewhere.  “The polling that I have seen is that if he gets through
the primaries and he is the nominee, they are going to come to
his side,” Kohut said. “No question about that. The issue is
whether it will reduce the enthusiasm gap. Republicans have been
much more politically charged. And will a candidate not quite
what was hoped for reduce some of that intensity?”  ‘Better Candidate’  Running and losing has some advantages. “Romney is a
better candidate than he was four years ago,” Pitney said.
“Two, you get a better sense of what the party is about.  John
McCain  was a more conservative candidate than John McCain in
2000. Mitt Romney already moved to the right in 2008 and tried
to solidify his conservative credentials.”  And while Romney may still have to make the case to his
party’s base, there is one powerful force he can rely on.  “Conservatives still have their intense dislike of  Barack Obama ,” Kohut said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Tackett in  Des Moines , Iowa at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  