-- Romney Victory Sets Stage for Next Contest
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-01-11T16:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/romney-wins-new-hampshire-primary-followed-by-ron-paul-networks-project.html
Mitt Romney  cemented his status as
the Republican presidential front-runner yesterday with a win in
the New Hampshire primary that left rivals fighting for a chance
to derail his march to the nomination as the race moves south.  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor who won the Jan.
3  Iowa  caucuses by eight votes, finished 16 percentage points
ahead of his nearest competitor in New Hampshire, the nation’s
first primary. U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  was second
and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. claimed third.  The candidates are now turning their attention to South
Carolina, where the next primary will be held on Jan. 21. In
addition to his victories at the polls, Romney is leading the
money race. Today, his campaign said Romney raised $24 million
in the last three months of 2011; Paul brought in $13 million in
the period.  “Tonight we celebrate, tomorrow we go back to work,”
Romney told supporters in Manchester last night in a speech that
debuted new lines of attack against President Barack Obama.  Romney told his audience that the president he hopes to
oppose in November “has run out of ideas” and is “running out
of excuses.”  “We’re asking the good people of  South Carolina  to join
the citizens of New Hampshire and make 2012 the year he runs out
of time,” he said.  Making History  Romney made history as the first Republican non-incumbent
to win both the New Hampshire primary and the Iowa caucuses
since Iowa began kicking off the party’s presidential nominating
process in 1976.  Romney had 39 percent of the vote yesterday, with 97
percent of the precincts counted in the Associated Press tally.
Paul had 23 percent, and Huntsman got 17 percent.  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  was slightly ahead
of former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  for fourth place,
each with about 9 percent of the vote. Both are seeking better
showings in South Carolina and  Florida , which holds its primary
on Jan. 31.  Finishing sixth, with less than 1 percent, was Texas
Governor  Rick Perry . He skipped campaigning in New Hampshire to
focus on South Carolina, where voters concerned about issues
such as same-sex marriage and abortion hold greater sway.  Perry said in a statement that the New Hampshire results
“show the race for a ‘conservative alternative’ to Mitt Romney
remains wide open.”  Paul’s Views  Paul’s libertarian views resonated with New Hampshire
voters, who said in exit polls that they had no allegiance to
either of the major political parties.  Romney “had a clear-cut victory, but we’re nibbling at his
heels,” Paul told a cheering crowd in Manchester.  “There’s no way they are going to stop the momentum that
we have started,” Paul said. “We are dangerous to the status
quo of this country.”  Huntsman, who staked his campaign on a strong showing in
 New Hampshire , pledged to continue his candidacy.  “I think we’re in the hunt!” he told backers in
Manchester, adding, “Third place is a ticket to ride.”  Huntsman also declared: “Hello, South Carolina.”  Polls in that state, though, have shown him lagging behind
the pack.  Attacks on Romney  The final days of the New Hampshire campaign suggested that
the South Carolina contest will be marked by attacks on Romney
that aim to blunt his momentum by undercutting his argument that
he is the candidate best able to revive the  U.S. economy .  Some of Romney’s rivals portrayed him to New Hampshire
voters as a corporate raider who chose profit over jobs in his
years as a private-equity executive at Boston-based Bain Capital
LLC.  A film financed by Gingrich backers and set for release in
South Carolina today attacks Romney as a child of privilege who
is “more ruthless than  Wall Street .”  The film relates the stories of people who say they lost
their jobs after their companies were taken over by Bain,
without identifying the workers. The video, while often relying
on news accounts, at times stretches the truth and takes some
reports out of context or selectively edits them, a review by
Bloomberg News shows.  This morning on  MSNBC ’s “Morning Joe,” Romney said he
“expected President Obama to put free enterprise on trial and
continue his rhetoric of envy and class warfare. We’re a little
surprised to see it coming from Speaker Gingrich and others.”  Gingrich Campaigns  Gingrich, campaigning in  Rock Hill , South Carolina, this
morning, emphasized his Christian beliefs and conservative
record. Calling the lead-up to South Carolina’s primary the most
important period in American history, he described his opponents
as too moderate, too inexperienced and too indecisive to win in
November, without calling them out by name.  “This primary is the crossroads for this country,”
Gingrich told a cheering crowd of more than 300. “We have to
nominate someone capable of telling the truth against  Barack
Obama , because you’re not going to beat a billion-dollar machine
of dishonesty otherwise.”  Gingrich raised about $9 million for his campaign in the
fourth quarter, according to his spokesman, R.C. Hammond. The
finance reports aren’t due until the end of January, and many
candidates have yet to release their figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Manchester, New Hampshire at  jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Manchester, New Hampshire at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  