-- Royal Bank of Scotland Cuts 272 Jobs at U.K. Corporate Bank
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-01-11T15:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/royal-bank-of-scotland-cuts-272-jobs-at-u-k-corporate-bank-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, will cut 272 jobs
from its U.K. corporate banking unit as slowing growth and
rising volatility force Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester 
to shrink the lender.  Employees are being informed of the reductions today, an
RBS spokesman said in an interview. The cuts will be made across
the U.K. and will include reductions in sales staff, managers
and support personnel. RBS’s corporate unit, which lends to
businesses, employs about 13,500 people which means the cuts
represent about 2 percent of the total.  When the bank reported operating profit down 63 percent to
267 million pounds ($410 million) in the third quarter, Hester,
51, warned of difficult conditions brought on by lower economic
growth and continuing market volatility. The bank has cut more
than 30,000 jobs since its government bailout in 2008 and 2009.
Edinburgh-based RBS will make an announcement about further
reductions at the investment banking unit tomorrow, people
familiar with the matter said this week, which may result in as
many as 5,000 additional reductions.  The bank’s Irish unit,  Ulster Bank , is meanwhile preparing
its second round of job cuts in four years as part of an effort
to save about 50 million euros ($63.9 million), according to two
people with knowledge of the plan today.  “Having to cut jobs is a difficult part of our work to
rebuild RBS, repay taxpayer support, and challenging market
conditions require us to make efficiencies to deliver greater
value to customers and shareholders” said spokesman Nigel Owen.  ‘Shrink Further’  The bank will try to employ the workers elsewhere, but
forced redundancies can’t be ruled out, he said.  “The investment bank, in common with many other investment
banks, will have to shrink further in order to be sustainable,”
Hester said in November. “With income very hard to grow we do
need to go back and take a very close look at the costs base. We
are doing that, and unfortunately that will affect jobs.” He
declined to give an estimate for the number of reductions.  Last month, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
the investment bank needed to shed riskier activities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  