-- Marathons Don’t Increase Runners’ Risk of Cardiac Arrest, Researchers Say
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/running-marathons-doesn-t-boost-cardiac-arrest-risk-in-study.html
Competing in a  marathon  or half-
marathon doesn’t raise a runner’s chance of suffering a cardiac
arrest any more than other vigorous physical activity, according
to a study reviewing a decade of data.  Researchers combed databases,  search engines , local
newspapers and runners’ websites to identify everyone who had a
 cardiac arrest , an electrical disturbance that halts the heart,
during long-distance races in the U.S. from 2000 to 2010. Out of
nearly 11 million participants in races of 13.1 miles (21.1
kilometers) to 26.2 miles, they identified 59 runners who
suffered a cardiac arrest.  While reports of heart complications and sudden death after
long races have risen in recent years, the increase stems from a
greater number of participants, the investigators said. The
overall danger is low, particularly compared with the risk seen
in college sports, triathlons, and among previously overweight
middle-age joggers, the  New England Journal of Medicine  report
found.  “The risk associated with long-distance running events is
equivalent to or lower than the risk associated with other
vigorous physical activity,” said the researchers, led by
Jonathan Kim from  Massachusetts General Hospital ’s division of
cardiology. About one-fourth of runners who suffered a cardiac
arrest survived, probably because onlookers started giving CPR
and portable defibrillators were available to shock the heart
back into rhythm, they said.  The study detected an increase in heart risks among men who
were running the longest distances. The finding is troubling and
suggests more high-risk men who may already have early  heart
disease  may be taking up running to get into shape, the
researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  