-- Sainsbury Sales Beat Estimates After ‘Record’ Christmas
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-11T16:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/sainsbury-christmas-sales-rise-more-than-estimated-on-new-product-ranges.html
J Sainsbury Plc, (SBRY)  the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket owner, reported third-quarter sales growth
that beat analyst estimates as the grocer sold more luxury food
and budget ingredients to win a battle for Christmas customers.  Revenue at stores open at least a year rose 2.1 percent in
the 14 weeks ended Jan. 7, the London-based retailer said today
in a statement. That compared with the 1.8 percent median
estimate of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Growth was 1.2
percent excluding value-added tax, the company said.  Sainsbury counted a record 26 million transactions in the
week before Christmas, up 1.5 million from the previous year, as
customers responded to a price-matching campaign and new
products such as the “Gok for Tu” women’s clothing range. The
retailer is battling for business with competitors such as  Tesco
Plc (TSCO)  as rising food and fuel prices restrain shopper spending.  “Sainsbury’s Christmas performance has remained more
robust than peers,” said Matthew Truman, an analyst at JPMorgan
Cazenove. He has an “underweight” recommendation on the stock.  Sainsbury fell 1.2 percent to 302.1 pence in London,
mirroring the broader market.  Sales of the higher-priced “Taste the Difference” range
rose more than 10 percent in the period, Sainsbury said, helped
by purchases of Norfolk Black Free Range turkeys and almost
50,000 of the new Kirsch Cherry Filled Christmas Pudding.  Purchases of the basics line also gained, with sales of
unsalted butter up 82 percent and dried fruits up 30 percent as
more Britons indulged in home baking, the retailer said.  Online Revenue  Online grocery revenue increased almost 20 percent as the
company delivered a record 160,000 orders a week.  General merchandise and clothing sales grew faster than
food, Sainsbury said, without being specific. The non-food
business isn’t “stretching its legs” as much as it was earlier
in the financial year, though still performed better than the
broader market, Chief Executive Officer Justin King said.  The Gok Wan range helped drive sales of apparel after it
was introduced on Nov. 17, the company said.  Britons will be “battening down the hatches” in January
and February as they account for Christmas costs and manage
budgets, King said. Events later in the year including the
 London  2012 Olympics, Paralympics and Queen’s Diamond Jubilee
will be a “real occasion to drive growth,” he said.  The CEO said this year will be “at least as hard,” as
2011 and doesn’t expect any “uptick in the consumer backdrop.”  Brand Match  Sainsbury plans to extend its Brand Match campaign into
2012, King said. The retailer began the program in October as it
fought for shoppers with larger rivals Tesco and Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s Asda. Tesco is scheduled to announce tomorrow how it
fared over the holiday. Earlier this week, smaller competitor
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc reported slower sales growth
over Christmas as competitors fought harder for business.  Sainsbury held its market share at 16.1 percent in the 12
weeks though Dec. 24, according to Nielsen market research.  Finance Director  John Rogers  said he doesn’t expect
consensus full-year pretax profit estimates to change from 702
million pounds ($1.08 billion) after today’s figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  