-- Sandusky Legacy Leaves Penn State Recruiting at Loss to Ohio State’s Meyer
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/sandusky-legacy-leaves-penn-state-recruiting-at-loss-to-ohio-state-s-meyer.html
Penn State University  and new
football coach Bill O’Brien have three weeks to score some
victories in competition against an old foe with its own new
leader.  Ohio State University  and two-time national champion coach
Urban Meyer have taken the Nittany Lions’ two top recruiting
targets, including Noah Spence, Pennsylvania’s highest-rated
player, amid a child-sex abuse scandal that led to the firing of
 Joe Paterno  after 46 years in charge and a record 409 wins at
 State College .  Since the case against former assistant coach Jerry Sandusky broke in November, players like Spence, of Harrisburg,
85 miles southeast of Penn State, have taken a cautious approach
to the school, which like Ohio State is a member of the  Big Ten
Conference . Recruits can commit to schools in writing on Feb. 1,
and O’Brien, 42, and his staff must be as aggressive as possible,
said Brandon Huffman of Scout.com, a recruiting website.  “Now you go from panic to expediting,” Huffman said in a
telephone interview. “You only have three weekends for official
visits and you now have to sell a new coach and a new style to
recruits.”  O’Brien is the offensive coordinator of the  National
Football League ’s  New England Patriots  and hasn’t been on a
college coaching staff since 2006. A Brown University graduate
like Paterno, O’Brien must surround himself with assistants who
know recruiting, Huffman said.  “He doesn’t bring the name value that an Urban Meyer or a
Nick Saban would have brought,” Huffman said, the latter a
reference to Alabama’s coach. “To a high school recruit, they
don’t know who the coordinators are in the NFL.”  The Patriots are in the NFL playoffs and O’Brien has said
he’s committed to  New England  until it’s eliminated.  Star System  Prospects generally are classified by stars, with five
stars the best. Penn State’s 2012 commitments include three
four-star and no five-star recruits, its fewest from the two
highest levels in 10 seasons, according to Scout.com.  Alabama , which won the national championship on Jan. 9, and
 Texas  each have 16 recruits from those levels, the most in the
nation. Ohio State has 10 four- and five-star players lined up.
Four are from the highest level, one below Texas’s national best,
and include Spence and Tommy Schutt, defensive players who had
been leaning toward Penn State before the scandal.  “Those are two elite guys that any program in the country
would love to have, and Penn State either had them or had a
really good shot at them because of their location,” said
Huffman.  Jerry Emig, an Ohio State athletic department spokesman,
said Meyer, 47, would have no comment on recruiting until the
signing deadline.  Ranked 40th  Penn State’s current class ranks No. 40 in the country and
fifth in the Big Ten behind  Michigan , Ohio State, Northwestern
and  Wisconsin , according to Scout.com. For the first time in
four years it’s also behind the  University of Pittsburgh , about
125 miles away in western  Pennsylvania .  Those still intending to join the Nittany Lions make up a
class that doesn’t address the team’s needs, most notably at
running back and defensive back, according to Jeff Junstrom, a
Penn State graduate and editor of  BlackShoeDiaries.com , a blog
on the athletic program. Junstrom said in an e-mail that the
school targeted 21-24 open spots before the season, and
currently has 14 verbal commitments.  “Two months ago to the day, I’d say we were on pace for
one of the best classes in some time,” he said. “One scandal,
two months and three (so far) decommitments later, we’re on the
verge of total collapse.”  Paterno Firing  Paterno, 85, was fired by the school’s trustees on Nov. 9,
four days after Sandusky, 67, was charged with sexually
assaulting eight boys from 1994 to 2009. Sandusky has denied the
charges. Graham B. Spanier, 63, also was removed as the
university’s president. While they weren’t charged, the grand
jury report against Sandusky said Paterno and Spanier knew about
the alleged molestation in 2002.  The Nittany Lions’ football program, which won two national
titles under Paterno, generated $63.3 million in fiscal 2010,
roughly 60 percent of the athletic department’s revenue,
according to documents obtained through open-records requests.  In a Jan. 7 press conference a day after his hiring,
O’Brien, a career assistant coach, said his priorities were to
secure the prospects already committed and hire a staff that
would increase recruiting in  Penn State ’s traditional regions.  Mid-Atlantic Recruiting  “We’ve got to get out in the Mid-Atlantic states, our
bloodlines, Pennsylvania,  Maryland , D.C., Ohio,” he said.
“We’ve got to make sure that our coaches are out there in those
high schools getting to know those coaches and talking to them
about the direction of the Penn State football program right
now.”  Prospects who were interested in Penn State had to wait out
a two-month coaching search, not knowing the style or on-field
personnel preferences of the eventual choice.  Joey O’Connor of Windsor,  Colorado , walked away. The 6-
foot-4, 285-pound offensive lineman, a four-star recruit,
rescinded his verbal commitment to Penn State the day after
Paterno was fired.  “I had a little bit of doubt, just in not knowing what was
going on with the coaching staff,” O’Connor said last month in
a telephone interview.  J.P. Holtz, a four-star tight end from Pittsburgh, also
dropped his verbal commitment to Penn State.  Moving Into Pennsylvania  The vacancy also emboldened schools such as  Ohio  State,
Michigan and Pittsburgh to recruit more heavily in the same
regions that O’Brien targeted, said Mike Farrell, a national
analyst for  Rivals.com , another recruiting website.  “They’re going to see weakness and they’re going to pounce
on it, and it’s going to take a really strong effort by the new
staff to keep everybody at bay,” Farrell said in a telephone
interview before O’Brien’s hiring.  Ohio State in November hired Meyer, who has won two
national championships at  Florida  and coached at the college
level in six different states, for $4 million a year. In the
fiscal year 2010, the Buckeyes’ football program made $56.1
million, 45 percent of the athletic program’s revenue.  “Meyer is a recruiting machine,” said Huffman. “Now
you’ve put him at a school that’s consistently been a strong
recruiting program. It’s an absolute match made in heaven for
Ohio State.”  Chad Hetlet, Schutt’s coach at  Glenbard West High School  in
Glen Ellyn,  Illinois , said Meyer was one of the main reasons his
player chose the Buckeyes, who play in Columbus, Ohio.  ‘Blown Away’  “He went to Ohio State and was blown away by coach
Meyer,” Hetlet said in a telephone interview. “He felt
comfortable with the vision that coach had and where he sees
Tommy fitting into the program.”  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  announced last
month that the Buckeyes were banned from 2012 postseason play
following violations surrounding improper benefits players
received from a tattoo parlor owner. That case led to the
departure of coach  Jim Tressel . The governing body for college
athletics also is looking into the Sandusky case to see if Penn
State should be penalized.  O’Brien said he would make sure his new team “represents
the highest level of character, respect and integrity.”  Sandusky Backlash  The backlash of the Sandusky scandal, success of rivals
such as Ohio State in recruiting in their backyard and the gap
of uncertainty before O’Brien’s hiring may force Penn State fans
to write off the 2012 class, Huffman said.  “You had this black eye for the last six to eight weeks,
and getting a head coach that is going to be in place for a
while is a bigger issue than one recruiting class,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  