-- Saudi Binladen Group Wins Dismissal of Lawsuits Alleging Sept. 11 Support
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-11T21:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/saudi-binladen-group-wins-dismissal-of-lawsuits-alleging-sept-11-support.html
Saudi Binladen Group, Saudi Arabia’s
largest construction company which was co-founded by  Osama Bin Laden ’s father, won dismissal of lawsuits in which it was
accused of supporting the 2001 terrorist attacks.  U.S. District Judge George B. Daniels in New York today
threw out six cases brought by people including relatives of
those killed in the Sept. 11 attacks. They claimed the
construction and distribution company run by bin Laden’s
relatives and the company “provided material support” and
financing to bin Laden as well as having maintained close ties
to the terrorist leader before the attacks.  The company allegedly provided significant financial
support to bin Laden before he was removed as a shareholder in
1993, the plaintiffs said, “with knowledge that he was
targeting the  United States ,” even after he was removed as a
shareholder and his ties with the company were severed in 1994.  The claims “have no evidentiary support,” Daniels ruled.
The plaintiffs failed to show “the company maintained a
financial lifeline to bin Laden,” as the lawsuits claimed.  Bin Laden, who used a family inheritance to build the al
Qaeda terrorist network that killed almost 3,000 people in the
attacks, was killed May 1 at his Abbottabad, Pakistan, compound
by a team of U.S. Navy SEALs during a 40-minute raid.  Jurisdiction  The suits include cases filed by Deena Burnett, whose
husband, Thomas, 28, was killed when his hijacked plane, United
Airlines Flight 93, crashed in a southwestern Pennsylvania
field, and the family of Thomas Ashton, who died at the World
Trade Center.  The judge said the plaintiffs failed to establish so-called
personal jurisdiction, or the court’s authority over the parties
in the suit. The business activities of an employee of the
company’s now-defunct U.S. unit were insufficient for the court
to confer jurisdiction over the case, Daniels ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard Casey, who presided over the
case before his 2007 death, denied the Saudi Binladen group’s
request to dismiss two suits in January 2005, Daniels said.  Saudi Princes  Judge Casey in 2005 also dismissed suits against Saudi
charitable organizations as well as the Kingdom of  Saudi Arabia ,
three princes and several financial institutions for allegedly
providing material support to bin Laden.  Casey allowed extensive evidence to be collected and ruled
the Binladen Group could renew its motion later, Daniels said.  Bin Laden was born in  Riyadh , the 17th child of Muhammad
bin Laden, an immigrant from Yemen who helped found Saudi
Binladin Group in 1931.  Osama grew up wealthy as his father’s business became one
of the kingdom’s largest construction companies, building roads
and bridges, renovating mosques in Mecca and Medina and
expanding into real estate, textiles, telecommunications and
distribution.  Muhammad bin Laden died in a plane crash in 1967, the
Binladen Group says on its website.  The case is: In re Terrorist Attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, 03-
MDL-1570, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 