-- Saudi Aramco Trading Unit for Oil Products Begins Operation
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-01-11T08:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/saudi-aramco-trading-unit-for-oil-products-begins-operation-1-.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. began
commercial operations on Jan. 1 at a wholly owned unit that
trades refined products, as the world’s largest crude exporter
seeks more revenue from its growing refining business.  The Dhahran-based subsidiary, called  Saudi Aramco  Products
Trading Co., will start with 80 employees, the state-owned
company said today in a statement on its website. Trading
companies try to profit from short-term price fluctuations and
mismatches in supply and demand, an activity that is new as a
stand-alone business to the Saudi producer, which mainly exports
crude under long-term contracts.  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s biggest oil reserves,
imports gasoline, diesel and other refined products because it
lacks the capacity to meet rising domestic demand. To meet that
demand and boost exports of more valuable oil products, Saudi
Aramco, as the company is known, is building refineries and
petrochemical plants at home and abroad. Aramco has refineries
from the U.S. Gulf Coast to central  China .  The new unit, known as Aramco Trading, will seek to
“create value through continuous market participation,” Said Al-Hadrami, its chief executive officer, said in the statement.
Aramco Trading will buy and sell naphtha, gasoline, diesel, jet
fuel and heavier refined products as well as basic
petrochemicals, according to the statement.  Al-Hadrami’s previous job was a four-month assignment as
head of Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical Co., or
Satorp, a 400,000 barrel-a-day refinery complex Aramco is
building with  Total SA (FP)  of France. He was a marketing manager for
products at Aramco’s headquarters in Dhahran for the previous
decade, after having worked for the company as a trading manager
for oil products in  London  in the late 1990s, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 