-- Scene Last Night: Eric Bourne, Barclays Capital’s Janice Moore
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-01-11T15:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/scene-last-night-eric-bourne-barclays-capital-s-janice-moore.html
As strobe lights flashed, the blonde
dancer catapulted in the air. You never saw his feet touch the
ground.  That was the  Parsons Dance Company ’s Eric Bourne at the
 Joyce Theater  last night, performing “Caught,” the piece that
had its debut with David Parsons in 1982.  “People respond to it because there’s something about
flight -- all humans want to fly,” Parsons said at the opening-
night party at Room Service.  “You know Alvin Ailey? Well, this is our ‘Revelations,’”
said Parsons Dance board member Linda Stocknoff.  In the flickering strobe light, Janice Moore,  Barclays
Capital (0059588D)  Inc.’s chief operating officer, compliance, saw a
tattoo on Bourne’s torso. She thought it might be the Greek pi.  “It’s the Hebrew letter chai,” Bourne said. “I got it in
Israel on tour last year. The energy of the country, of  Tel
Aviv , of the people, it was very spiritual for me.”  As for “Caught,” “it’s very challenging. Tonight I felt
my body transitioning from being human to being a machine. That
was a big achievement as a dancer.”  ‘Personal Adventure’  The International Center of Photography’s new fundraising
event drew women more interested in talking about photography
than having their picture taken.  Peggy Anderson, wife of  Keith Anderson , former chief
investment officer of Soros Fund Management LLC, described her
own photo taking as a “personal adventure.” She has taken
classes at ICP and was a co-chairman of the event.  During the luncheon of chicken and roasted vegetables at
Tribeca Rooftop, “Today” co-anchor Ann Curry led a
conversation with photojournalists Stephanie Sinclair, Gillian
Laub, Mary Ellen Mark and Samantha Appleton.  New York  Times
Magazine photo editor Kathy Ryan also participated.  Topics covered: Dealing with trauma after photographing
subjects in Iraq, Afghanistan and Israel; taking pride in the
fact that a photo essay on segregated proms in the South, which
ran in the New York Times Magazine, helped end them; and the
fear that photos could bring harm to subjects. Sinclair kept an
image she’d taken of a child bride off the cover of National
Geographic for that reason.  And of course they talked about the cameras they use (the
Canon Mark II prevailed) and the merits of analog (shooting on
film) and digital.  Curry was so enjoying the discussion that Anderson had to
cut her off by tapping at a microphone. Anderson then reminded
guests that ICP is both a school and a museum (a Weegee
exhibition opens Jan. 20) that relies on patrons’ support.  Also in the audience: Photographer Caryl Englander, wife of
hedge-fund manager  Israel  Englander and chairman of ICP. Her
images of  Byron Beach in Australia are available at Bonni
Benrubi Gallery  for $1,800 apiece.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 