-- Schottenheimer Tells New York Jets He Won’t Return Amid Coaching Shakeup
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-01-11T05:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/schottenheimer-tells-new-york-jets-he-won-t-return-amid-coaching-shakeup.html
Brian Schottenheimer told the  New
York Jets  that he won’t return next season for a seventh year as
offensive coordinator.  “Brian and I talked and I understand his decision to look
for a fresh start,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said in a team
statement last night.  Ryan said Jan. 1 that he expected Schottenheimer to return
next season unless he found a head coaching role elsewhere.
Schottenheimer was linked in media reports with the vacancy at
the  Jacksonville Jaguars , which the National Football League
team last night said had been filled by Atlanta Falcons
offensive coordinator Mike Mularkey.  Schottenheimer was criticized after the Jets lost their
last three games of the season to finish with an 8-8 record,
leaving them out of the playoffs after they reached the American
Football Conference championship game the previous two years.  The Jets want to hire former Miami Dolphins coach  Tony Sparano  to replace Schottenheimer,  ESPN said last night , citing
league and team sources it didn’t identify.  Offensive line coach  Bill Callahan  declined to sign a
contract extension, opting instead to join the  Dallas Cowboys ,
ESPN also said. Wide receivers coach Henry Ellard, whose
contract also expired at the end of the season, won’t return,
while outside linebackers’ coach Jeff Weeks is to be replaced by
former intern Mike Smith, ESPN added.  The Jets finished the season 25th in total offense and
committed 10 turnovers in their final three games, with
quarterback  Mark Sanchez  throwing seven interceptions. New York
gave up 40 sacks, up from 28 in 2010.  A lack of chemistry contributed to the team’s worst
performance under Ryan, the coach said Jan. 1. Results suffered
because players were selfish and cared more about their own
performances than winning, backup quarterback Greg McElroy, who
spent the entire season on injured reserve, said two days later.  Schottenheimer gave no indication as to what his next move
will be.  “I look forward to the exciting opportunities that lie
ahead,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 