-- Sell the Car, Buy a Cow to Cut Heart-Attack Risk, Study Suggests
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-01-11T00:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/sell-the-car-buy-a-cow-to-cut-heart-attack-risk-study-suggests.html
Having both a car and a television
raises the risk of a heart attack, while owning livestock
reduces it, according to a study that looks at the links between
possessions and physical activity.  Those owning both a car and a television, which enable a
sedentary lifestyle, had a 27 percent increased risk of a heart
attack compared with those who own neither, according to the
study published today in the European Heart Journal. Conversely,
owning cattle or other livestock, which requires some activity,
reduced the risk by 22 percent, the researchers said.  While many countries recommend 30 minutes of exercise a
day, the study found that just 30 minutes to 60 minutes a week 
cuts the risk of heart attack as much as following the 
guidelines does. In the U.S., each year 785,000 people have a 
first heart attack, and 470,000 who’ve already had one have 
another, according to the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention  in Atlanta. Cardiovascular disease is the leading
cause of death and disability globally, according to the Geneva-
based  World Health Organization .  “It’s important to incorporate physical activity into our
daily lives, even if it’s just taking the stairs instead of the
elevator or parking at the back end of the lot when you go
shopping,” Claes Held, associate professor of cardiology at
Uppsala University in  Sweden  and lead researcher for the study,
said in a phone interview.  Researchers examined the possessions and activities of
10,043 people who have had a heart attack and 14,217 in a
control group in 52 countries. Home ownership also raised heart
attack risk by 16 percent, while having a radio lowered it by 12
percent, they said.  While the findings support recommendations to encourage the
use of public transportation and walking, further studies should
examine time spent driving and watching TV, Held said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  