-- Sino Forest’s Greenheart Gains on Parent Debt-Waiver Comment
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-01-11T08:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/sino-forest-s-greenheart-gains-on-parent-debt-waiver-comment-1-.html
Greenheart Group Ltd. (94) , the timber
merchant controlled by  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , surged the most in two
months in Hong Kong trading after its parent said it’s
“optimistic” of reaching a waiver agreement with bondholders.  Greenheart rose 50 percent, the biggest gain since Nov. 15,
to 90 Hong Kong cents as of 4 p.m. local time close. The
benchmark  Hang Seng  index climbed 0.8 percent. Trading volumes
were almost fivehold higher than the three-month average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sino-Forest said today in a statement it has negotiated
terms with a committee of investors that hold “a substantial
portion” of its debt to waive the default on two sets of senior
notes. The default was triggered when Sino-Forest failed to
release its third-quarter results as it responds to allegations
that it overstated assets. Sino-Forest denies the claims.  “It’s obviously caught someone’s imagination,” said
 Andrew Sullivan , principal sales trader at Piper Jaffray Asia
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “There’s good news out there and
people are piling in.”  Greenheart isn’t aware of the reason for the share price
movement, it said in a statement today.  Greenheart has plunged 75 percent since Carson Block, a
short-seller, said in June that Sino Forest overstated its
timber assets in  China . Sino Forest, which is being investigated
by the Ontario Securities Commission and the  Royal Canadian
Mounted Police , dropped 74 percent in Toronto before it was
suspended from trade on Aug. 25.  Default Notices  “While there is no assurance that waivers will be
obtained, the company is optimistic” that holders of majority
of its notes due in 2014 and 2017 will agree to the waiver
within 30 days from the default notices, said Sino-Forest, which
holds 64 percent of Greenheart.  Sino-Forest received default notices for the two sets of
notes on Dec. 16, the company said last month in a statement.
Bondholders may demand immediate repayment if a waiver is not
obtained within 30 days from the date of notices, it said.  The  Hong Kong  and Ontario-based company will not be able to
file its delayed results within the 30-day period as it has to
resolve issues raised by its advisers, counsel, auditor, and the
Ontario Securities Commission, it said today. Sino-Forest
“believes it has made progress in resolving outstanding
issues,” it said.  Richard Chandler Corp., the biggest shareholder of Sino-
Forest, called for a new chief executive officer and directors
last month after asking the company to reconsider a default on
an interest payment on convertible notes due in 2016. Sino-
Forest has four sets of bonds outstanding totaling $1.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  