-- Slovak Republic Sells 1 Billion Euros in Five-Year Bonds
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-01-11T16:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/slovakia-to-sell-benchmark-bond-issue-in-euros-ardal-says-1-.html
The Slovak Republic sold 1 billion
euros ($1.27 billion) of bonds, its first international offering
of debt securities since April.  The five-year 4.625 percent bonds were priced to yield 305
basis points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate, the
country’s debt-management agency said. Demand for securities,
which were initially marketed with a price guidance of 305 to
310 basis points, reached about 1.3 billion euros.  The east European country, which adopted the euro three
years ago, is approaching international investors after domestic
bond auctions failed to generate enough demand in the fourth
quarter. As much as 5.65 billion euros in Slovak debt securities
mature this year, of which 4.98 billion euros is due in the
first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the market conditions, the result is not bad at all
for a country like Slovakia,” said  Jaromir Sindel , an economist
at Citibank AS in Prague.  German Spread  Slovakia is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors Service and A+ by
Standard and Poor’s, better than  Italy , a euro-area founding
member. The country last tapped international markets in April,
when it sold 1 billion euros in a tap of debt due 2020. The bond
yields 5.449 percent, or 3.87 percentage points more than German
securities with a similar maturity.  The nation’s state-debt agency, known as Ardal, failed to
raise the planned amount in bond sales last quarter as the euro-
region’s debt crisis  reduced investor interest in long-term
securities, prompting the agency to sell bills instead. It sold
237.1 million euros in 77-day Treasury bills yielding 1.4313
percent and Jan. 9.  Slovakia hired  HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings Plc.,  Societe Generale SA (UCG) ,
 Tatra Banka AS (TAT)  and UniCredit SpA to manage today’s sale.  The country is ruled by an interim government of Iveta Radicova before early elections are held on March 10. The
administration targets a budget deficit of 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, down from a projected 4.9 percent for
2011.  Ardal originally had planned to sell seven-year bonds
already in September 2011 through a bank syndicate, but scrapped
the plan as the sovereign debt woes spread to across the euro
region.  “The outcome is fine when we look at the state of the
market,” Daniel Bytcanek, the agency’s director, said in a
phone interview from Bratislava. “We have to learn to live with
a new market reality. Longer maturities aren’t on the table, not
only for Slovakia, but for most euro-zone countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  