-- Slovenia’s Crisis Deepens After Jankovic Rejected as Premier
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-01-12T09:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/slovenian-premier-jankovic-rejected-amid-threat-of-rating-cut.html
Slovenia’s governing crisis deepened
after lawmakers rejected premier-designate Zoran Jankovic,
leaving the euro nation struggling with increasing debt and the
threat of a cut to its sovereign  credit rating .  Jankovic, the Ljubljana mayor who won a snap election last
month, fell four votes short of the 46 needed in parliament
yesterday to be approved as prime minister. The rejection means
President Danilo Turk, who mandated Jankovic, 59, to form a
government, has two weeks to name a new candidate, including
Jankovic again. Ten lawmakers can also submit a proposal for a
premier. If those efforts fail, Turk can call a new election.  “The longer it takes, the bigger the risk to public
finances, the current account, the financial channels and the
real economy because of the absence of a government,” said
Michal Dybula, an economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw. The risk
for Slovenia is “a further widening of debt spreads and that
financing costs, not only for the government but the whole
economy, are going to continue to rise at a rapid pace.”  Slovenia, the first post-communist nation to adopt the euro
five years ago, needs to cut public spending to comply with a
new fiscal pact that is being pushed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  as they seek to stem
the sovereign debt crisis in  Europe .  The euro-region nation had its credit rating lowered one
level to A1 on Dec. 22 by Moody’s Investors Service on the risk
the government finances may deteriorate from a possible need to
support its banks.  Decision Nearing  Fitch Ratings , which put Slovenia’s AA- score on “rating
watch negative” last month, said on Jan. 9 that it will
probably make a decision on the credit grade for euro-area
nations by the end of the month.  Slovenian borrowing costs surged past 7 percent on Nov. 11
as the debt crisis threatened to engulf neighboring  Italy , its
third biggest trading partner after Germany and  Austria . The
yield on government notes maturing in January 2021 advanced to
7.076 percent at 9:47 a.m. in Ljubljana from 7.031 percent
yesterday, according to mid-pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Waiting too long to form another government, or even
another early vote, would be a very bad signal to investors,”
said Igor Masten, an economics professor at the Ljubljana
Economics University. “The best option for Slovenia now would
be a technical government as we have seen in Italy or  Greece ,
but just until the end of June, so that such an administration
ensures a much-needed capital boost for banks and adopts fiscal
savings measures.”  ‘Regretted’ Outcome  Turk said after the vote he “regretted” the outcome and
will start a new round of talks with party leaders before
nominating a new candidate sometime in the next two weeks. He
didn’t say who he was considering as a premier.  The debt crisis that has roiled European markets and sent
yields soaring has taken its toll on political leaders. The
previous prime minister, Borut Pahor, is among six European
Union leaders who have already given up power, while Slovakia
will hold its own snap election in March.  Slovenians went to the polls on Dec. 4 after Pahor’s
administration was toppled in September for failing to convince
voters on the need to extend the  retirement age  and its
inability to cut spending.  The former Yugoslav nation will need to cut spending by
about 1 billion euros ($1.28 billion), central bank Governor
Marko Kranjec said on Jan. 6.  “Bank losses will be even bigger this year as assets
continue to decline, the fight for deposits intensifies and
financing from abroad shrinks,” Kranjec said.  Struggling Banks  Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor (KBMR) 
d.d., the country’s biggest lenders, are struggling with the
effects of the 2009 recession and mounting bad loans as more and
more companies file for bankruptcy. NLB, as the biggest bank is
known, wants to raise 400 million euros in equity capital by
mid-2012 to improve its core Tier 1 capital ratio to above 9
percent.  Jankovic’s Positive Slovenia won 28 seats in the 90-member
chamber, followed by former premier  Janez Jansa ’s group with 26
lawmakers. Pahor’s Social Democrats have 10 seats and the
Citizens’ List of Gregor Virant, a minister in Jansa’s
government, has eight lawmakers, according to official results
from the state electoral commission.  The  People’s Party  and the Pensioners’ Party each have six
seats, while the New Slovenia party has four. Two seats are held
by the constitutionally recognized communities Hungarians and
Italians in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  