-- Smartphones to Make Airport Check-in Desks Obsolete, Study Says
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-01-11T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/smartphones-to-make-airport-check-in-desks-obsolete-study-says.html
Airport check-in  will become the
exception rather than the rule within 10 years as terminals and
airlines boost connectivity with smartphones, a study from
reservation-systems provider  Amadeus IT Holding SA (AMS)  suggests.  The report, titled “From Chaos to Collaboration,” also says
airlines will develop “intelligent” tickets that update people
on delays and tags that track individual bags around the world.
Computer-game and “augmented-reality” technology could be used
to enhance airport transit, and terminal shops will tap digital
spending records to help lure transiting passengers, it says.  “We’re just starting to realize -- the industry is starting
to realize -- the impact the mobile will have,” Denis Lacroix,
Amadeus’s vice-president for product development, said in the
report. “The fact that literally everyone within three to five
years will have the rough equivalent of an iPhone or lightweight
smart device will profoundly change the way a trip takes place.”  Airlines are already using wireless links to streamline
travel. EasyJet Plc,  Europe ’s second-biggest discount airline,
last month introduced a smartphone application allowing clients
to search and book flights on their handsets, as well as check
their flight’s status.  In August,  British Airways  issued  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad tablet
computers to its crews loaded with information on frequent
flyers with the aim of providing a bespoke in-flight service.  Personal Chips  Security concerns are likely to restrict the use of
wireless applications at border crossings, the report says.  “If you talk to a technologist they will tell you it’s
perfectly possible to have a chip in your arm, or use facial
recognition technology and walk on to a plane or a vehicle
without checking in,” Tim Jones, a technology consultant, said
in the report. “But it seems as if the regulators or border-
control staff are intent on adding extra layers of security,
rather than removing them.”  The report, compiled for Amadeus by The Futures Company,
drew on a survey last July of passengers in seven nations
including the U.S.,  China ,  Brazil  and the U.K., and interviews
with technology- and travel-industry experts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  