-- SNB Watchdog Says He’ll Stay Following Hildebrand’s Surprise Resignation
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-11T09:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/snb-watchdog-says-he-ll-stay-following-hildebrand-s-surprise-resignation.html
The head of the  Swiss central bank ’s
supervisory body resisted calls to step down amid allegations
the council failed to adequately oversee trades by members of
the governing board.  “I am used to weathering stiff headwinds,” Hansueli Raggenbass, head of the  Swiss National Bank ’s council, told
state  broadcaster SF  yesterday. “I will remain president of the
Bank Council as long as the Swiss National Bank needs me.”  Pressure on the Bank Council has been mounting after a
currency purchase of $504,000 by Philipp Hildebrand’s wife in
August forced the SNB head to resign on Jan. 9. While the 48-
year old former hedge fund manager said he was unaware of the
transaction and an internal probe last year cleared him of any
wrongdoing, e-mail documents disclosed this week showed that he
had discussed buying dollars with his wife.  The failure of the council to regulate transactions by SNB
board members and their families shows that it “isn’t up to its
task,” Peter V. Kunz, head of the business law department at
the University of Bern, said on Jan. 9. “Almost every company
in  Switzerland  seems to be better regulated than the SNB.”  The Zurich-based SNB has already pledged to toughen its
internal rules and will look into transactions by the remaining
two board members, Thomas Jordan and Jean-Pierre Danthine and
their deputies. It was the Bank Council that had forced
Hildebrand to resign, Blick newspaper reported yesterday.  Some lawmakers are saying the bank’s 11-member supervisory
body acted too slowly following allegations.  “I have serious doubts about whether the council can keep
operating with its current head,” Christian Levrat, head of the
Swiss Social Democratic Party, told SF broadcaster yesterday.
“In the Hildebrand case, the council should have acted much
faster and more energetically.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  