-- Solar Stocks Rise on Growing Demand
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-12T13:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/solar-stocks-rise-on-china-growth-plans.html
Solar companies climbed this week on
optimism that stronger-than-expected demand at the end of 2011
will continue this year.  The  Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index (BLGS)  of 37 companies
headed for a fourth straight day of gains, advancing as much as
1.6 percent to $48.69.  Renewable Energy Corp. (REC)  and  Solarworld AG (SWV) 
led the index with gains of 10 percent each. The index has
climbed 17 percent after falling 59 percent in 2011.  Surging installation in  Germany  and the U.K. and  China ’s
plans to double total capacity this year are driving demand for
solar panels, said Aaron Chew, a Maxim Group LLC analyst in New
York.  “I’m pretty bullish on demand in 2012,” Chew said in an
interview. “If pricing remains the same, I see 30 gigawatts
this year and 40 gigawatts next year” of new solar
installations worldwide.  As much as 29 gigawatts of solar panels were expected to be
installed worldwide last year, according to estimates from
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Germany installed 3 gigawatts of solar panels in December,
the most in a single month, the country’s grid regulator said
Jan. 9, driving the world’s largest solar market to 7.5
gigawatts of capacity installed in 2011.  Conergy AG, which today said its chairman would become
chief executive officer for this year to fill a position vacant
since October 2010, gained as much as 8 percent in  Frankfurt .
 Meyer Burger Technology Ltd. (MBTN) ,  Europe ’s biggest solar-panel
equipment maker, rose as much as 16 percent in Zurich, the
biggest intraday gain in almost three years.  U.K. Installations  U.K. installations reached 761.9 megawatts last year, up
more than 10-fold from 2010, according to the country’s energy
regulator.  The head of China’s National Energy Administration Liu Tienan said Jan. 10 the country plans to  double  the amount of
solar capacity in operation by installing 3 gigawatts this year.  The final number may be even higher, Chew predicted. “I
think China does north of 5 gigawatts this year with some people
saying it will reach close to 7.”  Chinese solar makers climbed yesterday. JA Solar Holdings
Co. gained 35 percent and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  rose 29 percent.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , based in Tempe,  Arizona , increased 7.8
percent to $41.80.  ‘Record Low’  “It may feel like a bottom in solar stocks,” said  Paul Clegg , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA in New York.  Inventory levels at solar companies are now at “record low
levels,” Vishal Shah, an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG, said
yesterday in a research note. That may “create a sense of
rush,” boosting demand in the first half of this year.  Increasing demand may be shoring up the price of
polysilicon, Shah said. Prices for the main ingredient in solar
cells rose 3 percent to $27.36 a kilogram last week from the
prior week, according to New Energy Finance, only the second
weekly increase since September.  The “encouraging poly pricing” may continue for the next
month, Shah said, and will “likely drive solar stocks higher.”  Low panel prices and slim profit margins will continue to
hinder earnings at solar companies, Chew said. “Higher
shipments with zero margins are still zero margins.”  Prices for solar panels  fell  51 percent in 2011 to 88 cents
a watt as manufacturers increased production, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The gains in solar shares this week “may be more of a
short-covering rally than a long-term shift,” said Clegg.
“There’s still a lot of overcapacity that hasn’t been dealt
with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  