-- Solar Stocks Rally on German Installs, Chinese Plans to Double
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-01-11T21:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/solar-stocks-rally-on-german-installs-chinese-plans-to-double.html
Solar companies rose on optimism
that stronger-than-expected demand at the end of 2011 will
continue this year.  The  Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index (BLGS)  of 37 companies
rose 7.2 percent to $47.93 at the close in New York, its third
straight day of gains, led by Energy Conversion Devices Inc.’s
39 percent increase and  Hanwha SolarOne Co. (HSOL) , which gained 37
percent. The index has climbed 16 percent this year after
falling 59 percent in 2011.  Surging installation in Germany and the U.K. and  China ’s
plans to double total capacity this year are boosting demand for
solar panels, said Aaron Chew, a Maxim Group LLC analyst in New
York.  “I’m pretty bullish on demand in 2012,” Chew said today
in an interview. “If pricing remains the same, I see 30
gigawatts this year and 40 gigawatts next year” of new solar
installations worldwide.  As much as 29 gigawatts of solar panels were expected to be
installed worldwide last year, according to estimates from
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Germany  installed 3 gigawatts of solar panels in December,
the most in a single month, the country’s grid regulator said
Jan. 9, driving the world’s largest solar market to 7.5
gigawatts of capacity installed in 2011.  U.K. installations reached 761.9 megawatts last year, up
more than 10-fold from 2010, according to the country’s energy
regulator.  China Doubling Solar  The head of China’s National Energy Administration Liu Tienan said yesterday the country plans to  double  the amount of
solar capacity in operation by installing 3 gigawatts this year.  The final number may be even higher, Chew predicted. “I
think China does north of 5 gigawatts this year with some people
saying it will reach close to 7.”  Chinese solar makers climbed today. JA Solar Holdings Co.
gained 35 percent and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  rose 29 percent.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , based in Tempe,  Arizona , increased 7.8
percent to $41.80.  “It may feel like a bottom in solar stocks,” said  Paul Clegg , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA in New York.  Inventory levels at solar companies are now at “record low
levels,” Vishal Shah, an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , said today in a research note. That may “create a
sense of rush,” driving demand in the first half of this year.  Increasing demand may be driving up the price of
polysilicon, Shah said. Prices for the main ingredient in solar
cells rose 3 percent to $27.36 a kilogram last week from the
prior week, according to New Energy Finance, only the second
weekly increase since September.  The “encouraging poly pricing” may continue for the next
month, Shah said, and will “likely drive solar stocks higher.”  ‘Zero Margins’  Low panel prices and slim profit margins will continue to
hinder earnings at solar companies, Chew said. “Higher
shipments with zero margins are still zero margins.”  Prices for solar panels  fell  51 percent in 2011 to 88 cents
a watt as manufacturers increased production, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The gains in solar shares this week “may be more of a
short-covering rally than a long-term shift,” said Clegg.
“There’s still a lot of overcapacity that hasn’t been dealt
with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  