-- Southern Tops Ranking of U.S. Carbon Emitters as Regulations Loom
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-01-12T05:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/southern-co-plants-top-emitters-of-greenhouse-gases-epa-says.html
The federal government’s first-ever
public accounting of the sources of  greenhouse gases  puts the
spotlight on  Southern Co. (SO)  and other power companies that will
soon face regulation of those emissions.  The Environmental Protection Agency yesterday  released 
details of carbon dioxide and other pollutants tied to  climate
change  from 6,700 factories, power plants and refineries. Of the
100 top polluters, power generators occupied 96 spots, with
three Southern coal-fired units at the top.  The list quantifies which companies at the top of the list
would be the hardest-hit by rules now being weighed by the EPA
to curb  carbon emissions  from already-operating facilities.  “Why are we focused on the existing power plants?” David
Doniger, policy director for the climate center at the  Natural
Resources Defense Council  in Washington, said in an interview.
“Because that’s where the emissions are.”  Southern of Atlanta, the nation’s largest power company by
market value, is the only operator with three plants among the
EPA’s top 10 list. Other plants among the leading polluters are
owned by Dallas-based  Energy Future Holdings Corp. (TXU) ,  PPL Corp. (PPL)  of
Allentown,  Pennsylvania , and Detroit-based  DTE Energy Co. (DTE)   Each of the 10 top facilities on the list is a coal-fired
power plant. Together they account for 187 million metric tons
of carbon dioxide or equivalent pollutants. Those 10 plants
issued more greenhouse gases than all the refining facilities
surveyed, the second-largest source of those emissions. The
report provided aggregate statistics for each facility and
didn’t consider the size, efficiency or fuel source.  New-Plant Rules  The White House plans to release at the end of the month
the first standards for carbon dioxide emissions from new  power
plants ,  Gina McCarthy , the assistant administrator for the
agency, told reporters yesterday.  Up next on the agenda are rules for existing power plants,
which would impose burdens for the first time on Southern and
other large producers of power from coal. The White House has
not said when those rules will be issued.  Coal accounts for 43 percent of electricity generation,
down from more than 52 percent in 2008. A 32 percent decline in
natural gas prices last year has led utilities to switch from
coal. Compared with the average air emissions from coal-fired
generation, natural gas produces half as much carbon dioxide,
according to the EPA.  If the EPA sets a standard for all power plants at a level
that is in line with natural gas emissions, it would “preclude
construction of a new coal-fired power plant without full carbon
capture and sequestration,” William Bumpers, an environmental
attorney at  Baker Botts LLP (1143L)  in  Washington , said in an interview.  Largest Generators  Southern’s plants each released more than 20 million metric
tons of carbon dioxide or equivalent pollutants in 2010,
according to the EPA data. The top polluting plants in order are
Scherer in Juliette, Georgia; Bowen in Cartersville, Georgia;
and James H. Miller Jr. in Quinton,  Alabama , according to the
data. Southern is the largest U.S. power company by market
value.  “The emissions reported for plants Scherer, Bowen and
Miller are indicative of those being among the nation’s largest
generators of electricity,” Steve Higginbottom, a Southern
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Southern is installing carbon capture technologies, and has
invested $8.1 billion in environmental controls since 1990 and
plans to invest at least an additional $1.2 billion through
2013, he said.  Ranked On Size  American Electric Power Co. (AEP) ’s Gavin plant was also among
the top 10 emitters, a finding the company said wasn’t a
surprise.  “Ranking coal-fueled power plants based on greenhouse gas
emissions is essentially the same as ranking them based on
size,” Melissa McHenry, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. “The biggest greenhouse gas emitters are those that have
produced the most electricity.”  Still, the prominence of electricity generators did allow
representatives for oil drillers and refiners to make the case
against new government regulation. The EPA has said refineries
are in line for greenhouse gas regulation after rules are issued
for power plants.  “Refineries continue to comprise a small fraction of the
national greenhouse gas inventory,” said Howard Feldman, the
 American Petroleum Institute ’s director for regulatory affairs,
said in an interview. “Why are you picking on us, when we are
like the peewee league here?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  