-- South Carolina Offers Romney Rivals Best Chance to Slow Him Down
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-11T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/south-carolina-offers-romney-rivals-best-chance-to-slow-his-2012-momentum.html
Mitt Romney’s victories in New
Hampshire and  Iowa  mean his rivals need to knock him off the
path to the 2012 Republican nomination in  South Carolina (STO1SC) , the
next primary state, where conditions are ripe for their cause.  It’s a state where Romney’s Northern upbringing and Mormon
faith are unnatural fits. South Carolina is also home to
companies where workers lost jobs after a private equity firm
that Romney helped found, Bain Capital LLC, made investments, a
business practice that has become a premier argument against his
candidacy for his opponents.  Texas  Governor  Rick Perry , who will be making what may be
his last stand in South Carolina, hit that theme at a town hall
meeting yesterday in a Fort Mill retirement community.  Companies such as Bain “come in and loot people’s jobs,
loot their pensions, loot their ability to take care of their
families,” Perry said. “They’re just vultures sitting out
there on the tree limb waiting for the company to get sick. And
then they swoop in, they eat the carcass, they leave with that,
and they leave the skeleton.”  It’s a message being echoed in the third contest of the
nomination fight, which offers the best -- and possibly the last
-- chance for Romney’s rivals to derail his White House bid. The
outcome of the Jan. 21 primary could also help determine whether
the race remains competitive or becomes a protracted
inevitability.  ‘It’s Personal’  “In other states, it’s not as personal as it is here,”
said Katon Dawson, a former state  Republican Party  chairman who
is backing Perry. “It’s personal. It’s hard hitting.”  Senator  John McCain ’s 2000 presidential campaign was
derailed in  South Carolina  in part because of automatic phone
calls to voters falsely accusing him of fathering a black baby.  The political advertising in South Carolina is likely to
dwarf anything seen in New Hampshire and perhaps even Iowa.
Candidates have already reserved at least $5 million in
broadcast time, and the race is just beginning.  Still, Romney, 64, a former Massachusetts governor, enters
the 11-day run to the primary with key assets.  He began advertising in South Carolina before his rivals.
Romney spent more than $311,000 on television ads in the state
through Jan. 8, according to data from New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising. A political action
committee that backs him, Restore Our Future, spent another
$100,000, all of it negative in tone.  Leading in Polls  Romney is ahead in the polls. He was backed by 37 percent
of those likely to vote in the South Carolina primary, according
to a CNN/Time/ORC International  poll  taken Jan. 4-5. Former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  was second with 19 percent,
followed by onetime U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  at 18
percent, U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas at 12 percent and
Perry at 5 percent, in a survey that had a margin of error of
plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.  The two-time presidential hopeful has been endorsed by
Governor Nikki Haley, a Republican who was elected in 2010 with
the support of anti-tax Tea Party activists. His candidacy also
could benefit -- as it did in Iowa -- from a crowded primary
field that may fracture the votes of social conservatives
motivated by such issues as abortion and gun rights. In 2008, 60
percent of Republican primary voters in South Carolina said they
considered themselves “born again,” or evangelical Christians,
 exit polling  showed.  ‘Last Stand’  Still, Romney should expect even more intense attacks than
he has seen as he attempts a history-making win, said South
Carolina political veterans. No non-incumbent has captured Iowa,
 New Hampshire  and South Carolina in a Republican primary.  “This will be the last stand for some candidates, and they
will go down fighting,” said Adam Temple, a South Carolina
Republican strategist who worked for McCain’s presidential
primary campaign in the state four years ago.  The state’s social conservatives are “very suspicious” of
Romney because they view him as a moderate New Englander, said
Mark Tompkins, a political scientist at the University of South
Carolina in Columbia.  The contest will play out in an economic environment that’s
worse than the national average. The state’s  unemployment rate 
was 9.9 percent in November, the most recent month available,
compared with December’s  national rate  of 8.5 percent. That was
high enough to put South Carolina in the top 10 states for the
most unemployment in November.  Tough Economy  In the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index, which
measures the relative health of state economies, it ranks 43rd.  South Carolina’s overall economic health fell 3.4 percent
from the third quarter of 2010 through the third quarter of last
year, led by a 4.9 percent decline in  home prices  and a 4.1
percent drop in the stock prices of companies headquartered or
with major facilities in the state, according to the BEES index.  The candidates are trying to find political advantage here
by criticizing President  Barack Obama ’s handling of the nation’s
economy. They’re also taking aim at his decision this month to
make three National Labor Relations Board appointments without
congressional approval.  Such attacks appeal to Republican voters upset about the
labor board’s complaint against  Boeing Co. (BA) , which employs more
than 5,000 in North Charleston, charging the company with
setting up an airplane plant in South Carolina to avoid dealing
with unionized workers in Washington State. The board dropped
the complaint last month.  Government Over-reach  “People see it as another example of the federal
government’s over-reach into state issues,” Temple said.
“Boeing is a huge boon for the South Carolina economy, and for
someone to threaten that for political reasons is staking out an
extremely vulnerable position. It’s a win-win for any Republican
candidate.”  Standing on airport property next to the Boeing plant, John
Ledford said he plans to vote for Romney because he thinks he
has the best resume for the job.  “He has the ability to get our economy going and I think
he has the experience,” said Ledford, 81, a retired insurance
company lawyer who lives in Charleston.  To appeal to the state’s active and veteran military
community, Romney is touting his endorsement from McCain, the
party’s 2008 presidential nominee who was a Navy pilot and
prisoner of war in  Vietnam .  Outside Groups  As was the case in Iowa, outside groups backing certain
candidates are expected to play a significant role in the
primary.  Political action committees known as Super PACs that can
accept unlimited donations from corporations and individuals are
already buying television time in the state. The pro-Romney
group, Restore Our Future, said it has reserved $2.4 million in
ad time and the pro-Gingrich organization, Winning Our Future,
said it bought $3.4 million.  Winning Our Future is planning to release a 28-minute
television documentary in South Carolina commissioned by a Perry
supporter that accuses Romney of being a “corporate raider”
motivated by greed.  In recent days, Gingrich, like Perry, has taken to
criticizing Romney’s past leadership at Bain, suggesting that he
exploited companies and fired workers to make millions for
himself and his investors.  “He has broad shoulders and thick skin,” said South
Carolina Treasurer Curtis Loftis, who is Romney’s state
chairman. “He will be able to take whatever is thrown at him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Charleston, South Carolina at 
Or  jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  