-- Spain’s Rajoy May Need Back Door Bailout for Regional Rescues: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-01-11T09:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/spain-may-need-back-door-bailout-for-regions.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  may
need to skirt Spanish law to backstop the nation’s indebted
regions, mimicking the European Union’s dodging of its no-
bailout rule to save Greece, Ireland and Portugal from default.  “We consider the Spanish government should guarantee or
take responsibility for the debt it has authorized the regions
to issue,” said Albert Carreras de Odriozola, Catalonia’s
deputy finance chief, in a telephone interview. “It must be
possible to talk and find a mechanism.”  Catalonia, Valencia, Andalusia and Madrid, which account
for 60 percent of Spain’s economy, are shut out of markets as
they brace to repay 9 billion euros ($11.5 billion) to lenders
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spain’s 10-
year yield  has risen to 5.3 percent from 5.09 percent on Dec. 30
when the government said its 2011 deficit had ballooned to a
third larger than its target.  Regional shortfalls drove  Spain ’s deficit to 8 percent of
 gross domestic product , breaching the 6 percent pledged to the
EU. Spain’s Parliament today examines 15 billion euros of tax
increases and spending cuts announced by Rajoy’s government on
Dec. 30 to compensate the slippage.  Failure not Option  “Rajoy cannot afford for regional governments to fail,”
said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services
Ltd. in London. “What Rajoy may well need to do is to provide a
limited guarantee on regional funding, on the proviso that those
regions who take advantage of the guarantee sign up to fiscal
reforms.”  The yield on 2020 bonds of Catalonia, the wealthiest region
with an economy the size of  Portugal ’s, reached 9.738 percent
today compared with 5.029 percent for similar maturity Spanish
government debt.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro meets today at 7 p.m. in
Madrid with the economy chiefs of the 11 regions governed by
Rajoy’s  People’s Party , as falling tax receipts in a country
with an  unemployment rate  of 23 percent aggravate efforts to
repay debt. A summit with all 17 regions is scheduled for later
this month. Spain’s regions have more than 135 billion euros in
borrowing, compared with 518 billion euros for the central
government.  Valencia, with the highest debt-to-GDP ratio among the
regions, saw its  credit rating  cut to non-investment grade by
Moody’s Investors Services last month, and was forced to delay
repayment of a 123 million euro loan to Deutsche Bank AG for a
week.  Seeking Concessions  Catalonia has asked for a delay in handing tax payments to
the central government. It also suggested  Madrid  guarantee
regions’ debt sales to attract lenders.  Weeks before he was called to join Rajoy’s government in
December, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said that a “fiscal
and liquidity pact” with Spain’s provinces was needed.  The regions’ sagging finances threaten Spain’s credit
rating, which could further boost borrowing costs. Moody’s,
 Fitch Ratings  and Standard & Poor’s all cited the regions in
putting Spain’s ratings under review last month, signaling they
were an obstacle to Spain’s efforts to reorder its finances and
avoid becoming the  fourth euro nation  to seek aid.  The Treasury tomorrow sells as much as 5 billion euros of
bonds, including a new three-year benchmark. Spain was forced to
offer 5.187 percent to borrow till April 2015 on Dec. 1,
compared with the 3.9 percent that  Germany  last paid to sell
similar maturity debt.  Rescues Barred  Spanish law forbids the government from rescuing local
governments in much the same way that the Maastricht Treaty
prohibits bailouts of EU countries. Still, the EU managed to
bend that ban in coming up with 256 billion euros in aid
packages to avert the first euro area default.  The central government could try to convince banks to grant
the regions loans, eventually offering an “informal”
guarantee, said Angel de la Fuente, an economist at the National
Research Council’s Institute of Economic Analysis who
specializes in regional finances. “Informally, they can get
banks to be a little bit softer,” he said.  Rajoy may be better positioned than his Socialist
predecessor  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  to wrest concessions
from the region’s as his People Party now controls 11 of the 17
regions. Shoring up the regions will be the only way for Rajoy
to deliver on his pledge of cutting the budget gap by almost
half to 4.4 percent of GDP this year.  Meeting that call will require an “unprecedented
adjustment,” Moody’s said on Jan. 9, calculating that about 40
billion euros in deficit reductions would be needed, an amount
equivalent to 3.7 percent of GDP. Newspaper Expansion reported
today that the Rajoy’s government is considering cuts of about
that amount.  “The new government is in a very difficult situation,”
said  Raj Badiani , an economist at Global Insight Inc. in  London .
“Given that several regions have missed their 2011 budget
targets, they may not be allowed by the central government to
issue new debt, adding to their liquidity and even solvency
pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  