-- Spain Adopts Austerity Measures as Economic Recession Looms
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-01-11T15:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/spain-s-economy-on-edge-of-recession-budget-minister-says-1-.html
Spain ’s Parliament today approved
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s first austerity measures after
Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said the euro area’s fourth-
largest economy is close to entering a recession.  The 15-billion euro ($19 billion) package of spending cuts
and tax increases secured the support of 197 lawmakers out of
350, while 138 voted against and 4 abstained, Parliament Speaker
Jesus Posada said after the vote in Madrid.  Rajoy’s three-week old People’s Party government approved
the measures in a decree on Dec. 30 after it learned that
Spain’s  budget gap  will be a third larger in 2011 than the
targeted 6 percent of gross domestic product. Montoro told
lawmakers before the debate that the country’s economy may enter
a recession.  “The economy has stalled, it is on the edge of a
recession,” Montoro said.  Rajoy’s  People’s Party  inherited a contracting economy from
the Socialists in December as well as an unemployment rate of 23
percent, the European Union’s highest.  The measures “are an answer to the extraordinarily
difficult situation Spain is experiencing,” Montoro said,
adding that the adjustment consists of 8.9 billion euros of
spending cuts and 6.2 billion euros of tax increases.  “We have taken decisions as neutral as possible so as not
to hurt growth,” and the government avoided steps that could
hurt household spending, he said.  Montoro said the measures were designed to make the highest
earners contribute the most. “We have asked people to make an
effort proportionally to their economic capacity during two
years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  