-- Spanish Banks Hit Recovery With Discriminatory Loans: Mortgages
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-01-12T10:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/spanish-banks-hit-recovery-with-discriminatory-loans-mortgages.html
Spain ’s banks, saddled with 329,000
foreclosed homes, are still willing to provide mortgages, as
long as the borrower wants to buy one of their properties,
according to a  consumer-rights group . That’s no help to
homeowners and developers seeking to sell.  Members of the group, Organización de Consumidores y
Usuarios, or OCU, applied for  mortgages  at 46 bank branches in
Spain in August and September to buy privately-owned homes. In
every case, the lender tried to persuade the prospective
borrower to purchase one of its own properties instead -- either
by offering to finance 100 percent of the price or by refusing
to lend for another home, spokeswoman Ileana Izverniceanu said.  “People end up buying from the banks because they have no
alternative,” Izverniceanu said in an interview at her office
in  Madrid .  The  Bank of Spain  has encouraged lenders to sell real-
estate assets now rather than wait for the market to recover
from a four-year decline. By offering mortgages selectively, the
banks may prolong the slump by discriminating against other
property sellers and keeping prices artificially high,
Izverniceanu said.  “Prices aren’t adjusting to reality and that’s damaging
the recovery of our housing market and economy,” Izverniceanu
said.  Entering Recession  Home values have fallen by about 17 percent since Spain’s
residential property market peaked in the first quarter of 2008,
the Ministry of Development and Public Works estimates. By
contrast, Irish real-estate prices have dropped 46 percent and
U.S. values have declined  32 percent  from their highs.  Spain, the euro area’s fourth-largest economy, is close to
entering a recession, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said
yesterday, and Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and
Standard & Poor’s all have the nation’s credit ranking on review
with “negative” outlooks as growth slows and  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis deepens.  The government sold 9.98 billion euros of bonds at an
auction today, almost double the 5 billion-euro target, as Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  seeks to close the budget gap to prevent
Spain from becoming being the fourth euro nation to seek aid.  A spokeswoman for the Spanish Banking Association didn’t
respond to phone calls or an e-mail requesting a comment.
Spokesmen for Banco Santander SA, Spain’s largest bank, and
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , the second-biggest lender,
declined to comment, asking not to be named in line with their
companies’ policies.  Real Estate ‘Truth’  Lenders, which have also acquired properties from
struggling and bankrupt developers to cancel debt, have as many
as 900,000 finished, unfinished and foreclosed homes on their
balance sheets, according to  Borja Mateo , author of “The Truth
about the Spanish Real Estate Market.” In the U.S., with a
population almost seven times the size of Spain’s, about 2.1
million homes are in foreclosure, according to  Lender Processing
Services , a mortgage software and data firm based in
Jacksonville,  Florida .  By “crowding out” other property sellers, such as real-
estate developers and private individuals, banks are causing
transactions involving multiple properties to collapse, said
Juan Villen, head of Idealista.com’s mortgage service.  “We just saw a chain fall through,” Villen said. “The
person who wanted to buy one of the properties in the chain
couldn’t get a mortgage because a bank didn’t own the home.”  On a typical day, Idealista advises about 200 people on
home loans, Villen said.  Clean Up Banking  Rajoy, who took over last month after a landslide election
victory, has pledged to clean up the banking industry at no cost
to taxpayers. Lenders have 176 billion euros of what the Bank of
Spain calls “troubled” assets linked to real estate, while
struggling with rising bad loans and borrowing costs.  Governments are urging European banks to keep lending to
companies and individuals while requiring them to raise an
additional 114.7 billion euros of core capital by June to
weather a deepening sovereign-debt crisis.  Buyers of Spanish homes were granted 44 percent fewer
mortgages in October from a year earlier, the 18th straight
decline, the Madrid-based  National Statistics Institute  said
last month. The total value of those mortgages fell 41 percent.  Developers Hurt Most  Property developers have been hurt most by banks favoring
loans for their own properties.  Inmobiliaria Colonial SA (COL) ,
 Metrovacesa SA (MVC) ,  Realia Business SA (RLIA)  and  Quabit Inmobiliaria SA (QBT) ,
Spain’s largest publicly traded real estate companies, sold just
640 homes during the first nine months of 2011, according to
their latest results. That compares with 2,150 in the same
period a year earlier and 4,529 at the peak of the housing boom
in 2007. In total, 240,673 homes were sold in the first nine
months of 2011, according to  data  from the  Ministry of
Development and Public Works .  Martinsa-Fadesa SA , a developer whose shares haven’t traded
since the company filed for protection from creditors in 2008,
sold 717 homes in the nine months through September.  “Often, banks close sales because they offer financing for
buyers,” said Jesus Encinar, founder and chief executive
officer of Idealista.com. “Some of them only offer loans to
people who are purchasing their stock.”  Idealista currently advertises  46,233 bank-owned homes  in
Spain, up from 29,334 in November 2010. It didn’t list any in
2008.  “I’m still surprised that we don’t have many thousands
more and that some banks are still asking themselves whether
it’s a good idea to publish their properties on the Internet,”
Encinar said.  Further Declines  Property values need to decline by an additional 15 percent
to 20 percent over the next two to three years to reflect what
homes are really worth, according to Fernando Acuna Ruiz,
managing partner of Madrid-based mortgage broker  Taurus Iberica
Asset Management .  Spain’s construction industry accounted for about  18
percent  of gross domestic product at the height of the boom,
according to a report by management consultants McKinsey & Co.
That’s now fallen to about 11 percent,  data  compiled by the
National Statistics Institute show.  Every day in Spain, about 200 evictions take place and
banks execute foreclosure orders on a further 273 homes,
according to  Adicae , a group that represents bank customers.  Financial institutions have foreclosed 328.720 homes since
2007, according to PAH, or,  Plataforma de los Afectados por la
Hipoteca , a group which campaigns against evictions of home
owners. That figure will balloon to as many as 600,000 in coming
years as unemployment increases, according to Taurus, which
manages 35,000 foreclosed properties for 25 lenders.  Highest Jobless Rate  Spain’s jobless rate of 23 percent is the highest in the
euro region and growth in the country will slow to 0.25 percent
this year from 0.7 percent in 2011, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  Idealista’s Villen says that banks will offer their
customers 100 percent mortgages and other favorable terms until
they’ve offloaded their stock of foreclosed homes.  “They are simply kicking the can down the road and that
shouldn’t be allowed as it may come back to haunt them,” he
added.  Banks should never grant a mortgage that exceeds 80 percent
of a property’s value, according to Jordi Fabregat, a professor
of management and financial control at  Esade , a Barcelona
business school. Monthly mortgage repayments shouldn’t be more
than 30 percent of an individual’s monthly income, he said
during a telephone interview.  “These were two red lines that banks here happily crossed
time and time again during the boom and this is what led us to
our Spanish subprime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 