-- Standard Chartered Selling Senior Unsecured Bonds in Euros
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-11T13:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/standard-chartered-said-to-sell-senior-unsecured-bonds-in-euros.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  is raising 1
billion euros from a sale of seven-year senior unsecured bonds
amid investor demand for the extra yield offered by issuers in
top-rated countries.  London-based  Standard Chartered  will price the notes to
yield 225 basis points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate,
according to a banker involved in the transaction. That compares
with a spread of 188 basis points when the lender raised 1.25
billion euros ($1.6 billion) from 3.875 percent five-year bonds
in October.  Standard Chartered is adding to the 14 billion euros of
senior unsecured bonds banks issued this year after the market
was closed for much of the second half of 2011 as the sovereign
debt crisis worsened. With the exception of lenders such as
 Banco Santander SA (SAN) , which got  almost half 2010 revenue  in  Latin
America , issuers in peripheral European countries have been
unable to borrow without offering collateral.  Investors like Standard Chartered “because it is healthily
profitable and growing,” said Roger Francis, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities Co. Ltd. in  London . It also has “no suspect
exposures in Europe and prior to that in the U.S., and a very
strong liquidity position.”  Jon Tracey, a spokesman for Standard Chartered in London,
declined to comment.  The U.K. sold 10-year bonds with an average yield of 2.085
percent today, compared with 2.382 percent at the previous
auction last month.  Standard Chartered is  rated  A2 at Moody’s Investors Service
and a level higher at A+ at  Standard & Poor’s . Similarly rated
banks pay an average spread of about 336 basis points over asset
swaps while investors charge financial companies in Europe an
average of 356 basis points over swaps to borrow for five to
seven years, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  