-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2012-01-11T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the Beige Book.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco  prepared the
latest report. Information was collected on or before Dec. 30.  Boston: “Retailers are somewhat more positive than in
preceding months, with 2011 sales projected to come in higher
than 2010. Manufacturers’ reports are similar to the last round;
most firms cite somewhat slower sales growth than earlier in the
year, while a couple of semiconductor-related firms saw sales
fall off (they believe temporarily). Commercial and residential
real estate markets remain weak, but are not expected to
deteriorate further. Some firms are hiring, but modestly; wage
increases, if occurring, remain moderate. Price pressures
continue to ease.”  New York: “The Second District’s economy has grown at a
somewhat faster pace since the last report, led by brisk
holiday-season spending. Labor market conditions, as well as
prices, have remained generally stable. Manufacturers report
modestly improved general business conditions and steady
employment since the last report. Retailers generally
characterize holiday season spending as robust. Tourism activity
has held steady at a high level. Conditions have generally
remained stable in the housing market, though the rental market
has continued to improve. Bankers report increased loan demand,
steady to somewhat tighter credit standards, and lower
delinquency rates across the board.”  Philadelphia: “Overall business activity in the Third
District has continued to grow modestly since the previous  Beige
Book . Manufacturing activity has continued to grow modestly.
Retail sales overall generally increased for the holiday season,
meeting seasonal expectations. Motor vehicle dealers experienced
further strong sales growth and strong pricing power. Third
District banks have reported slight growth in loan volume.
Banking, real estate, and service-sector firms continue to plan
for slow growth in 2012. Many have voiced concerns over the
ongoing lack of a housing recovery, the threat from  Europe ’s
economic woes, and the indecision on numerous federal budget
issues.”  Cleveland : “The economy in the Fourth District grew at a
slow pace during the past six weeks. Manufacturers reported that
new orders and production were stable. Single-family  home
construction  improved slightly. Activity in shale gas drilling
and production expanded. Freight transport volume slowed along
seasonal trends. The demand for credit by businesses and
households was characterized as either steady or increasing
slightly. Labor market reports indicated that hiring remains at
a low level, while recruiting high-skilled workers was
difficult. Staffing-firm representatives saw growth in the
number of new  job openings , with vacancies concentrated in
healthcare and energy.”  Richmond: “District economic activity generally flattened
or improved slightly since our last report. Manufacturing
activity was little changed in late November through mid
December, while port activity slowed. Retail reports were mixed.
In addition, most tourism contacts indicated bookings were up.
In finance, however, loan demand continued to be weak, with the
exception of commercial loans. Likewise, residential real estate
activity generally declined. Manufacturing employment declined
somewhat, while the average workweek ticked up and wages
advanced in line with our last report.”  Atlanta: “Reports from most sectors were positive, yet
expectations remained guarded. Holiday sales were described by
most retailers as generally positive and the pace of sales was
stronger than last year by most accounts. Auto sales remained
strong as well. Tourism-related spending was solid. Most
manufacturers and transportation contacts noted positive
activity, especially related to exports. Employment growth was
positive but tepid across the District as employers remained
cautious with regard to hiring. Few contacts reported having
significant pricing power.”  Chicago: “The rate of growth of economic activity in the
Seventh District picked up in late November and December.
Contacts were generally optimistic about the economic outlook
for 2012, but many also expressed concern about potential
weakness in demand from abroad, particularly from  China  and
Europe. Consumer spending increased, while business spending was
steady. Manufacturing production increased. Construction was
again subdued, although conditions in real estate markets
improved slightly. Corn, soybean, and cattle prices increased,
while milk and hog prices decreased.”  St. Louis : “The economy of the Eighth District grew at a
modest pace since our previous survey. Manufacturing activity
has increased since the previous report and activity in the
services sector has also increased. Residential real estate
activity, in contrast, has continued to decline. Commercial and
industrial real estate activity has been sluggish, although
contacts noted improvement in some areas.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy grew at a modest
pace since the last report. Solid growth was reported in some
areas of  consumer spending  and in the energy and mining sectors.
Slight to moderate growth was noted in commercial and
residential real estate, professional services, manufacturing,
and agriculture. Activity in the construction sector was down
from a year ago, while the unexpected lack of snowfall dampened
tourism. Labor markets showed continued signs of modest
strengthening, while wage increases remained subdued. Prices
generally remained level.”  Kansas City : “The Tenth District economy expanded at a
modest pace in late November and December. Consumer spending
softened, with weakness in auto, restaurant, and tourism sales.
District manufacturing activity contracted slightly, though
factory operators remained optimistic about growth in the coming
months. High-tech firms reported continued strong growth, while
transportation activity was flat. Residential and commercial
real estate conditions remained broadly weak, but contacts
expressed increased optimism about sales and prices in the
coming months. District banks reported generally steady loan
demand and improved loan quality. High crude  oil prices  buoyed
activity in the District’s energy sector. Agricultural growing
conditions improved, but higher input and production costs
constrained farm profits.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate
pace since the last report. Manufacturing activity was mixed.
Contacts said retail sales were robust and automobile sales held
steady. Demand for business services was solid, and activity in
transportation services rose modestly. Housing and commercial
real estate markets continued to improve slightly. Construction
activity remained subdued. Financial services respondents said
overall loan demand was flat to up slightly. Energy activity
slowed somewhat, but respondents expect strong growth in
activity in 2012. Agricultural conditions remained weak.
Employment levels were mostly unchanged. Price and wage
pressures were subdued.”  San Francisco : “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
continued to grow at a moderate pace. Upward price pressures
remained very modest overall, and upward wage pressures were
quite limited. Holiday retail sales reportedly were up over last
year’s season, and demand edged up for business and consumer
services. District manufacturing activity grew further on net.
Production activity and sales remained robust for agricultural
producers and rose a bit further for providers of energy
resources. Activity in District housing markets stayed at very
low levels. Reports from financial institutions indicated a
slight increase in business loan demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  