-- Super Fracking Goes Deeper to Pump Up Natural Gas Production
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-01-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/super-fracking-goes-deeper-to-pump-up-natural-gas-production.html
As regulators and environmentalists
study whether hydraulic fracturing can damage the environment,
industry scientists are studying ways to create longer, deeper
cracks in the earth to release more oil and natural gas.  Energy companies are focused on boosting production and
lowering costs associated with so-called fracking, a technique
that uses high-pressure injections of water, sand and chemicals
to break apart petroleum-saturated rock. The more thoroughly the
rock is cracked, the more oil and gas will flow from each well.  The world’s largest oilfield service providers are leading
the search for new technologies, with some companies focused on
splintering the rock into a web of tiny fissures, and others
seeking to create larger crevices in the richest zones.  “I want to crack the rock across as much of the reservoir
as I can,” said  David Pursell , a former fracking engineer who’s
now an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston.
“That’s the Holy Grail.”  More aggressive fracking may heighten concerns about the
risks associated with shale development, said Kirk Sherr,
president of  Regester Larkin Energy North America , an industry
consultant.  “If critics already think fracking is bad, theoretically,
super fracking would be super bad,” Sherr said.  Wider ‘HiWays’  The U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency  is studying
whether fracking can contaminate water resources. The technique
also has raised concerns about excessive water consumption
because of the millions of gallons needed to frack each well.  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  has set its sights on “super cracks,” a
method of blasting deeper into dense rock to create wider
channels in order to funnel more oil and gas. The aim for the
technology, branded “DirectConnect,” is to concentrate
fracking power to target oil or gas buried deeper in the
formation. The new product is being field tested by select
customers, Rustom Mody, vice president of technology at Baker
Hughes, said in a telephone interview.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  has developed its own version of a super
crack after six years of research. Called  HiWay , it injects
material to prop open wider pathways for the oil and gas to
flow. The number of companies using HiWay in  North America  has
grown from two a year ago to more than 20, the company said in
October. Initial production at a well in the Barnett Shale was
“significantly higher” with the technology, Chief Executive
Officer Paal Kibsgaard told investors Aug. 30 at a Gleneagles,
Scotland, energy conference.  No Seismic Impacts  Local officials in  Texas ,  Oklahoma ,  Arkansas  and  Ohio  are
concerned about outbreaks of small earthquakes that have been
occurring in areas where drilling has been accelerating.
Seismologists have concluded it’s not the fracking causing the
quakes. Rather, they found evidence it’s the injection
underground of waste water from the wells that may change
subterranean pressures in the rock, triggering tremors.  Jon Olson , an associate professor at the  University of
Texas  in Austin who studies fracking, said he’s not aware of it
causing any sizable earthquakes in the U.S.  Wider or deeper fractures won’t create bigger environmental
problems, David Burnett, director of technology at Texas A&M
University’s Energy Institute, said in an interview.  “The fracturing process is not causing the problems that
are perceived by the public,” Burnett said. “No change in
fracturing technology would change that.”  Concern in ‘Unknowns’  Most of the concern lies in the unknowns about the effects
of fracking, Sherr said.  “How do you test a frack fluid that in and of itself is
changing per well, per application, in terms of the various
chemicals and other components,” he said. “This is a
ferociously competitive business,” raising the possibility that
some technology from smaller service providers “might not have
been fully thought-through or tested prior to application in the
field.”  New fracking techniques may not be any riskier than
existing methods, said Amy Mall, senior policy analyst at the
National Resources Defense Council.  “Just like any other type of fracking, we need a lot more
independent scientific data and research to understand the risks
and how best to prevent them,” she said in a telephone
interview.  Schlumberger has said its HiWay technology provides
environmental benefits by reducing water and sand use and the
corresponding number of trucks delivering the materials.  More Finesse  Fracking, which has been around commercially since the
1950’s, hadn’t advanced much beyond “brute force and
ignorance,” former Schlumberger Chief Executive Officer Andrew Gould said when the company acquired Smith International in
February 2010. That’s now starting to change, he told investors
on an Oct. 21 conference call.  The ability to tap into vast new oil and gas resources in
shale formations is driving a wave of innovation to hone the
technique and provide companies with a competitive advantage.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  is developing a plan it calls “frack of
the future” that offers better technology to reduce the need
for materials and labor for each well in addition to speeding up
and increasing production, the company says.  To speed up the fracking process and reduce costs, Baker
Hughes has developed disintegrating frack balls. Wells are
fracked in stages, and companies drop down plastic balls to plug
the well bore at various stages and isolate different zones for
fracking. It can take several days to get a rig out to the site
and fish out conventional frack balls used over the course of 20
or 30 stages in a typical well before production can begin.  Alka-Seltzer-like  Baker Hughes’s invention disintegrates, turning the balls
into powder “like an Alka-Seltzer” tablet after about half a
day, Mody said.  Halliburton’s contribution is called  RapidFrac , a series of
sliding sleeves that open throughout the horizontal well bore to
isolate zones for fracking. Sliding sleeves are different from
the other main type of fracking technique, which sends an
explosive charge down the well bore to blast a hole in the
casing. In both techniques, fracking fluid is then injected at
high pressure through the hole, cracking the rock.  Sliding sleeves, which all three service companies offer,
can cut costs in the Bakken from as much as $2.5 million per
well to $750,000, according to a Sept. 19 investor note from
 JPMorgan Chase & Co . The Bakken is a geological formation that
stretches from  Alberta  to the Northern U.S. Great Plains.  “We aren’t quite ready to call it a game changer
considering its applications are limited to only a handful of
basins,” according to the note written by a team led by analyst
J.  David Anderson . “But it clearly is one more tool that
separates the big three service companies from everyone else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston  at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  