-- SuperGroup CEO Expects to Cut Prices From Autumn as Cotton Eases
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-11T16:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/supergroup-ceo-expects-to-cut-prices-from-autumn-as-cotton-eases.html
SuperGroup Plc (SGP) , the U.K. owner of
the Superdry fashion chain, expects to cut prices this year as
it adds suppliers in  India  and cotton costs ease, Chief
Executive Officer Julian Dunkerton said.  “By the autumn you’re going to see price decreases,” the
executive said in a telephone interview. “It will be partly the
cotton issue and partly better sourcing.”  Some of its most popular items like hoodies will remain
static in price, the CEO said, while garments such as outerwear
will fall, he said. The comments contrast with Next Plc, the
U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer, who last week forecast
selling prices will be stable.  SuperGroup fell 0.7 percent to 547 pence after earlier
rising as much as 6.6 percent in  London  trading. The Cheltenham,
England-based company said today same-store sales rose 5.8
percent in the nine weeks to Jan. 1 while wholesale revenue fell
4 percent.  “While the retail performance is reassuring, the wholesale
slowdown in the U.K. may continue to give some cause for concern
on how far SuperGroup can extend its profile,” Sanjay
Vidyarthi, an analyst at Execution Noble in London, said in a
note. He has a “neutral” rating on the shares.  The retailer has added suppliers in India and  Turkey ,
Dunkerton said. “There will be some margin capture going
forward and some price decreases,” he added.  Solid Christmas  “We’ve had a solid Christmas so you know I always say if
you’ve got the right product everything will fall into place,”
Dunkerton said.  Accessories, knitwear and jackets did “incredibly well,”
according to the executive. Sales of accessories more than
doubled with phone covers, scarves and gloves.  “Obviously the broader macro environment is interesting,
but I really feel we’re making big product advances this year,”
he said. “I feel comfortable.” The retailer is adding products
across all its lines such as women’s perfume.  SuperGroup, which opened a store on London’s busy Regent
Street in December, said it’s on track to open 20 stores in the
fiscal year ending in April. The company is “actively looking
abroad, particularly  Germany ” to open stores, Dunkerton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  