-- SNB Supervisor Buehrer Says Next Central Bank Chief Should Be Found Soon
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-12T12:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/swiss-cabinet-may-take-months-on-new-snb-head-as-council-mulls-candidates.html
Swiss central bank supervisory
council member Gerold Buehrer said Philipp Hildebrand’s
replacement as president should be found sooner than April,
suggesting the government’s hiring timetable is too slow.  “I can’t imagine that we’ll wait” until April or May,
Buehrer, who is also head of the Economiesuisse business lobby
group, told reporters in Zurich today. “I don’t fear that there
will be a power vacuum at the top of the central bank.”  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  supervisors are considering
candidates to join the three-member Governing Board after
Hildebrand announced his resignation on Jan. 9. Swiss President
Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said in Bern yesterday that it’s
probably “a matter of a few months, maybe April or May” for
the government to appoint a replacement based on the Bank
Council’s recommendations.  Buehrer called Hildebrand’s resignation “inevitable” and
Widmer-Schlumpf said at an event in Geneva today it’s “now
important” to restore confidence in the central bank. She
yesterday called Thomas Jordan, 48, who was appointed interim
president on Jan. 9, a “very competent personality.”  Former hedge-fund manager Hildebrand stepped down after
failing to prove that his wife acted independently on a currency
purchase of $504,000 in August, a month before the SNB imposed
its first franc cap in three decades. His wife, Kashya Hildebrand, told Swiss television there was an “error of
judgment” and the “transaction should have been reversed.”  ‘Politically Vulnerable’  The SNB’s 11-member supervisory council is looking for a
candidate as the central bank seeks to defend its franc ceiling
of 1.20 versus the euro. While the franc surged after
Hildebrand’s resignation to as high as 1.2108, it weakened later
that day. It traded at 1.2113 at 11:39 a.m. in Zurich.  Buehrer said today that the Zurich-based SNB still has a
“good, intact, credible” board.  Still, the SNB “might feel itself politically vulnerable
in the wake of the Hildebrand scandal,” said  Steven Barrow ,
head of Group of 10 currency strategy in  London .  “Usually, scandals are bad for currencies, not good,” he
wrote in an e-mailed note today. “But the SNB is not a ‘normal’
central bank at the moment. A central bank arguably needs a
great deal of credibility to achieve such a target and
presumably the undermining of this credibility by Hildebrand’s
actions is the reason” why the franc strengthened.  While either Jordan or fellow board member Jean-Pierre Danthine could in theory be named chief immediately, the
government prefers to wait for the Bank Council’s
recommendations on a new  board member  before deciding who will
replace the chairman, according to Widmer-Schlumpf. The current
deputies are Thomas Moser, Thomas Wiedmer and Dewet Moser.  SNB Candidates  Janwillem Acket, chief economist at  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) 
in Zurich, said there’s a “99 percent chance” that Jordan will
be elected new president, while any of the deputies would be
“experienced and good” candidates to join the board.  “We need a flawless SNB, especially in these stormy
waters,” Acket said. “We can’t rule out anything, but an
external candidate wouldn’t be ideal as a new president. Jordan
was involved in every important decision; he’s perfect.”  Jordan, who joined the board in 2007 and became deputy
chairman three years later, said on Jan. 9 he’s willing to take
the top job and reiterated that the central bank is ready to
defend the cap with the “utmost determination” if needed.  Beatrice Weder di Mauro, a Swiss native and a member of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s council of economic advisers,
is among the possible board candidates, as is the Swiss
government’s chief economist, Aymo Brunetti, according to
economists and newspaper reports. Acket also named  Thomas Straubhaar , head of the HWWI economic institute in Hamburg, and
Serge Gaillard, head of the Swiss government’s labor department
and a former member of the SNB Bank Council.  The government said yesterday it first wants to see the
results of an internal probe into the financial transactions of
the two remaining board members and the three deputies in the
three years through 2011 before making an appointment. The SNB
has already pledged to toughen its internal rules.  “Markets seem inclined to test the SNB’s commitment,”
said  Reto Huenerwadel , an economist at UBS AG in Zurich. If it
takes until May to find a new chief, “it remains to be seen
whether financial markets will provide a similarly extended
grace period.”  The Bank Council has appointed a panel to look into
possible candidates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  