-- Syrian President Addresses Damascus Crowd to Promise Victory
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-01-11T13:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/syrian-president-addresses-crowd-in-damascus-to-promise-victory.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
made a rare appearance at a rally in the capital, Damascus,
today and told supporters: “We will be victorious.”  “I want to gain strength from you,” Assad said to a crowd
of flag-waving and chanting supporters in Umayyad Square, shown
on state television. Yesterday Assad addressed the nation on
television and vowed to use an “iron first” to resist what he
described as foreign-backed efforts to divide the country.  Syrian security forces have maintained their deadly attacks
on protesters throughout a two-week period of observation by the
 Arab League , killing about 400 people in that time, United
Nations political chief Lynn Pascoe told the 15-member Security
Council yesterday. The UN estimates that more than 5,000 people
have died in Assad’s crackdown on protests that began in March.  The U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , which
has a network of activists in the country, said three civilians
and an army defector were killed in Hama in northern  Syria 
today, and two more people died in the central city of Homs.
Security forces opened fire on students rallying this morning in
a suburb of the capital Damascus, it said.  Assad said the violence is a result of a “foreign
conspiracy” and his priority is to restore security.
“Terrorists” will be met with an “iron fist,” he said, while
denying that any orders had been given to security forces to
fire on civilians.  ‘Strategy Is Clear’  “The Syrians have been unbelievably consistent for over 40
years in style and leadership approach and nothing has
changed,” said Rami Khouri, director of the Issam Fares
Institute for Public Policy and International Affairs at the
American University of  Beirut . “Assad has had many
opportunities to make adjustments in his response to the
uprising and he’s ignored every opportunity and continued with
the tough military crackdown. The strategy is clear.”  Under an agreement with the Arab League, Syria’s government
promised to withdraw security forces from urban areas, release
political prisoners and allow observers into the country to
monitor implementation of the accord.  Eleven of the league’s monitors were injured in an attack
yesterday,  Al Arabiya  reported. Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi
condemned the “irresponsible acts and acts of violence” and
said the Syrian government is responsible for the protection of
its envoys.  Anwar Malek, an Algerian Arab League observer who resigned
from his position because he said he found himself serving the
Syrian government’s interests, told  Al Jazeera  the Arab League’s
monitoring mission was not independent.  “What I saw was a humanitarian disaster,”  Al Jazeera 
cited Malek as saying. “The regime is not just committing one
war crime, but a series of crimes against its people,” he said.  Snipers are widespread and shoot at civilians, while people
are being kidnapped and prisoners tortured, Al Jazeera cited
Malek as saying. Security forces didn’t withdraw their tanks
from the streets as the Syrian government claimed, but hid and
then redeployed them after the observers left, he told the Doha-
based news channel.  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27.
Efforts by the U.S. and the European Union, which also have
imposed sanctions, for the UN  Security Council  to condemn the
crackdown have been blocked by Russia and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  