-- UN Says Syria Undeterred by Monitors as Assad Vows Defiance
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-01-11T17:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/syria-s-arab-monitors-fail-to-prevent-attacks-by-security-forces-un-says.html
Syrian security forces have
persisted in deadly attacks on protesters throughout a two-week
period of observation by the  Arab League , a top United Nations
official said.  About 400 people have been killed since the Dec. 26 arrival
of Arab League observers to monitor Syria’s implementation of an
accord to end the crackdown on protests, UN political chief Lynn Pascoe told the 15-member  Security Council  in closed-door
consultations yesterday.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad vowed yesterday to use an
“iron first” to resist what he described as foreign-backed
efforts to divide his country, in his fourth national address
since the uprising began in March. The UN estimates that more
than 5,000 people have died.  At least 38 people were killed yesterday in Deir al-Zour,
Homs, Qamishli, Idlib and in Hama, said the  Local Coordination
Committees , an activist group with members in  Syria . The U.K.-
based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , which also has a
network of activists in the country, put the death toll at 27
yesterday.  The observatory said three civilians and one army defector
were killed in Hama today, while a strike was under way in Idlib
over  living conditions . Security forces opened fire on students
rallying this morning in a suburb of the capital Damascus, it
said.  ‘Foreign Conspiracy’  Assad repeated his argument that the violence is a result
of a “foreign conspiracy.” He said his priority is to restore
security and that “terrorists” will be met with an “iron
fist,” while denying that any orders had been given to security
forces to fire on civilians.  A U.S. official said the blame lay squarely with Assad.
“Far from meeting his commitments to the Arab League, President
Assad has continued to perpetrate violence against his people,”
State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  told reporters at a
briefing.  Nuland responded to reports that a French journalist was
killed in the Syrian city of Homs today, saying the U.S.
regretted the loss of life. “We would put the blame squarely”
on the regime, she said.  Under an agreement with the Arab League, Syria’s government
promised to withdraw military and security forces from urban
areas, release political prisoners and allow observers into the
country to monitor implementation of the accord.  ‘Irresponsible Acts’  Eleven League monitors were injured in an attack yesterday,
al Arabiya reported. Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi condemned
the “irresponsible acts and acts of violence” and said the
Syrian government is responsible for the protection of its
envoys.  Anwar Malek, an Algerian Arab League observer who resigned
from his position saying he found himself serving the Syrian
government’s interests, told  Al Jazeera  the Arab League’s
monitoring mission wasn’t independent.  “What I saw was a humanitarian disaster,”  Al Jazeera 
cited Malek as saying. “The regime is not just committing one
war crime, but a series of crimes against its people,” he said.  Snipers are widespread and shoot at civilians, while people
are being kidnapped and prisoners tortured, Al Jazeera cited
Malek as saying. Security forces didn’t withdraw their tanks
from the streets as the Syrian government claimed, but hid and
then redeployed them after the observers left, he told the Doha-
based news channel.  ‘Absolutely Consistent’  Nuland said Malek’s observations correspond to reports
received by the U.S. “His concerns are absolutely consistent
with the reports we’re getting,” she said today.  In a televised speech from Istanbul yesterday, Burhan Ghalioun, the leader of the Syrian National Council, an umbrella
opposition group, called on Arab governments to increase
pressure on Assad and urged the Arab League to raise the Syrian
situation at the UN.  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27.
Russia and  China  have blocked efforts by the U.S. and the
European Union, which also have imposed sanctions, for the UN
 Security Council  to condemn the crackdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  