-- U.K. Stocks Retreat, Led by Utilities; Unilever Shares Decline
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-11T17:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-k-stocks-retreat-as-germany-sells-debt-sse-unilever-decline.html
U.K. stocks  declined, led by a
selloff in utilities and energy companies, as investors awaited
more debt auctions by euro-area nations.  SSE Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest power producer, dropped
more than 3 percent after Electricite de France SA cut gas
prices at its British unit. Royal Dutch Shell Group Plc
retreated with crude oil.  Unilever Plc (ULVR)  tumbled 3.2 percent after
Bank of America Corp. downgraded the shares.  The benchmark  FTSE 100  lost 0.5 percent to 5,670.82 at the
close in London, paring yesterday’s 1.5 percent advance that was
the biggest in a week. The broader All-Share Index slid 0.4
percent today. Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 1.1 percent in Dublin.  “Selling pressure has begun to form at the top of the
trading range,” said Will Hedden, a sales trader at IG Index in
London. “With important euro-zone bond auctions tomorrow from
Spain and Italy, it is unsurprising to see markets inch around
nervously.”  Stocks fell across Europe today after  David Riley , head of
the sovereign-debt unit at  Fitch Ratings , said the region’s
central bank should increase its purchases of  government bonds 
to ease pressure on yields.  “We need to have a credible buyer put in place and we
don’t have that at the moment,” which is “why we have a number
of sovereigns under review,” Riley said in Frankfurt. “The ECB
needs to be more actively engaged, but it can’t save the euro on
its own. The crisis won’t be over until we have broad-based
economic recovery.”  Euro-Area Debt Sale  Germany today received bids for 8.97 billion euros ($11
billion) of five-year notes at an auction, more than double the
maximum target. Spain and Italy are due to sell as much as 17
billion euros in debt tomorrow.  Mining companies  led a rally in the FTSE 100 yesterday
after Alcoa Inc. kicked off the U.S. earnings season with
results that matched analysts’ estimates. The gauge lost 5.6
percent last year as European leaders struggled to contain the
sovereign-debt crisis and assure the euro’s survival.  SSE, the U.K.’s second-largest power producer, dropped 2.8
percent to 1,264 pence after EDF Energy said it will cut gas
prices in the U.K. by 5 percent from Feb. 7 following a drop in
the wholesale cost of the fuel.  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the owner of British Gas, slid 1.3 percent to
283.8 pence.  EDF is the first utility in the U.K to trim prices
following an October call from the Office of Gas & Electricity
Markets for “radical” changes in the market. Centrica, SSE,
EON AG, RWE AG and Iberdrola SA, which owns ScottishPower, also
supply electricity in the British market.  Energy Companies  Shell led declines in energy companies as crude oil fell in
 New York .  Europe’s largest oil company  retreated 3.1 percent to
2,327.5 pence, while  BP Plc (BP/) , the region’s second-biggest
producer, slipped 0.9 percent to 475.3 pence and  BG Group Plc (BG/) 
lost 2 percent to 1,448 pence.  Unilever dropped 3.1 percent to 2,084 pence after Bank of
America lowered its recommendation for the shares to
“underperform” from “neutral,” saying 2012 results will hit
the low end of targets.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  slid 1.2 percent to 302.1 pence, falling
for the first time in four days. The shares slipped even as the
U.K.’s third-largest supermarket owner today reported third-
quarter sales growth that beat analysts’ estimates.  Rival  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , which will announce earnings tomorrow,
decreased 1.3 percent to 385 pence, falling for a sixth
consecutive day.  RBS Job Cuts  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  paced advancing shares,
climbing 3.1 percent to 21.79 pence. The U.K. lender’s Irish
unit is preparing its second round of job cuts in four years as
part of an effort to save about 50 million euros, according to
two people with knowledge of the plan.  RBS will tomorrow announce a plan resulting in the loss of
as many as 5,000 investment-banking jobs, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  rose 3.2 percent to 28.17 pence.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  advanced 2.7 percent to 315.3 pence after the
Guardian and the Independent reported that China’s Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co. may be considering a bid for the U.K.
insurer. The Guardian reported a price of about 500 pence a
share, citing unidentified traders.  Capita, Rentokil  Capita Plc (CPI)  gained 1.5 percent to 658.5 pence after
Citigroup Inc. raised its recommendation for the shares to
“buy” from “neutral.”  Rentokil Initial Plc (RTO)  rallied 5.7 percent to 70.4 pence
after RBC Capital Markets upgraded the company to “top pick”
from “outperform.”  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  jumped 6.6 percent to 368
pence after a conference call, in which company executives
reassured analysts about the earnings outlook for the recruiter,
said Oriel Securities Ltd.’s Hector Forsythe. There was an “air
of reassurance from management,” Forsythe said in a telephone
interview.  The company also reported an 18 percent increase in full-
year pretax profit to 85 million pounds ($130 million), short of
analysts’ median estimate of 88.95 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  