-- U.K. Trade Gap Widens More Than Expected as Exports Fall 1.5%
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-11T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-k-trade-gap-widens-more-than-expected-as-exports-fall-1-5-.html
The U.K. goods-trade deficit widened
more than economists forecast in November as exports dropped,
led by lower sales of silver and  consumer goods .  The  trade gap  widened to 8.64 billion pounds ($13.6
billion) from a revised 7.87 billion pounds in October, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London. Exports
fell 1.5 percent on the month, while imports rose 1.1 percent.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 17 economists
was for a deficit of 8.4 billion pounds.  Cooling growth in Europe, Britain’s biggest export market,
is darkening prospects for U.K. manufacturers. The German
economy shrank about 0.25 percent in the fourth quarter, the
country’s statistics office said today. The Bank of  England  will
probably maintain its target for so-called quantitative easing
at 275 billion pounds tomorrow.  “With the weakening economic outlook in  Europe , we see no
reason for improvement further out in the trade figures,” said
Victoria Cadman, an economist at Investec Securities in London.
“We won’t see any QE tomorrow, but we’ll be looking for another
50 billion pounds in February.”  The U.K.’s trade balance in services remained in surplus in
November as exports rose to a record, according to today’s
figures. It was at 6.08 billion pounds compared with 6.01
billion pounds in October. The total trade gap on goods and
services widened to 2.57 billion pounds from 1.86 billion
pounds.  Silver Sales  In November, exports of silver fell 301 million pounds,
while overseas sales of consumer goods other than cars decreased
177 million pounds and intermediate goods dropped 228 million
pounds. Exports of food and basic materials such as wood
increased to records.  Imports of oil increased by 117 million pounds to a record,
while imports of chemicals jumped 482 million pounds, also
rising to a record. The data series began in 1998.  Smiths Group Plc, the world’s biggest supplier of
mechanical seals to energy and marine clients, said on Nov. 22
that first-half sales at its security detection unit will fall
from a year earlier as demand from military clients declines.  The British Chambers of Commerce said yesterday its
measures of manufacturing export sales and orders fell to the
lowest since 2009 in the fourth quarter. The lobby group said
while the  Bank of England  may raise its bond-purchase program by
50 billion pounds in the first quarter, that may not be enough
to revive growth, and it called for a credit-easing program to
help companies.  Banks are planning to tighten lending terms in the first
quarter, according to the Bank of England, raising pressure on
manufacturers already under strain from the turmoil in Europe.  The central bank will hold its key  interest rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent tomorrow, according to all 53 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. It will also keep its bond-purchase
plan at 275 billion pounds, according to the median estimate of
41 economists in a separate poll. The decision will be announced
at noon in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  