-- British Solar-Capacity Surge Defies Huhne’s Plan to Curb Subsidies
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-01-12T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-k-solar-capacity-surges-10-fold-defying-curbs-on-subsidies.html
Britain’s solar capacity shot up
10-fold last year, defying Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne ’s effort 
to roll back subsidies for the industry and prevent the sort of 
booms experienced in  Germany  and  Italy .  Solar panels with at least 761.9 megawatts in capacity were
installed in 2011 compared with 76.8 megawatts the prior year,
according to  figures  on the website of U.K.’s energy regulator
Ofgem. About two-thirds of the capacity and 95 percent of the
projects were installed on homes.  Huhne twice last year moved to rein in support granted in
April 2010 in the form of feed-in tariffs, which guarantee
premium rates for electricity from solar power. Companies
including  EON AG (EOAN) ,  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  Carillion Plc (CLLN) ’s Eaga rushed to
tap the market, supported by fund managers such as Foresight
Group LLP and Octopus Investments Ltd.  “It’s been a very busy and successful year for the solar
industry,” Howard Johns, chairman of the Solar Trade
Association and managing director of installer Southern Solar
Ltd., said by e-mail today. “But now most of the industry is at
a standstill with the uncertainty caused by the government.”  The price of panels today is less than half of where it was
when the subsidy program began, making more installations
economical and sustaining 25,000 jobs.  Subsidy Restraint  Huhne’s ministry responded in March 2011 with an emergency
review of its support measures that cut rates as much as 71
percent for commercial-scale plants. Developers then turned
their attention to smaller rooftop projects, prompting the
government in October to propose cuts for those facilities as
well. Industry groups sued the government last month to slow the
latest round of cuts.  The boom outpaced the government’s forecast. More than
230,000 solar plants have registered to qualify for tariffs
since the program started, according to Ofgem. Half of the 761.9
megawatts in capacity installed last year was registered in
November and December alone, the latest weekly data show.  These figures compare with the Department of Energy and
 Climate Change ’s projections for 284 megawatts by April 2013 and
832 megawatts by April 2015.  Only 32 megawatts of solar installations were operating at
the end of 2009 before the tariff came into effect. Today, the
number may top 1.1 gigawatts, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance figures, which take into account installations not yet
registered with Ofgem.  Those facilities may cost about 373 million pounds ($572
million) a year in subsidies, exceeding the government’s cap for
the subsidy, the London-based researcher estimates. Support for
the industry is paid for by consumers though higher bills.  ‘Embarrassing’  “It is somewhat embarrassing for an austerity-focused
government,” said Jenny Chase, lead solar analyst at New Energy
Finance.  The program, which also includes other low-carbon
technologies for projects with 5 megawatts or less, has a
spending limit of 867 million pounds by April 2015. In December,
DECC said that a further 197 million pounds from the renewable
obligation system that supports renewable projects of all sizes
was also available for the tariffs.  “The current high tariffs for solar PV are not
sustainable, and changes need to be made in order to protect the
budget, which is funded by consumers through their energy
bills,” Climate Change Minister  Greg Barker  said in a statement
on Dec. 22.  Germany and Italy  European countries such as Italy and  France  reduced tariffs
last year before schedule to adapt incentives to crashing panel
prices. Meanwhile, Germany marched ahead without any spending
cap to install a record 7,500 megawatts last year, or about 10
times British levels. Italy has a spending cap of 6 billion
euros to 7 billion euros ($7.6 billion to $8.9 billion) a year.  The surge in installations, coupled with continued declines
in panel prices, led the government in October to propose
cutting in half rates paid for small projects starting Dec. 12,
four months before scheduled.  A court deemed the decision to cut rates before a
consultation on the matter was completed “unlawful” and
ordered a judicial review. A government appeal is likely to be
heard tomorrow, so it’s unclear when the subsidy reductions will
take effect.  The U.K. solar industry is waiting to learn the new tariff
levels and the date when they will come into force.  “The situation is still far from clear, and industry
players would be wise to sit tight until a new reference date is
set,” said Clare King, a London-based renewable energy lawyer
at the law firm Osborne Clarke. “The lack of certainty is going
to make it difficult for solar companies, homeowners and
investors to plan for the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  