-- U.S. Wheat Expanding From Century Low as Glut Looms: Commodities
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-01-11T20:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-winter-wheat-extends-gain-from-97-year-low-as-glut-looms-commodities.html
U.S. farmers, the world’s biggest
wheat exporters, probably planted the most winter grain in three
years, expanding acreage from a century-low reached in 2009 just
as a global supply glut swells to its biggest in a decade.  About 41.02 million acres, an area bigger than  Illinois ,
were sown from September to November, 0.9 percent more than a
year earlier, according to the average of 16 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That will add to world  inventories  set to
rise 4 percent to 207.7 million metric tons, the most since
2000, the survey showed. Winter wheat makes up 74 percent of the
U.S. crop, and the government gives its first estimate tomorrow.  Wheat traded in Chicago fell 30 percent from a 29-month
high in February as a 47 percent surge in 2010 spurred more
planting. That helped global  food  prices tracked by the United
Nations drop 9.6 percent from a record, easing costs that drove
global inflation higher. The second most widely held option
gives owners the right to sell wheat at $6 a bushel by February,
6.4 percent lower than now,  Chicago  Board of Trade data show.  “We have ample supplies of wheat, and we just keep on
producing more,” said  Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain
analyst at Jefferies Bache Commodities LLC in Chicago, who
anticipates declining prices. “We’ll need normal-type weather
conditions this spring, but in general, we’re going over the
winter without really much of a dramatic concern.”  Trailing Equities  Wheat prices are down 1.8 percent this year, closing at
$6.41 at 1:15 p.m. today in Chicago. Its 18 percent decline in
2011 was worse than the 1.2 percent retreat in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities fell 9.4 percent and Treasuries
returned 9.8 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The S&P GSCI Agriculture Index of eight farm commodities
tumbled 15 percent last year as slowing economies hurt demand
for everything from cotton to soybeans. The gauge rose 44
percent in 2010 as drought decimated crops from  Russia  to
 Australia . At the end of 2009, the U.S. planted 37.33 million
acres of winter wheat, the fewest sown since the fall of 1912,
as excessive rains swamped fields from  Ohio  to Illinois.  Russian wheat farmers, once the world’s second-biggest
producers, reaped 35 percent more last year than in 2010,
recovering from the worst drought in more than 50 years, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Ukraine’s output
jumped 31 percent, supply rose 9 percent in  Canada  and
Australian production gained 1.5 percent to a record, according
to the USDA.  India , the largest grower after  China , harvested
its biggest crop ever.  Futures Trading  Hedge funds  and other money managers have been  betting  on
lower wheat prices since mid-September, having been mostly
bullish since July 2010, data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. They are holding a net-short position, or
wagers on a decline, of 27,097 futures and options, compared
with a net-long position of 51,787 contracts in February.  Growth in world  demand  this year may still exceed the 4
percent anticipated by the USDA, driving prices higher, as
farmers substitute more for corn in livestock feed. Wheat is
trading at a 12.25 cent-a-bushel discount to corn, compared with
a premium of about $1.78 over the past five years, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Feed use for wheat will rise 16 percent this
year, almost 12 times the rate of expansion in food use, the
USDA estimates.  Corn rose 13 percent to $6.515 a bushel since Dec. 15 on
mounting concern that dry weather is hurting crops in Brazil and
 Argentina , historically the largest  exporters  after the U.S. The
lack of rain may spur more damage than the 2008-2009 drought
that was the worst in 70 years, the Argentine Association of
Regional Consortia for Agricultural Experimentation said Jan. 6.  ‘Bearish’ Fundamentals  “Wheat is competitive as a feed grain with corn, so as
corn goes, so goes wheat,” said Dan Manternach, a wheat
economist with researcher Doane Advisory Services in  St. Louis .
“The fundamentals for wheat itself are bearish.”  Prospects for U.S. winter wheat have improved, with parts
of Kansas,  Oklahoma  and Texas, the biggest producing states,
getting three times the normal rainfall in the past 30 days,
according to the  National Weather Service . That is compensating
for last year’s drought, the worst on record for Texas. Some
areas of the Plains had half the normal rain in 2011.  Winter  wheat  is grown from the Midwest to the Great Plains,
goes dormant until about March and is harvested from May.  Farmers “think we’re in far better shape than we were last
year,” said Bill Spiegel, a spokesman for  Kansas  Wheat, a state
growers group. “Last year, we didn’t have any moisture and the
crop hadn’t really emerged. We’ve seen this year’s crop is up,
and it went into dormancy in really good shape.”  Top Ratings  As of Jan. 1, 53 percent of the winter wheat in Kansas, the
biggest growing state, was in good or excellent condition,
compared with 47 percent a month earlier, the USDA said Jan. 3.
In Oklahoma, 63 percent got the top ratings, up from 56 percent.  “We have good moisture in the top soil, but the subsoil is
not as full as we’d like,” Paul Penner, a farmer in Hillsboro,
Kansas, said in a telephone interview. “It looks great right
now. But when it breaks dormancy in our area in late February
and early March, that’s when it’s going to be critical that we
get the rain we need as the temperatures rise.”  In  Texas , about 25 percent of the crop was in good or
excellent  condition  as of Jan. 8, unchanged from the end of
November, the USDA said. Still, more fields were rated fair, and
less were very poor, the worst rating.  Some farmers increased planting amid last year’s dry
weather because government-subsidized crop-insurance rates set
in September, based on futures prices, allowed them to lock in
profits,  Manhattan , Kansas-based Spiegel said.  “I’m bearish on wheat prices now on into harvest,” said
Mark Welch, an agricultural economist at  Texas A&M University  in
 College Station , who expects prices in Chicago may drop as low
as $5.75 by July. “Wheat is a resilient crop. If you give it a
little rain to help it along, it’s surprising what it will do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  