-- Most U.S. Stocks Rise as Bank Rally Overshadows Europe Concerns
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-11T22:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-before-release-of-fed-s-beige-book.html
Most U.S. stocks advanced, sending
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a third day, as a
rally in banks helped the market recover from an early slump
spurred by growing signs Europe may slip into a recession.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  climbed 4.2 percent as analyst Dick Bove
said the shares could “easily” triple in five years.  Lennar
Corp. (LEN)  jumped 7.2 percent, pacing gains in homebuilders, after
reporting a jump in new orders. Energy shares had the biggest
decline in the S&P 500 among 10 industries as  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
dropped 1.2 percent.  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  tumbled 19 percent as
the company’s chief executive officer resigned.  About seven stocks  rose  for every five that fell on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m.  New York  time. The S&P 500 increased less
than 0.1 percent to 1,292.48. The benchmark index gained 1.2
percent in three days. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
retreated 13.02 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,449.45 today. The
Nasdaq Composite Index advanced 0.3 percent to 2,710.76.  “The U.S. economic backdrop is more favorable even as the
international picture becomes murky,” Eric Teal, chief
investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc., which
manages $4 billion in Raleigh, North Carolina, said in a
telephone interview. “Companies most domestically oriented,
including financials, are better positioned for this
environment. The fundamentals will remain challenging, but
valuations are attractive.”  The  S&P 500  recovered from an earlier slump as a group of
 financial  shares rose 1 percent, extending this year’s gain to
6.7 percent. That compares with a 2.8 percent advance in the
benchmark measure. The industry slumped 18 percent last year for
the biggest decline among 10 groups.  ‘Skyrocket’  Citigroup added 4.2 percent to $31.27. “Earnings will
skyrocket relative to where they are,” Rochdale Securities
LLC’s Bove said today in a Bloomberg Television interview with
Tom Keene on “Surveillance Midday.”  A gauge of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes jumped 4.1 percent.
Lennar gained 7.2 percent to $22.25. The third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue reported a 20 percent jump in new orders
for the fourth quarter from a year earlier.  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  rallied 36 percent to 82 cents, surging
119 percent in three days. The unprofitable imaging company,
seeking to sell or license a portfolio of more than 1,100
patents, sued Apple Inc. and HTC Corp. in an expansion of a
legal strategy that may help boost the value of its inventions
to fund a turnaround.  Brocade Rallies  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD)  rallied 2.1 percent to
$5.89. The maker of switches for data-storage networks, which
had been trying to find a buyer with the help of  Frank Quattrone 
for two years, was valued yesterday at 7.7 times its free  cash
flow , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the
cheapest among its closest competitors and less than half the
median of 17 times for comparable companies.  While Brocade was passed over when Dell Inc. agreed to buy
Force10 Networks Inc. in July, the company could give Oracle
Corp. a networking product it currently doesn’t offer to
businesses and enable it to better compete with Cisco Systems
Inc., according to ThinkEquity LLC and Avian Securities LLC.
Brocade, which has more than doubled its  free cash flow  in the
past five years, also makes sense for buyout firms and could
command about $8 a share in a takeover, ThinkEquity said.  Equities fell earlier as Germany’s Federal Statistics
Office said the economy probably shrank in the fourth quarter
from the third, and the European Union cut euro-area growth to
0.1 percent in the third quarter, from 0.2 percent estimated
earlier. The U.S. economic expansion improved last month across
most of the country while hiring was limited and housing
remained stagnant, the  Federal Reserve  said in its Beige Book.  ‘More Risk’  “Nothing has really been done to stimulate growth in
 Europe ,” Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee about $14.5
billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a
telephone interview. “Without growth, you can’t fix this issue.
If Germany slows down, then, you start to have a real problem on
how to make that happen. There’s more risk on the earnings side
as to how companies are going to come through all this.”  A measure of  energy  shares in the S&P 500 fell 1.3 percent
as oil dropped on concern that slower global growth may curb
demand and natural gas tumbled to a 28-month low. Chevron
retreated 1.2 percent to $107.77.  Producers of natural gas dropped as the commodity sank to a
28-month low in New York after revised forecasts showed milder
weather across much of the U.S. through late January, crimping
demand for the furnace fuel. Southwestern  Energy (S5ENRS)  Inc. lost 8
percent to $29.92.  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp.  fell 11 percent to
$69.62.  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  sank 6.3 percent to $54.36.  Urban Outfitters  Urban Outfitters plunged 19 percent to $23.93. The clothing
retailer said Glen Senk resigned as chief executive officer and
will be succeeded by co-founder Richard Hayne as the retailer
seeks to turn around falling profit.  Supervalu sank 13 percent to $7.34. Chief Executive Officer
Craig Herkert said the company was working to keep prices low
amid the “difficult economic environment and pressured
consumer.” Supervalu said  sales  in its fiscal 2012 may be $36.1
billion. The average estimate of 13 analysts was $36.4 billion.  Rating downgrades from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. also
contributed to losses at some of the biggest companies today.  3M
Co. (MMM) , the maker of LCD television parts and Scotch-Brite sponges,
lost 0.6 percent to $83.77.  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-
biggest payments network, slumped 2.1 percent to $341.47.  Investors may be about to turn toward  government bonds  and
away from stocks and other riskier assets, according to  Bob Janjuah , global head of tactical asset allocation at Nomura
International Plc. This shift may begin by the end of the week,
Janjuah wrote yesterday in a report. Yields on 10-year U.S.,
U.K. and German notes will be closer to 1.5 percent than 2
percent during the first quarter, he predicted.  The first quarter “is going to be extremely bearish for
risk,” according to Janjuah, based in  London . He cited the
possibility that Greece may default on its debt before the
quarter ends, along with other concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  