-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace since the
last report. Manufacturing activity was mixed. Contacts said
retail sales were robust and automobile sales held steady.
Demand for business services was solid, and activity in
transportation services rose modestly. Housing and commercial
real estate markets continued to improve slightly. Construction
activity remained subdued, with apartment construction being the
major exception. Financial services respondents said overall
loan demand was flat to up slightly. Energy activity slowed
somewhat, but respondents expect strong growth in activity in
2012. Agricultural conditions remained weak. Employment levels
were mostly unchanged. Price and wage pressures were subdued.  Prices  Contacts across industries said prices held steady or declined.
The exceptions were producers of paper, fabricated metals and
food who noted increased prices for some inputs. Crop commodity
prices were generally lower than six weeks ago, while cattle
prices held fairly steady.  The price of WTI moved in a narrow range between $95 and $100
per barrel during the reporting period. Natural  gas prices 
remained low, near $3.50 per thousand cubic feet, due to
unseasonably warm weather and large inventories. Diesel and
gasoline prices declined by 20 cents per gallon over the past
six weeks, and prices of petrochemicals and plastics held steady
or fell slightly.  Labor Market  Employment levels were flat to up slightly at most responding
firms. Staffing firms continued to note high levels of demand.
Energy industry respondents said labor shortages for skilled
workers, such as engineers, geologists, and machinists, remained
a barrier to expansion. Some producers of food, fabricated
metals and transportation equipment noted moderate employment
increases, and auto dealers said they continue to look for
additional workers. Wage pressures remained minimal, although
staffing firms noted modest increases in billing rates for
skilled workers. Several firms noted plans to give employees
cost-of-living adjustments next year.  Manufacturing  Construction-related manufacturers’ responses were mixed. Stone,
clay and glass producers said demand was below expectations,
while lumber producers noted no change in activity. Fabricated
metals producers said demand had increased since the last report,
and some reported a pickup in private nonresidential projects,
especially from foreign investors. Primary metals demand was
mostly stable and was characterized as “decent but not great.”
Construction-related firms’ outlooks are cautiously optimistic
for 2012.  Respondents in high-tech manufacturing reported that sales grew
at a weak to moderate pace since the last report. Sales and
prices for DRAM continued to be very weak, while demand and
prices for processors were holding up much better. Respondents
said that increased demand for mobile devices and data storage
should drive up demand for semiconductors by the second quarter
of 2012. Respondents noted, however, that economic uncertainty
remains very high.  Conditions in the  paper industry  were mixed. Most contacts noted
weakness, although one reported an unusually busy December with
strong orders from the auto and construction industries.
Respondents expect conditions to remain about the same in 2012
as in 2011. Automobile and aviation equipment manufacturers said
demand had picked up slightly since the last report.
Expectations are for stronger sales of automobile equipment in
2012, but aviation manufacturers expect only modest growth. Food
producers noted a pickup in demand since the last report, in
part due to stronger consumer demand, and partly due to
increased market share. Outlooks among food industry contacts
remain positive.  Petrochemical producers noted a seasonal slowdown in demand for
most products. Producers of plastics and plastic feedstocks said
prices and inventories stabilized after sharp declines in
October and November. Demand for chlorine showed weakness beyond
the normal seasonal slowing, and some contacts attributed the
weakness to slower global growth. Contacts in the refining
industry noted weak domestic consumption of refined products,
especially gasoline, although export markets were still strong.
Inventories were said to be near expectations for this time of
year. While both gasoline and diesel prices slipped over the
past six weeks, refiners’ margins remained at healthy levels,
according to contacts.  Retail Sales  Retailers said sales activity was robust during the reporting
period, and retail sales growth saw moderate gains over the
comparable year-ago period. However, contacts noted consumers
remain cautious and value-driven. The Eleventh District and
Midwest in general exhibited stronger sales growth than other
parts of the nation, according to the responding firms.
Inventories have increased over the prior year, but are at
desired levels. Jewelry, small electronics and apparel were
areas of strength in retail this holiday season.  Automobile sales held steady from the prior report and have
increased year-over-year. The used car market remains tight.
Contacts expect 2012 will be another good year, with moderate
increases in sales. Vehicle inventories are back to normal
levels for the most part, although some contacts reported light
inventories due to increased activity.  Services  Staffing firms continued to report high levels of demand.
However, some contacts noted a slight slowdown in activity as
some clients delayed hiring until the start of 2012. Direct
hires continued to drive business, with particularly strong
demand for professional and technical workers. One contact noted
a shortage of skilled IT professionals. Outlooks were more
optimistic than in the last report, with contacts expecting
demand to remain robust or improve next year. Demand for
accounting services remained flat, and overall growth this year
has been slightly weaker than expected. Legal firms reported
steady activity, with continued strength in demand for
intellectual property, energy, litigation and some real-estate
services and a slight pickup in corporate activity.  Reports from transportation service firms were positive.
Intermodal firms reported steady cargo volumes during the
reporting period, and outlooks are positive for the first half
of 2012. Railroad firms noted a broad-based increase in
shipments, with particularly strong growth in petroleum products,
motor vehicles and equipment, nonmetallic minerals, crushed
stone, metals and metallic ores. Small parcel shipments rose
strongly during the reporting period.  Airlines reported steady passenger demand over the past six
weeks. Domestic demand and travel to  Latin America  remained
solid, and travel to  Europe  and  Asia  improved slightly. Airline
contacts expect demand to remain stable in the short term.  Construction and Real Estate  Housing industry contacts continue to report improving
conditions overall, although sales activity remains at low
levels. Home sales rose at a modest pace over the reporting
period and new and existing home inventories continued to
decline. Contacts are hopeful that the housing industry is
poised for a recovery in 2012. Apartment demand remained steady
since the last report and contacts characterize Texas markets as
tight. Apartment construction continues to increase, and
contacts noted that multi-family properties are the favored
property type among real estate investors.  Conditions in nonresidential property markets continue to firm,
according to most contacts. Demand for  office space  continued to
rise modestly since the last report, and there were some reports
of improvement in demand for warehouse and retail space.
Nonresidential construction activity remains at low levels, and
some contacts noted concern about 2012 as public projects come
to a close. One contact noted that while conditions have
improved overall, real estate financing remains a challenge due
to weak consumer sentiment and higher  investment risk .  Financial Services  Financial firms reported flat to modest increases in loan demand.
National banks noted a pickup in both middle- and large-market
corporate lending activity. Regional banks said loan demand was
mixed, with strength in energy-related lending and weakness in
other loan activity. Loan pricing remained competitive. The
quality of loans outstanding continued to improve, with contacts
noting a decline in problem loans. Outlooks are uncertain given
mostly sluggish loan demand.  Energy  Oil field activity slowed seasonally at year end, with the
District rig count edging down. However, respondents expect a
high level of activity to resume early in 2012 and increase
throughout the year. Respondents cited strong orders, growing
backlogs, and good pricing for their products as evidence of
future growth.  Agriculture  The District remained largely in drought, although recent
rainfalls have lessened the drought’s severity in most parts and
benefitted the winter wheat crop. There is still very little
grazing available, resulting in costly supplemental feeding of
livestock. Demand for agricultural products receded slightly
over the reporting period, although beef exports remained strong. 