-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  The Second District’s economy has grown at a somewhat faster
pace since the last report, led by brisk holiday-season spending.
Labor market conditions, as well as prices, have remained
generally stable. Manufacturers report modestly improved general
business conditions and steady employment since the last report,
along with increased optimism about the near-term outlook.
Retailers generally characterize holiday season spending as
robust, particularly in the final days before Christmas and
right after. Auto dealers report that sales have remained strong
since the last report. Tourism activity has held steady at a
high level. Conditions have generally remained stable in the
housing market, though the rental market has continued to
improve. Commercial real estate markets have been stable to
moderately stronger in late 2011. Finally, bankers report
increased loan demand, steady to somewhat tighter credit
standards, and lower delinquency rates across the board.  Consumer Spending  Retailers generally characterize holiday-season spending as
strong and most report that sales were on or above plan. A trade
association survey of retailers across New York State points to
robust spending, particularly in the final week before Christmas
and on the day after; most contacts indicated that sales were at
least as strong as in 2010, led by electronics--particularly
video games and consoles. One large retail chain reports that
November-December sales were above plan and up moderately from a
year earlier, while another major chain indicates that sales
were down from 2010 levels but still roughly on plan. Both
contacts note that unseasonably mild weather hampered sales of
outerwear and other seasonal apparel. However, two major malls
in upstate New York say that mild weather--along with brisk
demand from Canadian shoppers--contributed to strong sales in
November and early December. A number of contacts also note
exceptional strength in on-line sales, with some reporting year-
over-year gains in excess of 40 percent. Retail prices are
reported to be generally stable.  Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales activity
continued to be robust in November and early December, running
well ahead of comparable 2010 levels--particularly for used
vehicles. Inventories have risen along with sales but remain
tight for some of the more popular models. Wholesale and retail
credit conditions remain favorable.  Consumer confidence  has rebounded from its October lows. The
Conference Board’s survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic
states (NY, NJ, PA) shows consumer confidence rising sharply in
both November and December, back up to the levels seen last
spring. Results from Siena College’s November survey of New York
State residents (latest available) shows consumer confidence
rebounding moderately. Tourism activity has held generally
steady at a strong level since the last report. New York City
hotels report that occupancy rates continued to run at just over
85 percent in November and the first few weeks of December--up
moderately from a year earlier. Room rates were up 2-3 percent
from a year earlier, and total revenues per room were up about 6
percent, though total revenues in the local hospitality industry
are up considerably more due to an increased number of hotel
rooms. On a more negative note, though, Broadway theaters report
that attendance continued to run roughly 5 percent below year-
ago levels in December, while revenues fell below comparable
2010 levels for the first time since the August hurricane.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential rental markets continue to strengthen, while real
estate sales have shown little change since the last report and
new development activity continues to be sluggish.  New York
City ’s rental market remains tight: rents continue to rise, as
the inventory of available units remains lean. Manhattan co-op
and condo prices were little changed in the fourth quarter,
while sales activity slowed from its fairly brisk third quarter
pace. Market conditions were reported to be similar in  Brooklyn 
but a bit softer in the other boroughs and on Long Island. On a
more positive note, one industry expert in  New Jersey  sees
improved fundamentals in the housing market and foresees a
pickup in market conditions in 2012. Real estate contacts in
other parts of the District also note some increase in optimism
among developers.  Commercial real estate markets have been steady to somewhat
stronger since the last report. New York City’s office market
has picked up in late 2011, with office vacancy rates edging
down and asking rents rising. There were also modest signs of
improvement in Westchester and Fairfield counties and in the
Albany area, whereas office markets in northern New Jersey and
western New York State appear to have slackened modestly.
Industrial leasing markets were generally steady overall:
conditions firmed in  Long Island  but showed some signs of
softening across upstate New York; in the rest of the District,
conditions were little changed.  Other Business Activity  A major New York City employment agency reports that hiring
activity has slowed somewhat since October, particularly in the
financial services sector, but notes that it is difficult to
gauge the underlying climate during this typically slow season.
Contacts at major retail chains indicated that they hired more
seasonal workers this year than last. More broadly, both
manufacturers and service-sector firms continue to report that
employment levels at their firms remain steady, on average,
though a growing number of manufacturing contacts across New
York State plan to hire more workers in the months ahead.  Manufacturers across New York State report that general business
conditions improved since the last report, and respondents have
grown considerably more optimistic about the near-term outlook.
Both manufacturers and other firms report that their selling
prices remain flat, though a growing number expect to raise
prices in the months ahead. Separately, a contact in the
trucking industry reports that shipping tonnage (volume) has
picked up considerably in recent months and was up 6 percent
from a year earlier in November.  Financial Developments  Bankers report an increase in demand for all loan categories
except consumer loans, where demand held steady. The increase
was most prevalent for commercial mortgages where four times as
many bankers reported rising than falling demand. Respondents
also indicate widespread increases in demand for refinancing.
Bankers’ responses suggest some tightening of credit standards
for commercial and industrial loans, but no change for the other
loan categories. No banker reported an easing of standards in
any category. Respondents note a decrease in spreads of loan
rates over costs of funds for all loan categories. Bankers also
indicate widespread decreases in the average deposit rate.
Delinquency rates are reported to have decreased for all loan
categories. The improvement was most prevalent in commercial and
industrial loans, where nearly three times as many respondents
reported lower than higher delinquencies. 