-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. District economic activity generally flattened or
improved slightly since our last report. Manufacturing activity
was little changed in late November through mid December, while
port activity slowed. Retail reports were mixed; notably,
several car dealers reported higher sales of used and new
vehicles. Non-retail services firms also reported stronger
revenues in recent weeks. In addition, most tourism contacts
indicated bookings were up. In finance, however, loan demand
continued to be weak, with the exception of commercial loans.
Likewise, residential real estate activity generally declined.
We received mixed reports on commercial real estate activity.
Manufacturing employment declined somewhat, while the average
workweek ticked up and wages advanced in line with our last
report. Retailers reduced their payrolls and wages flattened,
while non-retail services providers added to their payrolls and
average wages increased in that subsector.  Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity remained flat
since our last report. Our latest survey showed little change in
shipments, but a slight increase in new orders. A producer of
residential doors reported that business at his firm remained
depressed. Similarly, a furniture manufacturer said that demand
was generally sluggish across all categories, particularly for
residential furniture. In contrast, a fabricated metal producer
cited an improvement in December’s order volume, which he
attributed to customers placing orders in advance of higher
basic metals prices. That increase in orders allowed his company
to operate at capacity and avoid employee layoffs. Moreover, an
automobile parts manufacturer ordered new manufacturing
equipment due to increased demand and the need to reduce
employee overtime. According to our survey respondents, both raw
materials prices and finished goods prices grew at a notably
slower pace than a month ago.  Port activity in the Fifth District slowed in recent weeks, with
imports coming in below earlier expectations. Several officials
reported that imports have turned flat on a year-over-year basis,
after modest gains during the summer had raised hopes of
continued improvements through the remainder of the year. One
analyst stated that the typical autumn “bump” in retail orders
did not occur this year. A modest uptick of imports is still
expected in January, ahead of Asian plant closings for the
Chinese New Year in February. In contrast, most port officials
expected robust exports, especially for non-container goods. A
late harvest has led to increases in grain exports, according to
one official. Nonetheless, shipping rates are low and carriers
are losing money, causing several analysts to expect increased
pressures among carriers to consolidate.  Retail. Retail merchants gave mixed sales reports, while
wholesalers generally indicated a pickup. The manager of a chain
discount store in  North Carolina  described sales as “erratic,”
and a contact in the Tidewater area noted that sales were
unchanged, even with increased foot traffic. Unusually warm
weather in the District depressed sales of winter apparel. Toys
and electronics, particularly televisions, moved briskly in
recent weeks. A retailer told us that customers have returned as
much as a third of the items previously placed on lay-away
before finishing the payments, because, customers said, they
“need the money.” Although big-ticket sales were down slightly,
there were reports of improvement. Jewelers generally reported
robust sales. Although higher prices for gold and precious gems
damped sales at some stores, other items such as silver remained
in demand. Rising cotton prices continued to push up apparel
prices. According to several car dealers, strong used-vehicle
demand increased trade-in equity. Low  interest rates  and the
rising average age of vehicles on the road also helped move new
cars. On the whole, retail price increases were smaller since
our last report.  Services. Revenues at non-retail services firms accelerated in
recent weeks. Hospital and other healthcare contacts noted that
mergers have increased among smaller hospitals and physician
practices, as changes in healthcare roll out. Nursing home
executives also expressed concern about reduced Medicare
payments and the inability of potential resident-care patients
to sell their homes. Revenues rose more quickly at medical
records management firms, temp staffing agencies, and
telecommunications firms. In addition, a pickup in business at
engineering firms was noted in recent weeks. An engineering
contact in  West Virginia  commented that old projects that “have
been on the shelf” were proceeding. Prices at services firms
increased at a somewhat faster pace since our last report.  Finance. Loan demand in the District continued to be generally
weak. A West  Virginia  banker reported that local lending was
weak, with no increase for some time. A South Carolina banker
cited a decline in the number of outstanding loans. Also,
several bank officials around the District noted that, except
for multi-family building and refinancing, real estate lending
continued to be quite soft. Several bank officials attributed
weak loan demand to a lack of confidence on the part of
businesses. However, a number of commercial developers noted
greater difficulty getting their loans approved. In contrast, an
analyst for a large bank in the District reported that
commercial lending improved slightly over the last few months,
led by small business needs for new capital equipment. A lending
officer in Richmond also noted improvement in consumer borrowing
for autos, home improvement, and debt consolidation. And several
small commercial bankers around the District stated that they
were picking up loans from customers who were dissatisfied with
the service they were getting from large banks. Most bank
contacts stated that interest rates were little changed, and the
quality of loans continued to improve modestly.  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity softened since our
last report, although a few pockets of strength remained.
Several Realtors reported that sales fell considerably and
housing prices had declined from a month ago. Many agents
attributed the drop in sales prices to short/distressed sales
being used as comparables. Most Realtors cited sales in the low-
 price range  as faring better than sales in the high-price range.
An exception, however, was an agent in the D.C. area who said
that sales in the $1,500,000 plus range were up 31 percent.
Brokers in Richmond and Charlotte noted that the rental market
was heating up. A builder in Charleston, South Carolina
described residential construction as very weak, with a rise in
the average number of days on the market for new homes, even as
the number of homes for sale declined. In central Virginia, a
real estate agent indicated most shoppers were serious about
buying, although foot traffic had slowed down quite a bit in
recent months. He added that, while closed sales were down,
pending sales were up from a year ago.  We received mixed signals from commercial real estate and
construction markets in the District. A contractor in the
Baltimore area reported that commercial permits over the last
month were up on a year-over-year basis for the first time this
year. Several contractors in Virginia and  Maryland  experienced a
small pickup in demand and were hoping to increase their prices.
And, while some architecture firms in the D.C. area had more
signs of stress, one firm reported its best backlog of orders
since the recession. In contrast, another D.C. contractor said
that projects in the area were few, and each had many bids that
were too low for most contractors and their subcontractors to
make a profit. A contact in West Virginia noted a dramatic
slowdown in local leasing activity. In addition, a developer in
 South Carolina  stated that office and retail space was abundant
and no new building was needed except for very specialized
structures, such as medical facilities. A commercial Realtor in
South Carolina also noted that, although office vacancy rates
were high, a significant portion of those buildings were
obsolete.  Labor Markets. Assessments of labor market activity changed
little since our last report. A representative at a Charlotte
staffing and recruiting company for accounting and finance
reported an increase in corporate hiring. A staffing services
contact from Charleston, South Carolina indicated that 2011 has
been an exceptionally strong year for temporary placements, but
noted the pool of sufficiently qualified candidates was
relatively small and many applicants were disqualified by drug
tests. Several contacts cited examples of workers who had
declined employment opportunities in favor of  unemployment
benefits . Looking ahead, employment agencies expected stronger
demand for temporary workers during the next six months, along
with improving economic activity. A Maryland contact said that
he expected employers to utilize temp help to a greater extent
than last year, because of economic uncertainty. A commercial
architect in  Charlotte  also reported a trend toward the use of
contract labor instead of hiring full time employees. A source
from a management consulting group in Maryland stated that
businesses believe that regulation and tax increases are
impeding full-time hiring. According to our latest survey,
hiring at non-retail service firms picked up briskly in December
and average wages strengthened. In contrast, retailers cut jobs
and average retail wages flattened. Manufacturing employment
edged lower over the last month, while the average workweek held
steady; wages increased on pace with a month ago.  Tourism. A majority of hotel and resort contacts indicated
bookings have been solid since our last report. The manager of a
western Virginia hotel and resort described a very busy
Thanksgiving weekend. He remarked that they were booked full
through the Christmas weekend, even though the unseasonably warm
weather limited the number of open ski slopes. A contact on the
North Carolina Outer Banks cited good autumn and early winter
tourist activity, and added that bookings were equal to or
better than a year ago. Owners of vacation rental property there
expected a surge in reservations by early January, when people
typically act on decisions made during the winter holidays. A
hotel manager in central Virginia also reported increased
bookings, and a contact at a North Carolina amusement and
recreation venue noted a pick-up in revenues. In contrast, a
hotelier in the Piedmont region of South Carolina indicated
bookings have been flat. In addition, hotel contacts on the
Virginia coast reported that bookings have not increased as
expected, owing to the difficult economy and cuts in federal
 government spending  on travel. One hotel representative noted
that government employees are now sharing rooms rather than
booking individually. Rates were generally unchanged. 