-- Job Outlook Brightens From U.S. Factories to Fracking: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-01-11T15:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-job-outlook-brightens-from-ohio-factories-to-dakota-fracking-economy.html
Manufacturing and mining are set to
power U.S. job gains again this year, from auto assembly plants
in Ohio to the oil and gas fields of North Dakota.  The two industries combined helped spark the biggest annual
employment increases for the economy in five years in 2011, with 
factory payrolls expanding the most in 14 years and mining 
adding more jobs than any period in the past three decades, 
according to Labor Department figures.  Economists Peter Cappelli and  John Silvia  say those gains
are likely to be extended in 2012. The improvement may spread
beyond factory floors and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
used to drill for oil: retailers, the leisure industry and even
construction may also benefit.  Last year’s increases “are good signs for this
year,” said Cappelli, a labor economist and director of the
Center for Human Resources at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s
Wharton School. “Manufacturing is the most important story
because it has spillover effects on other industries in a way
that services may not.”  The pace of job growth at service producers that account
for about 85 percent of all employment was a step behind the 1.3
percent annual increase in total payrolls. Further progress in
the labor market would help bolster incomes and spur  consumer
spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the world’s largest
economy.  Employers added 1.64 million workers in 2011, the best year
for the American worker since 2006, after a 940,000 increase in
2010.  Path for Gains  “We’re on a good path here for job gains,” said Silvia,
chief economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina . “It’s part and parcel of an economy that’s
improving at a pretty decent pace.”  Even with two years of growth, “we’re still a long ways
away” from recovering the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of
the recession that ended in June 2009, said Silvia, a former
economist at the Joint Economic Committee of Congress.  Weakness in  Europe  also poses a risk to the U.S.  Germany ,
the continent’s largest economy, shrank about 0.25 percent in
the fourth quarter from the previous three months, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today in an unofficial
estimate.  The effects of Europe’s debt crisis may cost the U.S. as
much as half a percentage point in economic growth this year,
Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
at an event in  Frankfurt  today.  Stocks fell amid concern Europe’s slowdown will stifle
global growth. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2
percent to 1,290.11 at 10:50 a.m. in  New York .  Factory Jobs  U.S. factories took on additional 225,000 workers, the most
since 1997, the Labor Department reported Jan. 6.  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker behind General Motors
Co., is among manufacturers projecting a brighter employment
picture.  “Looking ahead, we do expect improved job and income gains
associated with better performance” in the economy, Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, Ford’s chief economist, said on a Jan. 4
conference call with analysts.  Auto  purchases  in the U.S. this year will be in the 13.5
million to 14.5 million range, consistent with economic growth
of 2 percent to 3 percent, she said. Sales in 2011 reached 12.8
million, the best year since 2008.  Payrolls in mining last year rose by 89,300, the most since
1981 and up 13 percent from 2010. Oil and gas extraction
accounted for 25,200 of those jobs, the biggest gain in 30
years.  Oil and Gas  The employment figures also show how the economy is
changing, Cappelli said. Job growth in mining reflects new
discoveries, particularly of natural gas deposits, while gains
in the retail, leisure and construction industries are evidence
of improving confidence and a recovery in the purchasing power
of American consumers, he said.  Since 2005, oil production in  North Dakota  has nearly
quadrupled, while employment in mining, quarrying, and oil and
gas extraction has increased 185 percent, according to a
December report by IHS Global Insight.  Producing natural gas from shale will support 870,000 U.S.
jobs and add $118 billion to economic growth in the next four
years, IHS Global said in another report last month.  The natural gas drilling boom is behind the reopening of a
factory in Youngstown, Ohio, that will have 350 workers and
produce seamless pipes used in fracking. The mill for Vallourec
SA’s V&M Star is part of a development that an oil and gas
industry study calculates will mean more than 200,000 jobs and
$22 billion in economic output in  Ohio  by 2015.  Skilled Workers  The jump in mining and manufacturing jobs, underpinned by
the leading role factories played in contributing to the
economic recovery, indicates rising demand for skilled, higher-
paid workers, Wells Fargo’s Silvia said. A “tick up” in these
industries, and in health care and information technology, will
boost wage levels and help accelerate the expansion, he said.  “The people getting hired are the ones with more skills,”
said Silvia. “These are not your traditional assembly-line,
turn-a-screw kind of jobs like we had in the 1950s and ‘60s.”  Among other industries that showed a pickup in jobs,
 retailers  took on 239,700 employees in 2011, the most since
1999. A 268,000 increase last year in  leisure and hospitality 
workers was the biggest since 2006.  Another part of the economy showing signs of stabilization
is housing, which may keep headcount from deteriorating.
Construction companies added 46,000 workers last year, the first
gain since 2006, Labor Department data showed. Employment tied
to home building increased by 3,600 last year, the first annual
advance since 2005.  Industries that experienced a spurt in payrolls last year
may bolster confidence among other employers about hiring.  “A lot of employers make decisions at least in part by
looking at what everybody else is doing in the industry,”
Cappelli said. “So in each of these industries, the fact that
hiring is going up is a confidence builder if you’re an employer
in that industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  