-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to grow at a
moderate pace during the reporting period of late November
through the end of December. Upward price pressures remained
very modest overall, and upward wage pressures were quite
limited. Holiday retail sales reportedly were up over last
year’s season, and demand edged up for business and consumer
services. District manufacturing activity grew further on net.
Production activity and sales remained robust for agricultural
producers and rose a bit further for providers of energy
resources. Activity in District housing markets stayed at very
low levels, and demand for nonresidential real estate generally
was weak. Reports from financial institutions indicated a slight
increase in business loan demand.  Wages and Prices  Price inflation remained quite limited for most final goods and
services during the reporting period. Contacts noted recent
price increases for selected commodities such as oil and for
assorted food items at the retail level, in particular for meat.
However, intense supplier competition for existing customers
kept a lid on final sales prices for the majority of retail
goods and services.  Contacts in most sectors reported that upward wage pressure were
modest, although they continued to note rising costs for
employee health benefits. Elevated unemployment rates and
limited hiring kept compensation gains modest across most
regions and sectors, with the exception of significant wage
increases for workers with specialized skills in selected
manufacturing and technology sectors. Looking ahead, most
businesses expect little change in the pace of hiring and wage
gains next year.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales were up compared with last year’s holiday season,
with gains reported by traditional department stores as well as
discount chains. Inventories generally were at or near desired
levels given the pace of sales, although contacts reported an
excess of winter apparel resulting from unusually mild weather.
Demand remained largely unchanged compared with prior reporting
periods for retailers of major appliances, furniture, and
electronics. Sales improved somewhat for grocers. Sales of new
automobiles rose further overall during the reporting period,
although slightly softer demand was noted for the last few weeks.
Demand for used vehicles remained robust, and dealers reported
marked improvement in the quality of trade-ins compared with
earlier in the year.  Demand for business and consumer services was mixed but appeared
to expand slightly on net. Demand for transportation services
remained largely flat, as did demand for professional services
such as legal services and accounting. Sales were largely stable
on a seasonal basis for restaurants and other food-service
providers. For providers of health-care services, demand
softened a bit further, as higher emergency room visits were
more than offset by declines in inpatient admissions and
surgeries. By contrast, sales continued to expand for providers
of technology services to businesses and consumers, although the
pace of growth continued to slow. District travel activity
picked up further, with additional growth in demand reported for
the tourism and business segments of the market alike.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity expanded further on balance
during the reporting period of late November through the end of
December. Makers of commercial aircraft and parts reported
further expansion in production activity, with ongoing growth in
new orders attributed in part to rising demand for fuel-
efficient aircraft. Activity remained largely stable for metal
fabricators and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable
future. For manufacturers of semiconductors and other technology
products, demand growth continued to slow, and capacity
utilization dipped a bit from existing high levels as companies
sought to hold down inventory growth. Capacity utilization rates
for petroleum refiners remained largely stable or rose somewhat
as robust global demand for distillate products, such as diesel
and jet fuel, offset weak domestic demand for gasoline. Activity
remained exceptionally sluggish for manufacturers of wood
products.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Demand was robust for agricultural producers and grew a bit for
natural resources used for energy production. Final sales and
orders for most agricultural products, including livestock and a
variety of crops, continued to expand. Elevated  price levels  for
a range of metals supported further expansion of mining activity
in parts of the District. Overall demand for crude oil rose
slightly, largely reflecting robust foreign demand, while mild
winter weather has kept demand for natural gas subdued and
caused extraction activity to wane a bit.  Real Estate and Construction  Home demand in the District remained at very low levels, and
demand for commercial real estate stayed weak. The sales pace
for new and existing homes was somewhat mixed across the
District but sluggish overall. In response to slow sales and
continued high numbers of financially distressed properties,
home construction activity remained moribund and prices were
mostly flat. Demand for commercial real estate remained weak
overall, keeping vacancy rates for office and industrial space
elevated in most parts of the District. However, in selected
geographic areas, such as the San Francisco Bay Area and  Seattle ,
expansion in the information technology sector continued to spur
demand growth for office and industrial space.  Financial Institutions  Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan
demand improved a touch relative to the prior reporting period.
The volume of new commercial and industrial loans inched up,
although contacts noted that businesses remain very cautious in
their approach to  capital spending . Contacts again noted stiff
competition among lenders to extend credit to well-qualified
small and medium-sized businesses, causing sustained downward
pressure on loan rates and fees. Contacts from the venture
capital sector noted a slight pickup in IPO and investment
activity, on the heels of a slowdown in the prior reporting
period. On the consumer side, loan demand remained largely
unchanged. In general, lending standards stayed relatively
restrictive for many types of business and consumer loans,
despite further modest improvements in overall  credit quality . 