-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  The economy in the Fourth District grew at a slow pace during
the past six weeks. Manufacturers reported that new orders and
production were stable. Single-family home construction improved
slightly, while nonresidential builders saw a drop-off in
inquiries and weak backlogs. November retail and motor vehicle
sales were little changed from the prior month. Activity in
shale gas drilling and production expanded. Freight transport
volume slowed along seasonal trends. The demand for credit by
businesses and households was characterized as either steady or
increasing slightly.  Labor market reports indicated that hiring remains at a low
level, while recruiting high-skilled workers was difficult.
Staffing-firm representatives saw growth in the number of new
 job openings , with vacancies concentrated in healthcare and
energy. Wage pressures were largely contained. Other than a
boost in steel prices, upward pressure on raw material prices
has abated.  Manufacturing. New orders and production at District factories
were mainly stable during the past six weeks. Any declines were
attributed to seasonal factors or lessening demand from European
and Chinese customers. Compared to year-ago levels, the majority
of our contacts noted a moderate improvement in output. However,
they are cautious in their outlook and expect little change in
demand during the upcoming months. Most steel producers and
service centers reported that shipping volume was steady along
seasonal trends, although two of our contacts noted an
unexpected pickup for this time of year. Demand is being driven
by autos, energy, and heavy equipment industries. Steel
representatives are hopeful about the first quarter of 2012, and
most expect to see at least modest growth. District auto
production showed a substantial decline during November on a
month-over-month basis, more so for foreign nameplates. Most of
the decline was attributed to supply chain issues. Year-over-
year, domestic auto producers’ output rose significantly, while
their foreign counterparts posted moderate declines.  Capacity utilization was below normal at most factories, while
steel producers saw their utilization rates at or near normal
levels. Inventories were in line with sales for the majority of
our contacts. Manufacturers told us that their capital outlays
have reached targeted levels for the year. Only a few
respondents indicated that they expect to significantly raise
their capital budgets for 2012. Other than steel, raw material
prices were steady during the past few weeks. We heard several
reports about steel producers raising their prices and the
possibility of a second round of increases early in 2012. New
hiring remained at a low level. Those adding to payrolls found
it difficult to recruit professional and high-skilled production
workers. Wage pressures are contained.  Construction. Single-family  home construction  was described as
better during the past couple of months, with sales contracts
distributed across all price-point categories. Builders were
slightly more optimistic in their outlook, but they are not
expecting an industry turnaround in the near term. We heard a
report that homebuilders’ inventories are on a decline in some
parts of the District, which should help boost new-home
construction during 2012. Not much change was seen in the list
prices of new homes, though two of our contacts noted a greater
use of discounting. A few subcontractors attempted to raise
billing rates, but they were unsuccessful. Employment and wages
were stable.  Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size
builders was steady, although the number of inquiries has fallen
off during the past few weeks. The biggest challenges facing
nonresidential contractors continue to be financing projects and
adding to backlog. Construction contracts were primarily with
manufacturers and health-care providers. Builders are uncertain
about future prospects. One contractor noted that he does not
expect a major pick-up through at least the first half of 2012.
On balance, building material prices were stable. The number of
reports about sub contractors going out of businesses rose,
while general contracting payrolls showed a slight decline.  Consumer Spending . Retailers reported that November sales were
stable or slightly higher relative to October sales. According
to a few of our contacts, a milder than expected autumn was
holding back purchases of cold weather-related items, while
purchases of electronics and home furnishings were better than
expected. On a year-over-year basis, results were mixed. Sales
for the first quarter of 2012 are generally expected to improve
over prior-year levels, mainly in the low- to mid-single digits.
Some retailers expressed caution about 2012 given the fragility
of household balance sheets. Upward pressure on supplier costs
has abated during the past six weeks. Inventories were
characterized as good except for apparel items, which are higher
than desired. Capital budgets were on plan. Most of our contacts
said that outlays during 2012 will not change appreciably from
this year’s levels and that outlays will be used mainly for
technology enhancements and remodeling. Other than seasonal
hiring, there was little change in employment at existing stores.  Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales during November
remained strong. On a year-over-year basis, sales volume was
largely higher. Dealers saw robust demand for all vehicle types.
A few dealers noted that their inventories are now adequate.
Others said that inventories are low, which they attributed to
brisk sales. The outlook for 2012 is somewhat tentative, mainly
because of uncertainty. Purchases of used vehicles have fallen
off slightly, due in part to a supply shortage. We heard reports
about some easing of credit restrictions, while  interest rates 
were very competitive. Dealers are investing in manufacturer-
mandated facility upgrades and imaging programs. The few dealers
looking to hire reported that it is difficult to find qualified
candidates, especially sales representatives and service
technicians.  Banking. Demand for business loans was characterized as either
stable or increasing. Requests are being driven by commercial
real estate, notably multifamily housing, and healthcare. On the
consumer side, our contacts described installment loan activity
as flat or up a bit. Auto lending (direct and indirect) and home
equity lines of credit continued to show strength. Bankers said
that they have not seen a bump up in the use of credit cards
during the  holiday shopping season . Interest rates for business
and consumer credit were very competitive. Activity in the
residential mortgage market has been solid in the fourth quarter,
driven by low interest rates. Most applicants are looking to
refinance. No changes were made to loan application standards.
Delinquencies were steady or declined across most loan
categories; any stress was found in real estate portfolios and
credit cards. Overall core deposits grew, although a few bankers
commented that growth is being driven by business customers.
Payrolls were stable, with little hiring expected in the near
term.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production was mainly
steady during the past few weeks, with little change expected in
the upcoming months. Our contacts were uncertain about future
gas drilling due to eroding natural  gas prices . Well-head prices
for oil were flat, but remained elevated. Activity in shale-gas
extraction expanded. Coal output was stable, though it may
decline during 2012 due to an easing in demand for thermal and
metallurgical coals from European customers and domestic power
producers. The latter was attributed to abundant supplies of
low-priced natural gas and regulatory compliance issues for
coal-fired generators. Spot prices for several types of coal
have fallen off. Capital outlays are on target, with moderate
increases projected by oil and gas companies in the upcoming
months. The cost of production equipment and materials was
generally flat during the past six weeks. Energy payrolls held
steady. A few small oil and gas producers are beginning to
experience wage pressures brought on by competition from large
firms engaged in shale gas exploration and production.  Transportation. Freight transport volume has slowed during the
past few weeks, following seasonal trends. Strong demand was
still seen from the energy and manufacturing sectors. Our
contacts expect volume to grow at a slow, steady pace during
2012, with predictions in the mid-single digits. We heard
numerous reports of rising prices for parts, especially tires,
and of some volatility in fuel prices. Much of the cost increase
was recovered via fuel surcharges and rate adjustments when
contracts came due. Capital outlays were on plan for 2011. Most
of our contacts expect to increase their capital budgets during
2012 for fleet expansion and to replace aging equipment.
Operators reported hiring for driver replacement or adding
capacity, although recruiting qualified drivers is difficult.
Wage pressures exist due to a tightening of the driver pool. 