-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Overall business activity in the Third District has continued to
grow modestly since the previous  Beige Book , with various
sectors experiencing typical seasonal patterns - positive and
negative. Since the last Beige Book, manufacturing activity has
continued to grow modestly with some signs of a seasonal
slowdown. Retail sales overall generally increased for the
holiday season, meeting seasonal expectations. Motor vehicle
dealers experienced further strong sales growth and strong
pricing power, overcoming some of the typical seasonal drag.
Third District banks have reported slight growth in loan volume
outstanding since the last Beige Book. New home construction
slowed further, driven by seasonal trends and falling prices for
existing homes. Commercial real estate contacts continued to
report slow growth year-over-year, although anticipated seasonal
slowing has been a factor since the last Beige Book. Service-
sector firms reported generally modest growth. Price pressures
remained contained for most sectors, with little change from the
last Beige Book.  The general outlook seems to have improved for most firms since
the last Beige Book. Manufacturers anticipate rising shipments
and orders during the next six months. Retailers expect slightly
stronger sales, and auto dealers are increasingly confident that
pent-up demand will carry well into the spring selling season.
Banking, real estate, and service-sector firms continue to plan
for slow growth in 2012. Many have voiced concerns over the
ongoing lack of a housing recovery, the threat from  Europe ’s
economic woes, and the indecision on numerous federal budget
issues.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have reported further modest increases in new
orders and shipments. Gains were widespread among the makers of
industrial machinery and equipment, and of food products.
Similarly, a supplier to the broad industrial market confirmed
continued growth but noted some softness of a seasonal nature.
Some makers of lumber and wood products and of electrical
machinery reported seasonal slowing. However, one electrical
equipment firm logged the worst month of orders in five years.
Several contacts attributed additional slowing to end-of-year
inventory adjustments. Contacts in primary metals reported mixed
results dependent upon their firm’s market orientation, for
example, to Europe or to the domestic  auto industry .  Most Third District manufacturers remain split between expecting
business conditions to improve during the next six months and
expecting conditions to stay the same. This overall positive
tendency has pervaded more sectors since the last Beige Book.
However, the currently low seasonal demand, cited by many firms,
may be a large factor in the anticipation of near-term gains.
Manufacturing contacts continued to cite weak housing markets as
a drag, Europe’s woes as a threat, and rising auto demand as a
positive factor. Expectations of  capital spending  and future
hiring also remain positive but have moderated since the last
Beige Book.  Retail. Third District retailers reported strong holiday sales
in November and positive, but softer, sales in December. An
outlet operator recounted that the typical budget-conscious,
discount-driven consumer shopped early, then faded somewhat. The
longer shopping season and added store hours produced greater
overall sales volumes but also increased the wage bill for
hourly workers. Profits for the season were maintained by
closely watching inventories and markdown levels. Unseasonably
warm weather dampened sales of cold-weather goods, but “rain
boots sold well.” Prospects beyond this holiday season are
expected to follow recent trends with high-end, online, and
outlet market segments attracting the most  consumer spending .  Auto sales remained unseasonably strong through November and
December, according to a Third District industry contact. With
still a little more demand than supply, dealers continue to
offer less discounting and earn better grosses. Also, pent-up
demand remains strong. An industry contact indicated that
dealers may begin hiring if robust sales continue into the
spring season.  Finance. Overall loan volumes continued to expand slightly in
the Third District since the previous Beige Book; however, many
bankers reported difficulty maintaining loan volumes. Some
reported turning down deposits for lack of sufficient lending
opportunities. The strongest loan growth continued to emerge in
home mortgages, including refinancings. Commercial real estate
and C&I lending were flat. Credit quality continued to improve
somewhat. Third District bankers expressed several concerns,
including Europe’s economic problems, a lack of recovery in the
housing market, uncertainty and a lack of confidence with
 Washington , and uncertainty over the renewal of federal
contracts.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential builders are “glad to
have 2011 behind” them. Builders reported that the year closed
with sales activity slowing somewhat more than seasonal trends
would predict due to lack of confidence, as existing home prices
continued to fall in most markets. Some of the activity reported
in the last Beige Book dissipated, as builders were unable to
close on contracts. New construction activity continues to shift
from the single-family market toward the multifamily market.
Some builders are planning for growth in 2012, even some hiring.
However, their plans assume an increase in market share and an
expectation that some competitors will not endure a seventh
consecutive year with little or no growth.  During a seasonally slow period for most nonresidential real
estate activity, contacts have reported no significant changes
since the last Beige Book. The seasonal lull should generate a
little pickup in leasing in early 2012. The sudden announcement
in early December of an immediate refinery closing, not
anticipated until early 2012, sent hundreds of workers home,
including construction workers with jobs associated with
facility maintenance and repair. A few weeks later another
refinery, currently in the process of restarting, announced
expansion plans. New construction and renovation plans remain
mostly limited to institutional, life sciences, multifamily, and
warehousing sectors in select markets. A portion of the new
construction, especially for warehousing, represents market
shifts among regions, rather than net overall market growth. The
overall outlook for demand of nonresidential space is for
continued slow growth.  Services. Third District service-sector firms have continued to
report modest growth since the last Beige Book. A staffing firm
noted that firms appear busier, based upon an end-ofyear uptick
in short-term contracts to provide coverage for vacations and
extra holiday business - a pattern not observed since the
recession began. The overall trend toward temporary or contract
basis for new placements, rather than permanent, full-time hires,
remains unchanged. Contacts indicated that financial services
will face challenges in 2012, and many sources expressed concern
for defense-related activity in the wake of recent and ongoing
federal budget indecisions. The majority of service-sector firms
anticipate slowly improving growth rates through 2012.  Prices and Wages. On balance,  price levels  have changed little
since the previous Beige Book. Auto dealers and freight shippers
still command favorable pricing power. Several manufacturing
firms recently raised prices and have yet to observe any
pushback from their customers. Retailers and homebuilders
continue to report very tight margins. Builders are worried
about ongoing closures along their supply chain as the recession
in construction continues. Substantial cost increases are
anticipated when a recovery emerges and triggers demand for more
building materials. Although exceptions exist within specific
submarkets, concessions are still expected of many bankers,
builders, and leasing agents. Most firms reported no significant
upward wage pressure. While most firms are anticipating greater
increases in health benefit costs, a few have indicated a
significant rollback from last year’s large rate hike. 