-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Eighth District -- St. Louis  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District grew at a modest pace since
our previous survey. Manufacturing activity has increased since
the previous report and activity in the services sector has also
increased. Residential real estate activity, in contrast, has
continued to decline. Commercial and industrial real estate
activity has been sluggish, although contacts noted improvement
in some areas. Overall lending at a sample of small and mid-
sized District banks declined slightly in the three-month period
from mid-September to mid-December.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing activity has increased since our previous report.
Several manufacturers reported plans to open plants and expand
operations in the near future, while a smaller number of
contacts reported plans to close plants or decrease operations.
Firms in the industrial gas, metallic component, automotive
parts, primary metal, and clothing manufacturing industries
announced plans to increase operations and hire new workers. In
contrast, firms in the speaker component, medical equipment,
furniture, and dye manufacturing industries announced plans to
decrease operations and lay off workers.  Activity in the District’s services sector has increased since
our previous report. Firms in distribution services, consulting
services, and  health services  announced plans to expand
operations and hire new workers. Several general retail contacts
in the District reported stronger holiday sales compared with
last year. District auto dealers reported strong sales of luxury
automobiles and  pickup trucks .  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth
District. Compared with the same period in 2010, November 2011
year-to-date home sales were down 3 percent in Memphis, 4
percent in St. Louis, 5 percent in Louisville, and 7 percent in
 Little Rock . Residential construction also continued to decrease
throughout the District. November 2011 year-to-date single-
family housing permits decreased in the majority of the
District’s metropolitan areas compared with the same period in
2010. Permits decreased 1 percent in  Memphis , 17 percent in
Louisville, and 21 percent in Little Rock and St. Louis.  Commercial and industrial real estate activity was slow
throughout most of the Eighth District. Contacts in central
Kentucky reported that commercial real estate activity continues
to be sluggish, while contacts in central  Arkansas  reported soft
demand for commercial real estate loans. Contacts in Louisville
noted that the  health care industry  is providing most of the
current demand for office spaces. Commercial and industrial
construction activity remained unchanged throughout most of the
District. Contacts in south-central Kentucky reported that
construction activity is modest but noted new commercial
construction projects in the Scottsville and Bowling Green areas.
Contacts in St. Louis reported continued limited construction,
while contacts in Louisville noted that speculative development
has still not recovered. Contacts in western  Kentucky  reported
that construction firms are experiencing little activity with
the exception of government-related projects.  Banking and Finance  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized
District banks decreased 0.2 percent in the three-month period
from mid-September to mid-December. Real estate lending, which
accounts for 73.4 percent of total loans, decreased 0.5 percent.
Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.5 percent of
total loans, decreased 0.2 percent. Loans to individuals,
accounting for 4.7 percent of loans, increased 2.0 percent. All
other loans, accounting for 6.4 percent of total loans,
increased 8.0 percent. Over this period, total deposits
increased 0.3 percent.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  As of the beginning of December, the number of bales of cotton
ginned (separated from the seed) in the District states was up
by 11.9 percent over the same period in 2010. Monthly output of
commercial red meat for October 2011 increased compared with
September 2011 and October 2010. However, the District’s total
live weight and number of young chickens slaughtered decreased
between September and October 2011. The District’s monthly coal
production for November 2011 was 2.7 percent lower compared with
November 2010; however, the District’s year-to-date coal
production at the end of November 2011 was 2.8 percent higher
than the same period in 2010. 