-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Most business contacts in the First District report modest
revenue growth from a year earlier. Retailers are somewhat more
positive than in preceding months, with 2011 sales projected to
come in higher than 2010. Manufacturers’ reports are similar to
the last round; most firms cite somewhat slower sales growth
than earlier in the year, while a couple of semiconductor-
related firms saw sales fall off (they believe temporarily).
Commercial and residential real estate markets remain weak, but
are not expected to deteriorate further. Advertising and
consulting firms, by contrast, say business improved noticeably
between the third and the fourth quarters, bringing a strong
2011 to a close. Some firms are hiring, but modestly; wage
increases, if occurring, remain moderate. Price pressures
continue to ease. Most contacts expect a continuation of current
modest growth trends, notwithstanding uncertainties related to
Europe and U.S. budget deliberations.  Retail and Tourism  As in mid-November, retail contacts for this round report a
slight improvement in business conditions from earlier in the
year. Comparable-store sales in the fourth quarter for most
contacts range from flat to up 2 percent from a year earlier;
one retailer saw a drop in in-store foot traffic for December
but a tripling in  Internet sales . One is projecting annual sales
for 2011 will be down about 5 percent, but this represents an
improvement compared with sales declines of 10 percent in the
first half of the year. Contacts with a web-based presence
report sales strength in this area, and some are adding staff
and making investments to better service customers buying online.
Planned salary increases for 2012 range from 2 percent to 3
percent for merit-related raises; none of the retail contacts is
planning to offer a cost-of-living adjustment.  The travel and tourism sector continues to project a 5 percent
to 8 percent increase for 2011 over 2010. Data from the first
week of December show strong performance. The industry foresees
a robust 2012, taking heart from Q1 projections based on advance
bookings. Preliminary predictions are that 2012 hotel revenue
per available room will increase 10 percent to 12 percent over
2011. Restaurant sales, while much harder to project, are
estimated to grow 3 percent in 2012 over 2011, an improvement
over the 1.5 percent estimated for 2011 over 2010.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Not much has changed since our last manufacturing report in mid-
November. Most contacts report growing sales and some are hiring,
albeit in small numbers. Two contacts in the semiconductor
industry report a substantial weakening of business in the
summer and fall but both seem optimistic that the decline is
transitory. Overall, the mood remains cautious.  Of the 13 manufacturing contacts in this cycle, nine report
higher sales, two cite flat sales and two declining sales. The
two firms with falls in sales are in the semiconductor business
and both depend heavily on  Asia  for demand. Of these two, a
manufacturer of analog semiconductors says orders peaked in the
June quarter and bottomed out in September; since sales follow
orders with a lag, sales declined in the fourth quarter, ending
an 11-quarter streak of quarter-on-quarter sales growth. The two
contacts differ on the source of the problem, with one
attributing it to China-specific issues and the other arguing
that the underlying causes are broad-based.  For contacts reporting higher sales, growth recently is moderate
compared to the rapid growth they experienced in the last few
years. One firm said that while sales were likely to be up about
15 percent for the year, the fourth quarter would clock in at
only about 5 percent.  Europe  is cited as a problem, although two
contacts say that they have yet to see evidence of a recession
in northern Europe. One contact at a medical equipment supplier
says that debt problems in Europe do not appear to have affected
the health care sector; another contact at a large diversified
manufacturing firm argues that there is an incipient credit
crunch in Europe.  On pricing, the complaints about escalating input prices have
more or less stopped; contacts say even food prices have ceased
rising. A year ago, virtually every contact talked about high
commodity prices and, in some cases, shortages, but now the only
comments relate to limited pricing pressure.  Five contacts report that they are hiring, eight report flat to
maybe a small decline and none reports any significant staff
reductions. Several contacts mention that they are having
trouble finding qualified staff, but some have come up with more
creative ways to bring in the right people. Firms continue to
devote resources to  capital expenditures . None reports any
problems raising money to pay for needed investment and, in fact,
many are able to finance all  capital spending  with retained
earnings.  The outlook remains guarded; general concerns about
“macroeconomic uncertainty” remain. The two firms reporting
lower sales are fairly optimistic that the dip is transitory. In
general, firms with greater exposure to Europe are more
concerned than firms focused on the domestic market.  Selected Business Services  Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District report
strong growth in the fourth quarter after a generally weaker
third quarter. Marketing and advertising contacts indicate that
2011 growth has averaged 8 percent to 9 percent (annual rate),
driven largely by an increase in large orders from large clients.
Strategy and business consulting contacts report low double-
digit annualized growth, driven by strong private equity
business, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate consulting.
Contacts note that many clients have a lot of cash and are
becoming more confident that - despite risks - the  U.S. economy 
will “muddle through” and thus are willing to spend. In addition,
consulting firms have seen a shift in demand towards services
that can be directly tied to the bottom line such as sales and
process efficiency rather than strategy and management.  The majority of consulting and advertising contacts reports
minimal increases in the prices they charge, held down by both
competitive pressures and modest cost increases. Compensation
increases are generally in the mid single digits and contacts
report steady or growing profit margins. By exception, two
contacts raised prices by 5 percent to 10 percent because of
strong demand for their services.  Hiring activity continues to be mixed. Two consulting contacts
report strong 2011 employment growth, while three firms kept
employment flat and one continued a year-long downsizing process.
The two firms reporting job growth expect hiring to remain
strong (about 10 percent) in 2012, while a marketing firm plans
to increase employment modestly, and the other firms expect flat
2012 employment. Firms that increased employment did so to keep
up with a growing workload, while firms downsizing in the third
or fourth quarter emphasized cost controls.  All respondents are more optimistic now than when contacted in
the third quarter, with the exception of one firm that has done
exceptionally well all year. The improved outlook is mostly due
to the strong fourth quarter indicating that the third quarter
was only a temporary rough patch.  Commercial Real Estate  Commercial leasing activity across the First District was flat
to down in recent weeks, in line with typical seasonal patterns.
In Hartford, leasing activity saw a modest seasonal slowdown in
December and business sentiment held steady. Activity slowed
modestly in Providence as well, also in line with yearend
expectations, but deals in the works as of the previous report
moved forward as expected and pending deals are set to boost
absorption of Class A  office space  in the first quarter of 2012.
Greater Portland also registered a modest seasonal leasing
slowdown in December, but saw a decline in the office vacancy
rate on a year-over-year basis, to 10.8 percent from 11.2
percent. Boston’s leasing market held roughly steady, with
modest positive absorption in suburban corridors as well as in
the sought-after neighborhoods of Back Bay and East Cambridge.
Rents remain flat for downtown office space on lower floors of
buildings but are rising for upper-floor space in prime high-
rise structures. Despite positive absorption in 2011, one
contact says Boston’s downtown office vacancy rate remains
undesirably high at about 16 percent.  Construction activity remains limited across the region, with
the ongoing exception of multifamily construction in greater
Boston. The lack of speculative office construction is
attributed to the fact that building costs continue to exceed
expected rents. The investment sales market remains active in
Boston as prices signal an ongoing willingness of buyers to
accept low rates of return for prime properties. A Portland
contact predicts an increase in sales activity in that market in
the coming months as borrowers seek to take advantage of very
low mortgage interest rates.  The outlook among contacts is unchanged since the last report,
with forecasts calling for modest improvements in office
fundamentals in 2012, roughly on par with the experience of 2011.
While some see upside potential in office rents, downside risks
are also noted, such as possible closures in the retail sector
and ongoing political gridlock.  Residential Real Estate  Sales figures in the  New England  single-family home and
condominium market increased in November compared to a year ago,
with the growth largely reflecting lackluster year-earlier sales
numbers following the expiration of the tax credit in mid-2010.
Contacts reiterated concerns about weak demand, citing poor
labor market conditions and stricter lending requirements. A
contact from Greater Boston contrasts the local market with the
rest of the New England region, saying that the Greater Boston
area showed possible signs of improvement due to strengthening
employment conditions in the city. Meanwhile, throughout New
England, the median sale price of homes and condos fell in
November compared to a year ago; contacts attribute the declines
to a rise in sales of distressed properties. The price decreases
were uneven across the region, with  Maine  slipping by less than
1 percent and Connecticut prices falling by over 10 percent. The
median price of condos fell more sharply than  home prices .  The outlook remains largely the same as in previous reports.
Contacts expect sales activity to remain slow in the coming
months, but believe prices will stabilize in the region. They do
not expect further weakening in the market but also do not
anticipate significant recovery in the near term. 