-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy grew at a modest pace since the last
report. Solid growth was reported in some areas of  consumer
spending  and in the energy and mining sectors. Slight to
moderate growth was noted in commercial and residential real
estate, professional services, manufacturing, and agriculture.
Activity in the construction sector was down from a year ago,
while the unexpected lack of snowfall dampened tourism. Labor
markets showed continued signs of modest strengthening, while
wage increases remained subdued. Prices generally remained level.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending increased during the holiday season. Holiday
sales at a Minneapolis area mall were up more than 10 percent
compared with a year ago. Sales at a North Dakota mall during
late November and December were up about 8 percent over last
year. A mall manager in Montana noted heavy traffic at the mall
during the week before Christmas and the day after Christmas.
Same-store sales at a Minnesota-based retailer increased about 2
percent in November compared with a year ago; Black Friday sales
were particularly strong. A Minnesota-based sporting goods store
reported that  Internet sales  on Cyber Monday (Nov. 28) increased
50 percent over last year. Warm weather set back some sales of
winter apparel, but clear roads allowed shoppers to get to
stores. A domestic auto dealer reported strong sales in December.  Tourism activity was down. A lack of snow and surprisingly warm
weather stymied snowmobiling, ice fishing, and skiing in many
areas. Tourism officials in Minnesota noted that the lack of
snow was affecting businesses that cater to winter recreation.
Low snowfall in Yellowstone National Park was affecting nearby
businesses that offer winter tours of the park on snowmobiles
and in snow coaches. However, a ski resort in Minnesota reported
strong preseason sales; the number of visits through the end of
December was at expected levels. In western South Dakota, a
snowmobiling-related business and a ski resort both have
received calls from a number of people who are ready to visit
once more snow falls.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity decreased modestly over the
past year. The value of commercial building permits in the  Sioux
Falls , S.D., area was down slightly in November from November
2010. Respondents to the University of St. Thomas’s semiannual
 Minnesota  Commercial Real Estate Survey (November) expected
higher land and building costs, which should dampen construction.
However, several commercial construction projects are under way
or planned in Montana. Residential construction decreased from
last year. The number of permitted residential units in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul, Sioux Falls, and Billings, Mont., areas
was down in November from a year ago, but increased in Fargo,
N.D.  Commercial real estate market activity increased. According to
the aforementioned University of St. Thomas survey, respondents
expected growth in rents and occupancy but flat rates of return
on investment. Industrial real estate activity increased since
the last report, according to a large Minnesota commercial
broker. Home sales in December were up from the same period a
year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, and the inventory of
homes for sale was at six-year lows; however, prices continued
to decline. In the Sioux Falls area, November new listings were
down, sales activity was flat, and prices decreased from a year
ago.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms increased since
the last report. An information technology consulting firm noted
a solid backlog of business for 2012. An architectural firm
noted more potential projects up for bid, but said many projects
never become reality. An accounting firm reported flat activity
over the past month.  Manufacturing The District manufacturing sector expanded
slightly since the last report. A November survey of  purchasing
managers  by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that
manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and North Dakota,
and was flat in  South Dakota . A number of factory expansions
were reported in eastern South Dakota, including at a plastics
producer and a packaging firm. In southern Minnesota, a firm
that produces pressurized  storage tanks  for the natural gas
industry is expanding into a currently empty building, and a
large plant that makes electronically shaded glass began
operations after several years of development.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued to increase.
A new wind energy project was announced in western  Wisconsin .
While District oil and gas exploration activity decreased
slightly since the last report, it remained well above year-
earlier levels.  An oil transport facility expansion is planned in  North Dakota 
that will add a rail car loading area and increase holding
capacity by 80,000 barrels per day. Mining activity remained
strong. A new venture on Minnesota’s Iron Range to extract
material for steel production from old mining dumps recently
began operations at one site and made its first shipments; two
more sites are planned.  Agriculture  Growth in the agricultural sector moderated, as some commodity
prices declined. Prices received by farmers for wheat, corn,
hogs, and dairy products decreased in December from the previous
month. Cattle, poultry, egg, dry bean, and hay prices increased
in December from the previous month. Meanwhile, a partnership
announced the development of a large grain-loading facility in
Minnesota.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Labor markets showed continued signs of modest strengthening. A
pharmacy benefits management company recently announced plans to
add 300 jobs in Minnesota. A bank is hiring almost 80 more
workers at a call center in South Dakota. Bank directors noted
that in the Dakotas and some parts of  Montana , employers would
hire if they could find workers; some of these employers have
started to offer relocation packages as an incentive. According
to a recent survey by an employment services firm, 15 percent of
respondents in Minneapolis-St. Paul expect to increase staffing
levels during first quarter 2012, while 8 percent expect to
decrease staff. A year ago, 10 percent expected to increase
hiring, while 6 percent expected decreases. Minnesota initial
claims for  unemployment benefits  decreased 18 percent in
November compared with a year earlier.  Wage increases were subdued. Several contacts noted small wage
increases at their firms. A Minnesota manufacturer of
residential windows reported that its employees will go without
an annual bonus for the third straight year, but the company
also hasn’t laid anyone off during those three years.  Prices generally remained level. End-of-December Minnesota
gasoline prices were flat since the last report, and only 18
cents per gallon more than a year ago. Overall metals prices
were level since the last report and lower than a year ago. A
Minnesota-based electronics retailer heavily discounted products
at its stores during the early part of the  holiday shopping
season . However, a bank director noted that a number of District
manufacturers were planning to raise prices in 2012. 