-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Sixth District business contacts described economic
activity as expanding at a modest pace from late November
through December. Reports from most sectors were positive, yet
expectations remained guarded. Holiday sales were described by
most retailers as generally positive and the pace of sales was
stronger than last year by most accounts. Auto sales remained
strong as well. Tourism-related spending was solid as
international visitors continued to bolster activity. Weakness
persisted in the residential real estate sector as both brokers
and homebuilders continued to report downward pressure on prices
for new and existing homes. Commercial contractors noted a
slight improvement in demand compared with earlier in the year.
Most manufacturers and transportation contacts noted positive
activity, especially related to exports. Bankers noted that
deposit growth continued to outpace loan demand. Employment
growth was positive but tepid across the District as employers
remained cautious with regard to hiring. Concerns over increased
input costs eased further as most commodity prices leveled off
and business’ inflation expectations remained in check. Few
contacts reported having significant pricing power.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. District retail contacts noted
that sales and traffic in late November and December were up
from a year ago. Post-Thanksgiving reports were generally
positive; nearly sixty percent of contacts polled indicated that
sales were better than the same time period last year. Almost
half of contacts reported that inventory levels were up slightly
compared to last month, but most were satisfied that current
levels were appropriate. High-end and outlet stores were
specifically identified as doing well and were posting improved
profits. Most merchants polled expect overall sales to improve
over the next three months. Auto dealers indicated that sales
continued to be strong because of pent-up demand and are better
positioned to obtain financing; the pace of sales during early
November and December was reportedly the strongest in over two
years.  Hospitality contacts reported that holiday activity slightly
exceeded cautiously optimistic projections. Occupancy and room
rates were up throughout the District. South Florida in
particular experienced greater travel activity from  Canada  and
 South America . Airport traffic remained above year-ago levels in
most major District cities with international travelers helping
boost overall arrivals in many Florida destinations. Cruise line
reservations remained solid into the first quarter of 2012 as
international passengers took advantage of deals. Business
travel improved over year-ago levels, although reservations were
being made closer to departure dates.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential brokers indicated that
sales continued to soften in late November and December but
remained ahead of last year’s weak levels. However, sales growth
varied somewhat across the region. Florida brokers reported that
sales growth, measured year-over-year, rebounded in November
after moderating slightly in the previous two months. These
sales continued to be driven by international and cash sales.
Elsewhere in the District, most brokers reported that sales were
similar to weak levels seen a year ago. Many contacts noted that
appraisals remained problematic. Inventories declined on a year-
over-year basis. Brokers continued to report downward pressure
on  home prices  across most of the District. Many anticipate
modest sales growth over the next several months with the most
positive expectations coming from Florida brokers.  Reports from District homebuilders indicated that new home sales
and construction activity growth, measured year-over-year, were
flat to slightly up. Builders also continued to report downward
pressure on home prices with most reporting that prices were
flat or down on a year-over-year basis, in spite of inventories
that remained below year-earlier levels. Builders indicated a
strong pickup in buyer traffic compared with the same time
period as last year. Homebuilders anticipate new home sales and
construction to improve modestly in the coming year.  The majority of District commercial real estate contacts
continued to report improving demand from earlier in the year.
Brokers indicated modest improvements in demand for space with
some noting that rent concessions had abated. Contractors
continued to report improvements in construction activity from
earlier in the year. However, financing remained challenging and
most projects were build-to-suit. The outlook among contacts
improved modestly from early November with most contractors and
commercial real estate brokers anticipating that construction
activity will improve slowly during 2012.  Manufacturing and Transportation. On balance, District
manufacturing contacts showed notable improvements in both
levels of new orders and production in November after reporting
several months of decelerating activity. In addition, more
contacts reported improving expectations for future production
than in previous reports. Export manufacturers and auto
producers, in particular, reported strong activity. Auto
producers noted that recent flooding in  Thailand  would likely
have a modest, negative impact on production of some models as
several plants in that region were damaged or forced to curtail
operations for several weeks. Reports from transportation
industry contacts remained positive in late November and
December. Port authorities cited volume increases over last year
with notable strength in exports. Trucking firms continued to
report increased demand for their services but were struggling
to meet customer needs because of a significant shortage of
long-haul drivers.  Banking and Finance. Liquidity levels at depository institutions
remained high as many banks reported strong deposit growth
coupled with continued weak loan demand. Some banking contacts
noted that they cut loan prices to attract new customers and
offered loan concessions proactively to retain existing clients.
There was also little demand for new housing loans, although
bankers reported mortgage refinancing and automobile loan
activity increased. In terms of commercial lending, loan growth
among community banks and  credit unions  was primarily limited to
owner-occupied enterprises, while some larger banks reported
growth in areas such as energy and healthcare.  Availability of credit/capital was not an issue for most large
firms because of positive  cash flow , adequate cash reserves, or
a strong, long-standing relationship with their bank. Small
business contacts, however, continued to report difficulty in
obtaining credit from banks and some have turned to non-bank
institutions for financing.  Employment and Prices. Contacts across most sectors continued to
report modest hiring activity across much of the District. Most
of the hiring has been temporary in nature and tied to seasonal
employment. However, there were some scattered reports among
healthcare and hospitality contacts in South Florida that hiring
was occurring as a result of increased demand or expansion.
Agriculture contacts reported labor shortages across  Alabama ,
citing newly enacted immigration legislation as the culprit.
Firms also noted reluctance towards adding new full-time
employees because of uncertainty surrounding healthcare reform,
a large pool of both over and under qualified applicants, and
because productivity enhancements have made several positions
redundant.  Contacts were generally not as concerned with input costs as
they had been in previous months, noting that commodity prices
had leveled off or eased somewhat. Notable exceptions included
reports of restaurants facing elevated food costs and ongoing
price pressures from high transportation and shipping costs.
Many businesses reported slightly improved margins in late
November and December. However, with the exception of high-end
apparel retailers and hospitality contacts, firms reported
having little pricing power.  In the Atlanta Fed’s monthly business inflation survey of firms
in the Sixth Federal Reserve District, respondents indicated in
December that their inflation expectations for the coming year
are 1.9 percent, down slightly from November. Looking forward,
businesses indicated that costs for materials and labor may
influence them to raise prices. Respondents did not expect
changes in productivity, sales, or margin adjustments to have a
significant influence on prices over the coming year.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. Energy industry contacts
indicated that they continued to add to their workforces and
that plans to invest in increased production capacity were
proceeding. Permitting for shallow water rigs in the  Gulf of
Mexico  picked up slightly. The first lease auction for deepwater
exploration since last year’s Gulf oil spill occurred in
December with 191 tracks being sold for $337.7 million.  While much of the District witnessed various degrees of drought
ranging from “abnormally dry” to “exceptional” in late November
and December, both Georgia and  Louisiana  experienced the most
severe conditions. Demand for cotton was flat as a result of
global economic concerns and competition from synthetic fibers.
Prices for cattle and hogs continued to increase because of
strong foreign demand. Several regional agritourism contacts
noted plans to expand next year. 