-- U.S. Federal Reserve Jan. Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-jan-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Summary  Contact reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts
suggest that national economic activity expanded at a modest to
moderate pace during the reporting period of late November
through the end of December. Seven Districts characterized
growth as modest; of the remaining five, New York and  Chicago 
noted a pickup in the pace of growth, Dallas and San Francisco
reported moderate growth, and Richmond indicated that activity
flattened or improved slightly. Compared with prior summaries,
the reports on balance suggest ongoing improvement in economic
conditions in recent months, with most Districts highlighting
more favorable conditions than identified in reports from the
late spring through early fall.  Consumer spending picked up in most Districts, reflecting
significant gains in holiday retail sales compared with last
year’s season, and activity in the travel and tourism sector
expanded in most areas. Demand strengthened further for
nonfinancial services, including professional and transportation
services. Manufacturing activity generally continued to expand,
although the pace of growth has slowed for selected subsectors
such as technology products. Agricultural producers and
extractors of natural resources reported generally robust
conditions. Activity stayed sluggish in residential real estate
markets, and conditions in commercial real estate markets
remained somewhat soft overall but showed signs of ongoing
improvement in several Districts. Reports from financial
institutions generally indicated a slight uptick in loan demand
by businesses, along with improvements in overall credit quality.  Upward price pressures and price increases remained quite
limited for most categories of final goods and services, as the
effects of prior increases in the costs of selected inputs have
eased. Upward wage pressures were modest overall, although a few
Districts noted substantial compensation increases for workers
with specialized skills in selected sectors and regions.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism  Reports on consumer spending were favorable in general. Most
Districts reported that holiday retail sales were up noticeably
over last year’s season, with New York and Dallas describing
sales as “brisk” and “robust,” respectively. Consumer spending
and confidence generally were characterized as firmer than in
recent reporting periods, although  Kansas City  reported that
spending softened. Items identified as the strongest holiday
sellers by various Districts included consumer electronics and
jewelry, and Chicago noted that luxury items in general sold
well during the holiday season. By contrast, many Districts
reported weak sales and excess inventories of warm clothing, due
to unusually mild weather. Retail inventories more broadly were
reported to be at or near desired levels, consistent with
retailers’ sales expectations. Boston,  New York , and  Minneapolis 
noted exceptional growth in  Internet sales  for selected items.
Sales of new automobiles continued to pick up in most Districts.
Among the more favorable reports, Atlanta noted that the pace of
auto sales in November and December was “the strongest in over
two years,” and strong demand and sales were reported as well by
New York, Philadelphia,  Cleveland , and Minneapolis.  Reports from most Districts pointed to solid gains or high
levels of travel and tourist activity, with pickups evident in
both the business and leisure segments. Tourism activity was
reported to be above the levels from twelve months earlier by
Boston, New York, Richmond, and Atlanta, and  Boston  contacts
expect double-digit growth in hotel revenues in 2012. By
contrast, Minneapolis reported that tourist activity was down
because limited snowfall has stymied outdoor activities such as
skiing and snowmobiling, while Kansas City reported a decline
because winter storms hampered some tourist activity. Business
travel activity also has expanded of late and is above levels
from twelve months earlier, according to Atlanta and San
Francisco.  Nonfinancial Services
Demand generally strengthened further for nonfinancial services.
Providers of professional and business services such as
consulting, advertising, engineering, and legal services
expanded their activities according to Boston, Richmond,  St.
Louis , and Minneapolis. Sales of technology services to
businesses and consumers grew further, according to Minneapolis,
Kansas City, and  San Francisco , although the pace of growth
slowed from earlier in 2011. Providers of temporary staffing
services saw strong and rising demand in the Philadelphia,
Cleveland, and Richmond Districts but below-average seasonal
hiring in the Chicago and Dallas Districts. Reports from the
health-care sector generally pointed to growth as well, with
Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis highlighting
construction activity and bank lending aimed at health-care
providers. The exception to growing demand for health-care
services was San Francisco, which reported an ongoing decline in
hospital admissions. Demand for shipping and transportation
services generally expanded. New York and Atlanta reported a
significant increase in shipping tonnage by truck, and Dallas
noted a broad-based increase in shipments by rail. Atlanta
reported that port activity was up over twelve months earlier
due to “notable strength in exports,” while Richmond reported a
decline in port activity that was largely attributed to reduced
imports.  Air travel  was above year-ago levels in the Atlanta
District but unchanged over the past six weeks in the  Dallas 
District.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity expanded in most Districts, generally
continuing its steady overall expansion or, in the case of
Atlanta, reversing a slowdown in prior periods. For the sector
as a whole, further growth or improved conditions were reported
by almost all Districts, except for Cleveland, Richmond, and
Dallas, which reported that activity was largely stable or mixed,
and Kansas City, which noted a slight decline. The strongest
reports came from subsectors such as heavy equipment
manufacturing and steel, for which demand has been boosted by
robust growth in the energy, agricultural, and auto
manufacturing sectors. Reports from Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta,
Chicago, and St. Louis confirmed vibrant activity for auto
manufacturers, primarily for domestic makes. By contrast, demand
remained somewhat weak for firms in housing-related subsectors,
such as a door manufacturer in the Richmond District, furniture
manufacturers there and in the St. Louis and San Francisco
Districts, and makers of lumber and wood products in the San
Francisco District. Demand for computers and related electronic
components rose further, according to Kansas City, Dallas, and
San Francisco. However, the pace of growth has slowed
significantly from earlier in 2011, and Boston noted declining
sales of semiconductors, mainly due to weaker demand from  Asia .
According to Dallas and San Francisco, aircraft makers saw
further demand increases. Those Districts also noted weak
domestic demand for refined petroleum products that was largely
or completely offset by robust foreign demand. Demand grew
smartly for food producers in the Philadelphia and Dallas
Districts, but in the Kansas City District food processing was
one of the weakest performers within the manufacturing sector.
Export sales of assorted manufactured products generally
performed well according to Atlanta and Chicago, although slower
economic growth in  China  and  Europe  held back sales for some
manufacturers.  Cleveland reported that capacity utilization remained below
normal in most subsectors, with the notable exception of steel
producers, who were operating at or near normal levels.
Similarly, Chicago noted that some auto suppliers appear to be
approaching capacity constraints, which may limit further
production increases in the near term. Atlanta reported that
recent flooding in  Thailand  was likely to exert modest restraint
on auto production. Ongoing capital investments and increases in
capacity were reported for various manufacturing concerns in the
St. Louis and Minneapolis Districts and for an auto producer in
the Richmond District.  Real Estate and Construction  Activity in residential real estate markets largely held steady
at very low levels, with the exception of further increases in
the construction of multifamily residences. The pace of single-
family home sales remained quite sluggish throughout the country,
although the Dallas District reported a modest increase over the
prior reporting period. Some Districts, such as Boston and
Atlanta, noted that home sales exceeded levels from twelve
months earlier, but mainly because the earlier levels reflected
a substantial drop following the expiration of the homebuyers’
tax credit in mid-2010. Prices were largely stable on a short-
term basis in most areas but in many instances were below their
levels from twelve months earlier. Extensive inventories of
distressed properties were reported to be a source of price
restraint in the Boston, Richmond, Chicago, and San Francisco
Districts. Construction of single-family homes remained at
depressed levels in most areas and fell further in some, such as
the Philadelphia, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City
Districts. However, Cleveland reported that activity improved
during the past couple of months. In contrast to the soft market
for single-family residences, the market for rental units
tightened in some areas such as the New York and Richmond
Districts, and construction of multifamily residences rose in
the Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas
Districts.  Demand for nonresidential real estate remained somewhat soft
overall but improved in a number of Districts. Vacancy rates and
other indicators in markets for  office space  were largely
unchanged in the major metropolitan markets in the Boston,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and St. Louis Districts. By
contrast, New York reported that demand for office space “picked
up in late 2011,” causing vacancy rates to edge down and asking
rents to rise. Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, San Francisco,
Atlanta, and Chicago all reported stronger demand for commercial
real estate compared with earlier in 2011, and the latter two
Districts also noted a pickup in nonresidential construction
activity. Cleveland and Chicago reported that the strongest
demand and most extensive construction activity has been for
industrial and health-care facilities, while Minneapolis
highlighted growing demand for industrial space and San
Francisco stressed growing demand emanating from the information
technology sector.  Banking and Finance  Lending activity edged up overall, primarily due to increased
loan demand by businesses. Most Districts that commented on
lending activity indicated little or no change in overall loan
demand, but the remaining Districts identified increases rather
than decreases. New York reported a pronounced increase in
demand for commercial mortgages, and Cleveland also noted
increased demand in this category. Both Dallas and San Francisco
noted a slight uptick in commercial and industrial lending.
Consumer lending was largely flat compared with the prior
reporting period, although auto loans rose in Cleveland. New
York, Philadelphia, and Cleveland reported demand growth or
continued strength for refinancing of residential mortgages.  Lending standards were largely unchanged across all lending
categories. However, New York reported slight tightening for
commercial and industrial loans. Moreover, a few reports
highlighted that small businesses continued to struggle with
credit access through banks. In the Atlanta District, some small
businesses have turned to nonbank institutions for financing,
and in the Chicago District some manufacturers have been
financing loans to their suppliers from retained earnings.
Credit quality improved in many Districts: New York reported a
decline in delinquency rates for all loan categories, while
Philadelphia, Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco
all reported general improvement in loan quality.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Demand for agricultural products was strong during the reporting
period, but growing conditions and input prices were mixed. Farm
income and profits were reported to be at very high levels by
Chicago and Kansas City, enabling many farmers to repay loans
and expand their operations, and San Francisco reported further
sales growth for a variety of agricultural products. Rising
foreign demand was noted as a source of strength for livestock
sales in the Atlanta and Dallas Districts and for dairy and meat
products in the Chicago District. Growing conditions were
somewhat mixed across areas. Farmers and livestock producers in
the Atlanta and Dallas Districts have been struggling with
ongoing droughts, which have required costly responses such as
supplemental feeding of livestock. While timely rains eased
drought conditions somewhat in the Dallas and Kansas City
Districts, wheat farmers in the latter are hoping for more
protective snow cover for the winter crop’s dormancy period. In
addition, high or rising prices for some inputs were noted by
Chicago and Kansas City, tempering farmers’ profit expectations
for the coming year.  Demand and extraction activity rose further for producers of
natural resource products. Energy extraction has been on the
upswing. Atlanta reported that companies have been expanding
their workforces and increasing their production capacity and
exploration plans in the  Gulf of Mexico . Minneapolis and Kansas
City reported that oil and gas exploration and extraction
activity were well above their levels from twelve months earlier,
and Dallas noted that a high level of activity is expected to
resume in early 2012 following a year-end seasonal lull.
Minneapolis and San Francisco reported expansion of mining
capacity and activity for a range of industrial and precious
metals.  Prices and Wages  Upward price pressures and price increases were very limited
during the reporting period. Reports from various Districts,
including Boston, Atlanta, and Chicago, indicated that upward
price pressures from rising commodity and input prices have
eased substantially, with Boston noting that “even food prices
have ceased rising.” Atlanta reported that firms have limited
pricing power in general, and San Francisco pointed to intense
supplier competition as a factor holding down prices. Similarly,
Kansas City reported a recent uptick in input prices but noted
that few manufacturers passed these increases on to the prices
of their finished goods.  Wage pressures remained modest overall. The combination of
limited permanent hiring in most sectors and numerous active job
seekers has continued to keep a lid on general wage increases.
However, reports from a few Districts highlighted significant
supply constraints and in some cases large compensation
increases for workers with specialized skills in selected
sectors, including the energy sector in the Dallas District and
the technology sector in the San Francisco District. On a
related note, Minneapolis reported that employers have increased
relocation pay for employees willing to settle in parts of that
District where worker availability is limited. Increases in the
costs of employee health benefits continued to put significant
upward pressure on overall compensation costs, although some
employers in the Philadelphia District reported significant
rollbacks from past increases.  * Prepared at the  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco  and
based on information collected on or before December 30, 2011.
This document summarizes comments received from business and
other contacts outside the  Federal Reserve System  and is not a
commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 