-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-01-11T19:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. The rate of growth of economic activity in the Seventh
District picked up in late November and December. Contacts were
generally optimistic about the economic outlook for 2012, but
many also expressed concern about potential weakness in demand
from abroad, particularly from China and  Europe .  Consumer
spending  increased, while business spending was steady.
Manufacturing production increased. Construction was again
subdued, although conditions in real estate markets improved
slightly. Overall, credit conditions were little changed from
the last reporting period. Wholesale price increases slowed, but
there was some further pass-through to the retail level. Corn,
soybean, and cattle prices increased, while milk and hog prices
decreased.  Consumer spending. Consumer spending continued to increase in
late November and December. Compared to last year’s holiday
season, store traffic volumes were up significantly while
nominal spending was up only moderately as consumers reportedly
were making more shopping trips and aggressively bargain hunting
to obtain the lowest prices. Several contacts noted an increase
this year in online shopping and a greater prevalence of
flexible and low-cost shipping options. Traditional holiday
retail items such as electronics, sporting goods, hobby items,
music, books, toys, and apparel all sold well. Contacts
additionally reported more spending on luxury items this year.
Auto sales increased since the last reporting period. Dealers
reported that showroom traffic volumes were up, and many
expected sales to continue to improve further in 2012.
Importantly, contacts cited a continued boost from replacement
demand in light of the record high average age of vehicles in
the U.S.  Business spending. Business spending was steady in late November
and December. Contacts reported that inventory levels were
generally in-line with sales, although inventory rebuilding
continued in the  auto industry  in the aftermath of the supply
chain disruptions earlier in the year. Capital investment plans
were largely unchanged, with several manufacturers moving ahead
with planned increases in capacity. Hiring remained selective,
but the majority of contacts indicated plans to increase
employment next year. A staffing firm noted slower growth in
billable hours and below-average seasonal hiring in office and
clerical positions. However, they also indicated that permanent
placement activity continued to increase for industrial
positions. Manufacturers again cited difficulties in attracting
job candidates with ideal skill sets in technical fields such as
engineering. Many of these firms indicated that they would
rather postpone hiring a candidate until economic conditions
improve to a point that would clearly warrant them doing so.  Construction/real estate. Construction activity was subdued in
late November and early December, but there was some improvement
in overall real estate conditions. Builder showroom traffic
picked up slightly, although in general residential real estate
market conditions remained depressed as foreclosed properties
continued to put downward pressure on prices and single-family
construction remained at low levels. In contrast, multi-family
construction continued to be an area of strength. The number of
residential leases being signed increased from the previous
reporting period and rents rose. Nonresidential construction was
also up moderately with the strongest gains in Class A
properties. Contacts noted greater demand for both industrial
and healthcare facilities. In addition, commercial real estate
conditions improved slightly with commercial rents stabilizing
and a decline in the available amount of sublease space.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing production increased in late
November and December. Contacts in the manufacturing sector were
more optimistic for 2012 given the pace at which their order
books are filling through the first quarter. Auto production
increased over the reporting period. However, some contacts
still are concerned about the ability to ramp up production much
further over the near-term because auto suppliers may be
approaching capacity constraints. Demand for heavy equipment
remained strong, led by robust activity in the energy and
agriculture sectors. Exports also continued to be a source of
strength, although slower growth in  China  and Europe was noted
to have held back sales at some firms. In the steel sector,
inventories at service centers remain near desired levels, and
given the continued strength in the auto, energy, machinery, and
mining sectors, steel production was expected to increase in the
first quarter of 2012.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions were little changed during
the reporting period. Corporate funding costs, while variable,
were largely unchanged on balance. Liquidity remained relatively
scarce in the high yield debt markets. Banking contacts
indicated that business loan demand continued to be subdued,
with the exception of some large multinational mining
corporations. Businesses utilization of credit lines was only up
a bit. Because lenders continue to see their clients’ balance
sheets growing stronger, they speculated that uncertainty about
future business conditions was restraining the demand for credit.
However, contacts also noted that some larger manufacturers are
making loans to sub-tier suppliers out of retained earnings,
thus reducing these suppliers’ typical demand for credit from
financial institutions.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures eased in late November and early
December. While pressure on costs remained from commodities such
as steel and food, it moderated significantly for cotton and
energy goods. Pass through of elevated material costs to
consumers continued. Wage pressures remained moderate, with
contacts noting that annual increases in wage and non-wage
benefits were largely in-line with last year’s increases.  Agriculture. Farm income for 2011 was higher than in 2010; and
farmland values and cash rental rates were reported to be higher
once again. After falling initially during the reporting period,
corn and soybean prices rose in the last half of December. More
generally, crop prices fell during the harvest period. However,
most crop deliveries involved sales at pre-harvest prices, as
many end users found it necessary to ensure sufficient supplies
prior to the harvest. In contrast, for those who didn’t pre-sell,
more of their crop ended up being put into storage. Milk and hog
prices fell during the reporting period, while cattle prices
increased. Still, export demand helped keep prices for both
dairy and meat products higher than they were at the end of 2010.
Input costs have risen for the coming planting season. 