-- Hugh Grant Wrong in Phone-Hacking Testimony, Daily Mail Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-11T17:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/hugh-grant-wrong-in-phone-hacking-testimony-daily-mail-says.html
Actor  Hugh Grant  was “reckless”
when he claimed the Mail on Sunday newspaper hacked into his
voice mails, a lawyer for U.K. publisher  Daily Mail & General
Trust Plc  told a judge-led inquiry into press ethics.  Grant told the inquiry in November his messages must have
been intercepted for a 2007 story claiming he received late-
night phone calls from a “plummy voiced studio executive.” The
paper’s description of the woman’s voice wasn’t proof it
listened to the actor’s voice mails, lawyer Liz Hartley said
today at the inquiry, which was set up in response to the phone-
hacking scandal at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid.  “To make a very serious allegation against us on something
as thin as this was not something that should have been done,”
Hartley said in her testimony. “I don’t think that’s a
reasonable inference. It’s not the sort of detail you would have
got from a voice mail interception.”  Grant, who starred in the comedy “ Notting Hill ,” has
become an unofficial spokesman for victims of  Glenn Mulcaire ,
the News of the World’s former private investigator who police
say hacked about 800 phones before his arrest in 2006.  News
Corp. (NWSA)  closed the News of the World in July to contain public
anger over revelations the tabloid hacked into a murdered
schoolgirl’s phone in 2002, when she was still missing.  Reasonable Assumption  Judge Brian Leveson, who is overseeing the inquiry, told
Hartley she was accusing Grant of perjury. Robert Jay, a lawyer
for the inquiry, said Grant’s claim was based on a reasonable
assumption about the facts in the news article.  Hartley said at the time the article was published Grant
had claimed it was completely false and that no such woman
existed, implying that claim doesn’t fit with his new assertion
that voice mails from the woman were hacked.  The inquiry, called for in July by Prime Minister  David Cameron , is separate from dozens of civil lawsuits filed by
phone-hacking victims and the three police investigations that
have yielded more than 20 arrests in the last year, including
ex-News International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks.  The Mail on Sunday said in November that the information in
the 2007 story came from a freelance journalist who spoke to a
source close to Grant’s then girlfriend, Jemima Khan. Khan has
denied the claim, the inquiry was told today by David Sherborne,
a lawyer representing victims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  