-- U.K. Names Fourth Chairman of Bank Stake Manager on Sale Delay
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-01-11T15:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/ukfi-names-budenberg-chairman-o-neil-ceo-as-cooksey-retires.html
U.K. Financial Investments Ltd.,
which manages the government’s bank holdings, named Robin Budenberg its fourth chairman since it was started in 2008 and
said a sale of the stakes was taking longer than expected.  Chairman David Cooksey, 71, will retire and Jim O’Neil, an
American currently responsible for the government’s shares in
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
becomes chief executive officer, replacing Budenberg, UKFI said
today in an e-mailed statement.  “Disposal of the investments in Lloyds and RBS will
inevitably take longer than originally expected, given the
challenging economic and banking industry environments both in
the U.K. and globally,” Cooksey said in the statement. “I am
therefore delighted that both Robin and Jim will continue at
UKFI in their new roles.”  The U.K. owns 83 percent of RBS and 41 percent of Lloyds
after bailing them out with about 65.8 billion pounds ($101
billion) amid the 2008 and 2009 banking crisis. The stakes are
worth about 38 billion pounds less than the government paid for
them, according to Bloomberg calculations. UKFI also holds parts
of nationalized lenders Bradford & Bingley and  Northern Rock .  O’Neil assumes his new role on April 2, and Budenberg, a
former UBS AG banker, will act as executive chairman until then.  Cooksey, a former director of the  Bank of England , joined
UKFI as chairman in August 2009. He replaced Glen Moreno who
became acting chairman after Philip Hampton left to become
chairman of  RBS. (RBS)  The government created UKFI in November 2008.  UKFI in November agreed to sell the part of Northern Rock
that accepts new customers to billionaire  Richard Branson ’s
Virgin Money Holdings U.K. Ltd. for 747 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  