-- Hungary Poised for ‘Tortuous’ IMF Talks, Capital Economics Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-01-11T17:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/hungary-poised-for-tortuous-imf-talks-capital-economics-says.html
Hungary should prepare for
“tortuous” negotiations with the  International Monetary Fund ,
even as a selloff in assets prompted officials to soften their
tone about conditions attached to a possible loan, Capital
Economics Ltd. said.  “A deal now looks closer than it has done for some time,
but it would be complacent to think that there are no further
obstacles ahead and that a deal can be secured quickly,”
William Jackson, an emerging-markets economist at the London-
based research company, wrote today in an e-mailed note. “We
would not be surprised to see Hungarian assets come under
further strains.”  Hungary is reviving bailout talks with the IMF and the
European Union after the international creditors suspended
negotiations last month on concern new central bank legislation
violates monetary policy independence.  Fitch Ratings  on Jan. 6
followed Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  in
downgrading the country’s sovereign-credit grade to junk.  While changing the central bank law will have a high
priority at the talks, the government’s “unorthodox” economic
policy measures, such as a bank levy, the effective
nationalization of private retirement savings and forcing banks
to take losses on foreign-currency mortgages, will also come
under fire, Jackson wrote.  Hungary is probably seeking an aid package of 15 billion
euros ($19 billion) to 20 billion euros, enough to cover 2012
state financing needs that Capital Economics estimates at 15
billion euros, Jackson wrote.  The government may also have to assist the banking
industry, where 19 billion euros of foreign debt matures this
year, he wrote. Lenders may struggle to refinance external
liabilities should western European parent banks be reluctant to
roll over debt at their Hungarian units, according to Jackson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  