-- Hungarian Forint Drops as EU May Restrict Hungary Funds on Deficit Breach
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-11T16:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/hungary-bonds-drop-first-time-in-week-as-eu-threatens-funds-halt.html
Hungary ’s government bonds dropped
for the first time in a week and the forint weakened after the
European Commission said the country faces suspension of some
its funding and possible sanctions for breaching budget deficit
targets and for laws that may contravene European Union rules.  The currency depreciated as much as 0.5 percent against the
euro before paring its loss to 0.2 percent at 312.02 by 4:29
p.m. in Budapest. The yield on the government’s  10-year notes 
rose 3 basis points to 9.591 percent from 9.558 percent
yesterday, the lowest since Dec. 27.  Hungary may face suspension of development aid known as
cohesion funds if it fails to correct its  budget deficit , the
European Union’s Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli
Rehn  said today in Brussels. The Commission is also
“preoccupied” that laws enacted by Prime Minister  Viktor
Orban ’s government breached the bloc’s rules. The EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  halted bailout talks last year
because new regulation may compromise central bank independence.  “The EU wants to make it clear before the main aid talks
start that it has serious conditions for assistance,” Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based economist at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB
Bank unit, said in a telephone interview. “If the EU actually
decides to withhold funds that will have more of a market
impact.”  Hungary’s currency rebounded from its all-time low of
324.24 on Jan. 5 while yields retreated from 2 1/2 year highs
this week after Orban sought to resolve the dispute and sent an
official to start preparatory aid talks in  Washington .  “The government has expressed close to 100 percent
flexibility verbally, now the market is waiting for the concrete
steps,” Jobbagy said.  ‘Robust Stance’  The country is ready to discuss the EC’s recommendations
regarding the excessive budget deficit procedure and wants to
reduce the gap to below the EU’s 3 percent limit of gross
domestic product limit in 2012 and 2013, the  Economy Ministry 
said in an e-mail today.  The “fairly robust stance” suggests Hungary’s negotiation
for a new assistance program “could still be tough,” Timothy Ash, a London-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, wrote in an e-mailed note.  The euro weakened for the first time in three days against
the dollar on speculation  France ’s credit rating may be cut.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net  