-- Unicom Leads N.Y. Index’s Drop as Huaneng Falls: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-11T22:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/unicom-leads-n-y-index-s-drop-as-huaneng-falls-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
fell for the first day in three on concern slumping property
prices and  Europe ’s debt crisis may hamper growth in the world’s
second-largest economy.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  retreated 0.2 percent
yesterday from a one-month high to 100.57 as trading closed in
New York.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  led declines in the
measure amid concern increasing competition will hurt profit.
 Huaneng Power International Inc. (HNP)  dropped after a report said
China’s power consumption growth will slow in 2012.  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  and Suntech Power Holdings Co. gained the most among peers
as China plans to double solar capacity this year.  China’s economic growth probably slowed for the fourth
straight quarter in the last three months, according to the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey. Policy
makers cut the amount of cash banks must set aside as reserves
last month for the first time since 2008 to spur lending.  “In the global macro aspect, things will probably continue
to be shaky in the first quarter,” said Helen Zhu, chief  China 
equity strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in an interview
with Bloomberg Television. In China, “people believe there will
be some degree of policy fine-tuning. We are looking for more
adjustments in banks’ reserve ratios in the first half of the
year.”  CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets has turned cautious on China’s
stocks because of “downside risk” to the economy as property
prices fell for a fourth month. The biggest concern this year is
any “dramatic” fall in real estate investment, former central
bank adviser Yu Yongding said Jan. 9 in New York.  Home Prices Slump  Home prices dropped 0.25 percent last month from November,
after the government reiterated plans to maintain curbs on
development and purchases, according to data from SouFun
Holdings Ltd. released last week.  The American depositary receipts of China Unicom, the
country’s second-largest mobile carrier and the only distributor
of Apple Inc.’s iPhones, sank 4 percent to $20.44, the most in a
month. The China Radio Management Office said this week it
granted Apple’s application for a handset that would run on the
network of China Telecom Corp., the smallest among China’s three
wireless operators.  China Unicom had 36.5 million 3G subscribers at the end of
November while China Telecom had 33.4 million in the same
period. China Telecom fell 1.8 percent to $54.87 in New York.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.4 percent yesterday to
2,276.05, ending a three-day rally. The Standard & Poor’s 500
 Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks was little changed at 1,292.48.  Cnooc Discount  The ADRs of  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO) , the nation’s biggest offshore oil
explorer, slumped 0.6 percent to $195.50. The ADRs, each
representing 100 common shares, traded at a 1.3 percent discount
to its Hong Kong-listed stock, the most in two weeks.  Cnooc started drilling at its first domestic shale-gas
project, joining rivals in the search for unconventional natural
gas, according to a statement on its website yesterday.  Huaneng, the listed unit of China’s largest power group,
declined 2.1 percent to $22.31.  China’s power-consumption growth may slow to about 8.5
percent this year as the economy expands at a weaker pace, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported Jan. 10, citing Yu Yanshan,
deputy director at the State Electricity Regulatory Commission.
Power demand grew 11.7 percent to 4.7 trillion kilowatt-hours
last year, Xinhua said.  ‘Not Sustainable’  “Unless China is re-industrializing, the multiplier of
gross domestic product in recent years is simply not
sustainable,” Cristobal Garcia, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in an e-mailed research note
yesterday. “As China’s growth continues to moderate, we expect
power consumption growth to slow.”  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index  Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., has gained 5.4 percent this
year after remaining steady yesterday at $36.74. The  yuan  was
little changed at 6.3155 a dollar, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Trina Solar , China’s fifth-largest solar-panel supplier,
jumped 29 percent, the most since March 2009, to $9.43 while
Suntech Power, the biggest, surged 27 percent. Yingli Green
Energy Holding Co. leaped 20 percent to $4.96, also the most
since March 2009.  China plans to develop 3 gigawatts of solar capacity this
year, and take the total installed capacity to 15 gigawatts by
the end of 2015, the National Energy Administration said on its
website yesterday.  The price for polysilicon, the raw material used to make
most solar panels, rose 3 percent last week, the most in eight
months, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data showed.  China’s inflation may have exceeded the one-year deposit
rate for the 23rd straight month in December, when consumer
prices probably rose 4 percent, according to the median forecast
of 26 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The data is due for
release today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  