-- United Continental Jets From Europe Make Fuel Stops on Winds
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-01-11T19:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/united-jets-from-europe-make-fuel-stops.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
trans-Atlantic flights with smaller  Boeing Co. (BA)  757 jets are
making more unscheduled fuel stops because of stronger headwinds
on the planes’ longest routes.  Westbound flights in December faced winds almost twice
as fast compared with the average over the past decade, forcing
43 flights out of 1,100 to land and refuel, said  Megan McCarthy ,
a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based airline. Only 12 jets needed
fuel stops a year earlier, she said today by telephone.  “There have been fuel stops on some flights we have flown
all along, and it does continue into January because the winds
have continued into January,” McCarthy said. “We’re looking at
this very closely.”  Flying into stiff winds slows a plane’s progress over
the ground, possibly eating into the minimum fuel reserve of
45 minutes of travel time beyond a designated diversion airport,
which could force a fuel stop. December winds blew at about
54 miles (87 kilometers) per hour, compared with the 28 mph
historical average.  A “handful” of December fuel stops were planned before
jets left  Europe , McCarthy said. The airports typically used for
refueling are in eastern Canadian cities such as Gander,
Newfoundland, and Goose Bay, Labrador, or Boston, she said.  The North Atlantic’s prevailing winds come from the west,
which means that flights to the U.S. from Europe already are
usually longer than eastbound trips. Newer, more-efficient
planes have reduced the need for scheduled fill-ups, which were
more common in the early days of jet aviation.  Flights to  Newark   All of the December stops were for Boeing 757-200 jets
flown by United Continental’s Continental unit on routes such as
Stuttgart,  Germany , to Newark,  New Jersey , which is about  4,540
miles , and the planes depart with full fuel tanks, McCarthy
said.  The plane carries  175 passengers  and has a maximum range of
 about 4,450 miles , according to Boeing’s website. McCarthy said
winglets and lighter carbon brakes were installed years ago to
minimize fuel burn. The winds also have affected new service
from Washington Dulles to Paris and Amsterdam, she said.  United Airlines , whose parent merged with Continental in
2010, flies those routes with bigger, longer-range Boeing 767
and 777 jets, making fuel stops for those planes unnecessary.  Senator’s Query  The U.S. Transportation Department’s Office of Inspector
General in 2008  responded to a query  from U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat, about increased reports of
planes landing at Newark because of low fuel.  The department said such fuel declarations had increased
for flights into Newark, though “there were no instances of
aircraft landing with fuel levels below those required” by the
 Federal Aviation Administration . Two-thirds of the declarations
were on international flights, and the FAA would review the
matter, the department said.  The FAA said today in an e-mailed statement that it “is
aware that United Airlines aircraft have made more unscheduled
fuel stops this year than last year and we are looking into the
issue.”  The Wall Street Journal reported United Continental’s
increasing unscheduled fuel stops earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 