-- Universal American to Gain Medicare Patients in Deal for APS Healthcare
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-11T21:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/universal-american-to-gain-medicare-patients-in-deal-for-aps-healthcare.html
Universal American Corp. (UAM) , an insurer
specializing in Medicare coverage, agreed to buy closely held
APS Healthcare Inc. for $227.5 million to expand services for
patients of government health programs.  APS Healthcare (APSH)  provides disease-management, behavioral
health and other programs, the  Rye Brook , New York-based insurer
said today in a statement. The purchase includes $147.5 million
in cash to retire APS Healthcare’s debt and liabilities and $80
million in Universal American stock, the company said.  The deal increases Universal American’s ability to win
business serving patients in government-funded Medicare and
Medicaid programs, said  Dave Shove , a BMO Capital Markets
analyst in New York, in a note to clients. It also may lessen
the chances that the company sells itself to a larger insurer,
he said. Universal American shares fell 19 percent, their
biggest one-day drop in eight months.  “While some holders of Universal American may have viewed
the company as a  take-out  target, today’s deal could mean a
longer runway for that type of endgame,” Shove wrote. “We
still believe that a large-cap player will ultimately acquire
Universal American, but 2013 and beyond seems more likely.”  Universal American  declined  $2.61 to $10.95 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time.  Universal American said the acquisition is expected to add
to  earnings  in 2012. The company will take a $150 million term
 loan  and open a $50 million revolving credit facility from Bank
of America Corp. to help finance the deal, according to the
statement.  Dual Eligibles  The deal will help the company win the growing business in
serving “dual eligibles,” said Richard Barasch, Universal
American’s chief executive officer, in the statement. The group
includes Americans covered by both Medicare, the U.S.
government-backed insurer for the elderly, and Medicaid, the
federal-state program for the poor.  Such patients are “typically a high utilization/high cost
group, making management of this medical spending a priority to
both state and federal governments,” Shove said. The deal
leaves Universal American better-equipped to serve the group,
which is “an arena that is poised for growth,” he said.  APS Healthcare, based in  White Plains , New York, is owned
by Chicago-based private equity firm GTCR Golder Rauner LLC,
according to the statement. The deal includes an additional $50
million cash payment, payable in March 2014 and based on APS
Healthcare’s financial results exceeding “certain thresholds,”
Universal American said in the statement.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was financial adviser and Paul,
Weiss Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP provided legal counsel to
Universal American, according to the statement. Credit Suisse
Group AG was financial adviser and Kirkland & Ellis LLP was
legal counsel for GTCR and APS Healthcare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  