-- Huntsman’s Appeal to Independents Provides a Chance
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/huntsman-appeal-to-new-hampshire-independents-provides-chance-to-fight-on.html
Jon Huntsman  Jr.’s bet that the
contrarian impulse of New Hampshire voters would put him back in
the Republican primary mix delivered a third-place finish that
allows him to continue in the race for now.  He heads to South Carolina, site of the next Republican
presidential primary, where he’s trailing other candidates as
well as comedian Stephen Colbert.  Still, Huntsman’s 17 percent support should prompt a fresh
look at his candidacy, which has been overshadowed by the
competition among former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  and former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  for support among voters motivated by such issues as
abortion and gay marriage. Gingrich, Perry and Santorum each
failed to draw 10 percent support in last night’s primary.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney won with 39
percent, and Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas finished second
with 23 percent.  “Every not-Romney candidate has gotten a look,” said  Alex Castellanos , a Republican strategist not affiliated with any
campaign. “Jon Huntsman’s about to get his. What he does with
his 10 minutes after New Hampshire is going to be the most
important part of his campaign.”  Huntsman plans to spend the better part of the next 10 days
in the Palmetto State and converting credibility gained from
last night’s finish into donations for his campaign.  The victory could also give his allies a stronger pitch for
wealthy supporters asked to write checks to Our Destiny PAC, an
independent political action committee largely financed by his
father, Jon Huntsman Sr.  ‘Three Tickets Out’  “There are three tickets out of New Hampshire and we’ve
got one of them,” Huntsman said as he was leaving his
Manchester hotel last night.  He said he’d continue to press the same themes he’s sounded
in New Hampshire: taking an anti-Wall Street message to  South
Carolina , stressing the imperative to tackle trust and economic
deficits and putting a premium on Americans needing to come
together “first and foremost.”  “They worked here, it will work there,” he said.  Huntsman, 51, skipped the Iowa caucuses to focus on New
Hampshire, holding more than 170 public events in all 10
counties and in more than 100 towns since announcing his
candidacy in June.  Touted Job Creation  The former  Utah  governor touted his economic credentials,
calling himself the “most consistent conservative” and
contrasted his job creation record with that of Romney. He told
voters that Utah led the nation in job creation in the mid 2000s
under his leadership, while Massachusetts was ranked 47th during
Romney’s tenure.  Huntsman pledged to close the revolving door of lobbyists
and lawmakers in  Washington  and embraced President  Barack Obama ’s Simpson-Bowles fiscal commission, which called for a mix
of revenue increases and spending cuts to lower the nation’s
debt.  He also highlighted his unique foreign policy experience
gained as an ambassador to  Singapore  under former President
George H.W. Bush and most recently as Obama’s ambassador to
 China .  “When you see this nation abroad you tend to see it in
bold colors,” he told supporters last night.  Huntsman, whose campaign was $3 million in debt in
September, according to the most recent data available, was able
to continue competing with the help of Our Destiny Pac, which
spent $914,000 in advertisements from Nov. 7-Jan. 5.  Friendly Advertising  It was the only political action committee to spend money
on advertising in the Granite State -- Romney’s campaign spent
$554,040, and  Texas  Representative Ron Paul’s spent $298,220,
according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG.  Exit polls showed Huntsman’s base of support was largely
outside the  Republican Party . Among voters unaffiliated with
political parties who took part in the primary, 47 percent of
all who voted, 23 percent backed Huntsman, compared with 11
percent of Republicans, according to data compiled by  CNN .  The survival of his candidacy is another illustration of
New Hampshire voters’ tendency to defy convention. In the 2000
Republican Party primary, Arizona Senator  John McCain  defeated
then-Governor  George W. Bush  of Texas to extend the race, and in
the 1984 Democratic primary, former Senator Gary Hart of
 Colorado  upset former Vice President Walter Mondale.  Romney’s campaign downplayed the threat from Huntsman.  “Jon Huntsman spent six months in New Hampshire,” former
New Hampshire Governor John Sununu told CNN last night.  “If
you put a campaign strategy based on that, it will take him 25
years to do all 50 states.  I don’t think Jon Huntsman is any
kind of a threat to  Mitt Romney .”  A Centrist Appeal  Huntsman also could attempt to become the self-styled
compassionate conservative in the race, presenting himself as a
unifier in the same vein as the last President Bush and Obama,
said Matthew Dowd, former chief Bush campaign strategist and now
a Bloomberg political analyst.  “He could become that voice that says we need to work
together to get stuff done,” said Dowd. “He’s the guy that
wants to bring the country together. Everyone else is
polarizing.”  It’s a message that helped sway Fergus Cullen, a political
consultant and former chairman of the New Hampshire Republican
Party, who decided to support Huntsman only after seeing him at
last Sunday’s debate.  “He’s a mainstream conservative, not an extreme
conservative,” Cullen said in an e-mail to friends and
colleagues. “There are only two candidates who are capable of
winning a general election by appealing to swing voters and not
just the base - Huntsman and Romney - and I’m going with
Huntsman.”  General Election Assets  To be sure, his appeal to independents goes only so far in
a Republican primary, where the party’s conservative base holds
greatest sway. The ability to attract a broader support base
would be an asset in a general election.  While only 4 percent of Democrats participated in last
night’s Republican primary, Huntsman won 41 percent of them, the
exit polling showed. He won a quarter of those identifying
themselves as moderate or liberal.  “I just really hope people will be able to see he is a
sincere candidate and he has the international experience people
are looking for,” said Laura Scafati, a 23-year-old accountant,
who supported Obama in 2008 and backed Huntsman in  New
Hampshire .  “If it’s Mitt Romney versus Obama, I’ll probably choose
Obama,” Scafati said as she was waiting to hear from Huntsman.
“I don’t feel sincerity from Mitt Romney, I feel like he’ll say
anything to win the election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Manchester, New Hampshire, at 
4304 or  jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  