-- Huntsman’s Future Depends on Fine-Tuning His Big Ideas Now: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-11T02:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/huntsman-s-future-depends-on-fine-tuning-his-big-ideas-now-view.html
The presidential campaign of Jon M. Huntsman Jr. has always had the feel of a trial run for 2016. He
didn’t bother to compete in Iowa, and his organization in the
two upcoming primary states,  South Carolina  on Jan. 21 and
Florida on Jan. 31, is threadbare. He fought hard in  New
Hampshire , though, and eked out only a respectable third-place
behind  Mitt Romney  and  Ron Paul , failing to win the breakthrough
he sought from yesterday’s primary.  With the campaign headed south, Huntsman’s modest momentum
could soon end. That would be a shame for the party: Huntsman
could be the Republican that President  Barack Obama  fears most.  Huntsman hasn’t shaped his views to win over Tea Partyers,
ultraconservative Christians or doctrinaire libertarians. He
runs between the electorate’s 40-yard lines, hoping to attract
social moderates, independents and fiscal conservatives. (Many
Republican primary voters’ beliefs are deep in the ideological
end zone.)  We share, along with much of moderate America, a lot of
common ground with Huntsman, and appreciate that he has
emphasized bipartisanship and largely avoided taking cheap
shots.  Unlike some of his rivals, Huntsman would pursue deeper
engagement with  China , where he was U.S. ambassador under Obama,
and free-trade deals with India and  Japan . He would not be a
captive of  Wall Street , but would seek to make derivatives safer
and banks less risky. He would not be impulsively deregulatory.
He even promises to demand full redress of banks’ legal
violations in the home foreclosure robo-signing scandal. He
doesn’t deny the science behind global warming. As Utah governor
from 2005 to 2009, he backed programs to reduce greenhouse-gas
emissions and supported renewable energy sources.  Refocus His Views  Huntsman’s economic record is solid: The jobless rate
during his tenure as governor averaged 3.8 percent, compared
with a national average of 5.5 percent. Still, he needs to
refocus his views in two critical areas -- taxes and financial
regulation -- if he hopes to withstand the scrutiny that comes
with front-runner status, should he gain it this year or in the
future.  First, taxes. He backs a version of the “zero plan”
designed by the deficit-reduction commission led by  Erskine Bowles  and  Alan Simpson . By zeroing out all tax expenditures --
breaks for mortgage interest, employer-paid health insurance,
payment of state taxes and the like -- the plan theoretically
would allow the simplification of federal income-tax brackets
from the current six to three, far lower ones: 8, 14 and 23
percent.  Simpson and Bowles never endorsed the zero plan, but
Huntsman runs with it. At the same time, he would eliminate
taxes on  capital gains  and dividends. He says this would
encourage investment and create jobs. But it would also
disproportionately benefit the wealthiest Americans, who earn
the most income from investments. The nonpartisan  Tax Policy
Center  estimates that the zero plan would raise taxes for
middle-class families by about $1,890 a year; the richest 0.1
percent on average would save $488,000.  The effect on taxes would actually be worse under the
Huntsman version because, by ending all tax expenditures, it
would erase even the tax credits that struggling households
depend on to make ends meet. An example is the earned-income tax
credit, one of the most successful pro-work, anti-poverty
initiatives the U.S. has ever undertaken. (Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  Bill Clinton  both supported it, as do Simpson and
Bowles.)  Contradictory Positions  Second, Huntsman holds somewhat contradictory positions on
financial oversight. He would seek to repeal the Dodd-Frank
financial reform law, which he criticizes as overly intrusive.
Yet he would break up the big banks -- about as intrusive as
anything we can imagine -- by capping bank assets as a
percentage of gross domestic product and limiting their
borrowing ability.  He would also try to make derivatives safer by pushing for
most of the things that Dodd-Frank commands: clearinghouses,
minimum collateral requirements, more price transparency. It’s
unlikely that any of that would happen without the 2010 law.  These aren’t minor problems in Huntsman’s often appealing
lineup of big ideas. If he wants to remain in the presidential
sweepstakes, he’ll need to more carefully figure out which
regulations are good and which are unnecessary. He’ll also need
a clearer goal for his tax overhaul, beyond simplification, so
that he avoids fixing one problem only to create new ones. But
in a Republican campaign that so far has had plenty of low
points, Huntsman’s sensibility has been a bright exception.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 