-- Turcas, Socar Seek Loan for $5 Billion Turkish Oil Refinery
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-01-11T09:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/turcas-socar-seek-loan-for-5-billion-turkish-oil-refinery-1-.html
Turcas Petrol AS (TRCAS) , a Turkish fuel
retailer, will seek as much as $4 billion in loans in the second
half of this year with State Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan  to build an
 oil refinery  on the country’s western coast.  Turcas’s joint venture with Socar, as the Azeri company is
known, hired  Unicredit SpA (UCG) , which is holding talks with the
export-import credit insurance agencies of the home countries of
companies that may bid to build the oil refinery, Chief
Executive Officer Batu Aksoy said in an interview yesterday in
his office in central Istanbul.  “The joint venture plans to inject approximately $1
billion of equity for the refinery and is seeking long-term
loans for the remainder of the project,” Aksoy said. “With the
condition of European credit markets this isn’t an easy process
but we don’t foresee any problems.”  Turcas and Socar are building the refinery at the site of
 Turkey ’s biggest petrochemicals maker,  Petkim Petrokimya Holding
AS (PETKM) , in the Aliaga region on the Aegean coast. The Socar Turcas
Aegean Refinery venture, known as Star Rafineri AS, plans to
open the refinery in 2015 with capacity to process 10 million
metric tons of crude a year, or 200,000 barrels a day, Aksoy
said. Socar holds 81.5 percent and Turcas 18.5 percent of the
venture.  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) , the country’s sole
refiner, owns four plants that have a total capacity of 28.1
million tons a year.  Focus on Refining  Star Rafineri will make naphtha for Petkim, cutting its
dependency on imports and allowing the chemicals maker to double
capacity, as well as products for the local market, Aksoy said.  Turcas sold its 25 percent stake in Petkim to Socar last
month for $44 million and bought the Star Rafineri stake to
focus on oil refining, Aksoy said. Foster Wheeler Italiana Srl
has completed the engineering and design of the refinery and
 Fluor Corp (FLR)  is project management consultant for the project,
Aksoy said.  “You can’t have two large investments,” he said. “We
want to focus on refining as we will have synergies between the
refinery and the fuel retail business.”  Shell & Turcas Petrol AS, owned 30 percent by Turcas and 70
percent by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , will benefit from lower-cost
fuel from the refinery, Aksoy said. Shell & Turcas, Turkey’s
second-largest fuel retailer after OMV Petrol Ofisi AS, had
sales of 9.4 billion liras ($5 billion) in 2010, he said.  Power Generation  Turcas is also expanding its power generation capacity in
western Turkey, Aksoy said. The RWE & Turcas Guney Elektrik
Uretim AS venture is building a 800-megawatt gas-fired power
plant in the city of Denizli to be completed in the third
quarter, Aksoy said.  RWE AG (RWE)  owns 70 percent of the utility and
Turcas holds 30 percent.  “The plant will produce 6.4 billion kilowatt-hours of
electricity a year, which is about 3 percent of Turkey’s total
production,” Aksoy said.  Turcas provided 180 million euros ($230 million) of
financing for the plant, borrowing 150 million euros for 13
years from WestLB AG, BayernLB Holdings AG and Turkiye Sinai
Kalkinma Bankasi AS, Aksoy said. RWE funded 400 million euros of
the project, he said.  The venture may also build a coal-fired power plant with a
capacity of 800 megawatts, Aksoy said. The  investment decision 
will be reviewed after the gas-fired plant comes on stream, he
said.  Turcas also plans between 50 million euros to 100 million
euros of investment in three years to add power production
capacity of as much as 100 megawatts in renewable energy,
possibly in geothermal, wind or solar, Aksoy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 