-- Turkish Current-Account Gap Narrowed for First Time in 2 Years in November
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-11T09:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/turkish-current-account-gap-narrowed-for-first-time-in-2-years-in-november.html
Turkey’s  current-account gap  
narrowed for the first time in two years, supporting government
arguments that the worst is over for a deficit that weakened the
lira the most among emerging market currencies last year.  The deficit was $5.2 billion in November, compared with $6
billion in the same month of 2010, the central bank in Ankara
said on its website today. That matched the median estimate in a
Bloomberg  survey  of nine economists. The last time the gap
narrowed from a year earlier was in October 2009.  The 12-month cumulative gap shrank to $77.8 billion, about
10 percent of estimated gross domestic product. A shortfall of
that scale represents a risk to economic stability,  Fitch
Ratings  said in November. Concern over Turkey’s ability to
finance the gap helped drive the lira 18 percent lower against
the dollar last year, the biggest depreciation among emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “One can be confident that it has peaked, but not that the
speed of adjustment will be satisfactory,”  Manik Narain , an
emerging-market strategist at UBS in  London , said by e-mail.
“While the worst of the news has passed, it is far from
signaling that the situation is sustainable.”  The lira erased earlier losses after the figure was
released and was 0.1 percent stronger at 1.8661 per dollar at
10:19 a.m. in Istanbul.  Foreign Reserves  The deficit will gradually improve and “the worst is
behind us,” Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said Jan.
5. Central bank Governor Erdem Basci has restricted banks’
ability to lend, arguing that domestic demand for imported goods
financed by credit is the main driver of the deficit.  The central bank spent about $15 billion of its foreign
exchange reserves since August last year to support the lira,
Basci said Jan. 6, calling the expenditure “worth it” to stop
the falling currency fueling inflation.  Reserves (TURWL)  declined to $78.3 billion as of Dec. 30,
equivalent to about four months of imports. The bank may not be
prepared to allow reserves to fall below $60 billion, Royal Bank
of Scotland economist Tim Ash said in a Jan. 9 report. The
reserves declined from a peak of $93.9 billion in July.  Turkey ’s government and companies have $135 billion in
external debt that matures in the 12 months from October 2011,
according to the central bank. Basci said Jan. 9 that there’ll
be “no problem” financing those repayments because Turkey’s
stability means it will draw a share of the additional liquidity
provided by central banks in the U.S. and  Europe .  “Turkish corporates felt no funding difficulties and
rolled 130 percent of their external debt in November, bringing
the annual average to around 124 percent,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief
economist for the region at  Morgan Stanley & Co . in London, said
by e-mail. “This means they have been raising more funding than
their obligations.”  Turkey imports nearly all its energy needs, creating a
trade deficit that’s been widened by demand for imported
 consumer goods . Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , re-elected
to a third term in office in June, aims to slow economic growth
to 4 percent this year from more than 8 percent in 2011,
according to government plans announced Oct. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  