-- Lira Advances for Fourth Day as Current-Account Deficit Narrows
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-11T15:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/turkish-lira-strengthens-for-fourth-day-as-current-account-deficit-narrows.html
The lira strengthened against the
dollar for a fourth day after  Turkey ’s  current-account deficit 
narrowed for the first time in more than two years.  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.8607 as of 5:02
p.m. in Istanbul, its longest rising streak since Oct. 28. The
lira advanced for a fifth day versus the euro and dollar basket
and reached its strongest level since Nov. 14. The deficit fell
to $5.2 billion in November from $6 billion a year ago, the
central bank said on its website today.  “The data is very good news. It confirms that October saw
the peak in the 12-month rolling current-account deficit,”
Simon Quijano-Evans, an economist at ING Groep NV in  London ,
said in e-mail comments.  The lira has gained 1.6 percent this year, making it the
best performer among emerging-market currencies in  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It ended last year 18 percent weaker, the biggest depreciation
among emerging-market currencies, as the deficit for 12 months
widened to a record $78.6 billion, or about 10 percent of gross
domestic product in October, and inflation soared to 10.5
percent in December, the highest in three years and at twice the
bank’s target.  “The current-account deficit will narrow for cyclical
reasons, as the Turkish economy has surpassed the peak,” said
Daniel Lenz, chief emerging market strategist at DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in e-mail comments. “Moreover, the central bank
has turned more restrictive, this should also help.”  The central bank lent 6 billion liras today at the lower
5.75 percent benchmark interest rate for a second day. It has
spent at least $15 billion of its reserves since August and
refrained from providing funds at 5.75 percent on what it calls
“exceptional days” to rein in inflation and arrest the lira’s
decline.  Yields (BENCH)  on two-year Turkish bonds decreased 21 basis points,
or 0.21 percentage point, to 11.23 percent, a Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi index of the securities showed, in the biggest decline
since November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  