-- Vale Declares Force Majeure for Iron Ore Contracts on Rain
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-01-12T11:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/vale-declares-force-majeure-for-iron-ore-contracts-on-heavy-brazil-rains.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, declared force majeure on  iron-ore  shipments and
said it will lose 2 million metric tons of the steelmaking
ingredient because of heavy rains in three Brazilian states.  The force majeure, a legal clause that allows companies to
miss deliveries, affects a series of iron-ore contracts
beginning yesterday, according to a regulatory filing by the Rio
de Janeiro-based company. The loss is equivalent to 0.6 percent
of Vale’s output target of last year, or 1.5 percent of its
annual sales to  China , which stands at 130 million tons.  Floods and landslides in the southeastern states of Minas
Gerais, Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo caused by rains have
killed at least 30 people and left more than 5,000 homeless
since the beginning of the year. The force majeure may have a
“psychological effect” on Chinese buyers, said Tang Xiaolan, a
Shanghai-based analyst with researcher Mysteel.com.  “It would just eliminate about 10 normal-sized ships of
supply from the market,” Tang said. “Iron ore supply is
sufficient at present. Steelmakers are reluctant to buy at the
current prices. It’s mainly stocking activities from traders.”  Iron ore with 62 percent content at China’s Tianjin port
gained 22 percent to $142.2 a ton yesterday from its low in
October, according to the Steel Index.  The rains “have created serious challenges to the
operations of our Southeastern and Southern systems,”  Vale (VALE5)  said
in the filing. “We are communicating with customers as required
under our agreements with them.”  Quarterly earnings  The force majeure may pare Vale’s first-quarter earnings,
BTG Pactual SA said today in an e-mailed note to clients.  A loss of 0.6 percent “Doesn’t sound like much, but 2
million tons from a 25 million-ton monthly production suddenly
makes noise,” BTG said in the note. “We do therefore expect a
Q1 impact, adding to already low volumes and weak production.”  Storms in southeastern  Brazil  led Vale’s production to drop
by about 600,000 tons in the first quarter of 2011.  MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA, the mining producer
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , said on Jan. 9
that iron-ore production has been affected by heavy rains in
 Minas Gerais .  Vale rose 0.8 percent to close at 39.81 reais in Sao Paulo
trading yesterday, compared with a 0.3 percent gain for the
benchmark Bovespa index.  Berge Everest, one of the world’s largest iron-ore ships
operated for Vale, has reached China’s Dalian port fully loaded
for the first time, T.S. Ang, a technical executive at BW Fleet
Management in  Singapore , said Dec. 28.  Iron ore from the vessel is still held at the bonded areas
of the port and hasn’t been sold to buyers, either in China or
other Asian clients, Xu Guangjian, analyst from researcher
Umetal.com, said today.  “Vale may have to sell it slowly,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  