-- Velvet Underground Sues Warhol Over Banana Design
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-01-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/velvet-underground-sues-warhol-foundation-over-banana-design-for-album.html
The Andy Warhol Foundation was
accused in a lawsuit by The Velvet Underground of infringing the
trademark for the banana design on the cover of the rock group’s
first album in 1967.  The band’s founders,  Lou Reed  and John Cale, said that the
foundation infringed the design by licensing it to third
parties, according to the complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in  Manhattan .  The band, which was active from about 1965 to 1972, formed
an artistic collaboration with Warhol, who designed the banana
illustration for “The Velvet Underground and Nico,” which
critics have labeled one of the most influential rock recordings
of all time, according to the complaint.  The  Warhol Foundation  claimed it has a copyright interest
in the design, according to the lawsuit. The Velvet Underground
partnership said in the complaint that the design can’t be
copyrighted because it’s in the public domain. The banana image
Warhol furnished for the illustration came from an advertisement
that was in the public domain, according to the complaint.  The illustration appeared on the album cover without a
copyright notice and no one sought to copyright it, according to
the complaint. That put the design in the public domain, the
group said in the lawsuit.  “The banana design is a significant element of Velvet
Underground’s ongoing licensed merchandising activity,” the
group said. Use of the design as a trademark by the band “has
been exclusive, continuous and uninterrupted for more than 25
years.”  Pop Art  Warhol, one of the most celebrated  Pop artists , began his
collaboration with the band in 1965. The group performed at his
 New York  studio, the Factory, and in his traveling light show,
the Exploding Plastic Inevitable. Warhol died in 1987.  Nina Djerejian, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
foundation, didn’t return messages yesterday seeking comment on
the lawsuit.  Warhol’s copyrighted works have a market value of
$120 million and the foundation has earned more than
$2.5 million a year licensing rights to those works, according
to the complaint.  The Velvet Underground is seeking a judicial declaration
that the foundation has no copyright to the banana design, an
injunction barring the use of any merchandise using the artwork
and monetary damages. The group is requesting a  jury trial .  In the so-called Banana Album, the Velvets chronicled the
1960s hard-drug scene in songs written by Reed such as
“Heroin” and “I’m Waiting for the Man.” Released by MGM
Records, the album was a commercial failure, according to the
complaint. The catalog of MGM became part of  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s
 Universal Music Group , which has re-released the album.  The case is The Velvet Underground v. The Andy Warhol
Foundation for the Visual Arts, 12-0201, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at ‘   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 