-- Vestas Restructuring May Cut Jobs While Keeping Engel as CEO
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-11T09:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/vestas-restructuring-may-cut-jobs-while-keeping-engel-as-ceo.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  tomorrow
plans to announce organizational changes that may cut thousands
of jobs at the world’s biggest wind turbine maker while
preserving the position of Chief Executive Officer Ditlev Engel.  As many as 3,000 of Vestas’s more than 23,250 employees may
lose their posts, said  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at  Sydbank
A/S (SYDB) . Vestas, based in Aarhus,  Denmark , said on Nov. 9 that it
wants to become a “leaner” company by reducing annual fixed
costs by 150 million euros ($192 million).  “They’ll probably cut 2,000 to 3,000 jobs, with a very
large proportion of that in Denmark,” Pedersen said in a
telephone interview from the Danish city of Aabenraa. “I don’t
think there is even a question of getting rid of Ditlev Engel
because he is very influential and very good at lobbying
politicians.”  Engel, 47, is under pressure after twice slashing Vestas’s
sales forecasts since October and abandoning a 2015 target for
15 billion euros of sales and a profit margin of 15 percent
before interest and taxes. Chinese manufacturers led by Xinjiang
Goldwind Science & Technology Co. and Sinovel Wind Group Co.
have grabbed market share from Vestas, squeezing its margins.  A “significant change of the whole organization” will be
announced tomorrow, according to a statement from Vestas on Jan.
3. It originally intended to announce the measures on Feb. 8,
then brought forward the plan because it was making quicker
progress on preparing the changes.  ‘Something Dramatic’  The statement “certainly suggests something dramatic”
though the “vague” wording makes the contents of the
announcement hard to predict, said Sean McLoughlin, clean
technology analyst in  London  at HSBC Holdings Plc.  Michael Holm , a spokesman for Vestas, declined to give
details of the plan in advance of a statement due at 8:30 a.m.
tomorrow Copenhagen time. Engel is scheduled to lead a press
conference starting at 2 p.m.  Vestas shares have fallen more than 90 percent since
peaking at 692 kroner ($119) in 2008, including a 0.4 percent
drop to 60.9 kroner at 10:29 a.m. today in Copenhagen. Short
sales, where investors bet on falling prices, have risen to a
record. The  shares  yesterday gained 5 percent, rising for a
third day after losing 21 percent of their value in the two days
that followed the company’s latest profit warning, on Jan. 3 at
the close of trading in Copenhagen.  Short Interest Climbs  Short positions of the shares rose to 18.6 percent on Jan.
6, the highest in a Data Explorers Inc.  series  that goes back to
July 2006. Short sellers borrow stocks and sell them in the
anticipation of profiting by repurchasing the securities later
at a lower price.  In the latest downgrade, Vestas pared its revenue forecast
for 2011 by 400 million euros to 6 billion euros after slashing
600 million euros from an earlier prediction of 7 billion euros
on Oct. 30.  That’s sparked “anger” among shareholders though Engel
“doesn’t seem to be at risk” because Chairman Bent Erik Carlsen has blamed the accounting department, according to
Arnaud Brossard, an analyst in Paris at Exane BNP Paribas.  “ Ditlev Engel  will be the one announcing the ‘new
organization’ so given that, it is very unlikely he will resign
on Thursday,” said Julien Desmaretz, an analyst in Paris with
Bryan, Garnier & Co. The analyst said job cuts are probable
though he didn’t speculate how many, saying only that Europe may
be the hardest-hit region.  ‘Need to Know’  “Investors such as ourselves need to know that it has an
appropriate cost structure against the backdrop of lower
prices,” Charlie Thomas,  fund manager  of the Jupiter Ecology
Fund, which owns Vestas shares, said by e-mail.  “The process for rebuilding confidence could take time and
a change in the management team may be needed to deliver this,”
Thomas said. “Our long-term thesis remains unchanged, Vestas is
leader in its class in a sector that will grow over the longer
term, it just needs to rise to the short term challenges in the
market or face the consequences.”  Vestas may spell out measures that save “closer to 200
million euros,” said Patrik Setterberg, an analyst at Nordea
Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “Probably a big chunk of this fixed
cost will be saved on white-collar workers,” with  Europe  harder
hit than the U.S., he said.  Jobs in the U.S., where Vestas has spent more than $1
billion building four plants in Colorado, may be spared in the
announcement because of the strength of demand before tax
credits supporting wind power expire at the end of 2012, said
Maurice Rosenthal, an analyst at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in Brussels.  American Workers  U.S. job cuts now would be “premature,” said Sydbank’s
Pedersen. Desmaretz said demand is likely to be high in the
American market.  “There will be a rush to complete the wind projects by the
year-end,” Desmaretz said. “Vestas will have to keep some
employees there and at least keep its production capacity stable
for 2012.”  Vestas has about 3,000 employees in the Americas, according
to its 2010 annual report, which doesn’t break that figure down
by country. About 900 work at plants making nacelles and blades
in Brighton,  Colorado .  Vestas has hired almost 700 people in the U.S. and  Canada 
in the past 8 months, and has 150 job openings in its U.S. and
Canadian sales unit, the company said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  “I don’t think they would have invested over $300 million
in Brighton and $1 billion in Colorado and then cut back,” Ray
Gonzales, president of the city’s Brighton Economic Development
Corp., said in a telephone interview.  Tax Credits  Engel said in November that U.S. sales may “fall off a
cliff” unless the federal government extends tax credits
supporting the industry beyond this year. The so-called
production tax credit, or PTC, gives an incentive of 2.2 cents a
kilowatt-hour of wind power.  “The potential PTC expiry has pulled forward a lot of
demand to this year but future growth is in doubt,” said Simon Gottelier, a fund manager in London at  Impax Asset Management
Group Plc (IPX) , which owns Vestas shares. “Without the PTC, there’s
no real incentive for anyone to build more wind capacity after
2012.”  Because of that uncertainty, U.S. job cuts are possible
later in the year, according to Rupesh Madlani, an analyst in
London at  Barclays Capital .  ‘Fewer Business Units’  “We would only expect an announcement for cost reduction
at their U.S. facilities toward the end of the year,” Madlani
said in an e-mailed reply to questions. He expects Vestas
tomorrow to “outline fewer business units in its organizational
structure, reducing layers of management.”  Vestas may move more toward a regional structure rather
than its current split into divisions for nacelles, blades and
other components, Sydbank’s Pedersen said. “It should be
possible for Vestas to produce less of the turbine and give some
away to suppliers,” he said.  “There are two very critical components in a turbine: the
control system and the blades,” Nordea Bank’s Setterberg said.
“I believe Vestas will try to keep these components. Otherwise,
there are many other parts of the turbines which could be
outsourced, such as the towers, the generators and parts of the
nacelle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  