-- Vienna Bank Summit, Cyber Attacks, Romania Antitrust, Oracle: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-11T13:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/vienna-bank-summit-cyber-attacks-romania-antitrust-compliance.html
Banking regulators from 17 countries
are due to meet today to discuss Austrian proposals to limit
eastern European credit risk for the Alpine republic’s banks,
according to three people with knowledge of the agenda.  The meeting in Vienna brings together senior officials of
the Austrian central bank and the FMA regulator, the European
Banking Authority and from countries including Hungary, Romania
and the  Czech Republic , said the people, who declined to be
identified because the agenda isn’t public.  The  Austrian Financial Market Authority , or FMA, supervises
banks, pension companies, investment funds and other investment
providers.  The officials will discuss capital and liquidity rules
drawn up by Austria’s central bank and the FMA, which require
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank Austria unit to underpin their lending in
eastern Europe with local deposits rather than parent funding,
according to the outline presented Nov. 21. Those tighter
lending requirements, intended to help safeguard Austria’s AAA
credit rating, have drawn criticism from policy makers in
eastern Europe who are concerned they may stifle economic growth
in the region.  New loans given in “key” countries mustn’t exceed 110
percent of local deposits and funding raised directly by the
local subsidiaries, the Austrian central bank said in November.  The three banks also need to meet most of the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision’s new capital rules by the
beginning of next year, and will be subject to a surcharge of as
much as 3 percentage points.  Christian Gutlederer, a spokesman for the Austrian central
bank, declined to comment on the meeting.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC May Vote on Derivative Rules to Protect Cities, Collateral  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  may complete
rules designed to curb the abuses of banks that sell derivatives
to municipalities as it moves to impose new Wall Street
regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act.  CFTC commissioners are scheduled to vote today on final
regulations, first proposed a year ago, that would set business
conduct standards between swap dealers and clients, including
pension funds, endowments and state and local governments.  The rules are part of the CFTC’s effort to reduce risk and
boost transparency in the $708 trillion global swaps market
after largely unregulated contracts helped fuel the 2008 credit
crisis. Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted in
2010, seeks to have most swaps guaranteed by central
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other platforms.  Municipalities faced unforeseen fees during the crisis to
escape from derivative contracts pitched by banks as a way to
save money. The CFTC regulation to be weighed today marks
Washington’s broadest effort to rein in a segment of the
derivatives industry that flourished during the past decade,
only to cost taxpayers billions when the deals collapsed.  The CFTC may also complete rules to protect swap traders’
collateral that is used to reduce risk in trades. The agency may
also vote to propose limits on proprietary trading and
investments in private equity and hedge funds under the so-
called Volcker rule. The CFTC is the last of five U.S.
regulators to consider proposing the limits.  Hedge Funds Ask SEC to Let Them Go Public in Private Offerings  The Managed Funds Association is urging U.S. regulators to
remove restrictions on solicitation and advertising in private
offerings to make it easier for hedge funds to raise money and
promote their products.  The Securities and Exchange Commission should amend its
rules to allow private funds to “engage in communication and
offering activity while remaining in compliance,” Richard H.
Baker, the Washington-based lobby group’s president and chief
executive officer, said in a letter requesting the rule change.
An SEC advisory group on small and emerging companies voted for
a similar recommendation on Jan. 6.  The change would let hedge funds avoid the SEC’s
registration process while openly seeking money from so-called
accredited investors, those deemed sophisticated enough to
understand riskier offerings. Changes in securities markets and
regulations have rendered the 30-year-old restrictions
unnecessary, Baker wrote in the letter dated Jan. 9.  The rule change would reduce the cost of capital for
private funds and lead to “greater efficiency, Baker wrote in
the letter.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  asked her staff to rethink the
measure after President Barack Obama directed federal agencies
last year to ensure their rules promote economic growth while
using the least burdensome tools to achieve regulatory ends.  The U.S. House of Representatives in November approved
legislation proposed by California Republican Kevin McCarthy
that would let closely held companies advertise for investors. A
similar measure awaits action by the Senate.  India Lets Starbucks, Ikea Open Stores in Retail Reversal  India abandoned a rule against foreign single-brand
retailers operating stores without a local partner, paving the
way for global companies including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and Ikea.  The government ratified a Nov. 24 cabinet decision to raise
the ownership limit to 100 percent from 51 percent for single-
brand, Trade Minister  Anand Sharma  said in a statement
yesterday. The new rules take effect immediately and require the
companies to use smaller Indian companies for at least 30
percent of procurement, he said.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , Carrefour SA and other foreign chains
are still excluded from India’s $400 billion retail market after
an attempt last year to change the law failed. Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s administration has struggled to advance its
initiatives amid opposition from its own allies and a corruption
scandal that paralyzed parliament.  Starbucks would compete in India with operators including
 Lavazza SpA (LAVA) ’s Barista Coffee Co. and closely held Cafe Coffee
Day. The Seattle-based coffee chain said in November it intended
to open its first store in India this year.  Calls and e-mails to the Starbucks public-relations team in
Seattle weren’t immediately answered. Starbucks signed an
agreement with India’s  Tata Coffee Ltd. (TCO)  in January 2011 to
source beans and consider opening stores.  Singh’s allies and other parties opposed a decision
allowing retailers selling more than one brand, unveiled in late
November, saying it would hurt local mom-and-pop type stores.
The government suspended the policy Dec. 7.  Singh, 79, said he would renew the multibrand retail
initiative after regional elections this year.  SEC Push May Yield New Disclosures of Company Cyber Attacks  As cyberspies from  China , Russia and other countries
ransack the computer networks of one major U.S. and European
firm after the next, the SEC in October offered its new
interpretation of disclosure requirements as applied to
cybercrime. The amount of information that’s forthcoming will
depend on whether company lawyers determine the incidents had,
or will have, a material effect on the enterprise.  The networks of more than 2,000 companies, research
universities, Internet service providers and government agencies
were hit over the past decade by China-based cyber spies,
according to Joel Brenner, U.S. counterintelligence chief until
2009. A November report by 14 U.S. intelligence agencies said
Russia and other countries also are involved in such activities.  The companies, including firms such as  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , range from some of the largest
corporations to niche innovators in sectors like aerospace,
semiconductors, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, according to
intelligence data obtained by Bloomberg News.  In May, the Senate Commerce Committee asked SEC Chairman
Mary Schapiro to clarify how cyber intrusions should be reported
under the so-called material fact rule.  The guidance, which also says companies can’t use vague,
general descriptions of the risks associated with possible
future cyber break-ins when describing ‘‘risk factors,” raised
fears that more detail could create a road map for hackers, said
Alexander Tabb, a partner at TABB Group, which advises corporate
clients on risk assessment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Romanian Antitrust Council Fined Oil Companies 3% of Sales  Romania’s competition council fined five oil companies,
including  OMV Petrom SA (SNP)  and Rompetrol Group NV, about 880
million lei ($258 million), or 3 percent of their 2010 sales,
for breaching antitrust rules.  The probe showed that Petrom, Rompetrol and the Romanian
units of  Lukoil OAO (LKOH) ,  MOL Hungarian Oil and Gas Plc  and  Eni SpA (ENI) 
colluded on the withdrawal from the market of Eco-Premium, an
unleaded gasoline pre-mixed with lead substitute, Bogdan
Chiritoiu, the head of the Competition Council, said in a press
conference in Bucharest yesterday.  The companies withdrew the gasoline from the market because
of lack of demand and high production costs and “should not
have talked about it,” with each other, according to Chiritoiu.  The companies can challenge the decision in court and they
can also ask for a postponement of the fine payment until a
final legal decision is taken, Chiritoiu said.  The Competition Council has been investigating the energy
market over the past two years and still has to complete a probe
regarding a possible “cartel scheme” in setting fuel prices,
Chiritoiu said. Fuel prices in Romania increased 8 percent in
the first 11 months of 2011 from a year earlier, according to
data from the National Statistics Institute.  For more, click here.  SEC Said to Prepare Vote on Cases Against Ex-Stanford Executives  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigators have
proposed sanctions against at least five former Stanford Group
Co. executives and brokers for their role in selling investments
that fueled R. Allen Stanford’s alleged $7 billion Ponzi scheme,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The SEC’s five commissioners are scheduled to vote tomorrow
on whether to authorize the enforcement actions, which target
brokers and senior executives at Stanford’s Houston-based
brokerage, the people said, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the matter isn’t public.  The vote by the commissioners could still be delayed or
tabled, the people said.  The actions, which seek to bar the executives and brokers
from working in the industry and claw back sales commissions,
come almost three years after the SEC sued Stanford and a
federal grand jury indicted him on 21 criminal counts alleging
he used his U.S. brokerage to sell bogus certificates of
deposits for his Antigua-based bank.  Stanford, 61, has denied the fraud allegations and is being
held without bail pending trial.  The investigators are treating the cases as a legal test of
whether they can sanction brokers for failing to conduct due
diligence on in-house products, the people said. If successful,
the cases could be replicated against more ex-Stanford brokers
over time, said the person.  Oracle Investigated Over HP ‘Eviction Strategy’ Complaint  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  is under investigation by France’s competition
regulator after  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  complained that Oracle used
discriminatory practices on its licensing and support for
products based on  Intel Corp. (INTC)  systems.  The competition authority said it opened a probe to examine
Hewlett-Packard’s July complaint that Oracle’s refusal to
support Intel’s Itanium systems would be an abuse of dominant
position, and that its license pricing was “decided
unilaterally.”  Hewlett-Packard described “a generalized eviction strategy
by Oracle, reinforced, according to it, by a deceitful ad
campaign against HP Integrity servers,” the regulator said in a
 decision  published on its website yesterday.  Hewlett-Packard has also disputed in the U.S. Oracle’s plan
to stop developing products that use Intel’s Itanium chip, which
HP uses in some servers. Oracle, the largest database-software
maker, has responded with claims including false advertising.  “Oracle has acted in the best interest of consumers by
telling the truth as HP has attempted to hide Itanium’s real
fate from customers in order to protect its own profits,”
Thomas Vinje, a lawyer for Redwood City, California-based
Oracle, said yesterday in a statement.  The regulator “recognized the strong evidence” that
Oracle “violated EU and French competition law,” Palo Alto,
California-based Hewlett-Packard said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Gaye Hudson, a spokeswoman for Oracle, declined to comment
on Hewlett-Packard’s statement.  China Construction Bank Says Police Investigate Former Employee  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  said a former employee has
come under police investigation for “personal reasons.”  The employee, Zhang Chuanbin, worked at the Beijing-based
bank’s CCB International unit, according to a statement on China
Construction Bank’s website dated Jan. 5. Caixin magazine
reported on its website that day, citing a person it didn’t
identify, that Zhang was being investigated for front-running
trades.  Yu Baoyue, a Beijing-based public relations official for
the lender, declined to comment beyond what was in the statement
and said he didn’t have contact information for Zhang.  Courts  SEC Sues Ex-WellCare Executives Over Trading Tied to Fraud Case  Three former  WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG)  executives were
sued by U.S. regulators over claims that they sold $91 million
of shares while withholding money the firm was required to spend
on programs for low-income people.  Todd Farha, who was chief executive officer, Paul Behrens,
his chief financial officer, and Thaddeus Bereday, who served as
general counsel, sold 1.6 million WellCare shares from 2003 to
2007 while funneling premiums through an internal subsidiary to
evade Florida’s regulatory framework, the Securities and
Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit in Florida Nov. 9.  The excess premiums, which were counted as revenue,
materially inflated net income and diluted earnings per share
reported in the Tampa, Florida-based company’s public financial
filings, the SEC said. The three executives stepped down in 2008
amid an FBI investigation of the fraud claims.  “The case against Mr. Farha has no merit and will be
vigorously defended in court,” Tom Newkirk, an attorney for
Farha at  Jenner & Block LLP   in Washington, said in an
interview.  Jack Fernandez, an attorney for Bereday, declined to
comment. A phone call to John Lauro, Behrens’s attorney, wasn’t
returned.  WellCare, which restated earnings from 2004 through the
first half of 2007, agreed in 2009 to pay $80 million and hire
an outside monitor to avoid federal charges in the matter.  Interviews/Speeches  Carney on Domestic on Global Capital Rules, Hildebrand Exit  Mark Carney , the chairman of the Financial Stability Board,
said that smaller domestic banks may face similar capital rules
to measures planned for globally systemic lenders whose collapse
would create economic turmoil.  The “framework should be in place for domestically
systemically important banks by the end of the year,” Carney
said in Basel yesterday. The board will also extend requirements
for the largest banks to other kinds of financial institutions.  “Despite the important steps that have been taken over the
last couple of years, we are all aware that, in the short term,
vulnerabilities remain,” Carney said.  Banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  have warned that plans by global regulators to impose
extra capital requirements on systemically important lenders
operating internationally could force them to cut loans to
businesses and support to trade.  The FSB will also set up a group to examine cross-border
disputes over rules governing banker pay, Carney said,
acknowledging an “enduring mistrust” between banks and
regulators over how lenders set their pay.  Carney also said that the board may not replace former
Swiss National Bank Governor and FSB Deputy Chairman Philipp
Hildebrand, following his resignation this week over a currency
trades made by his wife.  The decision will be taken “in the fullness of time and in
consultation with G20.”  For more, click here.  Anderson Says Liquidity ‘Real Challenge’ for Euro Banks  Jeremy Anderson, global chairman of KPMG LLP’s Financial
Services Practice, talked about the impact of Europe’s debt
crisis on the region’s banking industry.  Anderson spoke from Singapore with Rishaad Salamat on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  Chief Executive Michael J. Williams Stepping Down  Michael J. Williams will step down as chief executive
officer of Fannie Mae, the mortgage finance guarantor controlled
by U.S. regulators, the company announced.  Williams, who spent 21 years at Fannie Mae and helped guide
its transition to government control, will continue as chief
executive officer and president until a successor is named. The
Washington-based company reported the departure yesterday in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Williams, 54, became head of Fannie Mae in 2009, soon after
mounting loan losses forced the company and its smaller rival,
 Freddie Mac (FMC) , into U.S. government conservatorship. President
Barack Obama and members of Congress are exploring ways to wind
down the two companies.  Since 2008, the companies have been controlled largely by
their government regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency,
which is charged with conserving their assets and minimizing
taxpayer losses.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 