-- Vietnam Signals Rate Cuts as Asia’s Fastest Inflation Eases
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-12T07:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/vietnam-signals-cuts-in-interest-rates-as-asia-s-fastest-inflation-eases.html
Vietnam  signaled that it may cut
policy  interest rates  to “more suitable” levels after the
first quarter and weaken the dong this year as  Asia ’s fastest
inflation eases.  “The central bank will adjust policy rates to more
suitable levels, aiming to help ease the average level of market
interest rates,” central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh said at
a press conference yesterday.  Vietnam faces a trade deficit, risks in the banking sector
and slowing economic growth as the global recovery falters.
While Indonesia and  Thailand  have cut borrowing costs in recent
weeks to shield expansion, the World Bank and  International
Monetary Fund  said last month Vietnam may undermine progress
toward economic stability if it loosens monetary policy too soon.  “Based on recent policy statements they’ve made and the
fact that inflation is slowing and growth is weakening, and
given the pressures they’re under, I would be 99 percent sure
that he meant that the next adjustment in rates would be down,”
Gareth Leather, a London-based economist at  Capital Economics ,
said after Binh’s comments.  Vietnam needs to show credibility by sustaining
stabilization efforts, Victoria Kwakwa, the World Bank’s country
director in the nation, said yesterday in an interview in Hanoi.  “They have the opportunity to show that they are breaking
with the past,” she said. “Vietnam is now about sticking with
macro-stability when it is needed and not just throwing it to
the wind when we have pulled back from the edge of the cliff.”  Weakening Currency  Consumer-price growth in 2012 may be less than 12 percent
at worst and 8.5 percent to 9 percent in a “good” scenario,
Binh said at an economic conference yesterday in the capital,
compared with 18.13 percent in December.  Inflation may be 7 percent to 8 percent and the economy may
expand 5.5 percent to 5.7 percent this year, Le Xuan Nghia,
deputy chairman of the National Financial Supervisory Commission,
said at a conference in Hanoi today. Credit may grow 17 percent
to 20 percent and money supply may increase 15 percent to 17
percent annually in the 2012-2015 period, Nghia said.  Vietnam’s dong weakened 7.4 percent against the dollar last
year, including a devaluation of about 7 percent in February.
The currency was little changed at 21,026 per dollar as of 1 p.m.
today. The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  of stocks closed up 0.2 percent.  “We believe that 2012 will be a hard year, a challenging
year for Vietnam’s economy,” Binh said. “Slowing inflation is
a prerequisite for interest rates to drop, but it doesn’t always
happen like that.”  Asset Quality  Purchases of dollars and gold by Vietnamese seeking stores
of value have put pressure on the dong. Binh said the currency
will gradually depreciate 2 percent to 3 percent this year.  The nation will also focus in the first quarter on easing
bank liquidity challenges, including through restructuring five
to eight lenders, Binh said.  The banking sector is showing signs of stress and asset
quality remains a “concern” given “unusually high” credit
growth in recent years, the  World Bank  said last month.  Last year, the State Bank of Vietnam unveiled plans to
create a three-tiered financial industry dominated by 15 lenders
as part of efforts to allay concerns over the banking system.  Credit in Vietnam expanded 13 percent in 2011, Binh said.
The nation targets a balance of payments surplus of $3 billion
in 2012 and enough foreign-exchange reserves to cover 12-15
weeks of imports by 2015, he also said.  Vietnam’s inflation rate in December moderated from 19.83
percent in November. It remains the fastest in a basket of 17
Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  If inflation eases to 9 percent, deposit rates will fall to
10 percent to 11 percent, Binh said. Interest rates will be
stable in the three months through March, he said.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam cut its repurchase rate to 14
percent from 15 percent in July last year. The refinancing rate
is 15 percent and the discount rate is 13 percent.  The economy, a production hub for companies such as  Intel
Corp ., grew 5.89 percent in 2011, down from 6.78 percent in 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Heath in Hanoi at   nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  