-- Volcker Rule Trading Ban Gets CFTC 3-2 Vote
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-01-11T19:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/volcker-rule-ban-on-proprietary-trading-is-approved-in-3-2-vote-by-cftc.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  proposed limits on banks’ proprietary trading and
hedge fund investments under the Dodd-Frank Act’s Volcker rule.  The CFTC voted 3-2 to propose the ban, becoming the last of
five regulators to seek public comment on the proposal. Today’s
vote opens the measure to 60 days of public comment.  The rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in Dodd-Frank to rein in risky trading at
banks that benefit from federal  deposit insurance  and Fed
discount window borrowing privileges.  The CFTC didn’t participate when the Fed, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.,  Securities and Exchange Commission  and Office
of Comptroller of the Currency released a joint proposal last
year. Those four agencies extended the comment period on their
proposal until Feb. 13 after financial-industry groups and
lawmakers cited the complexity of the rule and the lack of
coordination with the CFTC in seeking an extension.  The proposed rule would ban banks from making trades for
their own accounts while allowing them to continue short-term
trades for hedging or market-making. It also would limit banks’
investments in private-equity and hedge funds. Dodd-Frank sets a
July 21 effective date for the Volcker rule ban on proprietary
trading at banks.  Swap Units  The CFTC proposed a version of the rule that is largely the
same as the other agencies and sought additional feedback on how
the rule would affect derivatives market participants under its
jurisdiction. The CFTC would have authority over banks’
subsidiaries, such as swap-dealing units and futures brokerages.  “I think our role here is important, it’s significant, but
it’s actually just a supporting member,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said at the meeting. “The bank regulators have the lead
role.”  Republican commissioners  Scott O’Malia  and Jill E. Sommers
voted against the proposal, citing the rule’s complexity and
difficulty to enforce.  “This rule is so bad it really merits re-proposal,”
O’Malia said at the meeting. The regulation would have
“unpredictable consequences” for liquidity in the $708
trillion global swaps market, he said.  The House Financial Services Committee has scheduled a Jan.
18 hearing on oversight of the Volcker rule.  ‘Overly Complex’  “The current proposal twists a simple concept into an
overly complex and burdensome regulation,” Representative  Randy
Neugebauer , a member of the committee, said in a Dec. 20 letter
urging a delay in the implementation of the rule. “Going
significantly beyond Congressional intent, this proposal will
make it difficult for banking entities to manage risk
prudently,” the Texas Republican said in the letter signed by
121 House lawmakers, including four Democrats.  The Volcker rule will affect banks’ standalone proprietary
trading desks and trading for their own accounts conducted
elsewhere in the companies.  Standalone proprietary-trading groups at six bank holding
companies --  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co .,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Morgan Stanley -- had a net loss of about $221 million from June
2006 through the end of 2010, according to a July 13 Government
Accountability Office report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  