-- WaMu Judge Won’t Halt Bankruptcy for Low-Ranking Creditors
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-11T20:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/wamu-judge-won-t-halt-bankruptcy-for-low-ranking-creditors-1-.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , the former
owner of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, can seek approval of the
latest version of its $7 billion payout plan, a bankruptcy judge
ruled, rejecting a request from lower-ranking creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington, Delaware,
refused to halt consideration of the company’s plan until a
district court rules on an appeal by the holders of the so-
called trust preferred securities. Those investors, including
Black Horse Capital LP and Lonestar Partners LP, last year lost
their court battle to have Walrath define their securities as
debt instead of equity.  “The harm to all the other creditors and stakeholder in
the case, I think, would be enormous,” Walrath said in a
hearing today.  Washington Mutual is preparing to try for the third time to
win approval of its payout play after settling the objections of
its main critics, including shareholders.  The trust-preferred investors hold about $1.5 billion in
convertible debt that Walrath ruled became shares in WaMu when
the company filed bankruptcy in 2008. Shareholders will collect
a fraction of what debt holders will collect under WaMu’s
proposed payout plan.  WaMu, based in Seattle, filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. for $1.9 billion.
Washington Mutual Bank had more than 2,200 branches and $188
billion in deposits.  The case is In re  Washington Mutual Inc. (WM) , 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 