-- Warren Raised More Than Brown Last Year Ahead of 2012 U.S. Senate Contest
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-01-11T21:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/warren-raised-more-than-brown-last-year-ahead-of-2012-u-s-senate-contest.html
Democratic challenger  Elizabeth Warren  last year out-raised Scott Brown of Massachusetts, who
analysts rate as one of the most endangered Senate Republican
incumbents in the 2012 elections.  Warren, who didn’t start raising money until August,
brought in about $8.9 million in five months to Brown’s total of
almost $8.5 million in 12 months. In the last three months,
Warren raised $5.7 million and Brown took in $3.2 million.  Brown still entered 2012 with twice as much money to spend.
He reported a campaign bank account balance of $12.8 million,
double the more than $6 million that Warren, a consumer advocate
and Harvard Law School professor, announced.  “We’re on track for Massachusetts to be the most expensive
Senate race in the country,” said  Nathan Gonzales , deputy
editor of the Rothenberg Political Report, a Washington-based
publication that tracks congressional races.  The figures were released by both campaigns in advance of
the Federal Election Commission’s Jan. 31 reporting deadline.  Brown’s victory in a 2010 special election to take the seat
that had been held by the late Edward Kennedy deprived Senate
Democrats at that time of the 60th vote they needed to overcome
Republican delaying tactics and complicated passage of the
health-care overhaul. That measure became law in March 2010.  Brown, 52, and  Dean Heller  of Nevada are the two most
vulnerable Republican senators in 2012, according to Rothenberg.  Democrats, with a 53-47 edge in the Senate, are defending
23 seats to 10 for the Republicans this year.  Democrats ‘Still Upset’  “It’s not just a seat Democrats want to take back to
offset losses they could have, Democrats are still upset they
lost the special election,” Gonzales said of the Massachusetts
race. “Republicans, if they can elect  Scott Brown , make their
path to a majority easier.”  Warren, 62, served as an adviser to President  Barack Obama ,
helping to set the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that
Congress, over near-unanimous Republican opposition, created
under the new financial regulation law.  After Republicans indicated they would block Warren’s
appointment to head the bureau, Obama nominated former Ohio
Attorney General  Richard Cordray . Senate Republicans then
blocked Cordray and Obama earlier this month named him to the
post through a recess appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 