-- Watson Chief Executive Bisaro Says He’s Hunting for ’Larger Transaction’
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-11T21:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/watson-chief-executive-bisaro-says-he-s-hunting-for-larger-transaction-.html
Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Bisaro  said the company is interested in
buying either a generic or brand-name drugmaker.  “Our appetite for a larger transaction, it’s there,”
Bisaro said today at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in
 San Francisco .  Watson, the maker of the authorized copy of Pfizer Inc.’s
cholesterol pill Lipitor, is looking to expand its international
reach as well as the company’s portfolio of brand-name drugs.
Acquisitions and partnerships, including one with biotechnology
drugmaker  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , have helped the diversification efforts.
Watson and Israel’s Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.
are moving away from being solely copycat-drug makers, said
Michael Faerm, an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG.  “We’re seeing more of a trend toward generic companies
diversifying away from pure generics and oral solids,” said
Faerm, who covers the generic-drug industry. “Watson is further
behind Teva in that progression,” Faerm said in a telephone
interview.  “Deals are going to be an important way for them to grow
that mix of the branded business,” Faerm said.  Watson had $172.5 million in  cash and short-term
investments  in the third quarter of 2010. Bisaro said the
Parsippany, New Jersey-based company had paid down debt and
would report a “strong” fourth quarter. Watson had $3.57
billion in 2010 revenue, and a market capitalization today of
about $8 billion.  “It’s a strong financial position to be able to take
advantage of potential business development opportunities on the
generic or the brand side,” Bisaro said.  Watson fell 3 percent to $62.63 at the close of trading.
The company’s shares  gained  19 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  