-- Web-Name Change May Spur Lawsuits, Internet Overseer’s CEO Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-01-11T19:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/web-name-change-may-spur-lawsuits-internet-overseer-s-ceo-says.html
The nonprofit organization
overseeing the Internet’s address system is bracing for a wave
of lawsuits from a program that may add hundreds of top-level
domains such as .apple and .nyc.  “Some parties will choose to use litigation,” Rod Beckstrom, chief executive officer of the Internet Corporation
for Assigned Names and Numbers, said in an interview today at
Bloomberg’s Washington office. “This is the most significant
opening of the domain-name system in the history of the Internet
and a lot of parties around the world have very significant
economic interests.”  Icann, manager of the Web’s address system under a U.S.
Commerce Department contract, will start accepting applications
for new top-level domains tomorrow. The  Marina del Rey ,
California-based group may approve hundreds of new Web address
extensions to the right of the “dot,” including company and
brand names, cities and almost any word in any language.  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and more than 50 other
U.S. companies oppose the program, saying it will increase their
costs, confuse customers and fuel Internet fraud. The
organization will put aside about $60,000 of every $185,000 fee
for each domain-name application to cover litigation that may
arise from the program, Beckstrom said.  Icann’s board approved the domain-name expansion in June to
spur online innovation and competition. The application period
closes April 12, and Icann will publish a list as early as May
showing who applied for each domain-name, Beckstrom said. The
list would let companies and organizations see how competitors
are responding to the expansion, he said.  ‘Do Not Sell’  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  Johnson & Johnson  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
are among companies that signed a petition in November saying
the program would force them to “spend ever-greater amounts of
time and resources” protecting their brands online and calling
on the Commerce Department to persuade Icann to postpone the
application period.  The Association of National Advertisers, which has rallied
brand owners’ opposition to the program, suggested changes on
Jan. 9 that include a “do not sell” list aimed at saving
companies from having to defensively buy domains.  Beckstrom said the expansion, discussed and debated by
Icann for six years, won’t be delayed or scaled back, though
“nothing is final” about the program.  “There will be some change and tweaks, would be my
forecast,” Beckstrom said, adding that any modifications would
be considered through Icann’s deliberation process.  Doubling Budget  The domain-name expansion may generate revenue that may let
Icann double its $85 million annual budget, he said. The
organization operates under a zero-dollar Commerce Department
contract that expires in March, and the agency has requested
proposals on a new contract.  Icann has come under pressure from U.S. lawmakers and
regulators to postpone or curb the program. Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who leads the Senate
Commerce Committee, called for delaying or limiting the
expansion in a Dec. 28 letter to the Commerce Department.  The Federal Trade Commission said in a Dec. 16 letter that
the expansion will create “dramatically increased opportunity
for consumer fraud” and urged Icann to turn it into a pilot
program and reduce the number of suffixes that are introduced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  