-- Westlake Extends Gains as Ethane Drop Boosts Ethylene Profit
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-01-11T21:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/westlake-extends-gains-as-ethane-slide-boosts-ethylene-profit.html
Westlake Chemical Chemical Corp. (WLK)  and
 LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  advanced after prices of ethane
tumbled to an 11-month low, boosting the profitability of
ethylene manufacturing.  Westlake, which is based in Houston, rose rose 4.6 percent
to $48.17 in  New York  after gaining 5.6 percent yesterday.
Rotterdam-based LyondellBasell climbed 1.2 percent after jumping
7.7 percent yesterday.  The companies produce ethylene, a plastics ingredient, and
are benefiting in the U.S. from lower prices for natural gas,
which is used as a raw material and to power factories. Ethane,
a natural-gas liquid that’s converted to ethylene, fell 3.3
percent to 65.25 cents a gallon at Mont Belvieu,  Texas , the
lowest since Feb. 10, according to Liquidity Partners  data . It
dropped 8.2 percent yesterday.  U.S. ethylene makers are benefiting from high prices for
oil, the primary raw material used in Europe and  Asia , relative
to gas. The  ratio  of oil to natural-gas prices is at a record
high this year.  “This is a near ideal situation for U.S. producers: Global
prices being forced up by oil and local costs declining,”
Charles Neivert, a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co.,
said today in a report. “The margin grows from both sides.”  Ethane is falling because ethylene makers are buying less
ahead of plant-maintenance shutdowns, Anne Keller, president of
Houston-based Midstream Energy Group, said today in a telephone
interview. Furthermore, a slump in natural-gas futures today is
contributing to lower ethane prices, she said.  “You are going to have downward pressure on prices given
reduced demand from petrochemical makers around the anticipated
turnarounds,” Keller said.  About 7 percent of North American ethylene supply will be
lost in the first quarter due to planned shutdowns at crackers
operated by ExxonMobil Corp.,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and others,
Don Carson, a New York-based analyst at Susquehanna Financial
Group, said in a Jan. 8 note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  