-- Twinkie-Maker Hostess Brands Files for Bankruptcy, Citing Pension Expenses
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-11T17:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/twinkie-maker-hostess-brands-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-in-manhattan.html
Hostess Brands Inc. (IBCIQ) , the maker of
Twinkies snack cakes and Wonder bread, fell back into bankruptcy
less than three years after completing an earlier restructuring.  The baker ended an earlier trip through  bankruptcy court  in
February 2009 when buyout firm Ripplewood Holdings LLC and
lenders took control of Interstate Bakeries Corp., which was
renamed  Hostess Brands (IBCIQ) .  Hostess in a statement today blamed the latest bankruptcy
on a weak economy and costs tied to pension- and medical-benefit
obligations. The Irving, Texas-based baker intends to withdraw
from pension plans and modify collective-bargaining agreements
with unions, according to court documents.  “This company has tremendous potential if we can remove
barriers to success,” Chief Executive Officer Brian Driscoll
said in the statement.  Hostess had total assets of about $982 million and total
liabilities of about $1.4 billion as of Dec. 10, according to
court papers. The Chapter 11 case was assigned to U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain in  White Plains ,  New York .  Merger in 1937  Interstate Bakeries was created through the merger of
Schulze Baking Co. and Western Bakeries Ltd. in 1937, and grew
by acquiring other companies, according to court documents filed
in the first bankruptcy case. It acquired its biggest rival,
Continental Baking Co., in 1995 for $330 million, according to
the company’s  website .  The company’s products include Hostess  CupCakes , Ding
Dongs, Drake’s Devil Dogs and Nature’s Pride breads. It employs
about 19,000 people, of which 83 percent are union members,
according to court papers. The majority are members of the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters or the Bakery,
Confectionery, Tobacco Workers & Grain Millers International
Union, the company said.  The Teamsters said in a statement that its national
bargaining committee has been working with Hostess management
for months “to identify a consensual resolution that would
address the company’s many problems.” More than 7,500 of
Hostess’s fleet of delivery drivers and merchandisers are
Teamsters, according to the union.  ‘Mutually Agreeable Solution’  “While no agreement has been reached to date, the
Teamsters Union remains committed to working with all
stakeholders during the bankruptcy to find a mutually agreeable
solution, if possible,” Dennis Raymond, director of the
Teamsters Bakery and Laundry Conference, said in the statement.  In September 2004, burdened with declining sales combined
with high labor and ingredient costs, Interstate filed for
bankruptcy in  Kansas City ,  Missouri . During the case, it closed
plants, cut delivery routes and eliminated jobs.  The company exited bankruptcy in February 2009 with a
restructuring plan backed by New York-based Ripplewood and
lenders including Silver Point Capital LP, according to court
documents.  Ripplewood invested $130 million for stock and convertible
notes. Silver Point and other lenders also received shares in
the company, according to court papers.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  