-- Wynn Vice Chairman Okada Sues to See Company’s Books in Spending Dispute
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-01-12T21:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-11/wynn-vice-chairman-okada-with-20-stake-files-suit-to-see-company-s-books.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  Vice Chairman
Kazuo Okada sued the casino operator for access to financial
records in a dispute with the company over the use of funds.  Okada, 69, sued in state court in Clark County,  Nevada , to
force the company to produce spending records. He is chairman of
 Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , Wynn’s biggest shareholder. Wynn
Resorts said today that Okada was “removed” as vice chairman
in October in a dispute over his development plans.  Okada opposed Wynn Resorts’ HK$1 billion ($129 million)
pledge in July 2011 to the University of Macau Development
Foundation, according to the complaint. Universal, a Tokyo-based
pachinko machine maker, owns a 20 percent stake in the Las
Vegas-based operator of casino resorts. Kazuma Ishioka, a
spokesman at Tokyo-based Universal, declined to comment.  Okada said in a related regulatory filing that he is
seeking to protect his investments of $380 million in Wynn
Resorts dating back to 2000.  According to the filings, on Nov. 2 Okada sought
information regarding the university pledge, the use of $30
million invested in Wynn by one of his companies in April 2002
and an amendment to a stockholders agreement with Chairman and
founder  Stephen Wynn  and ex-wife Elaine Wynn that followed the
couple’s divorce.  “Not only was the request summarily denied but,
shockingly, Wynn Resorts asked for evidence that the $30 million
investment had even occurred,” according to the filing.  Competing Project  Wynn Resorts said the dispute stemmed from Okada’s decision
to compete with the company by pursuing projects in the
Philippines. Okada was removed as vice chairman after
admonishments from the board over the plan, Wynn said today in
an e-mailed statement. The company also claims Okada implied
Wynn would participate “in projects that the company had made
firm decisions to avoid.”  Okada’s lawsuit “is preposterous and without merit. The
company will defend it vigorously,” Wynn said. Capital
contribution information is public, and Okada had the same
information about charitable donations as other directors, the
company said.  Okada, a  Hong Kong  resident and Japanese citizen, is one of
Wynn Resorts’ original investors. He is ranked the 26th-richest
person in  Japan  in 2010, according to Forbes.  Casinos, Hotels  Universal Entertainment plans to make more money from
operating casinos, Okada said in a Sept. 28 interview with
Bloomberg News.  The maker of pinball-like machines used in pachinko
parlors, where customers play for prizes that can be exchanged
for cash, plans to open two casinos and three hotels in  Manila ,
the Philippines, by December 2013 and will decide by 2015
whether to build more gambling venues in  Asia .  Gamblers in Asia are fueling industry growth in Singapore
and  Macau , where casino revenue has more than tripled in the
past four years. Casino revenue in Macau, the world’s largest
gambling hub, jumped 42 percent to 268 billion patacas ($33.5
billion) last year, according to data from Macau’s Gaming
Inspection and Coordination Bureau.  Wynn, owner of the namesake and Encore casinos, dropped 1.9
percent to $109.80 at the close  New York . The shares gained 6.4
percent last year.  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  fell 4.8 percent to HK$17.56
in Hong Kong.  The case is Kazuo Okada v. Wynn Resorts, Ltd., District
Court of Clark County, Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  