-- ‘Argo’ Is Top Weekend Film With $12.1 Million in Receipts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-10-29T23:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/-argo-is-top-weekend-film-with-12-4-million-in-receipts.html
“Argo,” Ben Affleck’s thriller
about the 1979 Iranian hostage crisis, jumped to first place in
its third weekend in U.S. and Canadian theaters, taking in $12.1
million for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros .  “Cloud Atlas,” also from Warner Bros., was second,
collecting $9.6 million in its opening weekend, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Argo,” considered a probable Oscar nominee, benefited
from word-of-mouth recommendations and a weak slate of new
pictures entering theaters. Affleck produced and directed the
film and plays the lead character. The movie is based on the
true story of a mission by the CIA and Canadian diplomats to
sneak six Americans out of  Iran  after the takeover of the U.S.
Embassy in 1979.  “First, people are loving the film and recommending it to
their friends, and second, the four new movies opening this
weekend mostly crashed and burned,” Gitesh Pandya, editor of
BoxOfficeGuru.com in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
While it will probably lose the No. 1 spot to new openings
starting next weekend, the film is on track to gross more than
$100 million, driven in part by “Oscar buzz,” he said.  “Argo” is a five-to-one favorite to win the Academy Award
for best picture, according to  GoldDerby.com , a website that
compiles forecasts by journalists who cover the Oscars. Affleck
also is favored to win the best director award, according to the
website. The film has generated $60.5 million in ticket sales
since opening on Oct. 12.  ‘Cloud Atlas’  “Cloud Atlas,” a series of interwoven stories that play
out over several centuries, is based on the novel by U.K. author
David Mitchell. The film stars  Tom Hanks ,  Halle Berry  and  Hugh Grant . It was directed by Andy and Lana Wachowski, makers of the
“Matrix” films, and by Tom Tykwer.  “It’s a disappointing opening, but it was a very tough
movie to sell in the first place,” Pandya said, citing the
multiple storylines that take place across 500 years. “It’s
very difficult for marketers to get the message across as to
what the story is because it is very complex.”  Among returning films,  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Hotel Transylvania”
was third with receipts of $9.4 million. The animated film
features the voice of  Adam Sandler  as Dracula, who invites
famous monsters to celebrate his daughter’s birthday.  “Paranormal Activity 4,” the latest installment in
Paramount Pictures’ low-cost horror series, fell to fourth from
first place with sales of $8.5 million.  ‘Silent Hill’  Like its predecessors, “Paranormal Activity 4” is filmed
in the “found-footage” style, as characters set up cameras to
record strange happenings when no one is around. In this
edition, a neighborhood becomes the setting for terrifying
events after a woman and a mysterious child move in.  The debut film “Silent Hill: Revelation 3D,” from Open
Road Films, was fifth with $8 million.  Adelaide Clemens stars
as a young woman who is drawn into a demonic world with little
hope of escape. Sean Bean also is featured in the film.  “Taken 2,” from Fox, was sixth with $7.7 million. The
film is a sequel to the 2009 Liam Neeson action film.  “Fun Size,” from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures, opened
in 10th place with sales of $4.1 million. The comedy follows a
teen-age girl assigned to keep track of her little brother on
Halloween night. The movie features  Chelsea Handler , Victoria
Justice and Johnny Knoxville.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 13 percent to
$81.2 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 3.8 percent to $8.7
billion, with attendance up 2.6 percent.  Hurricane Sandy  may have caused sales to decline on the
East Coast in a period that’s already weak before holiday
releases that begin the first weekend of November, Pandya said.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Oct. 26 to Oct. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  