-- H.K. Imposes Property Tax on Non-Locals on Bubble Risks
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-10-28T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/h-k-imposes-property-tax-on-non-locals-on-bubble-risks.html
Hong Kong  Chief Executive Leung
Chun-ying imposed the city’s first property tax targeted at
overseas buyers as U.S. monetary easing and record-low  interest
rates  boost the risk of a  housing  bubble.  Non-local and corporate buyers will have to pay a 15
percent tax upon purchase, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  told
reporters at a press conference on Oct. 26. The government also
raised a resale tax on property by about 5 percentage points and
extended the period during which it will apply to three years
from two.  Hong Kong is implementing its third set of property curbs
in two months after home prices almost doubled over three years
to become the world’s most expensive. The city’s de-facto
central bank was forced to defend the currency’s peg to the  U.S.
dollar  for the first time since 2009 this month as the  Federal
Reserve ’s third round of quantitative easing sparked an inflow
of cash into the city.  “These measures will be effective in reducing the number
of transactions, but ineffective in curbing the property
prices,” said  Cusson Leung , a Hong Kong-based property analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG. “The non-local buyers’ stamp duty is
more of a PR stunt as it responds to Hong Kong homebuyers’
demand to raise the barrier for foreign investors.”  Record low mortgage rates, an influx of buyers from other
parts of  China  and a lack of new supply have been underpinning
the Hong Kong property market, prompting Leung Chun-ying, who
was sworn in as the city’s leader in July, to accelerate land
sales and give preference to local buyers in some projects.  Residency Status  The new property tax doesn’t apply to Hong Kong permanent
residents. Inhabitants need to live in the city for seven
straight years to be eligible for permanent residency, according
to immigration  rules , while Chinese citizens born in the city
are automatically granted that status.  Property owners who sell their homes within six months of
their purchase will need to pay a 20 percent special stamp duty,
up from 15 percent, Tsang said. For resale between seven months
and 12 months, the duty will increase to 15 percent, and
transactions between 13 months to 36 months, the duty will be 10
percent.  “The current housing supply lags behind the soaring
demand; we need to work on the demand-side measures,” Tsang
said. “These measures target specifically property investors
who resell the flats within three years, but not the genuine
end-users.”  Sales Forecasts  The measures will stabilize prices while reducing supply,
 Midland (1200)  Holdings Ltd. Executive Director Vincent Chan said in a
press statement released by the company on Oct. 27. Chan
predicted new property transactions will fall to around 14,000
to 15,000 next year compared with earlier projections of 18,000.
Second-hand transactions may drop to 63,000 from previous
estimates of about 70,000, Chan said.  Sales of 12 used homes were recorded at the city’s 10
largest estates over the weekend, the lowest level in four
months and down 43 percent from the previous weekend, Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The surge in Hong Kong’s property prices is out of sync
with the economy where exports and  retail sales  have been
declining, Tsang said.  “The low-interest rate environment will likely continue
and Hong Kong property prices are likely to climb,” he said.
“The property bubble is likely to increase the risks” to the
economy and people’s livelihoods, he said.  The nine-member  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP)  has jumped 30
percent this year, driving the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  to the
highest in more than 12 months this week.  Mortgage Tightening  Non-local buyers account for 19.5 percent of total sales of
first-hand properties in Hong Kong in 2011 and 6.8 percent of
total sales of second-hand properties in 2011, Tsang said.  Hong Kong joins  Singapore  in efforts to cool soaring
property prices by targeting non-residents. Singapore in
December imposed an additional 10 percent stamp duty on
foreigners and corporate entities.  Hong Kong’s central bank tightened mortgage lending on
Sept. 14 after saying the Fed’s latest quantitative easing risks
pushing up home prices that have already surpassed their October
1997 peak. That marked the start of a 70 percent decline to
August 2003, according to an index compiled by Centaline. They
have soared more than 240 percent since that trough nine years
ago.  Leung said on Sept. 6 he will restrict homebuyers of two
building sites the government plans to sell to local residents,
a week after announcing a 10-point package to rein in prices
including making more land available to developers and speeding
up the building of public housing.  Chinese Buyers  Hong Kong  home prices  have  risen  18 percent this year,
according to the Centaline index. They fell 4 percent in the
last three months of 2011, the biggest quarterly drop since the
global credit crisis, after mortgage restrictions and as  China’s
economy  began to slow.  Buyers from other parts of China made up 36.8 percent of
all new sales by value in the first quarter, down from 37.9
percent in the previous three months, according to Midland. The
proportion reached 53.9 percent in the third quarter last year,
the realtor said.  The city’s home prices are 65 percent higher than  Tokyo ’s,
the world’s second-priciest place to buy a home, according to a
study by  Savills Plc (SVS)  published last September that compares
prices in 10 global cities including  New York  and  London .  The number of home transactions in Hong Kong rose 42
percent in August from a month earlier, the biggest increase
since March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  