-- Hanson Beats McIlroy at BMW Masters; Watney Wins CIMB Classic
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-10-28T11:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/hanson-beats-mcilroy-at-bmw-masters-watney-wins-cimb-classic.html
Peter Hanson  held off world No. 1
Rory McIlroy to win the BMW Masters today for his second
European Tour golf victory this year.  Nick Watney  took the CIMB
Classic title, with second-ranked  Tiger Woods  tied for fourth.  Sweden’s Hanson and Northern Ireland’s McIlroy both shot 5-
under-par final rounds in Shanghai, with Hanson finishing at 21
under, one shot above his Ryder Cup teammate.  “My putting has really improved, especially over the last
year, and I think that’s the main reason I’m standing here with
this beautiful trophy,” Hanson was cited as saying on the
European Tour’s website.  In an event that included four of the world’s top five
players, No. 3  Luke Donald  from England was third, another three
shots back. His countryman  Ian Poulter  was fourth in Shanghai.  Hanson, 35, was four shots clear before a late rally by
McIlroy, which included an eagle at the 15th followed by a
birdie at the next hole. Hanson, the world No. 25, ended his
round with a bogey, while was able to hang on for the win.  The Swede, who now has  six European Tour victories ,
collects a check for 888,560 euros ($1.15 million), the biggest
prize of his career.  “Rory made a tremendous effort with his eagle on 15 and
birdie on 16, so it put quite a bit of pressure on me,” Hanson
said. “I was trying to play it a little bit safe, but against
the world No. 1 you still have to hit the shots.”  Watney Win  In Kuala Lumpur, Watney of the U.S. fired a 10-under final
round to win the CIMB Classic, an event co-sanctioned by the
Asian Tour and U.S.  PGA Tour .  The 31-year-old, who hit 11 birdies and a bogey, finished
at 22 under, with countrymen  Robert Garrigus  and Bo Van Pelt,
last year’s winner, one shot back. Woods tied with Chris Kirk of
the U.S. and Zimbabwe’s Brendon de Jonge for fourth.  “The round sort of built momentum and things just kept
getting better and better,” Watney told reporters. “I really
enjoyed beating Tiger. Any time that you can play in this era, I
think everybody would agree these last 15 years, he has been by
far the biggest attraction in our sport.”  Watney now has six PGA Tour wins. His other title this
season came in August at The Barclays tournament, the first of
four FedExCup playoff events.  Woods started his final round with five birdies in the
opening seven holes, but could manage only three more. He had
fallen back yesterday after hitting three bogeys and a double
bogey in his last nine holes of the third round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 