-- Marchionne Seen Missing Fiat Sales Target by $19 Billion
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-10-29T16:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/marchionne-seen-missing-fiat-sales-target-by-19-billion.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
Sergio Marchionne set a target two and a half years ago to sell
6 million cars annually by 2014, a goal that analysts and
industry observers at the time deemed impossible to achieve.
They were right.  Marchionne, who runs both the Italian automaker and
Chrysler Group LLC, has said he will revise his forecasts when
the two companies announce third-quarter results tomorrow.
Analysts estimate his sales target will need to come down by 15
billion euros ($19 billion).  “Marchionne was too optimistic in 2010,” said Giuseppe Berta, a professor at Bocconi University in Milan who has
written several books on Fiat and has worked as a company
historian. “Fiat and Chrysler can’t grow by self-propulsion to
the famous 6 million-car target.”  With European auto sales headed for their biggest drop in
almost two decades this year, Fiat has said losses in the region
are on pace to widen to 700 million euros. A quick turnaround
will be a challenge with austerity measures set to restrain
demand to below pre-crisis levels until at least 2017, according
to forecaster LMC Automotive.  Marchionne, who said as recently as April that he could
stop losses in  Europe  within two years, will have to make do
with lower sales than originally expected. The 2014 revenue
target for the group, including Chrysler, Ferrari and Maserati,
could be cut to 89 billion euros from the 2010 forecast of 104
billion euros, according to a  Bloomberg survey  of 13 analysts.  Shares Drop  Fiat  dropped  2 cents, or 0.6 percent, to 4.12 euros at the
close of trading in Milan today. The stock has gained 16 percent
this year, valuing the carmaker at 5.15 billion euros.  In unit sales, Fiat is likely to fall short of the target
by 27 percent, or 1.6 million cars. Researcher IHS Automotive is
predicting sales of 4.4 million in 2014 for the group, up from
4.1 million this year. In Europe, though, IHS expects sales to
fall 1.4 percent to about 917,000, while in North America they
could jump 6.2 percent to 2 million.  Fiat, which declined to comment for this story, isn’t alone
in struggling in Europe. The French government has had to
support  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  by backing 7 billion euros in new
bonds for its financing arm.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  is closing three
plants in the region,  Daimler AG (DAI)  scrapped its profit target for
next year, and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  posted its largest drop in earnings
since 2009 in the third quarter.  Italian Plunge  Fiat’s problems are bigger than many rivals’ because its
troubled home country accounts for half its sales in the region.
Its plants in Italy, where car sales are on pace to plunge this
year to the lowest level in more than three decades, are running
at 50 percent of capacity, far below the 80 percent threshold
typically considered profitable.  To counter the severe slump in European sales, Marchionne
is considering building Chrysler models in  Italy , including
Jeeps, for export to North America. The Italian government is
evaluating tax rebates on export goods to help Fiat. Marchionne
may announce details of his plan as soon as Oct. 30, the people
said.  “This makes sense on multiple levels” as it will boost
plant utilization and would cap “Chrysler’s own potential,
limiting the likely cost to Fiat shareholders of buying out the
Chrysler minorities,” Stuart Pearson, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in  London , said in a note to investors today. “However
we see no quick answers, and fear debt could surprise negatively
first,” said Pearson, who rates the stock underweight with a
target price at 3.90 euros.  Europe Concern  “We are all concerned” about the European crisis,
Marchionne said in an interview in Brussels on Oct. 10. While
declining to give any details, he said he would update his
targets for 2014 by the end of this month.  Those European woes have been offset by the strong
performance of Chrysler, Fiat’s Brazilian division and supercar-
maker Ferrari SpA. For the third quarter, Fiat’s earnings before
interest taxes and one-time gains or costs -- what it calls
trading profit -- will increase 10 percent to 938 million euros,
according to the average  estimate  of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Marchionne said at an event in  Shanghai  yesterday
that third-quarter results are in line with estimates.  Partner Search  “Chrysler and  Brazil , the group’s strengths, could
compensate for the half-disaster in Europe in the short term,”
said Massimo Cassia, head of equity at Sella Gestioni Sgr in
Milan, who manages about 1.7 billion euros including Fiat
shares. “Fiat is massively burning cash in Europe, has few new
models in the pipeline, and faces a huge issue of
overcapacity.”  Marchionne, 60, has acknowledged that he neglected Europe
while fixing Chrysler. While he ultimately would like to merge
the two companies into a single global giant, he said he wants
to get Fiat back on track before that can happen.  A merger could help the Italian carmaker survive the crisis
by providing a reliable source of cash flow. Marchionne has said
that in the long term, Fiat and Chrysler may need a third
partner to survive and that he has held partnership talks with
 Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  and  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)   Last month, Marchionne confirmed Fiat’s targets for 2012,
including a revenue increase of at least 29 percent, to more
than 77 billion euros, and a 59 percent jump in trading profit
to at least 3.8 billion euros. Those gains, though, come mostly
thanks to the full consolidation of Chrysler, which last year
was included for only seven months.  ‘Reality Check’  Marchionne may offer a “reality check on his 2014
targets” when Fiat releases earnings tomorrow,  Gianantonio Villani, an analyst at Kepler in Milan, said in a note
investors. Villani expects the carmaker’s global sales to be
flat next year with revenue falling 8 percent in Europe.  Fiat has suspended  investments  in Italy, cutting European
spending by 500 million euros in 2012, and has delayed new
models, including the Punto hatchback because Marchionne doesn’t
expect a recovery in the region before 2014.  That strategy of freezing investments and postponing new
models has been criticized by politicians and union leaders in
Italy and also by Fiat’s main European rival, VW.  Introducing new products is “the preferred strategy than
trying to muddle through,” Hans Dieter Poetsch, Volkswagen’s
chief financial officer, said on an Oct. 24 conference call,
when asked about Fiat’s decision to hold off on refreshing its
lineup.  White-Knuckle Ride  The Italian manager, who grew up in  Canada , has been urging
his European counterparts to come up with a plan to cut
overcapacity throughout the region. Fiat itself closed a plant
in Sicily last year and is trimming output. The company will
halt its Pomigliano plant, where it builds the Panda subcompact,
its only new model in the country, from Nov. 26 to Dec. 9,
furloughing about 2,000 workers at the facility.  While Marchionne’s aggressive approach to navigating the
crisis could still pay off, it may be a white-knuckle ride.  “There are much easier stocks and stories to own in the
global auto sector,”  Max Warburton , an analyst with Bernstein
Research, said in a note to investors. “But while the risks are
material, Fiat management’s chosen path could also bring
reward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  