-- Australia Seeks to Beat ‘Tyranny of Distance’ With Asia Ties
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-10-28T04:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/australia-seeks-to-beat-tyranny-of-distance-with-new-asia-ties.html
Australia must strengthen education,
trade and infrastructure to take advantage of Asia’s economic
growth, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said in a report today,
outlining goals for 2025.  “As the global center of gravity shifts to our region, the
tyranny of distance is being replaced by the prospects of
proximity,” according to the government’s  report . “Australia
is located in the right place at the right time.”  Australia, whose economy has avoided recession for 21 years
amid surging Asian demand for  iron ore , coal and natural gas,
will need to rely on more than luck to benefit from the region’s
expansion, Gillard said. Australia plans to boost trade links to
Asia to at least a third of gross domestic product by 2025,
compared with a quarter today, she said.  Australia also plans to improve diplomatic relations with
 China , its top trading partner,  India , Indonesia, Japan and
South Korea, while expanding ties with countries including
Vietnam and Mongolia, Gillard said.  The country’s GDP per person should be in the world’s top
10, compared with 13th in 2011, requiring a gain in
productivity, the government said. That would lead to an
increase in Australia’s average annual income to about A$73,000
($75,723) per person in 13 years from about A$62,000 in 2012.  Universities, Languages  The government wants to have 10 of the world’s top 100
universities by 2025 and a school system among the five best.
All Australian students will have the opportunity to learn at
least one “priority” Asian language, Mandarin, Hindi,
Indonesian or Japanese, Gillard said in a speech in Sydney
today.  One-third of board members of the biggest publicly listed
companies in Australia should have Asian expertise, she said.  A global economic slowdown has prompted policy makers from
the U.S. to  Europe  and China to add to stimulus measures in 2012
to boost growth. In Australia, central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  has cut  interest rates  to revive demand outside of a
resource boom that may peak earlier than previously forecast.  Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said last month that the
commodity price boom was over, increasing the importance of
exports to  developing countries  such as India. Two-way goods and
services trade between Australia and India reached $21 billion
in the year through June 2011, led by sales of coal and gold,
according to Australian government figures. India was
Australia’s fourth-largest export market in the period.  Economic Output  By the end of the decade, Asia will surpass Europe and
 North America  combined in economic output, Australian Treasurer
Wayne Swan said today. Asia’s middle class is forecast to rise
by more than 2.5 billion people by 2030, he said.  “A consumer boom is fast gathering momentum,” Swan said
in an e-mailed statement. “This will increase demand for a
diverse range of goods and services, like health, aged care,
education, tourism and financial services.”  “We will continue to support a greater role for Asian
countries in a rules-based regional and global order,”
according to the report, entitled ‘ Australia  in the Asian
Century.’ “Australia’s alliance with the U.S. and a strong U.S.
presence in Asia will support regional stability, as will
China’s full participation in regional developments.”  The U.S. is boosting its military presence in the Asia-
Pacific region by deploying as many as 2,500 marines in the
northern Australian city of Darwin as China’s power grows.  “We have an ally in  Washington , respect in Beijing, and
more,” Gillard said in the speech. “An open door in Jakarta
and Delhi, Tokyo and Seoul.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  