-- Danish Banks Get No Mercy as Nordea Sees Sub-Zero Into 2014
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-10-29T15:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/banks-get-no-mercy-in-denmark-as-nordea-sees-sub-zero-into-2014.html
The Danish central bank’s  negative
deposit rate , which banks and rating companies say is crippling
the financial industry, will probably continue into 2014,
according to  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)   That will put pressure on an industry still struggling to
surface from Denmark’s burst housing bubble, which has claimed
more than a dozen banks since 2008. The central bank, which has
left its deposit rate at minus 0.2 percent since July, says bank
industry woes won’t distract it from using rates to defend the
krone’s peg to the euro.  “Banks may have to live with negative rates for another
two years,” Jacob Skinhoj, who heads fixed-income research at
 Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen, a unit of Scandinavia’s biggest
bank, said in an interview. “That could very easily be the
case.”  Banks had about 150 billion kroner ($26 billion) in the
central bank’s deposit facility last week, costing them some 300
million kroner annually, the Danish Bankers Association
estimates. Meanwhile, the industry is still paying its customers
to hold their deposits in an effort to attract stable funding
and reduce reliance on wholesale financing. That’s turned
deposit banking in  Denmark  into a losing business.  Net interest income at Nordea’s Danish unit fell 3 percent
in the third quarter from the second, to 297 million euros ($384
million), the bank said on Oct. 24. For household deposits, net
interest income was negative, the bank said.  ‘Very Expensive’  “It’s very expensive not to be able to earn money on
deposits,” Michael Rasmussen, head of Nordea’s retail banking
and Danish operations, said in response to questions last week.
“I have 125 billion kroner in deposits I can’t earn money on.”  While there’s a chance the central bank may raise its
deposit rate by 0.1 of a percentage point sometime in the next
three months to fine tune the exchange rate, Nordea estimates
that after that, Denmark will probably leave rates unchanged
into 2014 as policy makers in Copenhagen track the  European
Central Bank .  Europe ’s debt crisis means President  Mario Draghi 
is unlikely to raise rates at all next year, Skinhoj said.  Denmark, where property prices have plunged about 25
percent since their 2007 peak, is probably in the grip of its
second recession in less than a year, the Confederation of
Danish Industry said today. The economy will remain under
pressure well into 2013, the group estimates.  Own Risk  The Danish central bank’s only policy mandate is to defend
the krone’s peg, and it targets a rate of 7.46038 per euro.
Denmark’s status as a haven from Europe’s debt crisis -- thanks
to a government debt load that’s less than half the euro-zone
average and a current account surplus -- has attracted investors
fleeing crisis-tainted euro-zone assets.  The central bank only takes the  exchange rate  into account
when setting rates, said Governor Nils Bernstein’s spokesman,
Karsten Biltoft. The bank made its policy focus clear after
lenders in 1996 introduced adjustable-rate mortgages with
regular refinancing auctions for homeowners, he said. Borrowers
took the loans at their own risk, he said.  “We made it clear that, irrespective of what happened with
short-term mortgage financing, we would adjust  interest rates 
according to the needs of the fixed exchange-rate policy,”
Biltoft said in an interview.  Bank Aid  The central bank has taken some measures to support banks,
expanding its collateral base and extending loan maturities
available at the benchmark lending rate -- 0.2 percent since
July -- to six months and three years. Since July, the bank has
twice raised the ceiling on its current account facility, which
carries a rate of zero. Biltoft declined to comment on whether
it may raise the ceiling again.  While some banks in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Sweden  have
started charging clients for their krone-denominated deposits,
lenders in Denmark have hesitated for fear of losing business.
The government, which has passed five bank rescue packages since
2008, has also warned any decision by the financial industry to
charge for deposits would repel customers and hurt banks.  With both the government and the central bank signaling
lenders are unlikely to get more policy-driven concessions,
Denmark’s financial industry faces consolidation. Anders Dam,
the chief executive officer of  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , Denmark’s second-
biggest listed lender, estimates about half the country’s 106
banks will disappear through 2020, as they’re either bought up
or wound down.  Bank Failures  Three regional banks failed the central bank’s latest
stress test, published Oct. 25. A fourth bank would be close to
breaching capital rules, while the nation’s four biggest
lenders, including  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , all passed.  Proposals to tighten Denmark’s capital rules further are
credit positive for banks, Moody’s Investors Service said in an
e-mailed note today. A plan to enforce individual buffers above
a minimum 8 percent capital requirement will also equip the FSA
“with additional tools to address banks that fail to meet” the
standards, the rating company said.  Nicholas Rohde  of Niro Invest Aps., who correctly predicted
the failure of Fjordbank Mors A/S, Amagerbanken A/S and Max Bank
A/S in 2011, currently ranks Basisbank A/S, Andelskassen JAK and
 Sparekassen Lolland A/S (SPALOL)  as Denmark’s worst-capitalized banks.
Dam says Jyske can mobilize about 18 billion kroner for
acquisitions as the bank uses the crisis to win market share.  “The biggest challenge to Danish lenders is that they’re
not making very good returns,” said Rohde, who compiles the
annual Danish Financial Institutions rankings at Niro Invest.
“They need good returns to attract more capital” and “capital
is really what it comes down to for survival.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  