-- Bargain-Addicted Investors Ignore Perils of Low Rates
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-10-28T22:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/bargain-addicted-investors-ignore-perils-of-low-rates.html
The U.K. and the euro zone are in a
recession, the U.S. economy is teetering, and a hard landing is
unfolding in  China . Softness in these three paramount economies
is dragging down the rest of the world. So why do most investors
seem totally unconcerned over the unfolding global contraction?  This is what I call the Grand Disconnect between weak and
weakening economies worldwide, on one hand, and optimistic
investors, on the other, who are hooked on massive monetary and
fiscal stimulus programs.  Economies and financial markets have become so dependent on
monetary and fiscal bailouts -- and investors so enamored of
them -- that all seem to have forgotten the dire circumstances
that continue to make these rescues necessary. Many market
participants yearn for conditions that are so troubled that
central banks and governments, be it in China, the U.S. or
 Europe , will be spurred to greater easing, with positive
implications for stocks.  “Conditions are so bad that it’s good for my equity
portfolio,” the thinking seems to be.  This almost total reliance on monetary and fiscal stimulus,
with little regard for fundamental economic performance --
except to hope that growth will be weak enough to spur more
government action -- is a new phenomenon. Until quite recently,
there was strong faith in government action, but it was coupled
with the belief that such measures would quickly re-establish
robust economic growth.  Restoring Growth  I have often been asked what monetary or fiscal actions
would rapidly restore economic growth, as if a magic bullet
would bring back the salad days of the 1980s and 1990s. My reply
was that no such cure existed. The immense monetary and fiscal
stimulus in the U.S., including the $1 trillion-plus annual
federal-government deficits, the $2.3 trillion in quantitative
easing and about $1.5 trillion of excess bank reserves held by
the Federal Reserve, probably made the economy and financial
markets better off. Nevertheless, slow and now faltering global
economic growth indicate that these huge efforts were more than
offset by gigantic deleveraging in the private sector. The only
thing that would restore normal global growth, I argued, was
time -- the five to seven years it will take for deleveraging to
be completed.  The search for a magic bullet seems to have been abandoned.
The emphasis is now almost solely on the opiate of government
stimulus, increasing quantities of which will probably be needed
to keep investment addicts satisfied. The recent announcements
of quantitative easing by the Fed and the European Central Bank
have had a diminishing impact on the Standard and Poor’s 500
Index. And recent market actions suggest that QE3 may be a
classic case of buy the rumor, sell the news.  What more can be done? The Fed’s commitment to purchase $40
billion in mortgage-backed securities a month is open-ended, and
is scheduled to last until the  unemployment rate , now at 7.8
percent, drops to the Fed target range of about 5 percent to 6
percent and there is robust job creation. That will probably
take a number of years. Meanwhile, excess bank reserves will
continue to increase.  So why did Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke push through the third
round of quantitative easing? Sure, the Fed has a dual mandate
to promote full employment as well as price stability, but QE3
on top of Operation Twist, QE2 and QE1 and all the Wall Street
rescue measures the Fed took in 2008 have pushed the central
bank deep into the realm of fiscal policy, compromising its
fiercely defended independence. Also, the open-ended and
unprecedented nature of QE3 might suggest that Bernanke has lost
control.  Security Purchases  Furthermore, the effectiveness of previous rounds of
quantitative easing is questionable. Even though the Fed has
bought  $2.3 trillion  of long-term securities, economic growth is
marginal at best and unemployment remains very high. Of course,
we will never know what would have happened had the Fed not
acted. History isn’t a controlled experiment where you can
change one baffle in the maze, run the rats through again and
see if they take a different path.  Two weeks before the Sept. 13 announcement of QE3, Bernanke
delivered a speech in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , defending the Fed’s
aggressive policy. He stated that asset purchases until then had
reduced the yield on 10-year Treasury notes by 0.8 percent to
1.2 percent and said, “These effects are economically
meaningful.” He also noted the increase in stock prices during
those quantitative easings. And Bernanke said a Fed study found
that QE1 and QE2 had raised output by 3 percent and boosted
private payrolls by 2 million “while mitigating deflationary
risks.”  Maybe so. What we know for certain is that the Fed’s asset
purchases have had a limited effect on the normal financing
process. Yes, when the Fed buys Treasuries or mortgage-backed
securities, the seller has the proceeds to spend or invest
elsewhere. Meanwhile, these funds are deposited in a bank,
increasing bank reserves at the Fed. In normal times, these
funds are lent and relent by banks in the fractional reserve
system, and the net result is that every dollar of reserves
turns into about $70 of  M2 money supply .  Currently, however, banks are reluctant to lend except to
the most creditworthy borrowers, and those people aren’t much
interested in borrowing, despite negative real interest rates.
As a result, since August 2008, before quantitative easing
began, bank reserves have increased by  $1.5 trillion  and M2 has
grown by $2.3 trillion. That’s a 1.5 multiplier, far below the
normal 70-fold level. Another way of looking at this is to note
the accumulation of excess reserves -- the difference between
total and required bank reserves at the Fed -- which now amount
to about $1.5 trillion.  Credibility Risk  Another issue that might have given Bernanke pause in
pursuing QE3 is the strain it puts on the Fed’s credibility. In
his Jackson Hole speech, he said a “potential cost of additional
securities purchases is that substantial further expansions of
the balance sheet could reduce public confidence in the Fed’s
ability to exit smoothly from its accommodative policies at the
appropriate time. Even if unjustified, such a reduction in
confidence might increase the risk of a costly unanchoring of
inflation expectations, leading in turn to financial and
economic instability.”  This is a serious risk. Bernanke has stated that the Fed
could easily get rid of excess reserves by agreeing, in a 15-
minute policy committee phone call, to sell securities from its
vast  $2.8 trillion  portfolio. But let’s imagine the economy five
to seven years down the road when deleveraging is completed and
real growth moves from about 2 percent a year to its long-run
trend of 3 percent to 3.5 percent.  Even then, it would take several years to use excess
capacity and labor, as measured by the Commerce Department’s
 output gap , which is calculated from the difference between
current real gross-domestic-product growth and an estimate of
the growth potential of the economy.  In any event, when Wall Street gets the slightest hint that
the Fed is thinking about removing the excess liquidity,
interest rates will surge and the danger of a relapse into a
recession will seem very real. Political pressure on the Fed
might be intense, and it might be accused of taking away the
punch bowl before the party gets started.  Nevertheless, the Fed is much more worried about deflation
than inflation. In Jackson Hole, Bernanke said central-bank
security purchases were “mitigating deflationary risks.” In
deflation, even zero nominal  interest rates  are positive in real
terms, as we have seen repeatedly in  Japan .  In deflationary times, to create negative real rates such
as those we have now, the central bank can’t reduce the  federal
funds rate  below zero -- although recently, yields for short-
term Treasuries, as well as German and Danish government
securities, have turned negative. Investors were so eager to
hold these securities that they were willing to pay for the
privilege. Still, in times of economic weakness, the Fed wants
negative real rates to encourage borrowers to borrow. In
inflation-adjusted terms, lenders are paying borrowers to take
their money.  Zero Rates  Furthermore, in deflationary conditions, the federal funds
rate is likely to remain close to zero, where it is at present.
But the Fed would like the rate to be high enough so that the
central bank can cut it significantly in times of economic
weakness as a way to stimulate the economy.  Finally, the Fed fears that deflation, if it becomes
chronic as I continue to forecast, will spawn deflationary
expectations. Declining prices will encourage buyers to wait for
still-lower prices. Their restraint creates excess inventories
and unutilized capacity, which push prices lower. That confirms
expectations and persuades prospective purchasers to wait for
still-lower prices. The result is a self-feeding, downward
spiral of prices and economic activity. This, however, hasn’t
happened in Japan, which, in the past two decades, has more
often experienced deflation than inflation.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the first in a five-part series.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  agriculture policy and
climate change  and on  how   to fight terror in  Mali ; William D.
Cohan on the  SEC protecting Citigroup’s secrets ; Albert R. Hunt
on  the policy implications of this presidential election ; Simon
Johnson on a conservative call to  break up big banks ; Shikha
Dalmia on how Republicans must  root out hatred of immigrants .  To contact the writer of this article:
Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  