-- BT May Cut Sales Forecast Amid Weaker Europe Performance
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-28T16:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/bt-said-to-cut-sales-forecast-after-weaker-europe-performance.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the U.K.’s largest
fixed-line phone company, may be forced to cut its sales
forecast for the year after the recession hurt business from
corporate customers.  An unfavorable regulatory pricing decision, which will
reduce wholesale revenue, will contribute to the sales declines,
said a person close to the company. London-based BT, which will
report quarterly sales on Nov. 1, previously said it expected
underlying revenue growth to improve in 2013 and 2014.  European businesses are hesitant to sign up for new
contracts and those that do are committing to smaller-than-usual
deals, Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston said in July. The
biggest contract BT won in the first half of 2012 was about 50
million pounds ($80 million) compared with deals valued at
“three-figure millions” in a typical year, Livingston said. BT
spokesman Dan Thomas declined to comment before results.  “The extent of the cut will be critical as we have argued
that in the current environment, where revenue decline is
accelerating, BT will struggle to accelerate cost cuts to meet
longer term” forecasts, Saeed Baradar, an analyst at  Societe
Generale  in  London , said in a note today.  The Sunday Times reported the sales cut earlier today.  Underlying sales, which exclude low-margin traffic that
regulators require BT to carry, will drop about 4.5 percent for
the year ended March 2013 to 18.5 billion pounds, according to
21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company’s global services
business, which makes up 40 percent of revenue, has been
disrupted as corporate customers cut employees and phone lines.
BT had reported a 1.9 percent sales decline in fiscal 2012 from
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  