-- CEOs Seeking Global Range Tilts Market to 8,000-Mile Jets
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-29T17:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/ceos-seeking-global-range-tilts-market-to-8-000-mile-jets.html
Corporate executives are
increasingly seeking jets that can fly as far as  New York  to
 Shanghai  and cruise just under the speed of sound, tilting the
market toward the biggest, most luxurious models.  Jets sold over the 11 years through 2022 will average $25
million per plane, according to a study by  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , up 8.7 percent from an estimate of $23
million last year. The market is likely to reach $250 billion
for the 11-year period, up from $230 billion in a similar period
through 2011.  “It has to do with the global growth patterns and the need
for companies to reach out to other parts of the world to do
business and to do it productively,” said  Robert Wilson ,
president of the Business & General Aviation unit of Honeywell,
which released the survey before this week’s  National Business
Aviation Association  conference in Orlando,  Florida .  Demand for jets that don’t need refueling on
intercontinental flights is propping up the market after
deliveries of mid-size and light planes fell last year. Canada’s
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  is leading the drive with the Global 8000, which
will travel 7,900 nautical miles (14,631 kilometers).  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream is set to deliver the
first G650, which travels 7,000 nautical miles and boasts a top
speed of Mach 0.925, this year.  $50 Million  Those jets have $50 million-plus price tags, more than 10
times models that can’t make it across the U.S. without
refueling. Of jet deliveries last year, heavy jets rose by 2.8
percentage points to 41 percent while light jets’ share of
deliveries slipped 3.1 percentage points to 40 percent,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Gulfstream already is studying the next jet product even
before buyers get to fly the G650, its longest-range plane,
Chief Executive Officer Larry Flynn told journalists at the
conference.  “We look at it on what the customers want to pay for and
then go build what they want,” Flynn said. “So far, they like
bigger cabins, they like faster airplanes and they like the
range. So more of that is in the future.”  Large Companies  Large plane sales have been buoyed by big companies that
have better weathered weak growth and can afford long-range
jets, said Brad Thress, chief of  business jets  for Cessna, a
unit of Providence, Rhode Island-based  Textron Inc. (TXT)  Earlier this
year, Cessna announced its longest-distance jet ever, the
Citation Longitude, with a range of 4,000 nautical miles.  The rapid growth for jets in  emerging markets  also favors
large planes, Steve Ridolfi, president of Bombardier’s business-
jet unit, said in an interview. In countries like China,
corporate jets are used mostly by company owners who travel to
 Europe  or the U.S. Also, China doesn’t have the general-aviation
airports and services that allow more use of small aircraft for
domestic flights.  “These emerging markets grow first from the top. It’s the
billionaires who buy first, and then you go down the pipe,”
Ridolfi said in an interview. “So when you talk about  China ,
it’s big airplanes first.”  In the next five years, the number of jets in China will
increase an average of 30 percent per year, Wilson said. Russia
will grow 15 percent and India 18 percent per year. Participants
in the survey of 1,500 companies with private fleets pointed to
range as the top reason for choosing an aircraft, Wilson said.  Lighter Jets  From 2012 through 2022, large jets are forecast to account
for 42 percent of planes sold and 69 percent of the total dollar
cost, Wilson said. Mid-size jets will make up about 28 percent
and only a fifth of the dollar value.  Light and mid-sized jets, which sell best in mature markets
like the U.S. and Europe, will rebound when smaller companies
have more clarity about the U.S. taxes and budget cuts, Europe’s
recession and the slowdown in  Asia , Thress said. Many people
start out with a light jet, such as the four-seater Citation
Mustang, and then trade up for larger ones as their business
grows, he said.  “The interest is out there,” Thress said in an interview.
“We just think that people could use a little bit of confidence
and stability in the economy.”  The longer-range jets from Bombardier and Gulfstream have
created more competition for customers of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s business
jets, which have less range at 6,200 nautical miles although
about three times the cabin space, said  Steve Taylor , president
of Boeing’s business-jet unit.  City Pairs  “While we’re still pretty different products, there are
some customers in between those products,” Taylor said. “When
they were able to do city pairs we couldn’t, well, that would
drive some customers across.”  Embraer SA’s Lineage 1000, which has a range of 4,400
nautical miles, is the Brazilian company’s longest-range plane,
leaving it without an aircraft to match the ultra long-range
G650 and Global 8000, Ernie Edwards, president of Embraer’s
executive jet unit, said in an interview last night in Orlando.  “We know that we have a gap in our product portfolio that
we one day will fill,” he said in an interview. “But, there’s
no immediate plan to fill that. At some point in the future we
may announce something.”  NetJets Order  Altogether, Honeywell forecasts deliveries of 680 to 720
new business jets this year compared with 683 planes last year,
excluding Boeing and  Airbus (EAD)  SAS private jets. Purchase
expectations for new jets weakened in Asia, which makes up about
4 percent of the world fleet, Wilson said. In  Latin America ,
which has about 10 percent of the world fleet, they rose.  NetJets Inc., the private-jet unit of  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) , ordered as many as 120 of Bombardier’s
longest-range Global aircraft last year in a deal valued at $6.7
billion. The Columbus, Ohio-based provider of private jet
services also placed a $9.6 billion order in June for as many as
425 new mid-size aircraft from Cessna and Bombardier on
expectations that market will eventually rebound, Pat Gallagher,
chief of sales at NetJets, said in an interview.  For now, flying farther and faster is what’s in demand, he
said.  “We’re doing a lot more flights to Russia and Brazil and
China and other faraway places than we used to,” Gallagher
said. “As companies start to do business more globally, they
need aircraft that can get them there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  