-- Chinese City Says It Opposes Chemical Project After Protests
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-29T00:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/chinese-city-will-assess-sinopec-chemical-project-after-protests.html
The eastern Chinese city of Ningbo
said it “firmly opposes” a project to produce the toxic
chemical paraxylene, or PX, at a local plant after hundreds of
residents protested.  Authorities will halt early work on the facility and study
the project further, according to a statement posted late
yesterday to the website of the government of Zhenhai district,
where the plant is located. More than 1,000 residents protested
against an expansion of the plant owned by  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028) , or Sinopec, Phoenix Television reported.  The Ningbo protests are the latest in a series of
confrontations pitting residents against local governments over
pollution concerns linked to industrial projects. Thousands of
people in the southwestern city of Shifang protested in July
over the construction of a molybdenum copper plant, and
demonstrators in Dalian, in northeast  China , succeeded in
getting a chemical factory closed last year on environmental
grounds, according to reports by state media.  The demonstrations in Ningbo started on Oct. 24 when about
200 villagers began petitioning over environmental concerns and
blocked traffic, the local government said. Paraxylene is a
toxic petrochemical used in plastics, paints and cleaning
solvents.  Environmental Assessment  Ningbo pledged to conduct an environmental assessment of
the facility. On Oct. 27, the official Xinhua News Agency cited
Chen Bingrong, the city’s vice secretary general, as saying the
the study would be done in a “public and transparent” way and
that all details of the project would be released publicly.  While authorities have condemned the organizers of the
protests, they said public sentiment would be taken into
consideration before construction starts.  The expanded Sinopec plant is designed to produce 15
million tonnes of refined oil and 1.2 million tonnes of ethylene
annually and will cost about 55.87 billion  yuan  ($8.9 billion),
Xinhua reported yesterday.  Lv Dapeng, a Beijing-based spokesman for Sinopec,  Asia ’s
biggest refinery, wasn’t immediately available to comment
outside of normal business hours yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  