-- China’s Slowing Revenue Gains Seen Limiting Spending
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-29T05:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/china-s-slowing-revenue-gains-seen-limiting-spending.html
China ’s government spent more than
planned in the first nine months of the year, and  revenue  gains
moderated, leaving little room for public outlays to stoke the
economy this quarter without an expansion of the budget.  Fiscal revenue rose 10.9 percent in January-to-September
from a year earlier to 9.06 trillion  yuan  ($1.5 trillion),
compared with a 29.5 percent gain in the same period in 2011,
 Ministry of Finance  data showed this month. Spending in the
January-September period rose 21.1 percent, higher than the
targeted 14.1 percent rise for the full year, leaving a surplus
of about half last year’s level.  “The effects of China’s fiscal policy were expansionary in
the first nine months but will be neutral in the fourth quarter
as spending won’t be higher than a year earlier,” said Ding Shuang, senior China economist with Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong,
who formerly worked at the People’s Bank of China and
 International Monetary Fund . “Policy effects from previous
months will ensure a modest recovery, but the rebound is
restrained.”  Policy makers across  Asia  have restrained their stimulus
efforts compared with 2008-2009 as the global expansion slowed,
either opting to preserve firepower should  Europe ’s crisis
worsen, or seeking to avoid asset-price bubbles. In China,
outgoing Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government has fought to rein in
housing costs in the run-up to the nation’s once-in-a-decade
leadership transition that starts next month.  Allocated Funds  The  Finance Ministry  had allocated 97 percent of the year’s
budgeted funds for infrastructure spending by the end of
September, the official Xinhua News Agency reported Oct. 23. In
railways, for example, China boosted spending plans this year by
about 25 percent to 516 billion yuan.  Shares of  CSR Corp. (1766)  and  China CNR Corp. (601299) , the nation’s two
biggest train makers, advanced Oct. 23 after the Economic
Information Daily, a Xinhua publication, reported 13 railway
infrastructure projects were added to this year’s construction
investment plans. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index has
declined 17 percent in the past year as the slowdown pares
profits. The gauge was down 0.3 percent as of 1:14 p.m. local
time.  The 2012 budget endorsed in March by China’s rubber-stamp
National People’s Congress set a target deficit of 800 billion
yuan and any change would require the legislature’s approval.  “The fiscal money left for spending in the coming months
is actually very limited,” Song Guoqing, an academic adviser to
the central bank and professor at  Peking University , said in an
Oct. 18 speech in Beijing. “That will put a question mark on
whether the present economic recovery will be sustained.”  Altering Budget  “The government can revise the budget if it really wants
to,” Song said. “So far there is no sign that the budget will
be altered this year.”  Data released this month suggest the worst is over for
China’s growth slowdown. Factory  production , retail sales and
fixed-asset investment showed bigger-than-forecast gains in
September, while industrial companies’ profits rose for the
first time in six months. Five out of 25 economists surveyed in
October forecast at least one lending-rate cut by year-end, down
from 15 of 25 in September’s survey.  To be sure, this year’s allocation and spending of funds
won’t necessarily constrain the ability of a government with
$3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange  reserves  to stimulate the
economy. China had outstanding treasury debt of 7.2 trillion
yuan at the end of 2011, or about 15 percent of GDP.  “Most of the infrastructure investment is not financed
explicitly by fiscal resources or on the budget but through
other means,” said  Wang Tao , chief China economist at UBS AG in
Hong Kong. Bank lending and bond sales are the main financing
channels, she said.  Stimulus Funds  After Wen announced a 4 trillion-yuan stimulus package
during the global financial crisis in 2008, the central
government provided 1.18 trillion yuan, leaving local
governments to borrow other funds. Banks provided 9.6 trillion
yuan of new loans in 2009 and 7.95 trillion yuan in 2010.  Loans totaling about 8.5 trillion yuan this year, along
with expanded bond issuance and borrowing through  trust
companies , will help the economy grow 8.3 percent in 2013, said
Joy Yang, chief  Greater China  economist at Mirae Asset
Securities (HK) Ltd. in  Hong Kong , who previously worked at the
IMF. The economy expanded 7.4 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier.  Even so, banks are failing to take advantage of loan
discounts permitted by the government, limiting them to 10
percent of the benchmark lending rate for the best corporate
clients, officials at the top four lenders said this month,
 Bloomberg News  reported.  Japan Retail  Elsewhere in Asia,  Japan ’s retail sales rose less than
forecast in September as the expiration of government subsidies
for car purchases sapped consumer demand. South Korean
manufacturers’ confidence fell for the second straight month as
slowing economic growth weighed on sentiment.  In the U.K.,  house prices  fell for a fourth month in
October and a property-market recovery is unlikely without
sustained economic growth, according to Hometrack Ltd., a
London-based researcher. Prices declined 0.1 percent from
September and 0.4 percent from a year earlier, the smallest
annual decline in two years.  A U.S. report today may show consumers ended the third
quarter on a strong note. Household spending probably increased
0.6 percent in September, the biggest gain in seven months,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Local Authorities  In China, any fiscal tightening may not be limited to the
central government. Some local authorities have become more
aggressive in collecting taxes and levying administrative fees
on companies after income from land sales cooled amid China’s
housing-market controls, the Economic Information Daily reported
Oct. 22.  “As local governments in China are not allowed to carry
deficits in their budgets, they have to scramble for funds when
they are short of money, and increasing levies on businesses has
become an easy option for some,” said Feng Xingyuan, a vice
director with Unirule Institute of Economics, a private
researcher based in Beijing. “It would be bad for the real
economy.”  China’s annual budget report has usually underestimated
actual fiscal revenue growth to allow the government to spend a
lot approaching year-end, a seasonal effect that may disappear
this year, Song said.  “Fiscal firepower in the fourth quarter is not as strong
as past years,” Mirae’s Yang said. “That’s one of the downside
risks for the fourth quarter.”  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from  Michael Heath  in Sydney.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  