-- Agribank Jumps as Third-Quarter Profit Beats Estimate on Margin
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-29T08:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/china-construction-bank-profit-growth-slows-on-weak-fees-1-.html
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the
nation’s third-largest lender by assets, jumped by the most in
six weeks in Hong Kong trading after posting third-quarter
profit growth that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Agricultural Bank  rose  3.1 percent to HK$3.34 at 3:54 p.m.
in Hong Kong, cutting its loss for the year to 0.3 percent after
saying on Oct. 26 that profit climbed 16 percent to 39.6 billion
 yuan  ($6.3 billion). That beat the 37.8 billion-yuan average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) 
gained 0.9 percent after the second-largest lender posted profit
of 51.9 billion yuan, in line with estimates.  Chinese banks have rallied since mid-September as investors
bet that a margin squeeze from interest rate deregulation and
deterioration in asset quality may be less severe than earlier
predicted. Banks have resisted pressure from the government to
offer discounts on loans, seeking to protect their margins after
the central bank widened the band for lending rates.  “We like ABC for its strong deposit franchise and huge
provision surplus,” Citigroup Global Markets Inc. analysts
Simon Ho and Paddy Pan wrote in a note today. “We estimate that
funding costs fell faster than the yield on assets” during the
quarter, “most likely because deposits are repricing downwards
earlier and faster than loans after the rate cuts” in June and
July.  Agricultural Bank’s net interest margin, a measure of
lending profitability, widened to 2.82 percent in the first nine
months, up 2 basis points from a year earlier, the Beijing-based
lender said last week. The indicator rose to 2.74 percent during
the same period at Construction Bank, also based in Beijing, an
increase of 6 basis points from a year earlier.  Loan Repricing  China’s banks face further challenges in coming months as a
 slowing economy  cuts into borrowers’ repayment ability and banks
reprice loans after the rate cuts, analysts said.  “The third-quarter growth rates of Chinese banks cannot
mask their deteriorating operating trends,” said Xie Jiyong, a
Shanghai-based analyst at  Capital Securities Corp. (6005)  “Even though
big banks are still holding onto their loan pricing power,
interest-rate deregulations will eventually hurt everybody’s
margins.”  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China , the country’s
largest, is scheduled to report tomorrow after markets in Hong
Kong and Shanghai close.  The central bank in June allowed lenders to widen the
discount on borrowing costs to 20 percent, and then broadened
the limit to 30 percent the following month, accelerating the
liberalization of interest rates. Banks were also permitted to
offer deposit rates at 10 percent above the benchmark, the first
time a premium has been allowed.  ‘Surprising’ Margins  “The key themes we’ve seen is that big banks’ net interest
margin expanded quarter on quarter,” May Yan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Barclays Plc., said in a Bloomberg TV interview
today. “It’s a bit surprising to the market.”  Chinese banking shares have also gained as the U.S.
announced a third round of quantitative easing and  China ’s
sovereign wealth fund this month said it increased its stakes in
the country’s four biggest lenders.  Profit growth at Bank of China, the fourth-biggest lender,
accelerated to 17 percent, according to an announcement last
week, the fastest pace in more than a year, taking net income to
34.8 billion yuan compared with a consensus estimate of 32.7
billion yuan.  Overseas Operations  Bank of China’s overseas operations reduced the effect of a
narrower interest rate spread in China, analysts including Mike Werner of Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said. Foreign operations
accounted for about 24 percent of total assets at the end of
June.  Banks’ profits may grow by an average 10 percent in the
third quarter, slowing from 15 percent in the second quarter and
17 percent in the first three months, Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., wrote in a note on
Oct. 24.  “We do not think the shares are trading on the operating
or financial fundamentals of the banks,” he wrote. Many banks
“will correct 5 percent to 10 percent after earnings
announcements, due to the continuing credit quality overhang.”  Construction Bank extended 769.6 billion yuan of new loans
in the first nine months, taking the outstanding amount to 7.3
trillion yuan. Non-performing loans rose to 72.9 billion yuan as
of Sept. 30 from 70.4 billion yuan three months earlier,
according to the statement.  Agricultural Bank advanced 616 billion yuan of new loans
during the same period, while its bad loans dropped to 83.95
billion yuan as of Sept. 30 from 84.5 billion yuan in June.  Deposit Competition  China’s economy expanded 7.4 percent from a year earlier in
the third quarter, compared with 7.6 percent in the April-June
period. The International Monetary Fund this month cut its
forecast for 2012 global growth to 3.3 percent from a previous
estimate of 3.5 percent.  While the four biggest state-owned lenders are limiting
discounts on loans to 10 percent of the benchmark borrowing
rate, even for their best corporate clients, they are paying
more to savers as competition for deposits intensifies.  China’s official one-year lending rate is 6 percent, while
the deposit rate is 3 percent after two cuts since June.
Construction Bank and its three largest rivals are offering 3.25
percent on one-year deposits.  Construction Bank’s net interest income rose 18 percent to
91.3 billion yuan in the third quarter, while fee income, from
businesses such as credit cards, trade finance and custodian
services, fell 2 percent to 20.7 billion yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  