-- Williams Caps 2012 With WTA Championships Title; Del Potro Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-29T03:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/del-potro-beats-top-ranked-federer-williams-defeats-sharapova.html
Serena Williams  fired 40 winners to
beat Maria Sharapova 6-4, 6-3 and secure her third title at the
season-ending  WTA Championships .  Williams of the U.S. struck 26 more winners than Sharapova
of  Russia  and didn’t face a break point in Istanbul yesterday on
her way to winning a WTA-leading seventh singles titles in 2012.  “I feel great right now,” Williams said in comments
distributed by the WTA. “This was exactly my dream and I’m so
happy I was able to achieve it.”  At 31, Williams is the oldest winner of the 41-year-old
tournament. Her 2012 victories included a straight-set win
against Sharapova in the gold-medal match at the London Olympics
and she also won the Wimbledon and the U.S. Open to lift her
tally of Grand Slam singles championships to 15.  She finishes the season with a 58-4 singles record and more
than $7 million in  prize money  including doubles and mixed
doubles. Her haul of seven singles titles is the second-best of
her career after winning eight 10 years ago.  Yesterday’s victory was her ninth straight against
Sharapova since losing to the 25-year-old in the final of the
2004 Tour Championships. Sharapova and Williams will stay at No.
2 and No. 3, respectively, in the post-tournament rankings.  Roger Federer , the top-ranked men’s player, lost to Juan Martin del Potro in yesterday’s Swiss Indoors final in Basel.  Del Potro, who won last week’s Erste Bank Open in Vienna,
defeated Federer 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (7-3) in the Swiss player’s
home town. The 24-year-old Argentine had lost all six of his
previous matches against Federer, 31, this season.  Del Potro, the tournament’s second seed, broke in the fifth
game on his way to taking the opening set. Both players were
unable to convert break opportunities in the second set, forcing
a tiebreaker that Federer won.  Del Potro saved four break points in the decider, in the
third and seventh games. Federer then recovered from 15-30 down
in the final game with three aces to force another tiebreaker,
where  Del Potro  came out on top.  Federer was playing in the final for the seventh straight
year and had won the title five times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Cone in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  