-- Deutsche Bank Beating UBS in Investment Bank Revival Sign
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-10-29T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/deutsche-bank-beating-ubs-in-sign-of-investment-bank-recovery.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  outperformed  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in securities sales in the third quarter as it
sought to shrug off  Europe ’s debt crisis and remain one of the
top three global investment banks.  Europe’s biggest bank was hired for 5.8 percent of the $1
trillion of stock and corporate bond offerings in the three
months through September compared with 4.3 percent a year
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show. That may
help the Frankfurt-based lender boost its share of investment
banking revenue among the world’s largest banks for the first
time in a year when it reports earnings tomorrow.  “Deutsche Bank suffered more than other firms with the
crisis closer to its home markets, but they’re also better
positioned than peers to profit from the rebound,” said  Dirk Becker , an analyst with Kepler Capital Markets in Frankfurt, who
recommends investors buy the shares. “Hanging on to their
position as a top global investment bank is crucial to
maintaining profits.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  helped prompt
a surge in sales of securities in the third quarter after
pledging in August to conduct bond purchases to prop up some
euro-region countries. An increase in such business is key for
Deutsche Bank, which earned 45 percent of its income from
investment banking last year.  Deal Volume  The German bank, which saw revenue at the investment bank
slide 11 percent to 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) in the
second quarter from a year earlier, probably profited from a
higher volume of issuance as it battled for business with peers.  Deutsche Bank’s 1.5 percentage point gain in the share of
volume of debt and equity offerings was second only to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s 2.3 percentage point jump among the nine biggest
banks and compared with a 1.1 percentage point slide at UBS and
0.1 percentage point decline at Barclays, the data show.  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Nomura Holdings Inc. also saw their
portion of the market decline, according to the data.  Armin Niedermeier, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, declined
to comment on the firm’s performance in the third quarter before
the publication of its results tomorrow. Stephanie Aneto, a UBS
spokeswoman in  London , and Jon Laycock at Barclays also declined
to comment.  Annual Decline  Deutsche Bank may almost double revenue from debt sales to
331 million euros and boost income from equity issuance 40
percent to 95 million euros in the third-quarter, according to
the average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
That may help the lender offset a decline in profit brought on
by higher costs.  Investor demand for stocks and bonds has increased after
Draghi said Sept. 6 that policy makers agreed to an unlimited
bond-purchase program provided countries sign up to budget
consolidation measures first. While no state has asked to tap
that aid, Spanish and Italian 10-year bond yields have since
declined to seven-month intraday lows in October.  Deutsche Bank’s market share of foreign exchange trading
also rose in the third quarter, according to a person familiar
with the business who declined to be identified because the
information is private.  The lender’s share of a total $40.1 billion of revenue
among the top 10 investment banks had decreased to 11 percent in
the three months through June from 12 percent in the same period
a year earlier, the data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.
That was the third-straight annual decline while Barclays
increased its portion on a yearly basis in the first two
quarters of 2012, according to the data.  Hurt by Europe  Banks that rely more on Europe have been hit hardest by the
sovereign debt crisis.  Investment banking  fees in Europe, the
 Middle East  and Africa may fall 22 percent to $17.7 billion this
year, more than the 9 percent slide for global fees, data from
research firm Freeman & Co. show.  Deutsche Bank’s offices in EMEA accounted for more than 70
percent of its 33.2 billion euros in revenue last year,  company
filings  show. UBS got 52 percent of 27.8 billion Swiss francs
($29.8 billion) in operating income in Europe in 2011 while
Barclays generated 57 percent of its 28.5 billion pounds ($45.9
billion) of revenue there.  Net income at Deutsche Bank probably fell an annual 15
percent to 613 million euros in the third quarter, according to
the average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Profit at UBS, which also reports tomorrow, may slide 51 percent
to 495 million francs, while Barclays may say on Oct. 31 that
net income dropped 60 percent to 463 million pounds, estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Upfront Pain’  The cost of shedding jobs and offloading riskier assets is
hurting Deutsche Bank’s earnings. The lender said July 31 that
it would trim its workforce by 1,900 positions, or almost 2
percent of staff, in a bid to boost profitability.  While Deutsche Bank’s third-quarter performance was
“solid, particularly in the investment bank,” costs from job
cuts and asset reduction require “upfront pain,” co-Chief
Executive Officer Anshu Jain, 49, said at an investor conference
in London on Sept. 25.  Deutsche Bank probably took 240 million euros of
restructuring charges and 69 million euros in costs for reducing
risk-weighted assets in the third quarter,  Credit Suisse (CSGN) 
analysts including Amit Goel in London wrote in an e-mailed
report to investors on Oct. 23.  In September, Deutsche Bank said it faced 500 million euros
in costs and revenue losses from shedding assets through the end
of March next year.  Best Summer  Debt issuance has “been pretty robust” and “we’ve
actually had the best summer for five years,”  Robert Rankin ,
who runs Deutsche Bank’s investment bank together with Colin Fan, told analysts on Sept. 12 in Frankfurt.  The firm managed the sale of shares in German chemicals
distributor  Brenntag AG (BNR)  and counted French utility  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA
among the clients it sold bonds for in the three months through
September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While fees from issuing debt and equity will buoy revenue,
they’re typically dwarfed by trading for clients, making up 11
percent of the investment bank’s total income in the second
quarter, company filings show.  Traders at Deutsche Bank may not have been fully positioned
to profit from a rebound in markets in the last quarter as they
focused on preparing for Basel III capital rules, said  Andreas Plaesier , an analyst at M.M. Warburg.  “They were reducing risk,” said Plaesier, who is based in
Hamburg and  recommends  investors buy Deutsche Bank shares.
“They didn’t necessarily bet on a market recovery.”  Shares Outperform  Deutsche Bank, Europe’s  largest bank  by assets, is rated
buy by 17 analysts, sell by 11 and hold by 16, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock will probably trade at 35.07
euros in 12 months, a 5.6 percent increase from its price at
10:56 a.m. in Frankfurt today, according to the average estimate
of 34 analysts. The shares have climbed 13 percent this year,
more than the 4.2 percent advance for the 28-company  Euro Stoxx
Bank Index. (SX7E)   The firm hasn’t published a revenue target for its
investment banking division. It places itself in the top three
globally by compiling rankings using client market share,
penetration or fees for different products and regions provided
by external researchers, and its own estimates.  Deutsche Bank was in fifth place for investment banking
revenue in the second quarter, behind JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Barclays, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The bank is betting on clients turning to its securities
unit, saying it expects competitors to retrench and investors to
seek the counsel of the biggest banks amid uncertainty in
financial markets.  “Investment banks with more mass are generally able to
offer their services to clients at lower cost,” Plaesier said.
“Getting back into the business if you give up your position
would require a lot of time and money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  