-- Draghi Backs Schaeuble Plan for Euro-Region Budget Chief
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-10-28T10:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/draghi-says-unlimited-bond-buying-doesn-t-mean-uncontrolled-.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  endorsed a proposal by German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  for a commissioner who has power over the
budgets of nations in the euro region.  “I am fully in favor of it,” Draghi said in an interview
with  Germany ’s  Der Spiegel , according to a transcript published
today by the Frankfurt based-ECB. “Governments would be wise to
seriously consider it” as “in order to restore confidence in
the euro area, countries need to transfer part of their
sovereignty to the European level.”  Finland and the Netherlands backed Germany at an Oct. 18-19
summit of European leaders in maneuvering that will climax at a
Dec. 13-14 meeting to set deadlines -- possibly as long as a
decade -- for a more united economy with more disciplined budget
management and central oversight. Draghi also sought to
alleviate German concerns about the ECB’s bond-purchasing
program by pledging that it would not engage in “uncontrolled”
market interventions.  The ECB president has come under fire in  Europe ’s largest
economy for the new plan, the details of which were announced in
September, after Spanish and Italian borrowing costs had surged.  “Unlimited does not mean uncontrolled,” Draghi said. “We
will only buy bonds from those countries that accept strict
conditions, and we will check very carefully whether those
conditions are adhered to.”  Choice of Words  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann has opposed the program,
and the  German media  has been critical too, prompting Draghi to
appear in front of the German parliament last week, trying to
canvass support by saying buying bonds would not lead to
inflation.  Draghi said he “chose the word ‘unlimited’ in order to
clearly indicate our determination to defend the euro,”
according to the transcript. “Responding to the crisis of
confidence, while maintaining  price stability , will benefit
German taxpayers and savers.”  The announcement of Draghi’s yet-to-be-deployed bond-buying
program has calmed financial markets.  The program has Merkel’s blessing, yet 42 percent of
respondents to a Stern survey published Sept. 6 said they had
little or no trust in the ECB president, compared with just 18
percent who judged him favorably.  “We take the worries of the people very seriously,”
Draghi said, adding that German taxpayers are likely to “make a
profit” from the ECB’s now mothballed first government bond
buying program, the Securities Markets Program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  