-- The Case for Heading Over the Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   D e b o r a h   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-10-28T15:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/the-case-for-heading-over-the-fiscal-cliff.html
So what if we went over the fiscal
cliff?  Crazy as it sounds, some in  Washington  and on Wall Street
are beginning to ponder whether it would really be so bad to let
the pending $607 billion in tax increases and spending cuts take
effect in January 2013.  The Congressional Budget Office  has warned  that failure to
deal with the spending austerity and expiring tax cuts will
plunge the U.S. back into recession, with the economy
contracting at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the first half
of next year.  But there’s a silver lining to going off the cliff: The U.S
gets its short-term budget deficit under control, bringing down
debt from an estimated 76 percent of gross domestic product in
2013 to 58.5 percent by 2022. It also gives lawmakers --
particularly Republicans -- a bigger pot of revenue from which
to start tax-cut discussions.  What ultimately happens depends entirely on the election,
and armchair strategists disagree about whether a newly elected
 Mitt Romney  or a re-elected  Barack Obama  stands a better chance
of making a Grand Bargain. Obama said this week in  an interview 
with the Des Moines Register editorial board that he’ll pursue a
debt deal within the first six months of a second term. As my
Bloomberg News colleague Richard Rubin  has reported ,
congressional Republicans are discussing options for a post-
election deal but are far from being solidified. House Speaker
John Boehner  has said  he’s “not confident at all” in the ability
to strike a post-election deficit deal.  Republicans may simply be bluffing in an attempt to
convince voters that real deficit reduction will only happen if
Romney is elected. But it may not be disingenuous.  Here’s why: Any tax and spending deal Obama puts forward
will include new revenues (i.e. higher taxes) that Republicans
oppose. Obama wants to let the Bush tax cuts expire for the
wealthiest and may, along with congressional Democrats, push for
other revenue raisers. Democrats and Republicans also disagree
on defense cuts included in the so-called budget sequester.  Could Republicans simply cross their arms and refuse to
agree to a deal? It’s possible. They would simply blame
Democrats for allowing taxes to increase on everyone (not just
the wealthiest) and then claim credit for any subsequent -- and
inevitable -- deal to cut taxes.
Deutsche Bank AG chief economist Peter Hooper, in an interview
this week with Bloomberg, said going over the cliff is “an
inefficient way of dealing with revenues” but that the markets -
- after suffering a near-term hit -- could be buoyed by the fact
that the U.S. has dealt with its crushing debt load.  Still, the negatives probably outweigh any positive effect
of heading down the cliff. In 2008, Republicans were all set to
let the emergency financial bailout bill die -- until the stock
market plunged 700 points. No one knows exactly how the markets
will react to failure to get a fiscal cliff deal.  But given the  recent pleas  from business leaders to come to
agreement, one can guess the reaction will make the near-
collapse of TARP in 2008 seem like a day at the park. And that,
more than anything else, could prompt some compromise.  (Deborah Solomon is a member of the Bloomberg View
editorial board.  Follow  her on Twitter.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the
Ticker .
 