-- The Case for Mali Coddling
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-28T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/the-case-for-mali-coddling.html
The parallels are inescapable. When
the Taliban ruled  Afghanistan , they stoned fornicators,
demolished shrines they considered idolatrous, and gave
sanctuary to foreign jihadists. The Islamic extremists in
control of northern Mali are doing the  same things .  The fear that rebel-held northern Mali has become the new
Afghanistan figured in the last presidential debate, in which
 Mitt Romney  said the country’s name four times. The
deteriorating situation has provoked calls for swift military
action, notably by officials in  France , which once colonized
Mali and has six citizens held hostage there. U.S. Assistant
Secretary of State for African Affairs Johnnie Carson  has said 
military action must come “at some point.”  Force may be necessary, but it must be the right kind, and
it must be accompanied by policies and aid that can unwind the
current crisis and redress Mali’s acute humanitarian problems.  The troubles began with the  return from Libya to northern
Mali  of hundreds of members of Mali’s Tuareg community, who had
served in Muammar Qaddafi’s pan-African force. The well-armed
returnees sparked a new Tuareg-led rebellion by northerners, who
have long complained that the central government neglected them
economically and ignored or conspired with organized criminals
and even the al-Qaeda affiliate active in Mali, Niger,
Mauritania and  Algeria ,  al-Qaeda in the Islamic Magreb .  Capital Coup  Poorly equipped and humiliated by rebel victories, the
military launched a coup in the capital. With authorities thus
distracted, the rebels proclaimed the north liberated. The
rebellion’s secular leaders were soon supplanted by the Islamist
group Ansar Dine, which is supported by AQIM as well as an  AQIM
offshoot . The tumult has  dislocated  about 100,000 people within
Mali and created another 200,000 refugees who have fled the
country.  In formulating their response to this crisis, Western
powers would be wise to keep in mind how Mali 2012 differs from
Afghanistan 2001. To start with, the threat was far greater in
Afghanistan, where a well-entrenched al-Qaeda had demonstrated
its will and ability to commit mass murder globally. In  Mali ,
the jihadist threat comes from an al-Qaeda affiliate that is as
much a criminal as terrorist enterprise. The hallmark of its
operations is kidnapping for ransom.  To combat AQIM while it’s small makes sense. The question
is how to do so without provoking a backlash from the local
population and breeding more extremism, or attracting the
murderous attention of militants who have not yet targeted the
West. In the case of Mali, Western powers have an option that
was unavailable in Afghanistan: regional allies willing to
accept the burden of intervention.  Both the U.S. and France prefer this approach; both say
they want none of their own troops involved, although Western
militaries would provide intelligence, training and materiel
support. Yet French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian has
pushed for decisive  action within weeks,  a timeline that would
effectively foreclose a regional solution.  Under an Oct. 12 United Nations Security Council
 resolution , the UN is working with the  African Union  and the
Economic Community of West African States, which has evolved to
take on security missions, to devise a proposal by the end of
November to help Mali’s authorities recover control of northern
Mali. Properly training and equipping a pan-African force will
take months.  Dual Agendas  To stabilize Mali, the African mission requires a
humanitarian and  political agenda  as well as a military one.
Preparing that will also take time, yet there is a precedent. It
could be modeled after the UN-supported  African Union Mission in
Somalia  established in 2007. Amisom helps Somali forces fight
the Islamist al-Shabaab militia and safeguards the delivery of
humanitarian aid. It has also helped make parliamentary and
presidential elections possible.  Mali’s junta has ostensibly turned power over to civilian
rule but is widely thought to still pull the strings in Bamako,
the capital. A unity government with no ties to the junta would
help restore public trust until new elections can be held. The
African mission could sponsor talks between that government and
northern representatives aimed at ensuring the grievances of the
north are finally, genuinely answered.  That outcome is essential to splitting the jihadists from
local sources of support and would make them easier to
neutralize militarily. While religious conservatism is on the
rise in Mali, the puritanical Salafi philosophy has  few
followers , and its militant form fewer still.  Orchestrating the proper sequence for political and
military action would be a challenge, certainly. Still, it’s
better to integrate both into the response from the beginning,
even if it tests the patience for action.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  agriculture policy and
climate change ; William D. Cohan on the  SEC protecting
Citigroup’s secrets ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  the policy implications
of this presidential election ;  Simon Johnson  on a conservative
call to  break up big banks ; A. Gary Shilling series on the
 perils of low interest rates ; Shikha Dalmia on how Republicans
must  root out hatred of immigrants .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 