-- Team Sky Sports Director Sean Yates Quits Professional Cycling
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-10-28T15:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/team-sky-sports-director-sean-yates-quits-professional-cycling.html
Team Sky, whose rider Bradley
Wiggins won this year’s Tour de France, said sports director
Sean Yates has retired from professional cycling.  Sky, which has implemented a zero-tolerance policy on
doping, said the 52-year-old’s departure was not prompted by any
“admissions or disclosures.”  On Oct. 25, Sky said race coach Bobby Julich left after
admitting doping as a professional rider in the late 1990s.
Three days before that, cycling’s ruling body endorsed a
decision by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency to strip  Lance Armstrong 
of his seven Tour de France titles and banned the American from
the sport.  “After Team Sky reaffirmed its position on antidoping, the
management team started a series of individual interviews with
riders, management and support staff,” Team Sky said  in a
statement . “Sean has been interviewed and there were no
admissions or disclosures that would have required him to leave
the team.”  Yates has been in the sport for three decades, and his
career has included spells on the same teams as Armstrong.
Earlier this month Yates told the British Broadcasting Corp.
he’d never seen any indication of “anything dodgy” going on
while working with the Texan.  He said his three years with Sky had been “fantastic and a
highlight” of his career. He denied any wrongdoing.  “I realize the timing of my retirement will lead to
speculation given what is currently going on in the sport but I
can walk away with my head held high knowing I have done nothing
wrong,” he said in a statement released to Press Association
Sport.  He added that he’s had health problems in recent years and
spent a lot of time away from home, so he now wants to focus on
his family.  In July, Wiggins became the first Briton to win the Tour de
 France .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  