-- ETF Discount to Peers Swells as MegaFon Delays
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-10-29T04:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/etf-discount-to-peers-swells-as-megafon-delays-russia-overnight.html
The  Market Vectors Russia (RSX)  exchange-
traded fund tumbled to the cheapest level versus the emerging-
markets ETF since August as crude fell and  OAO MegaFon (MFON)  delayed
its initial share sale on the first day of marketing.  The biggest Russian ETF, which includes stock of  OAO
Gazprom (OGZPY) ,  Russia ’s largest company, and biggest lender  OAO
Sberbank (SBRCY) , lost 3.1 percent last week to $28.02, 32 percent below
the  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  and the widest discount
since Aug. 3, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  Bloomberg
Russia-US 14 Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian shares listed in
the U.S. sank the most since May in the week and  equity futures 
rose 0.2 percent to 143,870 in  New York  on Oct. 26.  MegaFon, Russia’s second-largest mobile provider, postponed
its IPO campaign on Oct. 22, saying it needed to amend the
prospectus. The delay in the offer, which people familiar with
the deal said valued the company as high as $11 billion, sparked
speculation demand may have been below MegaFon’s expectations.
Crude, which contributed about 50 percent of Russian government
revenue last year, fell for a second week on concern inventories
exceed slowing global energy demand.  “Russia had some bad corporate news with the MegaFon IPO
delay,” Nicholas Smithie, an  emerging markets  strategist at UBS
AG in New York, said by phone on Oct. 26. “On top of that, oil
has been falling and that’s all combined to turn things into
reverse.”  Decliners  OAO TMK, the nation’s largest producer of steel pipes for
the oil and gas industry, and natural gas producer OAO NovaTek
were the biggest decliners in the ETF. Global depositary
receipts of Moscow-based TMK sank 11 percent last week to
$13.70, while Novatek GDRs in  London  tumbled 10 percent to $112,
a three-month low.  The iShares emerging-market ETF lost 0.7 percent to $41.21
in the week. It includes shares of China Unicom (Hong Kong)
Ltd., the nation’s second-largest mobile-phone company, America
Movil SAB, the biggest mobile-phone company in the Americas by
subscribers, and Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s top maker
of TVs and mobiles.  Investors pulled $32 million from Russian equity funds in
the week through Oct. 24, the third week of outflows, according
to EPFR Global data released at the end of last week. The 30-
stock  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index in Moscow slumped 1.8 percent last week.  Crude oil on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  sank 4.8
percent last week to settle at $86.28 a barrel, while  Brent
crude  for December settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange slipped 0.5 percent to $109.55. Urals crude,
Russia’s chief export blend, slid 0.5 percent to $108.56 in its
third straight weekly drop.  ‘A Later Date’  MegaFon said in a filing it will proceed with marketing
“at a later date,” after including recent acquisitions and
third-quarter results in the prospectus.  The carrier is determined to complete the IPO before year-
end, with the delay postponing the planned sale by a few weeks,
according to two people familiar with the matter. The shares may
start trading in late November or December, they said.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge dropped 3.8 percent last week
to 94.47, the lowest level since Sept. 5.  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
futures, rose 3.4 percent on Oct. 26 to 25.93 points.  Futures contracts on the ruble expiring in December slipped
0.1 percent to 31.65 per dollar.  Oil Inventories  Oil may extend declines this week as U.S. inventories rise
and the global economic slowdown saps demand, according to 16 of
36 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Fifteen respondents are
predicting gains in crude, while five forecast prices will be
little changed. Production in the U.S. climbed for a seventh
week to 6.61 million barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 19, a
17-year high.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities fell 2.6 percent to
638.97 last week, the largest decline in more than a month.  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s biggest producer of steelmaking coal,
fell 8.2 percent, its biggest weekly slide since May, to $6.41.
Shares in Moscow retreated 6.3 percent for the week to 206.20
rubles, or the equivalent of $6.57. One ADR represents one
ordinary share.  The Moscow-based company said on Oct. 22 that it was
temporarily suspending mining at some facilities in its
Bluestone mining complex in the U.S.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , owner of Russia’s fourth-largest television
channel, posted a 6.9 percent weekly drop, the biggest since
May, to $8.77 as Igor Semenov, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
cut his rating on the shares to hold from buy.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
sank 1.1 percent to HK$4.35 in  Hong Kong  as of the city’s noon
trading break. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien in New York at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  