-- Manchester United Beats 9-Man Chelsea; Liverpool Ties, Spurs Win
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-10-29T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/everton-liverpool-tie-in-premier-league-spurs-newcastle-win.html
Manchester United beat nine-man
Chelsea 3-2 to move to within a point of the Premier League
leader, which suffered its first league defeat this season.  Javier Hernandez scored United’s winning goal from what
appeared to be an offside position at Stamford Bridge yesterday
after Chelsea had fought back from 2-0 down before having
Branislav Ivanovic and Fernando Torres red carded.  “The key decisions from the referee probably influenced
the result,” Chelsea manager Roberto di Matteo said. “He sent
off Fernando Torres and the third goal is offside and it clearly
has decided the game.”  Elsewhere yesterday, Everton rallied from 2-0 down to draw
2-2 with Merseyside rival Liverpool, while Newcastle beat West
Brom 2-1 and Tottenham won by the same score at Southampton.  David Luiz ’s own goal and Robin van Persie’s strike put
Manchester United 2-0 up in 12 minutes. Van Persie’s shot hit a
post and rebounded into the net off Luiz, then the Dutchman
swept a cross from the right past Petr Cech.  After Chelsea rallied with goals from Juan Mata and Ramires
either side of halftime, Ivanovic was shown the red card by
referee Mark Clattenburg in the 63rd minute for tripping Ashley Young when he had a run on goal.  Torres, who was earlier booked for a foul on Tom Cleverley,
was dismissed six minutes later after picking up his second
yellow card for diving when challenged by Jonny Evans.  Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson said Torres’s
sending-off was justified.  ‘Own Fault’  “Did he intend to dive? I thought he went down,” Ferguson
told Sky Sports. “Jonny may have just caught him a little bit
but he can either carry on running -- which he could have done -
- but he chose to go down. He could have carried on and scored
so I cannot understand it. It’s his own fault.”  With United 2-0 up, the team’s goalkeeper David de Gea
saved from Torres. Mata pulled a goal back just before halftime
from a free kick conceded by Wayne Rooney, who was cautioned.
Ramires leveled with a 53rd-minute header from Oscar’s cross.  Hernandez sealed United’s first win in its past 11 league
games at  Stamford  Bridge when he diverted Rafael Da Silva’s
hard-driven shot into the net 15 minutes from the end amid
protests for offside.  “We’re massively disappointed that these key decisions
were wrong. It always seems to be in favor of the opposition and
it’s a massive disadvantage for us,” Di Matteo added. “At 2-2,
we looked like the team that were probably going to win the game
so it’s a shame. It was a good game of football with two good
teams and the officials ruined it.”  Chelsea leads the 20-team standings with 22 points through
nine games, followed by United and defending champion Manchester
City on 21 and Tottenham on 17.  First-Half Goals  All four goals in the Merseyside derby at Goodison Park
came before halftime. Everton’s Leighton Baines scored an own
goal off Luis Suarez’s shot in the 14th minute and the Uruguayan
striker added Liverpool’s second six minutes later. Leon Osman
and Steven Naismith hit back for the home team.  Suarez celebrated the opening goal with a dive in front of
Everton manager David Moyes, who in the lead-up to the game had
accused him of diving to win free kicks.  Everton had more possession in the second half though
couldn’t get the breakthrough goal. Nikica Jelavic missed
chances including a header from a Baines free kick.  There was controversy at the end as Suarez scored in injury
time, only for the goal to be disallowed for offside. Television
replays suggested the goal should have stood.  “We’re so disappointed that it didn’t count because for me
it’s an easy decision,” said Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers.
“He’s clearly onside.”  Late Winner  Papiss Cisse scored an injury-time winner for Newcastle at
St James’ Park after West Brom’s Romelu Lukaku had tied Demba
Ba’s 35th-minute opener.  Gareth Bale and Clint Dempsey got Tottenham’s goals in the
first half at Southampton. Jay Rodriguez got one back in the
66th minute.  Two days ago, Manchester City beat Swansea 1-0 and Arsenal
defeated Queens Park Rangers by the same score. Aston Villa drew
1-1 with Norwich and Fulham tied 3-3 at Reading. Wigan beat West
Ham 2-1 and Sunderland drew 0-0 at Stoke.  Everton is fifth with 16 points, while West Brom and
Newcastle are eighth and 10th, respectively. Liverpool is 12th
on 10 points. Winless QPR is bottom with three points, one behind
Southampton and Reading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  