-- Finns Back Government Parties in Municipal Election
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-10-29T09:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/finns-seen-backing-government-in-municipal-election.html
Finland’s two biggest government
parties came out on top in municipal elections, winning backing
for their austerity agenda and support for the euro even as
skeptics of the common currency gained some ground.  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s National Coalition Party
won 21.9 percent nationwide and Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen’s Social Democrats won 19.6 percent in yesterday’s
municipal elections, according to a full count by the Justice
Ministry in Helsinki. The opposition Center Party received 18.7
percent, beating the euro-skeptic “The Finns” party, which got
12.3 percent. Turnout was 58.2 percent.  “In a way this is a vote of confidence in government,”
said Pasi Kuoppamaeki, an economist at Sampo Bank, a unit of
 Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)  The government’s “policies and the euro crisis
inevitably had an impact on the results. At least they didn’t
make a mess of it, given how little support the ruling parties
lost.”  The three biggest parties’ popularity was in line with
polls ahead of the election, even as they all lost support
compared with the 2008 municipal vote. “The Finns” rose 6.9
percentage points from four years ago, though failed to repeat
its success from last year’s national election, when it garnered
19.1 percent support.  Renewed Confidence  The government parties received renewed confidence at the
local level after having called for stricter budget rules,
resisted shared liability for debt and demanded collateral for
helping to bail out struggling nations in southern  Europe . The
northernmost euro member has toughened its stance on supporting
rescues amid slowing economic growth.  “The National Coalition Party is trusted even in tough
times,” Katainen said in an interview in Helsinki yesterday.  The election of about 10,000 council members across 320
municipalities focused mostly on local issues such as how to pay
for social services such as health care and schools. The cost of
supporting Europe’s fastest-aging population is straining
welfare funds, prompting the government to propose that smaller
municipalities merge to create bigger units with a wider tax
base.  ‘No Moping’  “There’s not a lot of point moping,”  Timo Soini , who
heads the euro-skeptic party, said in an interview in Helsinki
last night. The new council members for his party means “the
going will get tougher and stances stricter.”  The National Coalition won 23.5 percent in 2008, the Social
Democrats 21.2 percent, the Center Party 20.1 percent. Third
place means the Center Party may assume the role of the main
opposition party in resisting the policies of the six-member
governing coalition.  Finland’s economic growth is slowing as a recession in the
euro-area saps demand for exports such as steel and machinery.
The government is raising taxes and cutting spending to trim
deficits in one of the four remaining AAA rated countries in the
17-nation euro area. It has been able to keep its deficits
within the European Union’s 3 percent rule even as its economy
shrank 8.5 percent in 2009.  More Discord  The neck-and-neck result of the governing National
Coalition and the  Social Democrats  may force more disagreements
over policy within the cabinet as it faces more cuts to keep the
budget gap in check. The government will review the need for
further budget cuts and tax increases in March as it assesses
its spending framework for the following four years.  “The forward-looking agenda of reforms won,” Katainen
said on YLE TV1 last night. “People want to see parties pushing
openly for change, and they support it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  