-- Former NFL Commissioner Tagliabue Postpones Saints Appeals
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-10-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/former-nfl-commissioner-tagliabue-postpones-saints-appeals.html
Former National Football League
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue postponed the appeals hearing in the
New Orleans Saints bounty scandal because of the possibility of
the superstorm from Hurricane Sandy.  Tagliabue, 71, commissioner from 1989-2006, had set
hearings for Scott Fujita, Anthony Hargrove, Will Smith, and
Jonathan Vilma on Oct. 30.  Tagliabue didn’t set an alternate date for the hearings,
said NFL spokesman Greg Aiello in an e-mail last night.  The players’ union and the NFL have been engaged in a
lawsuit over whether Tagliabue should be allowed to hear the
appeals.  As Hurricane Sandy makes landfall in the northeast late
tomorrow or early Oct. 30, the storm will converge with two
others racing toward the east, creating a so-called “Perfect
Storm,” meteorologists said.  “Because of the large size of the system and the slow
motion, it’s going to be a long-lasting even, two to three days
of impacts for a lot of people,” said James Franklin, branch
chief at the National Hurricane Center in Miami.  New York  is considering evacuating parts of the city and
closing subways, if necessary, said Jerome Hauer, New York
State’s homeland security commissioner.  Commissioner Roger Goodell named Tagliabue to hear the
appeals after his original penalties were thrown out by an
arbitrator who ruled that he overstepped his bounds. The players
appealed his new penalties: Vilma’s full-season suspension was
unchanged, Hargrove’s was cut one game to seven, Smith’s in half
to four games, and Fujita by three to one game.  The NFL said about two dozen Saints players, led by former
defensive coordinator Gregg Williams, paid each other as much as
$1,500 for targeting opponents such as Super Bowl-winning
quarterbacks Kurt Warner and Brett Favre from 2009 to 2011.  Coach Sean Payton was barred for a year and Williams was
suspended indefinitely. Mickey Loomis, the Saints’ general
manager, received an eight-game suspension. Those penalties were
allowed to stand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  