-- Giants Poised to Sweep MLB’s World Series With Win Over Tigers
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-10-28T04:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/giants-poised-to-sweep-mlb-s-world-series-with-win-over-tigers.html
The  San Francisco Giants  defeated
the Detroit Tigers 2-0 to move within one game of sweeping Major
League Baseball’s  World Series .  The Giants take a three games to none lead in the best-of-
seven series going into Game 4 today at Comerica Park in Detroit.  “I’ll say this -- the club is playing well,” Giants
manager Bruce Bochy told reporters.  The Giants won the World Series in 2010 in a 4-1 series
over the Texas Rangers. The team twice swept the series when it
was in New York, in 1922 against the  New York Yankees  and again
in 1954 over the  Cleveland Indians . The  Boston Red Sox  were the
last team to sweep the series with four straight victories over
the Colorado Rockies in 2007.  “It’s not over yet, we have to win one more,” winning
pitcher Ryan Vogelsong said in a televised interview.  Gregor Blanco hit a run-scoring triple off Tigers’ starter
Anibal Sanchez and then scored on Brandon Crawford’s single to
give the Giants a 2-0 lead in the second inning.  “I know he’s a great pitcher,” Blanco said in a televised
interview. “He has great velocity. He handed me that curve
ball.”  Vogelsong (1-0) allowed five hits and struck out three in 5
2/3 innings before he was relieved by  Tim Lincecum , who struck
out three in 2 1/3 innings. Sergio Romo pitched a perfect ninth
inning for his second save of the World Series.  “It was special tonight even before the game started --
being able to pitch in the World Series is something. I was
really pumped up,” the 35-year-old pitcher said. “I just felt
like we had a good game plan coming in.”  Sanchez (0-1) allowed two runs on six hits and struck out
eight in seven innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  