-- Greek Journalist Held Over List of Swiss-Account Holders
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-10-28T13:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/greek-journalist-sought-by-police-over-lagarde-list-.html
Police in  Greece  arrested a Greek
journalist who published the names of 2,000 Greeks with deposits
in Swiss bank accounts.  Kostas Vaxevanis, editor of the Greek magazine Hot Doc, was
arrested in  Athens  today, according to a message posted on his
Twitter account at 11 a.m. local time. An arrest warrant was
issued yesterday after the magazine published what’s been dubbed
the “Lagarde list,” an electronic file given to Greece in 2010
by then-French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  of about 2,000
Greeks with Swiss accounts.  Vaxevanis was arrested for publishing citizens’ private
information, a breach of Greek privacy law, a police spokesman
said by telephone today. Private television station Mega TV
reported that he was released and will appear in court tomorrow.  In a  video message  posted on the news website Pandora’s Box
today, Vaxevanis said he published the list because of
government inaction in following up on the names of potential
tax evaders even as it prepares new austerity measures.  Former Finance Minister  Evangelos Venizelos  said on Oct. 2
that he had received the list in August 2011 from Finance
Ministry officials and deemed it couldn’t be legally used. He
said he has since handed it over to the government, which passed
it on to the country’s financial-crimes squad, SDOE.  George Papaconstantinou , who preceded Venizelos as finance
minister, said he received the list from Lagarde.  The list has drawn criticism from both opposition parties
as well as lawmakers within the governing coalition, with most
comments tying the failure to track down possible  tax evasion  by
those on the list to the government preparing new austerity
measures to secure international aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  