-- Lithuanians Vote in Runoffs as Opposition Vies for Dominance
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-10-28T16:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/lithuanians-vote-in-runoffs-as-opposition-jostle-for-dominance.html
Lithuanians are voting in a second
round of elections as opposition parties vie to lead a new
coalition replacing Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius’s austerity-
focused government.  The  Labor Party  won the most seats in the first round while
Kubilius’s Homeland Union-Christan Democrats placed third.
Polling stations opened at 7 a.m. local time and balloting ends
at 8 p.m. Initial results are expected at about 10 p.m.  The opposition lured voters with spending pledges after
austerity measures devised by Homeland Union intensified the
Baltic nation’s deepest  recession  in 2009 and 2010. While
support for Labor, the Social Democrats and Order & Justice,
which plan to form a coalition, should propel them into power,
Labor may struggle to retain its initial lead, according to
Oxford University’s Ainius Lasas.  The Social Democrats “are the most likely to head the
government,” Lasas, a senior research fellow focusing on media
and democracy in central and eastern  Europe , said Oct. 24 by
phone. Their positions are “quite strong” and they will
probably end up with more seats, he said.  While a “center-left” coalition of the  Social Democrats ,
Labor and Order & Justice seems most appropriate for Lithuania’s
current policy needs, agreement between the three parties is
still preliminary, Social Democrat leader Algirdas Butkevicius
said after voting today in the capital, Vilnius.     “Every
party has the right to decide they’d prefer to work with someone
else and notify the other partners,” Butkevicius told
reporters.  Labor Leads  The yield on Lithuania’s dollar bond due 2022 was 3.578
percent late on Oct. 26 in Vilnius, near the lowest since its
January sale. The cost of insuring government debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps was 144 basis
points, compared with 845 points in February 2009, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Labor won 18 of parliament’s 141 seats in first-round
voting and is competing for 35 more through runoffs in the
single-mandate districts that make up half of the legislature.
The Social Democrats, which have 16 seats, will run in 28, while
Order & Justice has six seats and will challenge for seven more.
Homeland Union got 13 seats in the first round Oct. 14.  ‘Artificial Provocations’  Election officials have ordered a rerun in one district,
saying a Labor candidate made illegal payments to voters and
altered the outcome. The  Constitutional Court  upheld the
decision in a ruling published Oct. 26 on its website, saying
parliament needs to amend laws and give the election commission
more powers to prevent or punish such offenses.  Police are now investigating 22 incidents during this
year’s election, the police department said Oct.26 on its
website, without identifying the parties involved. Nine cases
involved Labor, four Order & Justice, two Homeland Union and one
the Social Democrats, the  Baltic News Service  reported Oct. 24,
without saying where it got the information.  The accusations have hurt voter support for Labor,
according to party head Viktor Uspaskich, who called them
“artificial provocations” by rivals. Other parties haven’t
commented publicly about investigations of their members.  “It’s not so important to be in first or second place,”
he said Oct. 24 by phone. “In any case we’ll have to work in a
coalition government, so I don’t see much difference.”  Living Conditions  Kubilius’s government, the first to serve a full term since
 Lithuania  regained independence from the  Soviet Union  22 years
ago, has been trying to avoid the fate of European leaders who
lost power in a wave of anti-austerity protests. The policies,
designed to shield nations from the euro area’s debt crisis,
instead contributed to recessions in economies from  Romania  to
 Spain .  The Cabinet cut wages and raised taxes equivalent to 12
percent of gross domestic product in 2009 and 2010 as output
plunged by almost a quarter. Plans to narrow this year’s budget
deficit to the European Union cap of 3 percent of GDP from 9.4
percent in 2009 have helped push borrowing costs to record lows.  While Lithuania’s GDP will advance 2.5 percent this year
and 3 percent in 2013, according to the  Finance Ministry , the
recession fueled  joblessness  and sparked an exodus of workers.  Russian-born entrepreneur Uspaskich’s Labor Party, former
Finance Minister Algirdas Butkevicius’s Social Democrats and
impeached ex-President Rolandas Paksas’s Order & Justice are
negotiating the formation of a new coalition to “improve living
conditions for the people of Lithuania as quickly as possible,”
the parties said in a joint statement Oct. 16.  ‘No Revolutions’  The Labor Party says it will raise the minimum wage to
1,509 litai ($565) a month from 850 litai and reduce the value-
added tax on basic food stuffs. The Social Democrats, who have
advocated euro adoption a year later than Kubilius’s 2014 goal,
have pledged to create jobs and adjust income-tax rates to
benefit those who earn least.  President Dalia Grybauskaite, a former EU budget
commissioner who must name Lithuania’s new premier after the
elections, has criticized spending pledges by some parties. The
Social Democrats’ Butkevicius has said “there will be no
revolutions in the budget.”  While Kubilius’s Homeland Union may improve on its first-
round showing and could end up with more votes than any other
party, it won’t be able to form a coalition because its natural
partners lack sufficient support, according to Tomas Janeliunas,
who lectures at Vilnius University’s Institute of International
Affairs and Political Science.  With the voter-fraud scandal damaging Labor’s runoff
prospects, that puts the Social Democrats in pole position, he
said Oct. 24 by phone.  There will probably be “some shifting of weight” within
the planned coalition, Janeliunas said. “It seems logical the
Social Democrats will take the role of the leader and most
likely hold the premiership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  