-- Lithuanian President Blocks Opposition Coalition Plan
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-10-29T16:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/lithuania-opposition-parties-extend-lead-over-kubilius-coalition.html
Lithuania ’s president is blocking a
plan by the country’s election-winning opposition alliance to
form a governing coalition, which may open the way for the
current ruling party to remain in power.  The Social Democrats, who won the most seats in
parliamentary elections that concluded yesterday, can’t include
the Labor Party in the next Cabinet because of alleged voting
fraud and accounting irregularities, President Dalia Grybauskaite said today in an e-mail from Vilnius, the capital.  “I’ll support only a political force that can form a
majority without the Labor Party,” Grybauskaite said. The
president must name a new prime minister and present any new
cabinet for parliament’s approval. She has fifteen days to
convene the new parliament and two weeks after that to name a
prime minister.  The Social Democrats agreed with Labor and the Order &
Justice party to proceed with coalition talks after yesterday’s
runoff vote gave them a majority in the legislature. They lured
voters with spending pledges after budget cuts devised by Prime
Minister Andrius Kubilius’s Homeland Union-Christian Democrats
intensified the nation’s deepest recession in 2009 and 2010.  Provoking Controversy  The president’s statement “may provoke controversy in the
coming days and raise questions about the composition of the new
coalition government,” Szilvia Laszlo, an economist at DZ Bank
AG, said in an e-mailed note. “Five-year CDS spreads widened
and yields rose immediately on the news, and Lithuanian assets
may remain vulnerable in the coming days. However, we do not
expect uncertainties to be long-lasting.”  The yield on Lithuania’s dollar bond due 2022 rose about 6
basis points to 4.424, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The cost of insuring government debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose to 149 basis points
from 135 on Oct. 26. The  OMX Vilnius (VILSE)  stock index rose 0.1
percent to 350.42. TEO AB LT, the country’s biggest
communications company, gained 0.7 percent.  Kubilius’s Chance  With the exclusion of Russian-born entrepreneur Viktor Uspaskich’s Labor Party, the Social Democrats will probably need
the support of Kubilius’s Homeland Union or its coalition
partner Liberal Movement to ensure a parliamentary majority.  The Social Democrats won 38 seats in the 141-seat
parliament, while Homeland Union gained 33 mandates, according
to results on the election commission’s website. The Labor
Party, which had won the first round of voting on Oct. 14,
garnered 29 seats, with Order & Justice getting 11 seats, the
Liberal Movement ten and the Lithuanian Polish Election Action
eight.  The parties in the current Cabinet agreed that they are
ready to negotiate an “alternative coalition” with the Social
Democrats, should it fail to form a government with its allies,
Eligijus Masiulis, the head of the Liberal Movement, told
reporters today before the president’s announcement.  The president’s push against Labor was a surprise, Social
Democrat leader Algirdas Butkevicius, the front-runner for the
premiership, said after meeting Grybauskaite today, according to
the BNS news service.  ‘Best Options’  “As a politician I respect the president’s opinion,”
Butkevicius said, according to BNS. “We will work with the
president to seek the best options and don’t plan to be in
conflict with her from day one.”  Besides a criminal case in which Uspaskich and other Labor
leaders are accused of fraud, police are investigating 10 cases
of voter bribing involving Labor, among 27 total investigations
started regarding foul play in the current election, the
president’s office said.  Election officials have ordered a rerun in one district,
saying a Labor candidate made illegal payments to voters and
altered the outcome. The Constitutional Court upheld the
decision in a ruling published Oct. 26 on its website, saying
parliament needs to amend laws and give the election commission
more powers to prevent or punish such offenses.  ‘Politically Motivated’  The charges are politically motivated, Uspaskich said at a
press conference today. The three opposition parties should
stand up to Grybauskaite and defend their planned coalition,
Uspaskich and impeached ex-President Rolandas Paksas, the leader
of Order & Justice, told a news conference today, according to
BNS.  Kubilius’s government, the first to serve a full term since
Lithuania regained independence from the Soviet Union 22 years
ago, has been trying to avoid the fate of European leaders who
lost power in a wave of anti-austerity protests. The policies,
designed to shield nations from the euro area’s debt crisis,
instead contributed to recessions in economies from  Romania  to
Spain.  The Cabinet cut wages and raised taxes equivalent to 12
percent of gross domestic product in 2009 and 2010 as output
plunged by almost a quarter. Plans to narrow this year’s budget
deficit to the European Union cap of 3 percent of GDP from 9.4
percent in 2009 have helped push borrowing costs to record lows.  Growth in  gross domestic product  accelerated to a
preliminary 4.4 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, compared with 2.1 percent growth in the previous three
months, the statistics office said today.  Draft Budget  While Lithuania’s GDP will advance 2.5 percent this year
and 3 percent in 2013, according to the Finance Ministry, the
recession fueled joblessness and sparked an exodus of workers.  The Social Democrats, the Labor Party and Order & Justice
are reviewing the 2013 draft budget and preparing a policy plan,
including raising the minimum wage to 1,000 litai ($373.55) a
month from 850 litai, Butkevicius said at a news conference
today.  Adopting the euro in “2015 would be appropriate and
realistic for Lithuania considering the macroeconomic situation
and forecasts,” Butkevicius said, adding that the Social
Democrats also support keeping the budget deficit at 2.5 percent
of GDP.  With assistance from Aaron Eglitis in Riga--Editors: Balazs
Penz, Andrew Langley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  