-- Japan Stock Futures, Australian Equities Rise Before U.S. Data
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-10-28T23:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/japan-stock-futures-australian-equities-rise-before-u-s-data.html
Japanese stock futures and
Australian equities rose as investors awaited economic data in
the U.S. this week and as the approaching Hurricane Sandy shut
floor trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , a Japanese
construction-machinery company that gets more than 80 percent of
sales abroad, advanced 0.6 percent. ADRs of Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-biggest bank by market
value, climbed 1.1 percent after saying first-half profit
probably rose 5.2 percent, exceeding the lender’s previous
forecast. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
rose 0.3 percent after an Oct. 26 report showed the  U.S. economy 
grew more than forecast in the third quarter, boosting metal
prices.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,965 in Chicago Oct. 26, up from 8,930 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,960 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  gained
0.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index retreated 0.3
percent in Wellington. In the U.S., the  New York  Stock Exchange
and  New York Mercantile Exchange  canceled floor trading as
Hurricane Sandy barreled toward New York City with the threat of
a 10-foot  storm surge  and 70 mile-per-hour winds. The market
operators said trading will occur normally on their electronic
platforms.  “This week’s U.S. payrolls data and manufacturing survey
will give more guidance on the macro front,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based head of investment strategy at UBS
AG’s Australian wealth-management unit. The Swiss bank has about
$1.5 trillion in assets under management.  Housing Recovery  “The U.S. macro data, particularly the housing recovery,
looks promising for 2013, particularly given the recent
stimulus,” he said. “However, given the U.S. election is just
over a week away, expectations are for range trading until there
is some clarity on who will steer policy for the next four
years.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent
today as investors braced for the impact of Hurricane Sandy. The
last time the NYSE cut trading hours for weather was Jan. 8,
1996, when a blizzard dropped more than 20 inches of snow on New
York City.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are among Wall
Street firms planning to shift operations to other cities and
have staff work from home as Hurricane Sandy’s arrival in New
York forces evacuations.  Jobless Rate  The U.S. jobless rate probably rose in October to 7.9
percent as employers kept a tight rein on payrolls with the
nation closing in on the so-called fiscal cliff, economists said
before a report this week. A net 125,000 workers were added to
headcounts following an increase of 114,000 in September,
according to the median forecast of 72 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the Nov. 2 Labor Department figures.  A Nov. 1 report may affirm U.S. manufacturing is slowing.
Economists forecast the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 factory index  for October fell to 51.2 from 51.5 the prior
month. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion
and contraction.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s board is facing
political pressure to ease policy as government data last week
showed consumer prices fell for a fifth straight month. The
break-even rate suggests that inflation will remain below the
BOJ’s 1 percent goal even in 2017. All but one of 27 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expect the central bank will increase
asset purchases at its policy meeting tomorrow.  Relative Value  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index advanced 11 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 through Oct. 26 as stimulus measures in the
U.S., Japan and China boosted sentiment amid a global economic
slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis. The gauge traded at 12.8
times  estimated earnings  on average, compared with 13.5 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying imposed the
city’s first property tax targeted at overseas buyers as U.S.
monetary easing and record-low  interest rates  boost the risk of
a  housing  bubble.  Non-local and corporate buyers will have to pay a 15
percent tax upon purchase, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  told
reporters at a press conference on Oct. 26. The government also
raised a resale tax on property by about 5 percentage points and
extended the period during which it will apply to three years
from two.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slid 1.8 percent to  94.30 on Oct.
26, posting its first weekly drop in five.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  