-- Jobless Rate Probably Climbed in October Amid Lax Hiring
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-10-28T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/jobless-rate-probably-climbed-in-october-amid-lax-hiring.html
The jobless rate probably rose in
October as U.S. employers kept a tight rein on payrolls with the
nation closing in on the so-called fiscal cliff, economists said
before a report this week.  A net 125,000 workers were added to headcounts following an
increase of 114,000 in September, according to the median
forecast of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the Nov.
2 Labor Department figures. The  unemployment rate  climbed to 7.9
percent last month from a three-year low of 7.8 percent, the
survey showed.  “We’re just treading water, getting the labor market to
grow fast enough to cover  population growth ,” said Joshua Dennerlein, a U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New
York . The “drop in unemployment was probably not sustainable.”  Hiring may stay restrained as concern mounts that an
economy growing at a 2 percent pace is not strong enough to
weather the tax increases and spending cuts slated to take
effect if lawmakers fail to act by year’s end. Coming just days
before the election, the report may also help sway voters still
trying to decide between giving President  Barack Obama  another
four years and changing course with Republican challenger  Mitt
Romney .  Prior to September, joblessness had exceeded 8 percent for
43 months, the longest such stretch since at least 1948. At 7.8
percent, unemployment last month matched the rate at the time
Obama took office in January 2009.  Re-Election Prospects  Ronald Reagan  is the only president to have been re-elected
since World War II with unemployment above 6 percent. On
Election Day 1984, the rate was at 7.2 percent, having dropped
almost three percentage points in the previous 18 months.  At the end of last week, Romney was leading in daily
tracking polls of likely voters. He was ahead in an Oct. 21-24
 ABC News/Washington Post  survey, 50 percent to 47 percent,
within the poll’s margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points, and by the same advantage in an Oct. 18-24 Gallup poll,
with a margin of error of plus or minus 2 percentage points.  While the pace of  job creation  has slowed relative to the
first half of the year, consumers are still managing to spend.
The economy expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, more than forecast and boosted by household purchases,
Commerce Department figures showed last week.  A report tomorrow may show consumers ended the quarter on a
strong note. Household spending increased 0.6 percent in
September, the biggest gain in seven months, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Confidence Improving  The Conference Board’s consumer sentiment index may have
 risen  to 73, the highest level in four years, economists also
project ahead of Oct. 30 figures.  At the same time, companies are cutting back in the face of
the fiscal cliff, more than $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts that will take place in place in 2013 unless
Congress can reach a budget compromise. Spending on equipment
and software was unchanged in the third quarter, the weakest
reading in three years, a report showed on Oct. 26.  Shares of retailers and manufacturers reflect this split.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has climbed
22.2 percent so far this year, outpacing a 7.7 percent gain in
the S&P’s Industrial Machinery Index over the same period.  A Nov. 1 report may affirm manufacturing is slowing.
Economists forecast the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 factory index  for October fell to 51.2 from 51.5 the prior
month. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion
and contraction.  Cutting Jobs  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S. chemical maker by sales,
said last week it will cut about 2,400 jobs and shut 20
manufacturing plants to reduce annual costs by $500 million in
the face of slackening global sales.  “We are operating in a slow-growth environment in the
near-term,”  Andrew Liveris , chief executive officer of Midland,
Michigan-based Dow said in a statement. “While these actions
are difficult, they demonstrate our resolve to tightly manage
operations -- particularly in  Europe  -- and mitigate the impact
of current market dynamics.”  The October jobs readings will probably keep Federal
Reserve policy makers focused on trying to speed the economic
expansion. They pledged to keep buying $40 billion in mortgage-
backed securities a month until the outlook for labor-market
conditions improves “substantially,” according a statement
issued after they met last week.  “The next payroll report is not going to change the Fed’s
view that they need to keep purchasing assets to jumpstart the
recovery,” said Bank of America’s Dennerlein.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  