-- Juventus Extends Unbeaten Start as Bayern Is Beaten; Real Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-10-28T23:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/juventus-extends-unbeaten-start-as-bayern-is-beaten-real-wins.html
Juventus beat Catania 1-0 to extend
its unbeaten start in Italian soccer’s Serie A as  Bayern Munich 
lost for the first time this season in Germany’s Bundesliga.
Real Madrid routed Mallorca 5-0 in Spain’s Primera Liga.  Arturo Vidal  got Juventus’s only goal yesterday in the 57th
minute at Catania, which had defender Giovanni Marchese red
carded 10 minutes earlier. Juventus goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon
made his 500th Serie A appearance.  Napoli stayed three points behind Juve in second place
after a 1-0 home win against Chievo, while  Inter Milan  won 2-1
at Bologna to move to 21 points in third place.  Two days ago, Stephan El Shaarawy scored to give AC Milan a
1-0 win against Genoa, which was playing its first match since
Luigi Del Neri replaced Gigi De Canio as coach.  Bayern Munich’s record eight-game winning sequence to open
a Bundesliga season ended with a 2-1 home defeat to  Bayer
Leverkusen . Sidney Sam’s deflected goal in the 87th minute
sealed Leverkusen’s first win at Bayern in 23 years.  In Spain, Cristiano Ronaldo and Gonzalo Higuain both scored
twice last night as Real Madrid won at Mallorca to stay eight
points behind leaders Barcelona and Atletico Madrid, which beat
Osasuna 3-1 at home.  Unbeaten Barcelona also won 5-0 at Rayo Vallecano two days
ago, with  Lionel Messi  scoring twice.  David Villa ,  Xavi Hernandez  and  Cesc Fabregas  got the other goals.  Paris Saint-Germain holds a three-point advantage atop
France’s Ligue 1 following a 1-0 win at Nancy two days ago, with
third-place Marseille denied a chance to move level on points
with the leader as its match against Lyon last night was
postponed because of high winds.  FC Twente maintained its one-point lead over PSV Eindhoven
in Dutch soccer’s Eredivisie with a 1-0 win at RKC Waalwijk,
while PSV beat FC Zwolle 2-1. Vitesse Arnhem slipped to a 2-1
loss against AZ Alkmaar and defending champion Ajax tied 2-2 at
Feyenoord.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 