-- News Corp. Said to Prepare Bid for Pearson’s Penguin Unit
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-29T08:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/news-corp-said-to-prepare-bid-for-pearson-s-penguin-unit.html
(Corrects revenue figure in fifth paragraph.)  Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  has
expressed interest in acquiring  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit,
threatening plans for a combination of the U.K. publisher with
Bertelsmann SE’s Random House division, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  News Corp., which owns the HarperCollins publishing house,
is preparing an offer for Penguin, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the discussions are private.
Penguin is valued at 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) by News
Corp., the Sunday Times reported yesterday, without citing
anyone. The newspaper is owned by New York-based News Corp.  A bid for Penguin would disrupt negotiations between
London-based Pearson to combine the 77-year-old publisher of
“The Help” and “Diary of a Wimpy Kid’ series with
Bertelsmann’s  Random House . News Corp. is working to bulk up its
publishing arm ahead of a planned split of its entertainment
businesses from print units.  Miranda Higham, a spokeswoman for News Corp., Pearson’s
Charles Goldsmith and Bertelsmann’s Stephan Knuettel declined to
comment on News Corp.’s interest in Penguin.  Book publishers are pushing for consolidation in the
industry to lower costs and to gain more sway over sales as big
buyers such as Amazon.com Inc. drive down prices and as
electronic books become more popular. Random House and Penguin
together had revenue of about 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion),
based on 2011 annual reports.  Digital Expansion  HarperCollins has annual revenue of  more than $1 billion 
and its U.K. unit publishes about 1,000 books a year. News
Corp.’s entire publishing unit, which includes the Wall Street
Journal and  Dow Jones (IYR) , reported revenue of $4.05 billion for the
six months through June.  Penguin reported a 3.5 percent revenue decline to 441
million pounds in the first half of 2012. Profit fell to 22
million pounds from 42 million pounds a year ago even as the
publisher’s books won two Pulitzer prizes and made the  New York
Times (NYT)  bestseller’s list 132 times.  Bertelsmann CEO Thomas Rabe, who took over in January, is
looking for acquisitions to reduce the Guetersloh, Germany-based
media company’s dependence on  Europe  and expand its digital
businesses. Pearson is seeking to boost its education unit and
has selected that division’s chief, John Fallon, to succeed CEO
Marjorie Scardino, who will step down by the end of the year.  News Corp. announced plans in June to split its publishing
and entertainment businesses as Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  grapples with a phone hacking and bribery scandal at his
U.K. newspapers that scuppered a 7.8 billion-pound bid for 61
percent of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Pearson rose 0.7 percent to 1,221 pence on Oct. 26 in
London, a day after the company said it was in talks with
Bertelsmann about merging their publishing assets. The U.K.
company has a market value of 10 billion pounds. News Corp.
slipped 1.3 percent to $23.79 in  New York  on Oct. 26.  Bertelsmann is closely held by the Mohn family, descendants
of Carl Bertelsmann, who founded the company in 1835.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  