-- Next President Will Have Leverage to Push His Agenda
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-10-28T15:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/next-president-will-have-leverage-to-push-his-agenda.html
Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the senator
and Harvard University professor, observed that academic
politics are so vicious precisely because the stakes are so
small.  This year, U.S. politics feel that way, too. The issues
don’t seem as seminal as those facing the nation during the  Cold
War  or the civil-rights movement; the partisanship is worse.  Nonetheless, this presidential election has important
policy implications.  If either party wins the White House and control of both
houses of Congress there will be an opportunity to deal
immediately with fiscal and health-care issues through a
congressional process known as reconciliation that allows an
expedited procedure with a simple majority in both chambers.
That’s how the George W. Bush-era tax cuts and President  Barack Obama ’s health-care measure were enacted.  The more probable congressional outcome is something
resembling the status quo: a House with 235 Republicans and 200
Democrats and a Senate with 52 Democrats and 48 Republicans.
That configuration will require compromise. Whoever is
president, however, will still have important leverage for his
agenda and allied interest groups in shaping any compromises.  Fiscal Cliff  The Fiscal Cliff: The next president will have to deal with
a possible fiscal crisis almost immediately. He will have to
contend with a mix of calls for stimulus to bolster a sluggish
economy and the need for long-term  debt  reduction through
spending cuts and tax increases. All as he grapples with an
extension of the U.S. debt ceiling early next year.  With the prospect of a divided Congress, Obama wouldn’t
make much headway in advocating more spending on green jobs or
major infrastructure projects. Nor would  Mitt Romney  be able to
sell his huge tax cuts, which few serious analysts believe come
close to adding up.  Nevertheless, the White House would matter. Advocates of
lower taxes, especially for the wealthy, and of more robust
spending on defense would fare considerably better under a
Romney presidency. Proponents of strengthening educational
measures such as  Pell grants  for college students or health-
research spending would do better under a President Obama.  Health Care  Health Care/Financial Regulation: Romney has vowed to
repeal the  Affordable Care Act  and the Dodd-Frank financial-
regulatory legislation. Obama vows to retain them.  The new Congress is likely to alter both, either
significantly so under a Republican president, or with just some
tweaking under the incumbent.  On health care, if you’re a business that opposes the taxes
in the Obama measure, you’re cheering for Romney. A new
administration would gut some of those provisions. If you’re
uninsured, and especially if you have pre-existing medical
conditions, you’re in tough shape if Romney is president.  Interest groups have a lot at stake in how Dodd-Frank is
revised. If Romney is elected, the big Wall Street banks that
trade derivatives will celebrate as restrictions probably would
be eased. An Obama win would be welcome news for financial-
industry regulators, whose resources would be cut by
Republicans, and for regional banks.  Supreme Court /Judiciary: The odds are in favor of a Supreme
Court appointment or two over the next four years. Five of the
six second-term presidents since World War II have named
justices; four of the current justices are 74 or older.  With gay marriage, affirmative action, abortion and major
economic issues on the docket in the years ahead, any nominee
will endure a bruising battle for confirmation. Obama’s record
makes clear that his picks would be left-of-center moderates.
Romney, who has shown little interest in judicial appointments,
probably would listen to the demands of the movement-
conservative legal community.  Further, the next president probably will name more than
two dozen appellate court judges and 100 federal district court
judges. These will tilt the balance in some important
jurisdictions.  National Security: The  foreign-policy  debate last week
failed to reveal many differences between the candidates because
Romney, seeking to demonstrate his credentials to be commander
in chief, largely agreed with the current administration’s
positions on  Syria , Egypt,  Pakistan , the 2014 withdrawal from
 Afghanistan , the use of drones to fight terrorists, Iranian
sanctions and even Libya.  Foreign Policy  There’s every reason to expect that Obama’s second-term
foreign policy would be a continuation of the past four years,
though absent some of the heavy hitters such as Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  and perhaps Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .  There is great debate in Republican circles over the
direction that a Romney national security team would take.
Traditionalists or centrist Republicans point to the Romney of
last week’s debate. The neoconservative wing led by the Dick Cheney/Donald Rumsfeld unilateralists are dominant among
Romney’s advisers and could effectively pressure a president-
elect who is inexperienced in this field.  Particularly in the  Middle East , a President Romney might
be more aggressive, even confrontational.  Two imponderables make forecasts impossible. When it comes
to some of the toughest issues, including Iran and Pakistan,
there are no good answers. And future national-security crises
are unpredictable. In 1960, during his campaign for president,
 John F. Kennedy  talked about the dispute between Taiwan and
China over two obscure islands, Quemoy and Matsu. As president,
his foreign policy was defined by Cuba.  In 2000, candidate  George W. Bush  called for a more
“humble” foreign policy; a year and a half after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, he unilaterally invaded  Iraq .  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 