-- Nigerian Car Bomb Kills Eight, Injures More Than 100
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2012-10-28T14:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/nigerian-car-bomb-kills-eight-injures-more-than-100.html
A suspected suicide car bomb killed
eight people and injured more than 100 at a church in the
northern Nigerian city of Kaduna, according to the national
emergency agency.  Rescuers took some of the wounded to hospitals after the
explosion in the Malali area of the city, Yushau Shuaib,
spokesman for the National Emergency Management Agency, said in
a text message today.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer and most populous
nation of more than 160 million people, is battling an
insurgency by Islamist group Boko Haram that has killed hundreds
of people in the mostly Muslim north and Abuja, the capital,
since 2009.  Boko Haram, whose names means “Western education is a
sin,” says it’s fighting to create an Islamic state in Nigeria,
a country almost evenly split between the north and largely
Christian south.  “Our churches and mosques have now become a hostile arena
for deranged and murderous psychopaths,” Shehu Sani, the
Kaduna-based president of the Civil Rights Congress of Nigeria,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “The government of Nigeria
must wake up and live up to its duties and constitutional
responsibilities. We must find a lasting solution to this
carnage and arbitrariness.”  At least 1,500 people have been killed in bomb and gun
attacks by Boko Haram in the past three years, New York-based
Human Rights Watch said on Oct. 11. Boko Haram has claimed
responsibility for bombings and gun attacks on churches and
government buildings, and the killing of police, soldiers,
officials and Muslims who disagree with the group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  