-- Orient-Express Seen Passing Up Highest Premium: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-10-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/orient-express-seen-passing-up-highest-premium-real-m-a.html
Traders are betting that  Orient-
Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH) , owner of  Manhattan ’s 21 Club and luxury
lodgings from Venice to Rio de Janeiro, will turn down the
highest takeover premium in the hotel industry.  Indian Hotels Co., a shareholder of the Hamilton, Bermuda-
based hotel owner, offered this month to purchase the rest of
the company’s publicly traded Class A shares for $12.63 each.
The unsolicited bid was 43 percent higher than Orient-Express’s
20-day average price, a record premium for the industry, and
valued the company at the highest earnings multiple in six years
for a hotel takeover, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While  shares  of Orient-Express had their biggest gain in
more than three years on news of the Oct. 18 offer, the stock is
languishing almost 9 percent below the offer, evidence that
traders who bet on mergers and acquisitions see the company’s
board rejecting the bid, according to FBN Securities Inc. Public
shareholders don’t have the majority of voting rights, and the
company already rebuffed previous overtures from  Indian Hotels (IH) 
and turned down a $60-a-share takeover offer in 2007 when
Orient-Express was trading near an all-time high.  “Most experienced arbs on the Street have been through
this rodeo more than once,” Yemi Oshodi, New York-based
managing director of mergers and acquisitions and special
situations at WallachBeth Capital LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “We all lost money the first time, we’re not about
to lose money again. Until we see a friendly deal on the table,
nobody is touching this thing.”  Hotel Cipriani  Victoria Legg, a spokeswoman for Orient-Express, declined
to comment on Indian Hotels’s bid beyond the company’s Oct. 18
statement that it would “evaluate the proposal carefully and
respond in due course.” Representatives for Indian Hotels, a
unit of Mumbai-based Tata Group, didn’t respond to messages and
e-mails left after normal business hours.  Orient-Express  owns and operates luxury hotels, trains,
cruises and restaurants worldwide including the Hotel Cipriani
in  Venice , the Copacabana Palace in Rio de Janeiro and the
Venice Simplon-Orient Express train. The company’s shares, which
peaked at $64.80 in October 2007 before the global financial
crisis, have since plunged 82 percent as the company posted four
straight annual  net losses .  On Oct. 18, Orient-Express received an unsolicited bid from
Indian Hotels and its affiliates of $12.63 in cash for the 93.1
percent of Class A shares the investor didn’t already own.  The bid, also backed in part by Italian fund manager
Montezemolo & Partners, represents a 43 percent premium to the
average price of Orient-Express in the 20 days before Oct. 18,
almost double the average 22 percent paid on deals for hotel and
motel operators of $1 billion or more, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Multiple  Including  net debt , the offer values Orient-Express at 24
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, the highest since 2006, the data show.  After surging by the most since March 2009 on news of the
bid, Orient-Express  shares  ended Oct. 18 below the offer price,
where they have stayed since.  The stock closed last week at $11.55, 8.6 percent below the
offer price, signaling traders are skeptical the deal will go
through, said Kathleen Renck, New York-based head of event-
driven research at FBN Securities. Because Orient-Express’s
corporate structure keeps most of the voting power out of the
hands of public shareholders, an unsolicited offer is less
likely to succeed, she said.  A company subsidiary, Orient-Express Holdings 1 Ltd., owns
all of the non-public Class B shares and controls 64 percent of
the  voting rights . That subsidiary has four directors who decide
how to vote its interests. Two of those directors also sit on
the  board  of the parent company.  Deal History  “If you don’t get agreement with the board of directors,
who have all the power, then you can’t buy the company, no
matter what the price is,” Renck said in a phone interview.  Orient-Express has rejected deals in the past, including
overtures by Indian Hotels.  In September 2007, Indian Hotels sought a potential
alliance with Orient-Express, which turned down the invitation,
saying that it intended to remain an independent company. A
month later, the company rebuffed a $2.55 billion takeover offer
from Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC. Orient-
Express said its corporate structure enabled it to block any
undesired buyout offers and it would make “full use of this
authority” as it rejected the $60-a-share offer.  The dual-class structure was challenged in 2009 by then-
shareholders D.E. Shaw & Co. and CR Intrinsic Investments LLC in
the Supreme Court of  Bermuda , which ruled the following year in
favor of Orient-Express.  ‘Plan B’  The Orient-Express board may reject the bid from Indian
Hotels in the belief it can do a better job rehabilitating the
company and its stalling stock price on its own, said Chris Agnew, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based analyst at MKM Partners
LLC. The company has said it will divest less-profitable assets
and reduce net debt as part of efforts to boost results.  “They’ve obviously outlined a plan where they think they
can create value so it’s not like they’ve only got plan A, which
is sell the company,” Agnew said in a phone interview.
“They’re not desperate. They have a plan B, so they’re more
than likely to rebuff the offer.”  The Financial Times  reported  Oct. 25 that Orient-Express is
likely to appoint a new chief executive officer this week,
citing people familiar with the company.  Albert Saporta, managing director at Geneva and Tel-Aviv-
based Alternative Investment Management & Research SA, said
Orient-Express may also view Indian Hotels’s offer as too low,
given the company’s landmark properties.  Higher Value  Orient-Express owns “some of the best hotels, most famous
hotels in the world,” he said in a phone interview. Management
wouldn’t “blink their eyes” at an offer less than $15 a share,
and the value of the company’s assets may justify bids as high
as $20 a share.  Indian Hotels Vice Chairman R.K. Krishna Kumar wrote last
week to Orient-Express Chairman J. Robert Lovejoy, asking to
meet with him and the board to address any “value-drivers of
which we may not be aware” regarding the hotel company.  “To date, we have only had access to public information
and, as such, our offer was informed only by this limited
data,” Kumar said. He also said Tata Group Chairman Ratan Tata
and Luca Montezemolo would be willing to meet as well.  Christopher Jones, a New York-based analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group, said Indian Hotels might be willing to increase
its bid.  For Indian Hotels, “it would be very beneficial to be able
to enroll some of these hotels into their portfolio,” Jones
said in a phone interview. “It would certainly give a shot in
the arm to a sort of high-end luxury Indian lodging company.”  Other Bidders  The offer from Indian Hotels could also put the company
into play for other bidders, Jones said. Billionaires David and
Simon Reuben may bid for Orient-Express, the Sunday Times
reported on Oct. 21, without saying where it got the
information.  “Everything is on the table,” Gerald McKelvey, a
spokesman for Reuben Brothers, said in a phone interview last
week.  With Orient-Express’s stock still languishing, a deal might
be the best option for the company, said Boniface “Buzz” Zaino, a New York-based money manager at Royce & Associates LLC,
which oversees about $36 billion, including Orient-Express
 shares .  ‘For Sale’  “I would go to a banker and say, ‘Put it up for sale,’”
Zaino said. “Take the paper out of the vault and see who would
be willing to pay a price for it and then evaluate it and if you
get a higher number, you could be a lot happier than the current
offer.”  Still, until the company shows interest in a sale, any deal
is unlikely, however many suitors there may be, said Oshodi of
WallachBeth.  “If they were to put this up for sale, there would be just
tons of buyers,” he said. “We all know what it is worth. It’s
worth way more. I could see $20, $25, whatever, in a friendly
deal, but you have to convince them to sell. If they say they
are not selling, there is nothing you can do about this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  