-- Portuguese Red Wines Come of Age, Steal Spain’s Thunder
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-10-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/portuguese-red-wines-come-of-age-steal-spain-s-thunder.html
Back in the 1990s Spain seemed to be
 Europe ’s most forward looking wine producer. But as
overproduction and high alcohol wines increasingly dominate
Spanish viniculture, it now appears  Portugal  can steal some of
its thunder.  Such an achievement would simply not have been possible 10
years ago. Prior to 1986, when Portugal joined the EU, its wine
industry was wracked by political directives and a lack of any
dependable system to make sense of its wine regions.  After joining, EU subsidies and investments poured into
Portugal for the regeneration of old and the building of new
wineries, attracting a young generation of winemakers, including
an impressive number of women, who now account for 60 percent of
the students at the oenology school in Vila Real.  Today there are 31 DOC and DOP appellations and 14 approved
wine regions in Portugal, including the beautiful Douro River
Valley, famous for its fortified Port wines.  Indeed, Port’s historic renown has blinded many to the
charms of Portugal’s modern red wines, 30 of which, all from the
Douro, I got to taste at a recent Wine Media Guild luncheon in
 New York .  Modestly Priced  My overall impression was that many were so very good and
so modestly priced, with some of my favorites retailing at only
$10 - $16. In fact, none cost more than $40.  My second surprise was that very few topped 14 percent in
alcohol, with most at a reasonable 13.5 or below, indicating
that, at least so far, Portuguese winemakers have resisted going
for that bold but imbalanced style that plagues international
wine markets and destroys any subtleties of individual terroir.  One of my colleagues at the luncheon said he thought too 
many of the wines tasted very much the same, but I reminded him 
that all were from the same Douro region and therefore shared 
identifiable characteristics.  Some of the newer blends -- and Portugal offers a wide
palate of grapes to choose among -- include the robust touriga
nacional; the late-ripening baga, sometimes used as a base for
sparkling wines; the widely planted, zesty castelao; the
aromatic touriga franca; the fruity, herbal trincadeira; and the
increasingly impressive tinta, in  Spain  called tempranillo.  Fuzzy Reservas  These were young wines we tasted, and the laws about
“reservas” are a bit fuzzy: a reserva must spend at least one
year in oak and one in bottle -- rather liberal for a wine that
is held back for more maturity -- and a garrafeira must spend
three years aging, at least one in bottle, but the rules allow
for a good deal of flexibility.  Most of the wines were recent vintages from 2009 and 2010
vintages, with the oldest going back only to 2007. I enjoyed the
younger, fresher wines, including a lovely, sweetly juicy and
floral Vinho Oscar Quevedo Douro Oscar’s 2009 ($10) that makes
for very easy drinking. Sales-wise, Quevado is cutting edge: the
producer markets only through its social network.  At $13, the 2009  Quinta dos Murcas Assobio , is a terrific
buy, with a remarkably assertive bouquet and fine texture felt
from the tip of the tongue to back of the throat. “Assobio”
means “whistle,” in homage to the winds in the Douro hills.  Persuasive Blend  The 2009 J. Portugal Ramos Colheita ($20) is a persuasive
blend of two touriga varietals plus tinta roriz, with plenty of
complexity.  If you want a sense of what a “typical” Portuguese wine
tastes like, try the 2009 Quinta de Roriz Prazo de Roriz ($16),
which is a little rough around the edges but would be perfect
with Portuguese dishes like caldo verde soup, the salt cod dish
called bacalhau, or just with a handful of the country’s
wonderful roasted chestnuts.  My favorite wine, at just $21, was the PV Mutante 2007,
whose age mellowed its tannins and acids, revealing layers of
integrated flavors of fruit and woodsyness.  At $30, the curiously-named Twisted Tinto 2009, a blend of
the two tourigas, roriz, amarela, and barroca, by  Niepoort  (one
of the finest Port producers) had medium body, a rich, fat
quality and plenty of dense fruit flavors, ideal with suckling
pig or lamb.  Yet not one of these wines went above 13.5 percent alcohol,
while providing real depth of flavor.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on  art  and Patrick
Cole’s  interview  with Lang Lang.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 