-- Obama Leads Romney in Early Voting, Aide Axelrod Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-10-28T16:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/president-obama-leads-romney-in-early-voting-axelrod-says.html
Early voting is giving President
 Barack Obama  a lead over Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in
battleground states such as  Iowa , Obama campaign senior
political strategist  David Axelrod  said.  “The main thing is not to look at the polling but to look
at the voting,” Axelrod said on CNN’s “ State of the Union .”  “We believe that we are mounting up a very, very large
lead in Iowa based on where those early votes are coming from,”
he said, while indications in  Florida  “are very positive.”  Iowa and Florida are among the nine swing states where both
campaigns say the Nov. 6 election will be decided. They account
for 110 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the
presidency. Democrat Obama has emphasized early voting and cast
his own early-vote ballot in his hometown of  Chicago  on Oct. 25.  Early voting in Iowa, Ohio and Florida shows the campaign’s
strategy “is starting to pay off,” said Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , who was Obama’s first White House chief of staff. In
Ohio the president is up almost two to one in early voting, he
said.  “That’s an indication that the field operation, the
communication strategy and the message of a resurgent
strengthening middle class is essential,” Emanuel said on CBS’s
“Face the Nation.”  Ohio Poll  An Ohio Newspaper Association poll released today showed
Obama ahead among those who’ve already voted, according to the
Cincinnati Inquirer newspaper.  At the same time, the poll of 1,015 likely voters from Oct.
18 to Oct. 23 showed Obama and Romney tied at 49 percent support
in Ohio, a swing state with 18 electoral votes. No Republican
presidential nominee has ever been elected without carrying
 Ohio . The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus
acknowledged on the CNN Sunday morning program that Obama is
ahead in early voting, while downplaying the overall impact that
may have.  “What they’re not telling you is that they are a fraction
of where they were in 2008,” he said. “We’re far ahead of
where we were in 2008.”  Romney’s Momentum  Recent polling shows that the momentum is shifting in
Romney’s favor, Priebus said.  “When you have the momentum and you’re a challenger in a
tie race, the challenger wins,” he said. “They’re not as good
as they think they are.”  “The energy and enthusiasm is on our side right now”
after the presidential debates, Ohio Senator  Rob Portman , a
Republican, said on the “Fox News Sunday” program.  Hurricane Sandy is adding an element of uncertainty to the
election campaign as the two candidates crisscross swing states
in search of votes. Eager to avoid the appearance of putting
politics before public safety, both campaigns have canceled
events and adjusted travel schedules.  A White House official said Obama will visit the National
Response Coordination Center at Federal Emergency Management
Agency headquarters, where FEMA is currently coordinating the
deployment of federal resources and teams to East Coast states.  Obama canceled planned events tomorrow night in Northern
 Virginia  and the following morning in  Colorado Springs  because
of Sandy, the White House said late last night.  Some ‘Havoc’  Virginia Senator  Mark Warner , a Democrat, said on “Fox
News Sunday” that the hurricane “will throw a little bit of
havoc” into the Nov. 6 election, “but I think Virginians are
ready to go to the polls.” Virginia is one of the swing states
both candidates have targeted.  A Washington Post poll shows Obama holding a narrowed lead
over Romney in Virginia, 51 percent to 47 percent among likely
voters, down from his lead of 52 percent to 44 percent in mid-
September. The latest survey, of 1,228 likely Virginia voters,
conducted Oct. 22-26, has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points and demonstrates how important the last week
of campaigning may be for both men.  Asked on ABC’s “This Week” whether the storm would hinder
Obama’s campaign in Virginia, where the president has canceled
campaign events,  Stephanie Cutter , deputy campaign manager, said
“we have to see how it goes.”  “We’re all hoping that the hurricane doesn’t have huge
consequences for people’s safety,” Cutter said. “The president
took down a couple of stops so that he could be at the White
House to monitor the situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  