-- Pro-Israel Donors Divided in Congressional Races
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-29T21:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/pro-israel-donor-community-divided-in-congressional-races.html
(Corrects 6th, 10th paragraphs on J Street support based on
backing two-state solution in story that moved Oct. 28. For more
election news, see ELECT.)  A clash is emerging between pro-
 Israel  political action committees over whether to give campaign
donations based on support for the Jewish state or on other
issues, including global warming and abortion rights, that often
appeal to Jewish voters.  The biggest Jewish-centric PAC, Norpac, is doling out money
the old-fashioned way, based primarily on an incumbent’s record
on the Israel question; the No. 2 PAC in terms of donations to
candidates, J Street, and others are using new criteria.  The shift in donations to challengers amounts to an 11
percent change in 2012 compared with 5 percent in 2010 and the
highest percentage since 2000. In raw numbers, it represents the
most money since the center started keeping records.  “They’re making a judgment using a calculus that’s
different than historically the pro-Israel money folks would
have used,” said Gilbert Kahn, a professor of political science
at Kean University in Union, New Jersey. “The historical
behavior is if you voted right, according to a set of
guidelines, then you continued to get support. Jews felt you
can’t run away from friends.”  Among the races where the division is playing out is a U.S.
House contest in Syracuse, New York. J Street contributed $2,500
to Democratic challenger  Dan Maffei , trying to reclaim the
congressional seat he lost to Republican Representative Anne
Marie Buerkle in 2010.  Ryan Budget  J Street cited Maffei’s support for a Palestinian state
alongside a Jewish, democratic Israel.  The group’s spokeswoman, Jessica Rosenblum, said Jewish
donors also look at other issues, including the environment and
the House budget plan sponsored by Republican vice-presidential
nominee Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin congressman. The measure reduces
the top tax rate, cuts spending on social programs, and replaces
traditional Medicare with vouchers to buy private insurance or a
government plan with a cap on expenditures. Maffei opposes the
legislation, according to his campaign website.  “We’re beyond the, ‘Yes or no? Do we support the state of
Israel?”’ said Jeremy Ben-Ami, president of J Street.
“Everybody really does. As long as you meet that basic
threshold, then you move on to other issues.”  Norpac, which is based in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey,
gave $2,500 to Buerkle and took out an ad in the district’s
Jewish newspaper in which president Ben Chouake praised her
“extraordinary work and leadership on U.S.-Israel relations.”
He cited Buerkle’s positions as a member of the House Foreign
Affairs Committee and as the House Republican member of the U.S.
delegation to the United Nations.  New Mexico Senate  U.S. Representative Martin Heinrich, the Democratic nominee
for the open New Mexico Senate seat, voted against the Ryan
budget. Like Maffei, he backed legislation aimed at curbing
global warming. Heinrich also received $5,238 from the Joint
Action Committee for Political Affairs, a Highland Park,
Illinois-based group that supports candidates backing both
Israel and abortion rights, and $2,000 from the Los Angeles-
based Citizens Organized PAC.  “Those are the things that are really going to determine
the Jewish vote,” Ben-Ami said.  In the same New Mexico race,  Washington  PAC contributed
$1,000 to Heinrich’s Republican opponent, former New Mexico
Representative Heather Wilson.  “We’ve always been bipartisan,” said Morris Amitay, the
PAC’s founder. “We give to both parties based strictly on their
records on Israel-related subjects.”  Florida House  The groups are divided in  Florida , as well.  Washington PAC and Citizens Organized each gave $1,000 to
Representative Allen West, a Florida Republican who co-sponsored
legislation supporting Israel’s right to annex the West Bank if
Palestinians seek United Nations recognition. West, an anti-tax
Tea Party favorite, is seeking a second term in the House.  J Street, meanwhile, hosted West’s Democratic challenger,
Patrick Murphy, at a reception during the Democratic National
Convention in  Charlotte , North Carolina, and contributed $5,000.
Murphy also received $2,500 from the Joint Action Committee.  In the Massachusetts Senate race, Washington PAC donated
$1,000 to Senator Scott Brown, the Republican incumbent, while
the Joint Action Committee gave $4,738 to Democratic nominee
Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard University law professor and former
adviser to Obama who helped set up the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau created by the 2010 financial regulation law.  In  Ohio , PACs are divided over what it means to be pro-
Israel.  Brown Senate Seat  J Street contributed $2,200 to Ohio Democratic Senator
Sherrod Brown; National PAC, based in Washington, gave him
$5,000; and the Joint Action Committee donated $7,238.  Meanwhile, Norpac sent $2,000 to state Treasurer Josh Mandel, a Jewish Republican challenging Brown, and Washington
PAC gave him $1,000.  Washington PAC’s Amitay said Brown, unlike more than 70 of
his colleagues, didn’t sign letters  urging  President  Barack Obama  to press Arab states to normalize relations with Israel
and  asking  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton “to reaffirm the
unbreakable bonds that tie the United States and Israel
together” following U.S. criticism in 2010 of Israeli plans to
build in East Jerusalem.  “We have an incumbent with a bad record against a
challenger with excellent statements,” said Amitay, a former
executive director of the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee, which isn’t a PAC and doesn’t make campaign
contributions.  J Street’s political affairs director, Daniel Kalik, said
signing letters isn’t the only way to support Israel.  “Pro-Israel doesn’t just mean supporting every decision by
the current Israeli government,” Kalik said. “Israel’s future
is dependent on reaching a two-state solution with the
Palestinians. Candidates who advocate for that position are the
most pro-Israel candidates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net . 