-- Republicans Must Root Out Hatred of Immigrants
-- B y   S h i k h a   D a l m i a
-- 2012-10-28T22:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/republicans-must-root-out-hatred-of-immigrants.html
It’s hard to imagine how the
Republican Party can make things worse for itself with Hispanic
voters, yet it keeps trying.  Given the stakes, especially in crucial swing states such
as  Colorado ,  Nevada  and  Florida , you would think that  Mitt Romney , the great flip-flopper, would repudiate his own harsh
anti-immigration rhetoric at least, especially his pledge to
pursue policies that would cause unauthorized Hispanics to
“ self-deport .” He can’t because his party’s growing nativism
has left him little room to maneuver.  Consider the revival of this  old trope  in some conservative
circles: Thanks to liberal programs such as affirmative action
(and welfare), the U.S. is attracting the “wrong” kind of
immigrants -- those who come for handouts, not opportunity.
These newcomers, the argument goes, are a natural liberal
constituency, which is why Democrats want more of them through
open immigration. The only way for conservatives to take back
the country from liberals and level the field for natives is by
closing the borders.  Yes, Romney and some conservatives make a distinction
between low-skilled illegal workers and highly skilled ones,
advocating tougher restrictions for the former. But some
Republicans are giving forums to the voices and  organizations 
that want to stop immigration -- at least temporarily -- on
grounds that the more multiethnic America becomes, the harder it
will be to roll back racial preferences.  Expanded Preferences  The argument is that the strong Hispanic presence has
 subverted  the original intention of the Civil Rights Act.
Instead of ending racial discrimination against blacks and
creating a colorblind society, the law has been expanded to
include ethnic preferences for all minorities. Restrictionists
say that employers who would otherwise resist racial preferences
-- that is, if they had to hire black Americans -- have become
fans of such policies because they can hire cheaper workers and
from a deeper labor pool.  Sealing the border to deal with affirmative action,
however, is wrongheaded for many reasons.  If racial preferences are a problem for these
conservatives, why not tackle them directly? Such policies might
already be on their way out, given the  tough questioning  by
Supreme Court justices this month at a hearing on Fisher v.
University of  Texas , a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality
of the university’s race-conscious admissions policies.  To the extent that employers use affirmative action in
their hiring decisions, it is partly to avoid risking action by
the  Equal Employment Opportunity Commission . Conservatives can
push to change the agency’s open-ended mandate, which is to make
sure that hiring practices don’t have a “disparate impact” on
minorities, to a focus on investigating actual cases of
discrimination.  In fact, you could argue, as Bryan Caplan of George Mason
University does, that immigration restrictions themselves are
the ultimate form of affirmative action -- since they are
intended to protect native workers.  The restrictionists have been using every argument they can
lay their hands on. They claim that immigrants mooch off the
welfare state when, in reality, the  labor participation  rate of
undocumented men is 20 percentage points higher than that for
native men while their welfare consumption is much lower.
Restrictionists claim that the presence of illegal residents
leads to more crime, when cities with a large number of them,
such as El Paso, Texas, tend to be much safer.  Damaging Obsession  Then there is the argument that government must crack down
on this population for violating the  rule  of law. But the
illegal presence in the U.S. is largely the result of a
labyrinthine immigration system that offers few legal avenues
for unskilled workers to enter and work in the country and none
to obtain permanent residency.  The affirmative-action argument, however, exposes that
restrictionism is an obsession in search of a rationale. It
isn’t animated by an appeal to fairness or excellence or
economic prosperity or any other similar lofty goal that
conservatives tout. It is about opposing immigration for its own
sake. This pushes Hispanics into the  arms  of Democrats, a
political wave that some Republicans then want to stop by
shutting the border, not by abandoning their anti-immigrant
tirades.  Hispanic support for Romney is about 15 percentage points
 lower  than it was for George W. Bush’s 40 percent support in
2004. In Colorado, a Latino Decisions poll shows that 69 percent
of Hispanic voters favor President  Barack Obama , with only 17
percent for Romney. In Nevada, the edge is 69 percent to 15
percent. In Florida, there is a 29-point gap.  This lopsided support for Obama is remarkable given how
little attention he has paid to Hispanic concerns. He didn’t
even try to put comprehensive immigration reform on the table,
much less fight for it, even though a  poll  of Hispanic voters
last summer showed that the issue is second only to fixing the
economy as a priority they would set for him. The Obama
administration has deported almost as many illegals in four
years as the Bush administration did in eight. The president
waited until the eleventh hour to push the  Dream Act,  which
would allow illegal minors to stay in the country.  If Obama has ignored Hispanics for the sake of his other
priorities, such as health care, Republicans have singled them
out as specific targets, turning immigrant bashing into
something of a sport.  Obama  told  the Des Moines Register that a big reason he
will be elected to a second term is because “the Republican
nominee and the Republican Party has so alienated the fastest-
growing demographic group in the country, the Latino
community.” If he wins, he will be absolutely right.  (Shikha Dalmia is a senior analyst at the Reason
Foundation. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  agriculture policy and
climate change  and on  how   to fight terror in Mali ; William D.
Cohan on the  SEC protecting Citigroup’s secrets ; Albert R. Hunt
on  the policy implications of this presidential election ; Simon
Johnson on a conservative call to  break up big banks ; A. Gary
Shilling series on the  perils of low interest rates .  To contact the writer of this article:
Shikha Dalmia in Detroit at  shikhadalmia62@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  