-- Troika Wants New Debt Restructuring for Greece: Spiegel
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-10-28T16:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/troika-wants-new-debt-restructuring-for-greece-spiegel.html
The European Commission, the
European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund
proposed a restructuring of Greek debt that would require
public-sector lenders to take heavy losses, Spiegel reported.  Representatives from the so-called troika presented their
plan at a meeting of high-level officials from euro-area finance
ministries on Oct. 25, according to an article in this week’s
Spiegel magazine, which didn’t say where it got the information.  This would be the first time euro aid would cost taxpayers
“serious money,” Spiegel said. Public creditors to  Greece 
would be expected to participate and to relinquish a large part
of their claims, it said.  European policy makers are awaiting the final report, due
by Nov. 12, on Greece’s progress in meeting internationally
agreed targets compiled by the troika.  The Frankfurt-based ECB, which owns 40 billion euros ($52
billion) of Greek government bonds, isn’t allowed to take part
in the restructuring. Instead, the central bank would “make
available” any profit it makes on the bonds, Spiegel said.  Greece has only completed about 60 percent of the required
changes, the troika’s presentation showed, according to Spiegel.
The Greek government is discussing 20 percent of the revamp, and
the remaining 20 percent hasn’t been addressed.  The troika recommended measures to force Greece to fulfill
promises, including a provision to automatically raise taxes if
reforms aren’t completed. Greece will be given two more years to
get its budget on track, Spiegel reported.  Representatives from some countries, including  Germany ,
opposed the proposal, Spiegel said.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, in a radio
interview with Deutschlandfunk broadcast today, rejected another
debt restructuring and said it’s unrealistic to expect public or
private bondholders to take losses on their Greek holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  