-- Singh Overhauls Cabinet Amid Push to Bolster Indian Economy
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-10-28T18:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/singh-overhauls-cabinet-amid-push-to-bolster-indian-economy.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
overhauled his cabinet six weeks after unveiling the biggest
policy changes in a decade as he bids to invigorate an embattled
minority government in what may be his last reshuffle ahead of
elections due within 18 months.  Seven cabinet ministers and 15 junior ministers were sworn
in by President  Pranab Mukherjee  at a ceremony in the colonial-
era president’s palace in central New Delhi yesterday. Salman Khurshid, 59, was named foreign minister after S.M. Krishna, 80,
resigned from the post ahead of the reshuffle. Rahul Gandhi, the
scion of three Indian prime ministers who is expected to take on
a more senior party role, was not among those drafted into
Singh’s team of ministers.  Ashwani Kumar was elevated to cabinet rank and given the
law and justice portfolio. Ajay Maken was also promoted as
minister for housing & urban poverty alleviation.  Shashi Tharoor , 56, who quit as junior minister in April 2010 amid
allegations that he influenced the award of a cricket franchise
to his benefit was re-inducted.  “The prime minister is organizing the team that will take
him into the next elections,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of
the New Delhi-based Centre for Media Studies. “He has taken a
young and fresh set of faces that will be able to inject some
energy into the cabinet.”  Ally Quits  After two years, during which corruption charges and
opposition within the ruling alliance paralyzed policy making
and stripped away voter support, Singh and his finance minister,
Palaniappan Chidambaram, have rolled out a string of policy
changes in a bid to restore credibility. The overhaul led to the
government’s largest coalition ally quitting, an exit that has
left Singh dependent on the whim of regional parties to pass
legislation in parliament.  Subsidies on diesel have been cut and overseas supermarket
chains allowed to open stores. Investment regimes for power
markets and broadcasting were eased. Foreign airlines can now
own minority stakes in local carriers, and the government has
accelerated a plan to sell shares in state-owned companies and
lowered the tax paid by Indian businesses that borrow abroad.  Two-thirds of the way through its second term, the Congress
party is trying to reverse declining support. Opinion polls show
Congress may lose power to a coalition led by the  Bharatiya
Janata Party , the main federal opposition. A BJP-led group may
win as many as 205 seats, while Singh’s coalition may win 78
fewer seats than the 259 it secured in May 2009, a poll carried
out by Nielsen and  India  Today forecast in August.  Election Rout  Congress , after a campaign led by  Rahul Gandhi , was routed
in assembly elections in the country’s most populous province
this year, coming fourth and losing seats in Gandhi family
bastions. In the first test of its popularity since announcing
the economic overhaul, Congress will seek to wrest power from
its main rival in two provincial elections in the states of
Gujarat and  Himachal Pradesh  before the end of the year.  Ratcheting up the pressure on the government, the
opposition BJP is leading the charge against the plans to allow
foreign companies to open supermarkets, a policy it proposed
when in office. With opposition parties threatening to bring a
no confidence vote, Singh is maneuvering to shore up its support
from smaller regional parties for a majority in parliament.  ‘Underachiever’ Singh  Veerappa Moily, 72, was given charge of the petroleum
ministry, while S. Jaipal Reddy, who held the portfolio
previously, was named minister for science and technology and
earth sciences. Jyotiraditya Scindia, 41, was named power
minister.  Mulayam Singh Yadav, the leader of the Samajwadi Party, the
third-largest party in Parliament, has signaled his support to
the government, while saying he will continue to oppose the
retail policy. Others unwilling to face the electorate in the
next few months may also bail Singh out in the legislature.  The Congress party, which won its biggest election victory
in two decades in May 2009, has had to fight off an opposition
onslaught over alleged corruption that has included the 2010
hosting of the Commonwealth Games, a sale of mobile-phone
licenses in 2008 and now a scandal over coal-block allocations.
Street protests, strikes and public fasts have combined to dent
Singh’s reputation as an able administrator.  Singh has been labeled India’s “weakest ever” prime
minster by opposition leader L.K. Advani, while Time magazine
July 16 branded him an “underachiever” on its cover.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  