-- Sinopec Quarterly Profit Beats Estimate on Refining Earnings
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-10-29T02:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/sinopec-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-refining-earnings.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
 Asia ’s biggest refiner, posted better-than-expected third
quarter profit after two increases in state-controlled retail
fuel prices and improved petrochemical sales helped earnings.  Net income fell 9.4 percent to 18.3 billion  yuan  ($2.93
billion) in the three months ended Sept. 30, from 20.2 billion
yuan a year ago, the company known as Sinopec said yesterday in
a statement. That beat the 14.19 billion-yuan median estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  China , which controls retail fuel prices to contain
inflation, raised prices in August and September, after
inflation dropped to 1.9 percent in September from as high as
4.5 percent in January. Sinopec, forced to sell fuel below cost
under the pricing system, posted its lowest half-yearly profit
since 2008 in the six months ended June 30.  “Sinopec should be very close to break even in the
refining sector this quarter, and petrochemical margins should
also have seen apparent improvement as demand rebounds,” said
Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based energy analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.
“The fourth quarter should provide Sinopec a chance to see the
refining sector return to profit, especially if the government
continues to push for a more flexible retail fuel pricing
mechanism.”  Sinopec shares gained 3.4 percent to HK$8.29 as of 9:47
a.m. in Hong Kong trading, while the benchmark  Hang Seng  index
fell 0.4 percent. The stock has gained 11 percent in the past
year, compared with a 7.5 percent increase in the Hang Seng.  Improved Operations  “Operations in the third quarter improved thanks to our
active adjustments in production and sales,” the state-owned
refiner said in its statement to the Shanghai stock exchange,
without elaborating. “Prices of chemical products also
rebounded in the third quarter after a big decline in the second
quarter.”  Crude production rose 2.3 percent in the first nine months
to 245 million barrels and natural gas output increased 15
percent to 438 billion cubic feet (12.4 billion cubic meters),
according to the statement. Realized crude prices rose 2.5
percent to $100.69 a barrel, while realized natural gas prices
rose 5.5 percent to $5.77 per thousand cubic feet, it said.
 Brent crude , the benchmark for more than half of the world’s
oil, averaged $112.20 a barrel in the first nine months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The eastern Chinese city of Ningbo said yesterday it would
halt work on a Sinopec-owned facility producing the toxic
chemical paraxylene after residents protested. The facility is
part of a Sinopec refining complex, designed to produce 15
million tons of refined oil and 1.2 million tons of ethylene
annually and which will cost about 55.87 billion yuan, Xinhua
reported yesterday.  Lv Dapeng, a Beijing-based spokesman for Sinopec and its
parent China Petrochemical Corp., did not answer two calls to
his office seeking comment today.  Overseas Production  Sinopec’s overseas oil output increased 27 percent in the
first nine months to 16.05 million barrels, accounting for 6.5
percent of total oil production.  By comparison,  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore energy
explorer, saw 18 percent of crude output generated overseas in
the first nine months, according to a calculation by Bloomberg.  PetroChina Co., the listed unit of China’s biggest energy
company, produced 62.5 million barrels of oil equivalent from
overseas projects in the first half, accounting for 9.4 percent
of output, according to its half-yearly statement on Aug. 23,
which didn’t list its overseas oil and gas production
separately. PetroChina will report third-quarter earnings on
Oct. 30.  Sinopec’s “share of overseas production is much smaller
than peers PetroChina and Cnooc,” said  Neil Beveridge , a Hong
Kong-based energy analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “It
could either go out and buy assets, or look for an asset
injection from its parent company.”  Cnooc in July made China’s largest foreign takeover
attempt, bidding $15.1 billion bid for  Canada ’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY) 
Canada extended regulatory scrutiny of the acquisition by 30
days on Oct. 11. The Nexen deal hinges in part on China’s
willingness to approve Canadian investments there, a person with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  Nine Years of Reserves  Sinopec’s reserves of crude oil declined from 3.3 billion
barrels in 2007 to 2.8 billion barrels at the end of last year,
enough for nine years of production at 2011 levels, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Its parent, China Petrochemical,
said in January that it aims to produce overseas 50 million
metric tons of crude a year by 2015. Last year, foreign
production was 22.9 million tons.  China Petrochemical bought Addax Petroleum Corp. in 2009,
adding reserves in Nigeria, Cameroon and Gabon. Addax plans to
produce 10 million tons of crude annually by 2015 and 25 million
tons a year by 2020, China Petrochemical said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  