-- Speculators Reduce Wagers as Annual Advance Erased: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-29T20:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/speculators-reduce-wagers-as-annual-advance-erased-commodities.html
Speculators lowered bullish wagers
on commodities for the third straight week, the longest streak
since April, as prices erased this year’s gain on mounting
concern about slowing economic growth.  Hedge funds cut net-long positions across 18 U.S. futures
and options by 0.2 percent to 1.18 million  contracts  in the week
ended Oct. 23, the lowest since July 24, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Copper holdings fell the most in
seven weeks, and sugar wagers dropped to a one-month low.
Bullish bets on gold slumped the most in three months.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
dropped to a 12-week low Oct. 26, two days after the Federal
Reserve said that the strains in the global economy present
“significant downside risks.” Services and manufacturing in
the 17-nation euro area contracted more than economists
forecast, and orders for U.S. capital goods stalled.  “The fact that there’s been liquidating in commodities is
related to the perception of the global economic slowdown,”
said Donald Selkin, the New York-based chief market strategist
at National Securities Corp., which manages about $3 billion of
assets. “People are getting out of more economically sensitive
types of commodities.”  Falling prices  The S&P GSCI fell 2.6 percent last week, the most in a
month, and the MSCI All-Country World Index of  equities 
retreated 1.6 percent. The dollar added 0.6 percent against a
basket of six major trading partners. Treasuries returned 0.1
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Twenty-one of the 24 commodities tracked by S&P dropped as
the number of  contracts  outstanding across the group contracted
for the first time in four weeks. Copper declined 2.4 percent,
the biggest loss since July 6, and gold fell for a third week,
the longest losing streak since September 2011.  Orders for U.S. business equipment stagnated in September,
capping a quarterly slump that signals investment may cool in
the second half of the year, the Commerce Department said Oct.
25. Americans signed fewer contracts than forecast last month to
purchase previously owned homes, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed the same day.  In the third quarter, South Korea’s economy grew at the
slowest pace in three years, while Spain’s unemployment rate
climbed to a record, reports showed Oct. 26. There are doubts
about whether  Greece  will be able to meet requirements for its
European bailout, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble
said in an e-mail release of an interview to be broadcast Oct.
30 on ZDF television.  Easing Measures  Commodity prices may be bolstered as central banks do more
to revive growth, said Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in
San Diego at LPL Financial, which oversees $350 billion of
assets. The GSCI jumped 11 percent in the third quarter as the
Fed announced a third round of so-called quantitative easing.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
three months to Sept. 30, Commerce Department data showed Oct.
26, topping the median economist forecast for a 1.8 percent
gain.  Consumer confidence  rose to a five-year high in October,
and home sales reached a two-year high in September, figures
showed last week.  Fed policy makers highlighted the increase in consumer
spending in the Oct. 24 statement after their meeting. They
pledged to keep buying $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities
a month in a bid to spur the three-year expansion and reduce
joblessness. Central banks from Europe to China to  Japan  have
also said they will do more to boost growth.  ‘Generally Positive’  “Additional quantitative easing is still on the table, not
just from the Fed,” Valeri said. “Central banks are still very
involved, and QE is generally positive for precious metals.”  Money managers added $648.5 million to commodity funds in
the week ended Oct. 24, according to Brad Durham, a managing
director for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows. That includes $620.1 million into gold and
precious metal funds, lower than the average weekly inflow of
$1.06 billion since Aug. 22, he said.  The boost to prices from quantitative easing “has kind of
run its course for the time being,” Durham said.  The economy is a central theme in the campaigns of
President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney 
leading up to the Nov. 6 election. Structural headwinds, the
budget deficit and the fiscal cliff will dominate the economic
debate no matter who wins the election and that means “lower
growth,” Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , who
runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” on Oct. 25.  Fiscal Cliff  The U.S. may tumble into a recession next year if Congress
fails to avert the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic spending
cuts and tax rises, International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Christine Lagarde said in an interview with CBS Oct. 1.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT) , the largest U.S. tiremaker,
said Oct. 26 third-quarter profit was below analysts’ estimates,
hurt by lower sales in  Europe . Chief Executive Officer Richard Kramer said in an earnings conference call with analysts that
the Akron, Ohio-based company faced “underlying uncertainty in
the global economy.”  Investors lowered wagers on a crude-oil rally by 17 percent
to 138,340 contracts, the lowest since July 31, CFTC  data  show.
Prices declined 4.2 percent in New York last week, the biggest
fall since Sept. 21. Futures for December delivery dropped 0.9
percent to settle at $85.54 a barrel at 2:30 p.m. in New York.  Farm Goods  Bullish bets on sugar dropped 17 percent to 45,966
contracts, a four-week low. Prices slipped 4.3 percent last
week. Investors increased their net-short position in coffee by
23 percent to 16,060 contracts, the most bearish since Sept. 11.
Prices fell for a fourth week, the longest slump since June 15.  A  measure  of net-longs for 11 U.S. farm goods rose 11
percent to 684,229 contracts, CFTC data show. That’s the first
increase in seven weeks and the biggest gain since July 10.  Cotton holdings increased more than 10-fold to 21,666
contracts, from 2,045 contracts a week earlier. Futures tumbled
5.8 percent in New York last week, capping the biggest slide
since June 1. Cotlook Ltd., the publisher of a benchmark cotton
index, boosted its estimate for a global surplus by 16 percent,
citing higher output in  China  and  India , the top producers.  “The recent selloff in commodities is more a reflection of
concerns about slower growth prospects,” said Nelson Louie, the
global head of commodities at New York-based Credit Suisse Asset
Management, who helps manage $11 billion. “With the rally in
commodities earlier immediately after the stimulus announcement,
you would expect to have some de-risking that takes place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  