-- U.S. Bond Market Early Close Recommended by SIFMA on Sandy
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-10-29T14:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/u-s-bond-market-early-close-recommended-tomorrow-by-sifma-1-.html
The Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association suggested that trading end at noon
New York time in dollar-denominated fixed-income securities in
the U.S. because of Hurricane Sandy.  The recommendation by Sifma applies to trading of
 government securities , mortgage- and asset-backed debt, over-
the-counter investment grade and high-yield corporate bonds,
municipal bonds and secondary money market trading in bankers’
acceptances, commercial paper and Yankee and Euro certificates
of deposit, the New York-based  trade group  said in a  statement 
posted on its website. The early close will not affect the
closing time for settlements.  The  U.S. Treasury  is scheduled to sell $32 billion of
 three-month  bills and $28 billion of  six-month  bills at 11:30
a.m. New York time.  Due to “the weather forecast for the
coming days” the Treasury moved to today a four-week bill
auction that was originally scheduled for tomorrow, according to
a Treasury department statement on  Twitter . The four-week bill
auction will close at 10:30 a.m.  New York  time.  The Chicago-based CME Group, the world’s largest futures
exchange, will close at 11:a.m. central time its interest-rate
complex of contracts, including Treasury, Eurodollar and fed
funds futures and options on both the trading floor as well as
on Globex, its electronic platform, according to a  statement .
  The Federal Reserve is scheduled to sell $7 billion to $8
billion of Treasuries maturing from November 2015 through
December 2015 at 11 a.m. The  sales  are part of the Fed’s program
to replace short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term
Treasuries in an effort to keep borrowing costs low.  Storm Watch  Fed funds, the U.S. overnight inter-bank lending  rate ,
opened today at 0.17 percent, within the  Federal Reserve ’s
target of zero to 0.25 percent, after closing at 0.15 percent on
Oct. 26, according to ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer
broker.  SIFMA will continue to monitor conditions to determine any
additional recommendations for tomorrow, according to the
statement.  Hurricane Sandy is barreling toward  New York City  with 70-
mile-per-hour winds and the threat of an 11-foot sea surge. The
storm is expected to come ashore late today in southern New
Jersey and potentially affect 60 million people.  The U.S. securities industry canceled equity trading on all
markets today. The shutdown, announced by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, may extend through tomorrow and followed an
earlier decision by the New York Stock Exchange to close floor
trading.  Exchanges from the NYSE and Nasdaq Stock Market to those
run by Direct Edge Holdings LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , and
Bats Global Markets Inc. in Lenexa,  Kansas , will suspend
operations. U.S. equity trading is spread across 13 exchanges
and dozens of private venues run by brokerages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  