-- U.S. Stock Futures Fall as Investors Brace for Hurricane
-- B y   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-10-28T23:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/u-s-stock-futures-little-changed-as-hurricane-approaches.html
U.S. stock  futures  fell, after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated last week, as investors
braced for the impact of Hurricane Sandy.  The storm, forecast to come ashore somewhere in southern
New Jersey early Oct. 30, forced the closure of the trading
floor of the New York Stock Exchange. The NYSE said it will
invoke contingency plans to move all trading to NYSE Arca, its
electronic exchange, tomorrow.  S&P 500 futures decreased 0.3 percent to 1,403 as of 8 a.m.
Tokyo time. Dow Jones Industrial Average futures dropped 33
points, or 0.3 percent, to 13,021.  “It won’t bring the world economy to an end, but volume
should be slower than usual,”  Timothy Ghriskey , the chief
investment officer at Solaris Group LLC, which manages about $2
billion in  Bedford Hills , New York, said in a phone interview.
“It’s not going to be a huge impact because of electronic
trading. Yet retailers, insurers and refiners might feel more
pressure.”  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  said it took the action after city and state
officials declared emergencies and suspended public
transportation starting tonight. High wind warnings and watches,
calling for gusts as strong as 70 miles (113 kilometers) per
hour, stretch from Maine to  North Carolina  and as far west as
Ohio, according to the  National Weather Service . Flood watches
and warnings cover most of the Northeast and mid-Atlantic coast.  At the NYSE, workers began stacking sandbags this
afternoon. The Big Board said in a statement it will invoke
contingency plans to trade its stocks on NYSE Arca. NYSE Amex
Options will open electronically. NYSE MKT, formerly known as
NYSE Amex, will be suspended, the company said.  1996 Blizzard  The last time the NYSE cut trading hours for weather was
Jan. 8, 1996, when a blizzard dropped more than 20 inches on New
York City.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. executives are monitoring the
situation, coordinating with other exchanges and working with
government officials, spokesman Joe Christinat said in a phone
interview today.  The benchmark gauge for American equities is poised to snap
a four-month rally amid concern about corporate profits. The  S&P
500  has slumped 2 percent so far in October. Third-quarter
earnings at 72 percent of the index’s companies that have
reported so far beat estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales  missed  forecasts at 59 percent of companies,
the data showed.  Jobs Data  The jobless rate probably rose in October as U.S. employers
kept a tight rein on payrolls with the nation closing in on the
so-called fiscal cliff, economists said before a report this
week. The fiscal cliff refers to more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts that will take place in 2013 unless
Congress can reach a budget compromise.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  endorsed a
proposal by German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  for a
commissioner who has power over the budgets of nations in the
euro region.  “I am fully in favor of it,” Draghi said in an interview
with Germany’s  Der Spiegel , according to a transcript published
Oct. 28 by the Frankfurt based-ECB. Draghi also sought to
alleviate German concerns about the ECB’s bond-purchasing
program by pledging that it would not engage in “uncontrolled”
market interventions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Sutherland  in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  