-- Ukrainians Vote as Yanukovych Poised to Control Parliament
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-10-28T14:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/ukrainians-vote-as-yanukovych-poised-to-keep-grip-on-parliament.html
Ukrainians are voting in
parliamentary elections today, with President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s party set to retain control as support in his
eastern heartland quells challenges from a world boxing champion
and a jailed ex-premier.  The Party of Regions, which rules the former Soviet
republic in coalition with the Communists, was predicted by
opinion polls to lead by seven percentage points. Voting for the
450-seat Verkhovna Rada began at 8 a.m. local time and will end
at 8 p.m., when the first exit polls will be published. Turnout
at noon was 23.62 percent, according to  Ukraine ’s Central
Electoral Commission.  Yanukovych, 62, who has roused ethnic Russians in the
regions around his native Donetsk by bolstering the status of
the Russian language, trumpets stability, economic expansion and
this summer’s Euro 2012 soccer tournament among his party’s
achievements. While graft has worsened, European ties have
soured and growth may reverse in the second half of the year,
opponents have struggled since former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  was imprisoned in 2011.  The Party of Regions “remains likely to secure a
majority,” Alex Brideau, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  New
York , wrote Oct. 25 in an e-mailed note. “If Regions can’t get
a 226-seat majority on its own, it should be able to secure an
alliance with either the Communist Party or individual deputies
who defect from other factions.”  Bonds, Stocks  Ukraine’s foreign-currency bonds have returned 24 percent
this year, the most after Venezuelan debt, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global Index, which gauges the yield
difference relative to U.S. Treasuries.  Still, after expanding 5.2 percent last year and 4.7
percent in 2010, the economy will contract in the second half
because of lower prices for steel, Ukraine’s main export earner,
 Erste Bank AG (EBS)  and  HSBC Holdings PLC (HSBA)  have predicted.  The  Ukrainian Equities Index (UX)  is  down  44 percent this year,
more than any benchmark in the world, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The hryvnia, which has lost 1.1 percent against the dollar
so far this year, rose 0.5 percent to 8.1325 on Oct. 26.  Since coming to power in 2010, Yanukovych’s relations with
Ukraine’s two largest neighbors have deteriorated. The
government is haggling over the price of natural gas with
 Russia , which supplies more than half of its fuel needs. A
planned Association Agreement with the European Union has been
delayed indefinitely because of Tymoshenko’s imprisonment for
alleged abuse of office.  International Standards  Her case, which she says was engineered by the president to
keep her off this week’s ballot, has boosted Yanukovych’s
prospects. He denies involvement.  “We regret that the convictions of opposition leaders
during trials that did not meet international standards are
preventing them from standing in parliamentary elections,” U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and EU foreign affairs chief
 Catherine Ashton  wrote Oct. 24 in the  New York Times. (NYT)   The Party of Regions was backed by 23.3 percent of voters,
compared with 16 percent for heavyweight titleholder Vitali Klitschko’s UDAR, 15.1 percent for Tymoshenko’s Batkivshchyna,
and 10.1 percent for the communists, a poll by the Kiev-based
Democratic Initiative Fund showed.  Twenty-four percent of voters were undecided, according to
the Sept. 18 to Oct. 4 poll, whose margin of error was 2.2
percentage points.  ‘Litmus Test’  The EU has called on Yanukovych and his government to
conduct fair elections, calling them “a litmus test” of
Ukraine’s democratic credentials.  “The record number of observers that have come here from
 North America ,  Europe  and Central Asia for this event
underscores the importance we as the international community
place on Ukraine’s democratic progress,” the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe, the  Council of Europe , the
European Parliament and NATO said today in an e-mailed
statement. “We hope to see the citizens of Ukraine participate
fully in Sunday’s vote.”  Ukrainian Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said the ballot
would be free and fair.  “Any tales that elections could be rigged are
groundless,” Azarov said Oct. 26 in a statement on the
Cabinet’s website.  The Batkivshchyna party joined forces with Arseniy Yatsenyuk’s Front Zmin in April. While the nationalist party
Svoboda signed a coalition pact with them Oct. 19, Klitschko,
whose party’s name means punch, hasn’t followed suit.  ‘Roof Down’  “To sign any agreements before the elections is like
building a house from the roof down,” Klitschko said Oct. 21 in
the western region of Zakarpattya. “A coalition should be
formed after entering parliament.”  Opposition politicians have sought to capitalize on
worsening graft as Ukraine’s ranking in Transparency
International’s Corruption Perceptions Index deteriorated to 152
from 134 under Yanukovych.  Making inroads into his core support, which in July cheered
a Party of Regions-backed bill to make Russian a second official
language in the eastern half and southern regions, may be tricky
in the run-up to presidential elections in three years,
according to Kostyantyn Dykan, an analyst at the Razumkov Center
for Economic and Political studies.  “It all points to Yanukovych being the main candidate for
2015,” he said Oct. 25 by phone from Kiev. “The situation
allows him to look to the future with optimism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  