-- Hurricane Alters Campaign as Democrats Point to Early Lead
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-10-28T20:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/hurricane-alters-campaign-as-democrats-point-to-early-lead-1-.html
Hurricane Sandy is already altering
the final days of the presidential race and potentially
affecting early voting from  Virginia  to  Ohio  even before it
makes landfall along the U.S. East Coast tomorrow.  Both President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  have shifted their campaign schedules and canceled
appearances over the next several days in Virginia, one of the
most closely contested states in the presidential election.  The White House has also made clear that the president
intends to spend a considerable amount of his time away from the
campaign trail in the coming days, as he monitors the federal
government’s response to the storm.  Obama was in Washington today, while Romney campaigned in
Ohio, where polls show the race is tightening.  The storm, which killed as many as 65 people in the
Caribbean on its path north, may be capable of inflicting as
much as $18 billion in damage when it barrels into  New Jersey 
tomorrow and could knock out power to millions for a week or
more, according to forecasters and risk experts.  Obama said Hurricane Sandy is a “serious and big storm”
and urged those affected “to take this very seriously” and
follow the advice of state and local officials.  “We don’t know yet where it’s going to hit,” the
president said after a meeting at the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency  in Washington with the various agencies
involved. The storm may be “slow moving,” he said.  Wind Warnings  High wind warnings and watches, calling for gusts as strong
as 70 miles (113 kilometers) per hour, stretch from  Maine  to
 North Carolina  and as far west as Ohio, according to the
 National Weather Service . Flood watches and warnings cover most
of the Northeast and mid-Atlantic coasts.  Romney officials refused to publicly discuss the political
impact of the storm, saying their top priority remains the
safety and security of people in impacted areas.  “The safety of people that are in harm’s way -- making
sure they get the information they need, the help they need --
that’s the top priority,” said campaign spokesman  Kevin Madden .  Staffers are monitoring the progress of the storm from the
campaign headquarters in  Boston , keeping in touch with officials
and supporters in the most-heavily impacted areas.  Schedule in Flux  Romney plans to campaign in  Wisconsin  and Ohio tomorrow,
though officials say the schedule remains in flux, particularly
an event scheduled for New Hampshire on Oct. 30.  The schedule Romney’s campaign has locked in for the next
few days is in states not directly affected by the storm, said
Madden.  The campaign has halted fundraising appeals in four states
impacted by the storm -- Virginia,  Pennsylvania , New Jersey and
North Carolina -- as well as Washington, D.C., though ads are
still running in those areas.  In Virginia, Romney campaign offices shifted some of their
focus to helping with relief efforts, spending the next few days
collecting supplies to be delivered to relief centers after the
storm hits. The campaign also canceled events featuring Romney’s
wife, Ann, tomorrow and said the campaign’s bus will be used for
relief efforts on the East Coast.  “I don’t think anybody really knows,” how the storm will
affect the campaign, Obama campaign senior political strategist
 David Axelrod  said today on CNN’s “ State of the Union ”
program.  As both presidential campaigns monitored the storm’s
approach, Democrats pointed to their advantage in early voting
during appearances on television talk shows.  Swing States  Other than  Florida  and North Carolina, the swing states
with the greatest tradition and volume of activity for early
voting aren’t along the East Coast.  “The main thing is not to look at the polling but to look
at the voting,” Axelrod said on CNN. “We are mounting up a
very, very large lead in  Iowa  based on where those early votes
are coming from.”  Early, in-person voting started in Florida this weekend and
Axelrod said things were looking “very positive” there for
Obama as well.  Iowa and Florida are among the nine swing states where both
campaigns say the Nov. 6 election will be decided. Obama has
emphasized early voting and cast his own early ballot in his
hometown of  Chicago  on Oct. 25.  “All the indications are very positive,” Axelrod said.
“We’ve built our campaign and our organizations for this very
close race and we’re very confident with where we are now and
where we’re going to be on Nov. 6.”  Romney, at a rally in Celina, Ohio, thanked the crowd for
waiting in the cold and encouraged early voting.  Nine Days  “We’re chanting all over this country, ‘Nine more days,’”
Romney told a packed school gymnasium, and the crowd chanted
back, “Nine more days.”  Romney didn’t mention the hurricane during his remarks.  His running mate, Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin,
told the Celina gathering: “Let’s today when we get home put in
our prayers the people who are in the East Coast in the wake of
this big storm that’s coming.”  The Obama campaign dismissed Romney’s comments.  “The American people can’t trust a word Mitt Romney says,
especially when he claims he’d work across the aisle as
president,” Danny Kanner, an Obama campaign spokesman, said in
a statement. “The middle class deserves a president they can
trust and Mitt Romney just doesn’t pass that test.”  Ohio Poll  An Ohio Newspaper Association poll released today showed
Obama ahead among those who’ve already voted, according to the
Cincinnati Inquirer.  At the same time, the poll of 1,015 likely voters from Oct.
18 to Oct. 23 showed Obama and Romney tied at 49 percent support
in Ohio, a swing state with 18 electoral votes. The poll has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said
on the CNN program that Obama is ahead in early voting, while
playing down the overall impact that may have.  “What they’re not telling you is that they are a fraction
of where they were in 2008,” he said. “We’re far ahead of
where we were in 2008.”  Recent polling shows that the momentum is shifting in
Romney’s favor, Priebus said.  “When you have the momentum and you’re a challenger in a
tie race, the challenger wins,” he said. “They’re not as good
as they think they are.”  Some ‘Havoc’  Virginia Senator  Mark Warner , a Democrat, said on the “Fox
News Sunday” program that the hurricane “will throw a little
bit of havoc” into the election, “but I think Virginians are
ready to go to the polls.”  A Washington Post poll shows Obama leading Romney in
Virginia 51 percent to 47 percent among likely voters, down from
his advantage of 52 percent to 44 percent in mid-September. The
latest survey, of 1,228 likely Virginia voters, conducted Oct.
22-26, has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage
points and demonstrates how important the last week of
campaigning may be for both men.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  