-- Vettel Gets Fourth Straight Win to Extend F-1 Championship Lead
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-10-28T19:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/vettel-wins-in-india-to-extend-formula-one-championship-lead.html
Sebastian Vettel led from start to
finish at yesterday’s Indian Grand Prix as he secured a fourth
straight victory to extend his Formula One championship lead
over Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  to 13 points.  Vettel, winner of the title the last two seasons, started
from pole and controlled the entire race at the Buddh
International Circuit near  New Delhi . He also won last year’s
inaugural Indian race. Alonso finished second to maintain his
challenge for the title with three events remaining.  “To come here both years, get the pole and win the race is
fantastic,” Red Bull’s Vettel, 25, said at the post-race
presentation. “It is a very special Grand Prix and I really
like this circuit.”  Vettel and Alonso, who claimed the last of his two
championships in 2006, are now the only realistic challengers
for the title with third-place Kimi Raikkonen of Lotus 67 points
behind the leader with only 75 available for the remaining
races. Vettel heads the standings with 240 points, while Alonso
has 227.  “We lost points but this is what we expected this weekend
as we are not fast enough,” Alonso, 31, said at the
presentation. “There will be better races to come.”  Mark Webber , Vettel’s teammate, and McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton  are the only other drivers within 75 points of the
German driver. They were third and fourth yesterday, ahead of
 Jenson Button  in the other McLaren, Ferrari’s Felipe Massa and
Raikkonen.  Good Start  Vettel had a good start, keeping ahead of Webber as Alonso
made an early move to split the McLarens, which had both started
on the second row.  Alonso moved into the third spot on lap five, with Button
dropping to fifth as Hamilton also found a way past on the
following lap.  Michael Schumacher  of Mercedes suffered a puncture to his
right rear tire on the opening lap after a collision with Toro
Rosso’s Jean-Eric Vergne. He was able to continue, though he was
among three drivers who didn’t finish the race after pulling out
on lap 56 of 60.  Vettel built a lead, with Alonso moving into second with 12
laps remaining as he swept past Webber, who had a temporary loss
of his power-boost system.  Alonso started to slowly chip away at Vettel’s lead without
really challenging the superiority of the  Red Bull  driver,
finishing about 9.4 seconds back.  Webber was able to hold onto third, with Hamilton less than
a second back.  “I enjoyed the fight today,” Webber said. “It was a
difficult race and difficult for me to get into a rhythm.”  Winning Run  Vettel’s winning run in Singapore, Japan,  Korea  and India
has seen him take control of the championship, with the German
leading every lap of the last three races. He had the victory in
Singapore after Hamilton pulled out with a transmission failure.  He is the first driver since Button in 2009 to secure four
wins in a row.  “If you think about the world championship, this is a good
step for us,” Vettel said. “But we’ve a long way to go, and
we’ve seen how quickly things can change.”  The other points-scorers yesterday were  Nico Hulkenberg  of
Force India, Lotus’s Romain Grosjean and Williams driver  Bruno Senna .  In the constructors’ competition, Red Bull has 407 points
and Ferrari 316, with McLaren another 10 points back.  The Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, the 18th of 20 races, is
scheduled for Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 