-- Why Does the SEC Protect Banks’ Dirty Secrets?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-10-28T22:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/why-does-the-sec-protect-banks-dirty-secrets-.html
Remember Richard Bowen?  He is the former senior executive at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  who in
November 2007 issued a clarion call to his colleagues and Citi’s
board that a major credit-quality problem loomed for the bank.  Bowen was the chief underwriter in the business unit that
bought some $50 billion annually in home mortgages from third
parties that were then bundled up and sold as securities to
investors the world over. On Nov. 3 he sent an “urgent” e-mail
to executives including  Robert Rubin , the former U.S. Treasury
secretary who was then chairman of the bank’s executive
committee, and  Gary Crittenden , the chief financial officer,
raising concerns about “breakdowns in internal controls and
resulting significant but possibly unrecognized financial losses
existing within our organization.”  Bowen wrote that he had been “agonizing for some time”
about the problem, especially since his direct superiors at the
bank, whom he had warned repeatedly since he first discovered
the problem in mid-2006, had done little or nothing to remedy
it. What he had discovered was that 60 percent of the home
mortgages that Citigroup had bought from third parties, or $30
billion, were “defective,” meaning that they didn’t meet
Citigroup’s underwriting criteria. Nevertheless, they were still
packaged up -- defects and all -- and sold as securities.  Almost Nothing  You know where this is going. The Citigroup executives did
next to nothing. Rubin, who left the company in January 2009,
told the federal Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission on April 8,
2010, that “either I or somebody else sent it to the appropriate
people, and I do know factually that that was acted on promptly
and actions taken in response to it.” Commission Chairman  Phil
Angelides  asked Rubin to follow up with his commission and
explain precisely what actions Citigroup took in response to
Bowen’s e-mail. A few months later, Rubin’s attorneys  sent a
letter  stating that the “e-mail was subsequently passed on to
the appropriate personnel at Citigroup” and that “Citigroup
should be able to provide a description of its response to Mr.
Bowen’s concerns.” A Nixonian response if ever there was one.  Citigroup’s attorneys, in turn,  wrote to the commission  in
November 2010 that the bank had responded to Bowen’s e-mail by
firing “the head of the group” responsible for evaluating the
credit quality of the purchased mortgages -- actually, Bowen had
done that already -- and by putting in place a bunch of new
“processes.” Yet according to a July 2012  article  in Bloomberg
Markets magazine by Bob Ivry about Sherry Hunt, who worked for
Bowen, “There were no noticeable changes in the mortgage
machinery as a result of Bowen’s warning.”  By the time of Rubin’s FCIC testimony, of course, Citigroup
had been bailed out with $45 billion in cash from the American
people, along with another $306 billion in guarantees from the
federal government for a pot of the very same toxic home
mortgages that Bowen had warned about. Rubin pocketed $126
million in his 10 or so years at the company. Bowen, who was
stripped of his responsibilities at Citigroup soon after writing
the infamous e-mail, left the company two weeks after Rubin. He
now teaches accounting at the  University of Texas  at  Dallas .  Warning Ignored  As horrific as it was for Rubin, Crittenden and others to
ignore Bowen’s explicit warning, that’s not the end of the
story. As part of blowing the whistle on Citigroup’s bad
behavior, Bowen also alerted the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the bank’s main regulator, hoping it would
thoroughly investigate the “breakdowns of internal controls” and
take legal action against those responsible. Before the bailout
of Citigroup, he gave the SEC two long depositions and 1,000 or
so pages of documents, some of which were taken from the
Internet, detailing the extent of Citigroup’s problems and
Bowen’s attempts to rectify them. Importantly, he said he also
gave his permission for the SEC to release to the public his
depositions and the revealing documents.  Naturally, the SEC did nothing to pursue Bowen’s claims
before billions of taxpayer dollars were used to rescue
Citigroup. But it must abide by the Freedom of Information Act,
which allows the public to gain access to documents such as
those Bowen provided. It has a horrendous track record of
fulfilling FOIA requests in anything like a timely manner. My
experience has been that the agency begrudgingly gives out the
bare minimum long after I really needed it.  Earlier this year, Bloomberg’s Ivry filed a FOIA request
with the SEC to get copies of Bowen’s two depositions and the
1,000 pages of documents. Ivry wanted to know just what Bowen
had discovered about Citigroup’s bad behavior in the years
leading up to its bailout. Initially, the SEC stonewalled,
claiming that the Bowen cache amounted to Citigroup “ trade
secrets .”  When Ivry finally got his FOIA documents back from the SEC,
he was underwhelmed. “It was a discussion about nothing and it
was heavily redacted, including Bowen’s name,” Ivry told me via
e-mail. Needless to say, he was unable to get any additional
insight into what Bowen had uncovered and was unable to inform
the rest of us.  Unreleased Documents  When I told Bowen, earlier this week, that the SEC had
failed to release his documents and his testimony about
Citigroup to Ivry, he was flabbergasted. For legal reasons,
Bowen said, he can’t share the information directly, but he
fully expected the SEC to make it available to journalists and
the public. He also expected the SEC to investigate the
wrongdoing.  “I’m outraged, quite frankly,” Bowen told me. “I had been
told that once the investigations were concluded that my
material would be available to the public via FOIA. And to hear
now that the SEC has made the decision that no, it cannot be
available, I know nothing about the legal side of this, but
quite frankly, I’m totally outraged.”  Last week, I filed my own FOIA request for Bowen’s
documents and testimony. On Oct. 22, I received an
acknowledgement letter from the agency. My tracking number is
13-00937-FOIA. Trust me, I’ll let you know if the SEC gives me
anything more than it gave Ivry. But I won’t be counting on it.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  agriculture policy and
climate change  and on  how   to fight terror in Mali ; Albert R. 
Hunt on  the policy implications of this presidential election ; 
 Simon Johnson  on a conservative call to  break up big banks ; 
A. Gary Shilling series on the  perils of low interest rates ; 
Shikha Dalmia on how Republicans must  root out hatred of 
immigrants .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 