-- Wild Weather Doesn’t Have to Cause a Malthusian Nightmare
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-28T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/wild-weather-doesn-t-have-to-cause-a-malthusian-nightmare.html
Almost 1 billion people around the
world don’t get enough to eat. Climate change, which is already
contributing to food-price increases in poor and prosperous
countries alike, promises to make it even harder to feed a
growing population.  The world produces enough food to provide its 7 billion
people with the roughly 2,700  calories  they need daily. But
agriculture and food supplies are highly vulnerable to the
extreme weather that comes with climate change. As the
population grows -- it might reach 10 billion by 2050 -- the
world will need to boost farm productivity and solve logistical
impediments that make it hard to get food to those who need it.  Consider how weather can affect food prices. The three
years in the past two decades when global  food costs  were
highest all occurred after 2007, according to the United
Nations. These increases have coincided with droughts in one or
more of the world’s major food-producing regions. This year is
on pace to be the warmest ever, exceeding records set in 2005
and 2010; the drought in the U.S. Midwest this summer is a big
reason corn prices are at record highs.  Numerous studies also suggest that rising temperatures
during the spring and summer growing seasons are reducing crop
yields. This is on top of the damage done by increasingly
frequent droughts, floods and freezes. A study by  Oxfam  predicts
that if current temperature patterns persist, by 2030 corn
prices may surge by 177 percent and wheat by 120 percent; rice
might double.  Food Catastrophe  The continuing failure of governments to grapple with
climate change not only raises the chances of a food catastrophe
but also underscores the need for new agricultural policies.  Among the most critical is getting new and more resilient
crops into the hands of  small farmers , especially in Africa and
South Asia. Ideally, this could bring about a second Green
Revolution, like that of the 1950s-1970s, when global
agricultural productivity took off and food prices declined for
the next 30 years.  Unfortunately, the first Green Revolution was followed by a
period of neglect: In the years after 1980, many governments,
assuming that the worst of the so-called yield gap had been
closed, cut funding for agricultural  research . Output stagnated
in the developing nations of Africa and parts of Asia. Today,
African farmers are roughly a seventh as productive as those in
the U.S. and only a fifth as productive as  China ’s.  A bit of the funding slack has been taken up by private
charities, such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which
has made some of its biggest grants to research programs that
are developing  crops  to withstand extreme weather and pack a
bigger nutritional punch.  Genetically modified crops must be considered in the mix,
consumer wariness in developed countries notwithstanding. If the
choice is between malnutrition and starvation, or the
consumption of drought-tolerant corn or flood-resistant rice,
the decision should be easy. To date, no harm to humans from
genetically modified food has been documented and the
environmental impact has been negligible. U.K. economist Paul Collier likens GM food to  nuclear power : We may feel uneasy
about it, but when managed properly, it is safe and better than
the alternative.  The farming industry may also need to become more flexible
in response to a changing climate: Crops that can no longer grow
well in one region need to be replaced by other crops.
Governments might need to provide incentives for farmers to
cultivate regions where rainfall is increasing and abandon areas
subject to recurring drought.  Spiked, Stolen  Food-distribution challenges complicate the picture. In
 India , for example, a lot of food spoils or is pilfered by
corrupt officials before reaching consumers, who in many cases
eat less now than in the 1970s. So it is crucial to prosecute
criminals and shore up supply chains -- for example by building
proper storage facilities. Now, vast quantities of grain are
often stockpiled in heaps outdoors, protected by nothing more
than tarpaulins, according to Bloomberg News reports.  Governments also should avoid policies that aggravate
short-term price increases. In  Russia , for instance, after a
2010 heat wave, the government attempted to cap food inflation
by banning grain exports. That probably contributed to higher
prices in nations such as  Egypt , Russia’s largest grain
customer, and at home, perhaps because farmers withheld their
harvests from the market on concern that prices might not cover
their costs.  It is worth noting that food-price inflation in Egypt and
other Middle Eastern nations is cited as one of the forces
behind last year’s  Arab Spring  uprisings. The same is true of
 Haiti , where surging prices in 2008 led to the government’s
collapse.  U.S. policies also contribute to inflated food costs. Among
the worst is the federal mandate that gasoline be blended with
ethanol produced mainly from corn, the price of which has soared
more than 50 percent since mid-June. As much as 40 percent of
the U.S. corn crop -- more than the combined production of
 Africa  and India -- is now devoted to fuel production. And the
extra fuel needed to grow and harvest the corn, and turn it into
ethanol, leads the U.S. to use more, not less,  energy . The U.S.
should end the mandate, and also lower or eliminate most
subsidies for the agriculture industry.  More than 200 years ago, British economist Thomas Malthus
theorized that population growth tends to outstrip food
supplies, leading to famine. For two centuries, his dismal
prophesy was held at bay as new land was cultivated and
productivity increased. Climate change is now altering the
equation. But with smarter policies and better farming
techniques, the Malthusian nightmare need not come to pass.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  how to fight terror in  Mali ;
William D. Cohan on the  SEC protecting Citigroup’s secrets ;
Albert R. Hunt on  the policy implications of this presidential
election ; Simon Johnson on a conservative call to  break up big
banks ; A. Gary Shilling series on the  perils of low interest
rates ; Shikha Dalmia on how Republicans must  root out hatred of
immigrants .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  