-- WorleyParsons’s Grill Says Australia Skills Demand Drives Wages
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-10-28T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/worleyparsons-s-grill-says-australia-skills-demand-drives-wages.html
John Grill, former chief executive
officer at  WorleyParsons Ltd. (WOR) , said demand for engineering
skills outpaces supply in  Australia , driving wages 50 percent
higher than anywhere else in the world.  Labor shortages also have driven pay higher for welders,
pipe fitters and electrical workers, Grill said yesterday on the
Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business program.  “We had a period of 25 years of very little that was built
so there were very few people trained in the trades,” said
Grill, who plans to return as chairman in 2013. With the growing
number of projects now, “we have a problem.”  Energy companies from  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to  Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. (WPL)  are currently building seven liquefied natural gas projects
in Australia at a cost of about $180 billion to feed Asian
demand. Chevron is reviewing the cost of its A$43 billion ($45
billion) Gorgon LNG venture off northwest Australia, partly
because of a rise in labor expenses, it said in July.  While Australia’s economy has been powered by the biggest
resources bonanza since a gold rush in the 1850s, falling
commodity prices have spurred miners  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to delay some projects. The
Australian government estimated in June the country had a
resources development pipeline of about A$500 billion, driven by
Asian consumption of  iron ore , coal and gas.  New Project Questions  “We’ve got an ever-growing level of export of resources
from Australia,” Grill said yesterday. “Whether we’re going to
get new projects to follow the ones currently being designed and
constructed is another question, and I think those costs within
Australia, those questions are yet to be answered.”  Grill said he agreed high costs in Australia, partly
because of gains in the Australian dollar, have put proposed
resources ventures in the country at risk.  “I’m sure that’s right,” he said.  The engineering companies that service the resources
industry have also been hit by falling commodities prices.
WorleyParsons, Australia’s largest oil and gas engineering
company, plunged the most in more than two years on Oct. 23
after forecasting first-half earnings below analyst estimates.  The Sydney-based company, which gets about 68 percent of
its sales from the oil and gas industry, said last week clients
were “more cautious in their planning” and were content to
delay projects to keep down costs.  Salaries for oil and gas workers in Australia rose 17
percent to average about $169,000 a year, more than double the
global level, as LNG ventures competed for workers,  Hays Plc (HAS) 
said in February. The global average was about $80,000, Hays
found in a survey analyzing salaries in September and October
2011 for professionals including geologists and engineers.  Australian engineering salaries are highest in Western
Australia and Queensland, where most of the resources projects
are being developed, according to Grill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  