-- Yen Remains Higher as Global Weakness Boosts Safety Bid
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-29T08:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-28/yen-remains-higher-as-global-weakness-boosts-safety-bid.html
The yen remained higher after its
biggest one-day gain in two months against the dollar as signs
of global economic weakness increased demand for haven assets.  Japan ’s currency extended last week’s advance versus the
euro as Hurricane Sandy shut stock markets in the U.S. and
before reports tomorrow that may show Spain’s gross domestic
product shrank and Germany’s jobless rate rose. Data this week
may indicate U.S. unemployment climbed in October. The  Bank of
Japan (8301)  is scheduled to meet tomorrow after holding off from
easing policy on Oct. 5. The Australian dollar weakened along
with Asian shares.  “Appreciation pressure will remain for the yen,” said
Hitoshi Asaoka, a senior strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust &
Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s third-largest financial group by
market value. “The euro region’s economy is bad with no sign of
picking up.”  The yen traded at 79.61 per dollar as of 8:49 a.m. in
London after rising 0.8 percent on Oct. 26, the largest gain
since Aug. 22 on a closing price basis. It climbed 0.3 percent
to 102.71 per euro, after strengthening 0.2 percent last week.
Europe’s shared currency dropped 0.3 percent to $1.2901.  The U.S. securities industry canceled equity trading on all
markets today as Hurricane Sandy headed toward  New York  City.
The shutdown, announced by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, may extend through Oct. 30 and followed an earlier
decision by the New York Stock Exchange to close floor trading.  Global Data  The  Spanish economy  shrank 0.4 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from the previous quarter, according to the
median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
before preliminary government data tomorrow.  Germany’s  unemployment rate  climbed to 6.9 percent this
month from 6.8 percent in September, another poll showed ahead
of tomorrow’s release. That would be the first gain since June
2009. The  U.S. jobless rate  rose to 7.9 percent this month even
as employers are projected to have added 125,000 workers to
payrolls, according to separate surveys before the figures are
released on Nov. 2.  The yen was also supported as Asian stocks reversed gains
made earlier today. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares
dropped 0.2 percent after climbing as much as 0.3 percent.  The area between 79.47 and 79.05 on the dollar-yen chart
“will act as key support and define whether a deeper
retracement can develop,”  Niall O’Connor , a New York-based
technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to
clients yesterday. Support refers to an area where orders to buy
may be clustered.  No Restructuring  The euro pared a monthly advance as German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  rejected another debt restructuring for
Greece. After agreeing to the biggest-ever write-off on private
bondholders, it would be “a bit unrealistic” to impose more
losses on them, Schaeuble said in an interview with German radio
Deutschlandfunk broadcast yesterday.  European policy makers are awaiting a report on Greece’s
progress in meeting internationally agreed targets compiled by
the troika of the European Commission, the  European Central Bank 
and the  International Monetary Fund .  The euro strengthened 1.3 percent in the past month, the
best performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen fell
1.5 percent, while the  U.S. dollar  gained 0.9 percent.  BOJ Pressure  BOJ board members are facing political pressure to ease
policy as data last week showed consumer prices fell for a
fifth-straight month, making the central bank’s 1 percent
inflation goal elusive. All but one of 27 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg expect officials to increase stimulus tomorrow.  “Market participants see an increase of about 10 trillion
yen” in the BOJ’s asset-purchase program at the meeting, said
 Daisaku Ueno , a senior foreign-exchange and fixed-income
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “The yen may momentarily weaken if the BOJ does take
such a step.”  Figures from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
showed futures traders reversed bets that the yen will gain
against the dollar.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the yen versus the
dollar compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  --
was 18,196 on Oct. 23. That compares with net long positions of
10,086 in the previous period. The last time traders reversed
their bets to a drop in the currency from an advance was in the
week ended Feb. 28, according to the data.  Aussie Slips  The Australian dollar slid as polls tightened before the
 U.S. presidential election  between incumbent  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  “If we get polls that still show that Romney and Obama
look to be pretty neck-and-neck, then I think that leads to
uncertainty,” said Ray Attrill, Sydney-based global co-head of
currency strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. “There is
potential for some negative price action in the risk market. In
that case I can see the Aussie heading back down towards
$1.03.”  Australia’s currency slid 0.2 percent to $1.0354 after
climbing 0.4 percent in the five days ended Oct. 26, its third-
straight weekly advance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net  