-- ‘Wicked’ Writers Pay Top $95 Million for Global Smash
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-04-11T15:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/-wicked-team-got-95-million-of-show-s-300-million-pie.html
A look behind the emerald curtain
at “ Wicked ” helps explain why, despite long odds against
success, a dozen new musicals arrive on Broadway each season.  Since the $14 million show opened at the Gershwin Theatre
in October, 2003, its producers and investors have shared more
than $300 million in profits from Broadway and productions
worldwide, according to records obtained through a Freedom of
Information Law request.  Profits and compensation from hit shows are closely guarded
secrets on Broadway. These figures were culled from 1,698 pages
released by the New York State attorney general’s office, which
requires theater productions that raise money from or within New
York to file financial statements.  The three authors of the backstory to “The Wizard of Oz”
have earned more than $95 million, according to the papers.
 Stephen Schwartz  wrote the music and lyrics,  Winnie Holzman  the
script and Gregory Maguire the 1996 novel upon which it’s based.  Joe Mantello, the actor-turned-director who staged the
Broadway production and engagements in the U.S., London and
 Australia , has earned more than $23 million in royalties.  “Wicked” centers on two friends -- a popular blonde and a
green, independent-minded outcast handy with a broomstick. From
the beginning, the show struck a chord with an atypical Broadway
demographic.  Biggest Loser  “It touches something in the hearts of girls and women,”
said Robyn Goodman, who has seen it three times, twice
introducing it to friends’ children. Goodman produced “ Avenue
Q ,” which bested “Wicked” for top musical at the 2004  Tony
Awards .  Since then, “Wicked” has been Broadway’s bestselling
show. Its fortunes are boosted by premium tickets, seats in the
first 16 rows of the Gershwin that sell for as much as $301.25.
(A $1,001 package includes dinner at a restaurant adjacent to
the theater and a backstage tour meeting performers.)  The results reported here include two U.S. tours and
engagements in  Chicago ,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco  and Broadway.
Marc Platt, a former movie studio executive, is or was lead
producer of all of them.  Michael Hartman, a spokesman for the producers, said they
declined to comment for this story.  The original company, Wicked LLC, has sold about $600
million of tickets on Broadway. In addition to proceeds from
merchandising and the original cast recording, Wicked LLC earned
fees and a share of profits from productions in London and
Australia and revenue from “Wicked” in  Japan  and  Germany .  Producers’ Share  In the U.S., the producers’ royalties -- excluding their
share of profits -- exceeded $40 million. (Royalties, a key
component of pay in theater, are based on negotiated fees and
variables including box office sales.)  Eve Ensler, author of “ The Vagina Monologues ,” gets
royalties for her uncredited work on some scenes, two people
familiar with the production said. Her involvement isn’t
disclosed in the papers or in accounts of the show’s creation.
An e-mail to Ensler’s office wasn’t returned.  In his twenties, Schwartz wrote the scores for three long-
running shows -- “Godspell,” “Pippin,” and “The Magic
Show.” In December, 1996, while vacationing in  Hawaii , he heard
about Maguire’s novel “Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked
Witch of the West.” After reading it, Schwartz sought out
Platt, who’d been developing a “Wicked” movie, eventually
convincing him that the material was better suited for the
stage.  First Ovation  About four years of writing and private readings followed.
Money was raised from 59 investors, led by  Universal Pictures ,
which is credited as a producer with David Stone, Jon Platt and
the Araca Group, a closely held company that specializes in
merchandising. At the first preview in the San Francisco tryout,
Elphaba, the green apprentice Wicked Witch of the West played by
 Idina Menzel , got entrance applause.  “It’s something intrinsic about the characters,” Schwartz
said in an interview last month about the show’s appeal. He was
outside Circle in the Square Theatre, where he’d celebrated his
64th birthday with actors from “Wicked” and the current
“Godspell” revival.  In addition to its message of tolerance and self-
acceptance, “Wicked” offers spectacle. Eugene Lee’s sets --
which depict giant cogs, gears, and a mechanical dragon -- cost
$1.6 million to build and another $2 million to load and install
into the Gershwin. Susan Hilferty’s self-described “twisted
Edwardian” costumes cost $1.4 million.  Mixed Reviews  The Broadway reviews were mixed. Ben Brantley wrote in the
 New York  Times that Kristin Chenoweth, playing Glinda, provided
“the essential helium in a bloated production that might
otherwise spend close to three hours flapping its oversized
wings without taking off.”  That message never reached the audience. With performances
selling out, operating profit quickly exceeded $100,000 a week.
Within 21 months, the show had returned the investors’ money and
distributed profit of $7 million.  Attendance peaked at near capacity in the year ending in
July 2005. Thanks to rising ticket prices, box office revenue
continued to grow. The average “Wicked” ticket went from $85
in 2005 to $100.56 in 2010. The average last week, which
included Easter Sunday, was about $135 excluding sales
commissions, based on figures from the Broadway League.  “It hasn’t lost any of its commercial appeal,” Stephanie
Lee, president of Group Sales Box Office, said of the show.
“The next generation of tweens is going, and the original
generation is going back.”  No Stars  Revenue rose even after the original stars left. Pay for
the eight principal parts fell from $2.4 million in the first
year to $1.9 million in the 52 weeks ending July 2010.  The current leads, Jackie Burns and Chandra Lee Schwartz,
are veterans of “Wicked” national tours (and handily won over
a recent Sunday matinee audience). The statements don’t disclose
their or the original leads’ salaries, although in December,
2003, “star” pay totaled $33,500 a week. Top billing at the
time went to Chenoweth and Menzel, followed by Carole Shelley,
Norbert Leo Butz and Joel Grey.  Those in the ensemble now earn the Broadway minimum, $1,703
a week, unless one negotiates a higher rate or has extra duties,
such as understudying another part.  Weekly expenses for the Broadway company averaged $1
million in the year ending in June 2010, including royalties.
Weekly ticket sales averaged $1.4 million, excluding
commissions, for annual operating profit of $23 million.  Grand Compensation  Schwartz lives primarily on a 15-acre Connecticut property
he bought in the mid-1970s. One “Wicked” indulgence he cited:
a Bosendorfer piano, whose grand models start at $100,000.  On Broadway, the authors share royalties of 6.7 percent of
Broadway box office revenue, according to an analysis of the
statements. Maguire has earned more than $12 million. The
statements don’t disclose the pay of Schwartz or Holzman, who
created the 1994 television series “My So-Called Life.”
According to royalty formulas, Schwartz’s take is twice that of
hers, plus 0.5 percent of box office as a “consulting
producer.”  Elsewhere on the creative team, Lee, the set designer,
earned more than $6.6 million. Choreographer Wayne Cilento made
more than $6.3 million and the costume designer, Hilferty, was
paid more than $2.2 million.  This story undoubtedly understates total compensation to
date for the producers, investors and creative team behind
“Wicked.”  Royalty Payments  Royalty payments weren’t disclosed for non-U.S.
productions, such as the five-year-old  West End  “Wicked” or
the Australian engagement in five cities over three years. And
the most recent U.S. statements are one to two years old.  Based on published ticket sales in New York since the last
statement in June 2010, it’s a safe bet author royalties exceed
$100 million.  As for philanthropy, “Wicked” has allied with Bette Midler’s nonprofit  New York Restoration Project  to refurbish
community gardens. The Broadway show’s company manager, Susan
Sampliner, helps run the Broadway Green Alliance, intended to
help Broadway implement pro-environment practices.  “It’s not the financial success as much as the feeling of
release,” Schwartz said. “It’s allowed me to come to terms
with what I could accomplish and what I can’t. I realized I’m
never going to be a critics’ darling.  “I had done OK before,” he said. “I guess there is a
little bit more financial freedom.”  Today’s Muse highlights: Katya Kazakina on New York women
gallerists;  Robert Heller  on Florence + the Machine; Richard Vines on  London  restaurant Dabbous;  Greg Evans  on TV’s “Girls”
and “Trust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 