-- Abbott Sues Boehringer’s Roxane Over Patents for Norvir
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-04-11T22:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/abbott-sues-boehringer-s-roxane-over-patents-for-norvir.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , a U.S. health-
care company, sued the German drug maker  Boehringer AG (0205298D) ’s Roxane
Laboratories Inc. and accused it of infringing three patents for
the HIV drug Norvir.  The Abbott Park, Illinois-based company contends Roxane is
wrongly planning to market a generic version of  Norvir  tablets
before the U.S. patents expire, according to papers filed
yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “Abbott will be irreparably harmed” if Roxane introduces
its copy and “Abbott is entitled to a permanent injunction
against further infringement,” according to the complaint.  Lawsuits against generic-drugmakers are “a normal and
expected response to the filing of certain Abbreviated New Drug
Applications” with the FDA, said Angela Chirico, a spokeswoman
for Columbus, Ohio-based Roxane in an e-mailed statement.  Roxane “complies with all FDA regulations and will not
comment further on pending litigation,” she added. The company
has filed a complaint against Abbott in  Ohio  to “address this
action in the judicial system,” according to the statement.  Abbott is splitting itself into a diversified products
company led by its medical device division, and a  drug company ,
to be called AbbVie.  Its best-selling medicine is Humira, a $7.9 billion-a-year
injection to treat rheumatoid arthritis. The company also makes
blood-sugar meters, coronary stents, nutritional supplements,
eye drops and veterinary products.  The case is Abbott v. Roxane, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 