-- Acciona Windpower Wins First Brazilian Turbine Contract
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-04-11T09:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/acciona-windpower-wins-first-brazilian-turbine-contract.html
Acciona Windpower, a unit of
 Acciona SA (ANA) , won its first contract in Brazil, the country set to
become the fourth-biggest wind turbine market this year.  Acciona will supply, install and maintain 40 3-megawatt
 wind turbines  for a 120-megawatt wind farm in  Rio Grande  do Sul
state, the company said today in an e-mailed statement. The
project is owned by CPFL Renovaveis, part of Brazil’s largest
private utility CPFL Group, according to the statement.  “The contract with CPFL Renovaveis opens up a new market
of clear commercial interest to Acciona Windpower,” Chief
Executive Officer Pedro Ruiz said. “We are entering Brazil with
a strong customer that’s one of the country’s leading wind power
operators.”  The company, which builds turbines at three factories in
 Spain  and the U.S., plans to add a manufacturing plant in
Brazil. Latin America’s biggest economy may install as much as
2,000 megawatts of wind generators in 2012, making it the
fourth-largest market compared with 11th last year, according to
the Global Wind Energy Council.  Acciona, Spain’s second-biggest wind farm operator, is
based in Madrid. Its shares rose as much as 3.6 percent today,
the most intra-day in two months, and were 3.4 percent higher at
49.17 euros at 11:55 a.m. local time.  Wind power in Brazil, buffeted by Atlantic winds along its
coast, can compete with fossil fuel-driven power plants without
subsidies, Scott Mackin, managing partner at Denham Capital
Management LP, said this month. Brazil will be a key market for
Denham’s new $3 billion energy and resources fund that closed on
April 3, Mackin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  