-- Lack of Sleep May Lead to Obesity, Harvard Study Suggests
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/lack-of-sleep-may-lead-to-obesity-harvard-study-suggests.html
Lack of sleep or erratic slumber
from working late-night shifts or travel may lead to diabetes
and obesity, according to a Harvard study that is the first to
tie abnormal sleep patterns to disease.  In a trial of 21 men and women observed in a sleep
laboratory, those allowed only 5.6 hours of sleep in a 24-hour
period over three weeks had a slowdown in their metabolism and a
reduction in insulin production. Those changes can lead to
weight gain and increased blood sugar, according to research
published today in the journal  Science Translational Medicine .  Sleeping, eating and being active at times that are at odds
with the body’s internal clock, called  circadian disruption , may
raise the risk of diabetes and obesity as metabolic changes
occur, said  Orfeu Buxton , the lead study author. More research
is needed to understand the results, he said.  “We disrupted not just the timing of sleep but the timing
of meals, so it seems that eating meals at an unusual time may
also play a role,” said Buxton, as assistant professor at
 Harvard Medical School  and an associate neuroscientist at
Brigham and Women’s Hospital in  Boston , in an April 9 telephone
interview. “If you’re going to work at night, you might want
your biological clock to join you on shift and have your
biological daytime be during that night shift.”  About  15 percent  of full-time wage and salary workers in
the U.S. work an alternative shift, 4.7 percent work evenings,
3.2 percent work nights and 2.5 percent work rotating shifts,
according to 2004 data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the
latest year for which data is available. Allowing workers to
stay in the same shifts for longer periods rather than changing
every few days may help them stave off health problems, Buxton
said.  Controlled Sleep  Researchers in the study followed healthy men and women who
were kept in a controlled environment. The amount of sleep, when
the sleep occurred, activities and diet were regulated. For
three weeks they were only allowed to sleep for 5.6 hours in any
24-hour period. The sleep occurred at all times of the day and
night to help copy the schedule of rotating shift workers.  Chronic sleep restriction and disruption to the body’s
internal clock caused about a one-third decrease in insulin
secretion after a standard meal, the researchers found. Too
little insulin raises glucose levels in the body for longer
periods of time, and may increase the risk of diabetes, Buxton
said.  He speculated that the clock in the pancreas, which
regulates insulin, similar to the circadian clock in the brain,
might also be disrupted making it not ready to secrete enough
insulin to the body at the new time, he said.  Change in Metabolism  Participants also experienced an 8 percent drop in resting
metabolism, the amount of calories burned by the body’s muscle
excluding exercise. The slowed metabolism could contribute to a
12.5-pound increase in weight over a year if there were no
changes in exercise levels or food intake. That weight gain may
lead to obesity and elevate diabetes risk, the authors said.  Buxton said changes in the body’s clock and lack of sleep
may cause the body to conserve energy when it isn’t necessary.
Those who don’t get enough sleep also don’t exercise, eat more
and eat more inappropriate foods, he said.  The effects were reversible after nine days of recovery
sleep and the readjustment of the body’s internal clock, the
study showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  