-- Madoff Trustee Pulls Appeal of $59 Billion UniCredit Ruling
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-11T13:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/madoff-trustee-pulls-appeal-of-59-billion-unicredit-ruling-1-.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm withdrew a notice of appeal of a court ruling that tossed
most of his $59 billion in claims against  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Sonja Kohn and other defendants, leaving in place earlier appeals
seeking to recover about $30 billion in damages from banks.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  gave notice to a U.S. appeals
court in Manhattan last month that he might appeal U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff’s February ruling in the case. Rakoff dismissed
Picard’s claims under the racketeering statute, which allows for
triple damages, saying he couldn’t prove his allegations.
Picard’s withdrawal of his appeal, which he has the right to
reinstate later, was approved by the appeals court yesterday,
according to a filing.  Picard had $90 billion in claims before the appeals court,
out of about $100 billion he had demanded in more than 1,000
suits to gather money for customers with Madoff  Ponzi scheme 
losses. Rakoff and another district judge,  Colleen McMahon ,
dismissed the claims in Picard’s suits against banks including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., HSBC Holdings Plc, UBS AG and UniCredit,
which is a defendant in the HSBC case as well as the Kohn suit.  In his written opinion on the UniCredit racketeering case,
Rakoff said Picard made a “casual assertion” that the
defendants “fed, perpetuated and profited from” Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme, and failed to show a direct relationship between the
alleged criminal acts and resulting injuries to the con man’s
customers.  Common-Law Claims  Rakoff also dismissed common-law claims including unjust
enrichment and conversion. He directed that the remaining claims
be returned to  bankruptcy court .  Marco Schnabl, a lawyer for UniCredit, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the withdrawal of the appeal in
the racketeering case. Picard spokeswoman Amanda Remus didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  UniCredit, based in Milan, and other defendants are trying
to move the diminished Kohn and HSBC cases back to district
court again, saying that Rakoff’s rulings in the Mets owners’
case raise new issues about how much profit and principal the
trustee can claw back and what he is required to prove.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina for running a Ponzi scheme that
defrauded investors of an estimated $20 billion in principal.
Picard and his  law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged
about $273 million for their work on the Madoff estate so far.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-CV-1181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  