-- Afghanistan Plans to Sell Scandal-Scarred Kabul Bank in June
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-04-11T19:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/afghanistan-plans-to-sell-scandal-scarred-kabul-bank-in-june.html
Afghanistan ’s government plans to
sell the country’s biggest commercial bank in June after seizing
it in 2010 from owners who lost more than $800 million of
depositors’ money through illegal insider loans.  “We expect to sell Kabul Bank in June” following a tender
process, Noorullah Delawari, governor of Afghanistan’s central
bank, said in an interview April 10 at his Kabul office.  The scandal led the  International Monetary Fund  to halt its
loans to the country in 2010, prompting the U.S. and other
governments to suspend aid on which President Hamid Karzai’s
administration relies for most of its budget. The IMF said it
sought the sale of Kabul Bank, as well as prosecution of Kabul
Bank founders who lent money to themselves and to Karzai allies.  The IMF resumed lending to Afghanistan in November, saying
it did so on the expectation that prosecutions and a recovery of
lost assets would be accelerated this year.  Karzai ordered April 3 the establishment “at the
earliest” of a special prosecutor and tribunal to pursue
criminal charges against “those who have illegally taken loans
from Kabul Bank,” his office said that day in a statement.
Karzai and top aides, including Delawari, “set a two-month
deadline for the full repayment of the loans illegally
received” from Kabul Bank, the statement said.  Any recovery of the loans will take longer, Delawari said
in the interview. “The illegal borrowers so far have admitted
to receiving about $361 million and have promised to repay those
loans within the next five years,” Delawari said in his office
at the central bank headquarters, adjacent to Karzai’s
presidential palace in central Kabul.  Karzai ‘Deadline’  Karzai’s announcement of a “deadline” was not a demand
for full repayment, but rather an offer that “if people pay the
loans in the next two months, they will not be charged interest
on those loans,” Delawari said.  The central bank, or Da Afghanistan Bank, has paid between
$925 million and $935 million to bail out Kabul Bank, Delawari
said, mostly to replace deposits that its former ousted
chairman, Sherkhan Farnood, and chief executive officer,
Khalilullah Ferozi, used to make insider loans.  In July, Deputy Attorney General Rahmatullah Nazari said
the two men had been arrested and charged with “embezzling more
than $900 million.”  As of January, authorities had recovered about $77.5
million from Kabul Bank, about $40 million coming from repayment
of illegal loans, Delawari said. IMF Deputy Managing Director
Nemat Shafik said in November that “asset recovery and legal
actions against the architects of the fraud have lagged and need
to be pursued more forcefully” before the fund’s next review of
its lending program, scheduled for May.  Budget Rejected  The government’s difficulties in raising money for the
bailout were underscored April 10 when its lower house of
parliament, the Wolesi Jirga, rejected Karzai’s proposed budget
for a second time in two weeks as legislators complained about
an $80 million allocation for the bank rescue, the Pajhwok and
state-run Bakhtar news agencies reported.  Delawari headed Da Afghanistan Bank from 2004 to 2007
before being named to run the Afghan Investment Support Agency.
He worked for more than 20 years at U.S. commercial banks,
serving as vice president of Lloyds Bank  California , according
to his biography on the investment agency website.  Karzai sent Delawari back to the central bank in November
after the previous governor, Abdul Qadir Fitrat, fled the
country amid government infighting over the Kabul Bank scandal.
Fitrat, a U.S. citizen, returned to his home in suburban
 Washington  saying he had received threats over his calls for the
prosecution of Kabul Bank officials.  Karzai’s office said at the time Fitrat had fled after
being summoned for questioning over his role in managing the
aftermath of the scandal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  