-- Afghans Appeal to Panetta for Security to Top Cost of Support
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-11T00:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/afghans-appeal-to-panetta-for-security-to-top-cost-of-support.html
Afghanistan ’s defense and interior
ministers said they urged Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  to
ensure that maintaining security takes precedence over cutting
costs in determining U.S. support for their nation’s army and
police.  The U.S. has projected that the Afghanistan forces it is
helping to train and fund will reach a peak of 352,000 before
October, a goal estimated to cost more than $4 billion a year.
The military and police would then be reduced as security
improves, to about 230,000 by 2017.  “The security environment by itself will either agree with
the figures or not,” Afghan Defense Minister Abdul Rahim Wardak
told reporters yesterday at his nation’s embassy in Washington
after talks with Panetta at the Pentagon. “That is something
that is subject to revision.”  The appeal reflects concern by Afghan leaders about the
forces they need to counter the Taliban and associated militant
groups as the U.S. and its allies begin to exit. President
 Barack Obama  is counting on Afghans taking over more of the
fight so that the U.S. can withdraw more of the 68,000 troops
that will remain after an initial round of cuts is completed in
September.  Panetta aims for a “sufficient and sustainable” Afghan
force after 2014, the Pentagon said in a statement after
yesterday’s talks, without offering specific numbers. The U.S.
and its allies plan to withdraw most of their forces by the end
of 2014.  Planned Reduction  Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee, questioned Army General John Allen, the top allied commander in Afghanistan, about the
planned reduction in Afghan forces during a hearing on March 22
in  Washington . The U.S. estimates the Afghan government can
contribute about $1 billion annually toward security costs.  “Given the fact that transition to a strong Afghan
security force is the key to success of this mission, why does
it make sense to talk about reducing the size of the Afghan army
by a third?” Levin said.  Wardak called the U.S. projections “a conceptual model for
planning purposes” based on certain assumptions, including
improved security.  “There’s enough flexibility there to not detach ourselves
from the reality on the ground,” Wardak said.  Violence has decreased by 20 percent since 2010, Wardak
said. That’s the year the U.S. added 33,000 of its troops to
reverse Taliban gains. In addition to the 68,000 American forces
that will remain after those “surge” troops are withdrawn in
September, other countries will have 40,000 on the ground and
have said they plan to cut their numbers as well.  Sustaining Improvement  Afghan Interior Minister Bismillah Mohammadi said he is
particularly concerned that his police officers get enough
training and equipment in coming years, especially as they make
the transition from fighting alongside their army to a more
traditional law enforcement role.  He said Panetta pledged continuing U.S. aid, including
trainers, “so that this improvement in the quality of the
Afghan national security forces can be sustained well past
2014.” The two sides didn’t discuss specific numbers, Mohammadi
said, speaking through an interpreter.  The officials also discussed in detail recent attacks by
Afghan security forces on coalition troops, Wardak said,
speaking in English.  “We are taking a lot of preventive measures,” he said,
citing extra security and additional intelligence and counter-
intelligence efforts to prevent such incidents. “The majority,
up to 70 percent, are not related to the infiltration” of
enemies into Afghan forces.  After 2014  The U.S. military has reached agreement with Afghan
officials to turn over responsibility for detention facilities
and to set rules for nighttime special operations missions.  While those steps help pave the way to a long-term
agreement the two sides hope to complete before a North Atlantic
Treaty Organization summit in  Chicago  next month, they leave
other issues unresolved for the U.S. presence in Afghanistan
beyond 2014.  Wardak said the two sides will negotiate a separate
security agreement to cover issues such as the standard U.S.
requirement for immunity from prosecution.  The defense minister declined to comment on the question of
immunity. The U.S. military is operating now on an open-ended
status-of-forces agreement that provides such protection.  “There will be a security agreement between the two
countries, and this issue will be discussed there,” Wardak
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  