-- After Lehman Fall, Women Gallerists Struggled, Survived
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/after-lehman-fall-women-gallerists-struggled-survived.html
Laurel Gitlen  opened her art
gallery of the same name on Manhattan’s Lower East Side in
September 2008.  Three days later  Lehman Brothers  went bankrupt.  “I knew there was going to be some downturn, but I didn’t
anticipate how severe it would be,” said Gitlen, 36. “People
didn’t even come to see the shows that fall.”  Things have improved.  Sales at her 650-square-foot, light-filled gallery on
Broome Street more than doubled each year. She has been accepted
into prestigious art fairs and has placed works in public
collections, including New York’s  Museum of Modern Art .  Gitlen is part of a wave of women art dealers who arrived
on the Lower East Side in the past four years.  Anchored and bolstered by the hyper-contemporary  New
Museum , which opened in late 2007, they are helping transform
what was a distant outcropping of the Chelsea art scene into an
important hub for new art.  Women own about 30 percent of art galleries on the Lower
East Side, up from about 4 percent five years ago, according to
Katie Archer, business services manager at  Lower East Side
Business Improvement District .  The first batch -- Gitlen, Candice Madey,  Rachel Uffner ,
Lisa Cooley, Nicelle Beauchene -- came in 2008, settling along
or near Orchard Street. They had worked at blue-chip Chelsea
galleries, auction houses and art-advising firms.  “They bring incredible knowledge, history and experience
to the way they promote their artists,” said Sue Stoffel, a
collector and emerging-art adviser in  Manhattan . “Whenever I go
to the Lower East Side, they are the basis of my itinerary.”  Newspaper Couch  Stoffel owns a ceramic sculpture by Jessica Jackson
Hutchins, who began working with Gitlen in 2005 while both lived
in  Portland ,  Oregon . At that time her works sold for $1,500 to
$6,000.  Since her newspaper-upholstered couch appeared in the 2010
 Whitney Biennial , Jackson Hutchins’s works have been snapped up
by the  Museum of Modern Art , the Whitney Museum of American Art
and the Brooklyn Museum. Prices now range from $10,000 to
$60,000, Gitlen said. Another gallery artist  Joseph Montgomery 
will be included in a 2013 exhibition at the  Walker Art Center .  Lisa Cooley, 36, opened in a 900-square-foot space on
Orchard Street in January 2008. Last month,  Lisa Cooley Fine Art 
upgraded to 4,700-square-foot space, which once housed
experimental music venue Tonic, on the less-central Norfolk
Street.  ‘Grow or Die’  “It’s about my artists’ needs,” said Cooley. “It’s like,
grow or die.”  More than 150 people showed up for her opening of  Andy
Coolquitt’s  new exhibition “chair w/paintings” on March 30.
Displayed underneath 14-foot ceilings were structures made of
found materials, including old lighters, colorful tubes and
 light bulbs .  Coolquitt’s work, initially priced between $500 and $4,000,
helped Cooley sell $100,000 of art in her first year. Recently,
his sculpture sold for $75,000 to a European collector.  Cooley placed abstract paintings by Alex Olson in the  Los
Angeles County Museum of Art ; the  Metropolitan Museum of Art 
bought a video by Erin Shirreff and a set of  four black-and-
white photographs  in 2010.  “In our second year we sold four times the amount we sold
in the first year,” Cooley said. “It’s really been exponential
growth.”  Struck Gold  Nicelle Beauchene , 35, who will celebrate her self-named
gallery’s fourth anniversary in May, is also thinking about
expanding.  An alumna of  Marianne Boesky Gallery , she had sold an
intricate textile piece by  Afruz Amighi  to the  Metropolitan
Museum . Another of her artists,  Valerie Hegarty , who makes
paintings and sculptures based on iconic American artworks, will
have a solo project at the  Brooklyn Museum  in 2013.  “A lot of our artists deserve a bigger space,” said
Beauchene. “We are assessing the situation. Lisa certainly has
raised the bar.”  Candice Madey, 34, opened  On Stellar Rays  on Sept. 14,
2008, the Sunday before Lehman Brothers collapsed. After two
hard years, she struck gold when five of her seven artists were
included in Greater New York, an influential exhibition
organized by MoMA PS1 every five years.  “It’s meant to be an introduction to the next important
generation of artists working in New York,” said Madey. “It
drew attention to our program in a pretty substantial way.”  Super Helpful  Since then she sold a video by  Tommy Hartung  to the Museum
of  Modern Art ; another of her artists,  Brody Condon , will have a
solo exhibition at the  Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum  this
summer.  After running  Peter Blum ’s Chelsea gallery, Simone Subal,
37, opened her  self-named space  on the Bowery six months ago. As
a more recent arrival to the area, she discovered a welcoming
network of women gallery owners.  They invited her to dinners, helped with practical matters
like finding a projector and sent clients, advisers and curators
her way.  “Some of them became my clients,” said Subal. “So it’s
been super, super helpful.”  For Cooley, a strong community of art dealers can only
benefit everyone.  “It’s impossible not to be competitive, but at the same
time, this job can be very isolating and we all reach out to
each other and support each other,” she said.  “I want all people in this group to do well because it
makes us all do better.”  Today's Muse highlights: Philip Boroff on “Wicked”’s 
profits;  Robert Heller  on Florence + the Machine; Richard 
Vines on London restaurant Dabbous;  Greg Evans  on TV's 
“Girls” and “Trust.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 