-- Taiwan Dollar Halts Four-Day Drop as Exporters Sell Greenback
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-11T08:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/taiwan-dollar-gains-on-speculation-exporters-converting-income.html
Taiwan ’s dollar halted a four-day
slide on speculation exporters converted income at more-
favorable exchange rates.  Government bonds  were steady.  The currency lost 0.3 percent in the previous four days on
concern policy makers will introduce a capital-gains tax on
stock trades, curbing fund inflows. Today’s advance was limited
by speculation the central bank will intervene to keep the
currency stable, according to Tarsicio Tong, a trader at Union
Bank of Taiwan.  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened as much as 0.2 percent to
NT$29.515 against its U.S. counterpart before closing up 0.03
percent at NT$29.562, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  “Exporters are pleased to sell the  U.S. dollar , albeit in
no hurry to dump it,” said Taipei-based Tong. “The currency
still remains range-bound with the bottom near NT$29.45 and the
top at NT$29.60 as the central bank has been intervening in the
market and would like to see the  currency trading  in this
range.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings that traders use to price options, was steady at 4
percent.  The finance ministry plans to submit a proposal to the
cabinet to impose capital-gains tax on stock trades of local
institutions and some individuals, the Taipei-based Commercial
Times reported today, without saying where it got the
information from.  The yield on the government’s 1 percent bonds due June 2017
was little changed at 1.02 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market.  The overnight  money-market  rate was steady at 0.451
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 