-- Malaysia’s RHB Promises Buyer Islamic Banking Profit Push
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-04-12T10:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/malaysia-target-rhb-promising-islamic-banking-profits-real-m-a.html
Potential buyers of  Malaysia ’s  RHB
Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  can grab an increasing share of the biggest market
for Islamic bonds at a 24 percent discount to the bank’s rivals.  RHB, whose Islamic banking profits rose ten times faster
than total earnings  last year , will become Malaysia’s largest
stock broker after its acquisition of  OSK Investment Bank Bhd. ,
according to  data  compiled by Malaysia’s stock exchange. As
heightened competition from foreign lenders spurs mergers among
Malaysia’s banks, the OSK purchase will further boost RHB’s
allure, with the Islamic banking franchise also attractive for
overseas bidders, Alliance Research Sdn. said.  After a 19 percent drop since RHB’s merger talks with
Malaysia’s two largest lenders ended in June, the bank is
trading at 1.49 times book value, cheaper than all except one of
its domestic peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
RHB’s  biggest investor , Malaysia’s Employees Provident Fund,
would be willing to sell, Aberdeen Asset Management Plc said,
while another shareholder,  Aabar Investments PJSC (AABAR) , has gauged
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ’s interest in its 25
percent stake, according to two people familiar with the matter.  “It’s a takeover target and the OSK acquisition could make
it easier to sell,” said Gerald Ambrose, who oversees 5.4
billion ringgit ($1.8 billion) in assets as managing director of
Aberdeen in  Kuala Lumpur . “It would have national coverage and
good exposure to retail as well as  investment banking . There are
foreigners who want exposure here, and if you’re a foreign
Islamic bank, you’d be better buying a local brand.”  Malaysia’s First Bank  RHB didn’t reply to a request for comment on its takeover
potential. The bank traces its  origins  to 1913, when Malaysia’s
first local bank formed in Kuala Lumpur with 300,000 ringgit of
startup capital. In 1997, that lender merged with DCB Bank Bhd.
to create RHB Bank Bhd. in what was then Malaysia’s biggest
banking merger.  RHB, which received an Islamic banking license in 2005,
agreed to buy control of  Indonesia ’s PT Bank Mestika Dharma in
2009. The deal still needs approval by Indonesian regulators,
which RHB expects by June, the company said this week.  The lender’s  total assets  have already jumped 46 percent to
152 billion ringgit since the height of the global financial
crisis in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. RHB
will post its seventh straight increase in annual revenue and
 profit  this year, analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Book Value  Even with earnings projected to climb, at a  closing price 
of 7.74 ringgit before yesterday’s holiday in Malaysia, RHB was
worth  1.49 times  book value. That’s 24 percent less than the
average multiple of 1.96 times for RHB’s domestic rivals with
market values greater than $1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s also cheaper than all seven of its
competitors except for  Affin Holdings Bhd. (AHB) , the data show. The
shares fell 1.4 percent to 7.63 ringgit today.  RHB asked Malaysia’s central bank in January for approval
to buy OSK Holdings Bhd.’s investment banking unit. Merging RHB,
Malaysia’s sixth-biggest stockbroker by value of domestic share
trading as of March, with OSK Investment Bank would vault the
enlarged entity past top-ranked CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., data
from the stock exchange show. OSK, with  offices  across  Southeast
Asia , also underwrites bond sales and initial public offerings.  The combination will also create Malaysia’s fourth-largest
bank by assets, adding to earnings potential and increasing its
appeal to buyers, said Cheah King Yoong, a Kuala Lumpur-based
analyst at Alliance Research.  “RHB by itself, no doubt it’s very strong, but it’s a mid-
sized bank,” he said. “It doesn’t have the size and
scalability premium. With this merger it will.”  Islamic Debt  RHB is also the top underwriter of ringgit-denominated
Islamic bonds sold this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Among global Islamic debt underwriters, RHB ranks
fourth behind  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Deutsche Bank AG, and  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Malaysia’s largest bank and also known as Maybank,
the data show. The rankings currently exclude a 2.5 billion-
ringgit issuance by Maxis Bhd. in February.  Profit before tax from the business that complies with
Islam’s ban on interest jumped 52 percent to 138 million ringgit
in 2011, while total Islamic assets surged 73 percent, according
to RHB’s  annual report . Total profit before tax at RHB rose 5.3
percent to 2 billion ringgit.  Ringgit-denominated Islamic bond sales more than doubled
last year to the equivalent of $24.6 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares to a worldwide Islamic bond market
of $36.3 billion in 2011, according to the data. The Kuala
Lumpur-based  Islamic Financial Services Board  estimates the
industry’s assets will surge to $2.8 trillion by 2015.  ‘Room to Expand’  Malaysia’s financial system, or the sum of loans, bonds and
stock-market capitalization, may expand this decade at an annual
pace of as much as 11 percent to  9.1 trillion  ringgit by 2020,
 Bank Negara , the central bank, said in December.  That growth will come as Malaysians become older, richer
and more willing to spend. Over the next decade, income per
capita may double while the average age could rise to 30 from
26, the central bank said.  “The Malaysian banking industry is attractive,” said Tan Teng Boo, managing director of Kuala Lumpur-based Capital
Dynamics Asset Management Sdn. “There is still room to expand,
and for the more efficient and innovative players, to capture
market share.”  Islamic financing may account for 40 percent of the whole
Malaysian market, up from 29 percent in 2010, the central bank
said. Banking assets in the country that comply with Shariah law
grew an average 20 percent annually since 2006 to reach 350.8
billion ringgit at the end of 2010.  ‘A Foothold’  The potential for RHB’s Islamic banking business, and the
central bank’s willingness to waive a cap on foreign ownership
of commercial banks, means the  Middle East  and neighboring
Indonesia may yield suitors, said Cheah. Bank Negara will
evaluate foreign buyers on a case-by-case basis, rather than
enforce a 30 percent cap on ownership, it said in December.  “What RHB could really offer is a foothold, a platform to
offer Islamic finance product by capitalizing on Malaysia’s
leading position in this area,” Cheah said.  The industry is also a lure for banks from non-Muslim
nations. Six of  Malaysia’s 16  Islamic banks are under foreign
ownership, according to the central bank’s website. Tokyo-based
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in February was granted a license to
offer Shariah-compliant services in the country.  “Islamic banking in Malaysia is also attracting Japanese
lenders,” said Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based banking
analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “In addition to
commercial lending, Japanese banks are keen to team up with
local partners in Malaysia to boost investment banking.”  Sumitomo Mitsui  Abu Dhabi’s Aabar Investments, which owns a 25 percent
stake in RHB, met Tokyo-based  Sumitomo Mitsui  in February in an
effort to sell the stake, two people with knowledge of the
matter said, asking not to be named as the information is
private. Sumitomo Mitsui, which was among investors considering
buying the stake from  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  last year
before it was sold to Aabar, hasn’t made a final decision on the
offer, one of the people said.  Aabar and Sumitomo Mitsui declined to comment on their
plans for the stake.  The opening of Malaysia’s financial system may also drive
mergers among local banks, said Tan Lip Kwang, who helps manage
2.8 billion ringgit of assets including RHB Capital shares at
K&N Kenanga Holdings Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.  “The government hopes that the number of banks will reduce
to five or six,” said Tan. Malaysia currently has eight
domestic commercial banks, down from 22 in 1986, according to
the central bank. “RHB has got the resources, OSK has the skill
set,” and the merged group might appeal to  CIMB (CIMB) , Tan said.  ‘Beef Up’  Still, previous talks last year between RHB and both CIMB
and Maybank failed to yield a deal. The banks ended discussions
after Aabar bought its stake in RHB from Abu Dhabi Commercial
Bank for 10.80 ringgit a share, or 11 percent more than RHB’s
stock price at the time, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Malaysia’s Employees Provident fund, which owns 45 percent
of RHB, will only consider merger plans once the bank has closed
the two pending purchases of OSK and Bank Mestika Dharma,
according to Azlan Zainol, chief executive officer of the state-
run pension fund.  The Malaysian buyers may come back after RHB completes the
OSK deal, said Geoffrey Ng, who manages $1.4 billion as chief
executive officer at HLG Asset Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur.
RHB said this week that it expects to close the acquisition in
the third quarter of this year.  RHB’s retail banking network will appeal to Maybank, CIMB
or Malaysia’s third-largest lender,  Public Bank Bhd. (PBK) , which are
“keen to increase their market presence,” he said.  Maybank and CIMB declined to comment on their interest in
RHB. Public Bank didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  “It could prove to be a fairly attractive target,” Ng
said. “With the acquisition of OSK’s franchise, it will beef up
its presence for sure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 