-- Alpek Seeks to Raise $853 Million in Mexico’s Biggest IPO
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-04-11T21:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/alpek-seeks-to-raise-853-million-in-mexico-s-biggest-ipo.html
Alpek SAB (ALPEK) , a unit of chemical
company  Alfa SAB (ALFAA) , is seeking to raise as much as 11.2 billion
pesos ($853 million) in what would be  Mexico ’s biggest initial
public offering.  The company, based in San Pedro Garza Garcia, will sell as
many as 379.8 million shares at 27.50 to 31.50 pesos apiece,
according to a  filing  with Mexico’s stock exchange today. The
shares, which will trade under the symbol ALPEK, are scheduled
to be sold on April 25.  OHL Mexico SAB (OHLMEX*)  had the largest Mexican IPO in November 2010
when it raised 9.7 billion pesos. Alpek’s share sale is the
first announced this year in Mexico, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The chemical maker plans to meet with foreign
investors beginning today in an effort to boost demand.  An Alpek team is meeting with investors in  London  today,
and meetings in Mexico and the U.S. will begin April 16, said
Ramon Leal, Alfa’s chief financial officer. The public offer
gives Alpek “the opportunity to have more independence to
pursue the projects that have been presenting themselves,” he
said.  The sale “will allow Alpek to expand quicker in
international markets such as in  Asia ,” said Pablo Duarte de Leon, an analyst with Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City.
Investors didn’t have many options in the chemical sector in
Mexico’s exchange and Alpek will be a good alternative, Duarte
de Leon said.  Revenue Rises  Alpek is Alfa’s largest unit, accounting for half of Alfa’s
$14.7 billion of sales last year.  Alpek has 20 plants in three countries and makes polyesters
used in garments and expandable polystyrene that can be used as
packing material. It had sales of $7.3 billion last year,
according to its  website . First-quarter revenue rose 13 percent
to $1.1 billion amid higher polyester sales in  North America ,
the company said in a separate filing today.  Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG
and Morgan Stanley are managing the share sale.  Alfa rose 3.4 percent, the most since Jan. 18, to 186.80
pesos at the close in Mexico City.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  