-- Lan Safest Airline Stock Again After Tam Buy: Riskless Return
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-11T20:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/lan-safest-airline-stock-again-after-tam-buy-riskless-return.html
Lan (LAN)  Airlines SA regained its status
as the best airline stock when adjusting for volatility, a
distinction it lost after agreeing to buy  Tam SA (TAMM4)  almost two
years ago, on prospects that a foothold in Brazil will fuel
earnings growth.  Lan, the world’s safest airline investment over the past
decade, returned 1.3 percent in the first quarter this year when
adjusting for volatility, the best among 32 major airlines,
according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING.  Tam SA (TAM) , the
world’s most volatile airline stock in the decade before the
deal was announced, moved up to third place. Lan and Tam plan to
start a share swap this month after securing antitrust and
shareholder approvals for the $3.8 billion transaction, which
will form the world’s biggest air carrier by market value.  Lan has outperformed peers in developed markets by
leveraging higher economic growth and less competition in Latin
America to post 18 straight years of annual profits. The
Santiago-based carrier slumped to 13th spot on the riskless
ranking in the period from August 2010, when the Tam transaction
was announced, through to the end of last year.  “There should be some decent upside from the idea that Lan
can bring Tam in and get it operating at a similar kind of
level,” said  Nick Robinson , who manages $15 billion of Latin
American shares at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  in Sao Paulo.
“Combined with that there should be more benefits of scale and
a much larger market share in the region to help them.”  Beating Aeroflot  Copa Holdings SA (CPA) , based in Panama City, gave the second-
best risk-adjusted return among major airlines in the first
quarter with 1.2 percent and took third spot in the past decade
behind OAO Aeroflot,  Russia ’s biggest carrier.  The Lan-Tam deal will create the world’s 12th largest
carrier by revenue and would be the biggest acquisition of an
airline in at least two decades, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The combination would have a market value of about
$13 billion, overtaking Air  China  Ltd. and  Singapore Airlines
Ltd. (SIA)  as the world’s biggest air carrier. LATAM will have a
 network  of 120 destinations in 23 countries.  Lan won over  Chile ’s antitrust tribunal in September and
Brazilian regulators in December, for a deal that will give it
almost half of routes in Brazil. With Tam, Lan is gaining an
airline that is 39 percent larger by sales and will give it one
of the leading positions in the world’s seventh-largest economy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tam (TAMM4)  posted revenue of
$7.8 billion last year compared with Lan’s $5.6 billion.  Sole Controller  Juan Cueto  and his sons Ignacio, Enrique and Juan Jose
entered the  airline industry  in 1978 through freight carrier
Fast Air. They became Lan’s controlling shareholders in a pact
with entrepreneur-turned-politician Sebastian Pinera after the
government sold its remaining shares and Scandinavian Airlines
Systems offloaded its stake in 1994.  During the next 15 years, the Cuetos and Pinera turned Lan
into a $6 billion carrier with service in 17 countries and units
in  Peru ,  Argentina  and  Ecuador . When Pinera was elected
president of Chile in January 2010, the Cuetos were one of the
buyers of his Lan shares, agreeing to pay about $500 million for
an 8.6 percent stake. Today the family is Lan’s sole controller
with a 34 percent stake.  Modern Fleet  A greater emphasis on cargo services and a more modern
fleet helped make Lan more profitable than North American peers.
Since 2002 Lan’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization margin has averaged 15 percent, compared with
the 12 percent average among North American airlines, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a highly skilled, very strategic and forward looking
management team,” said  Robert Mann , president of consultant
R.W. Mann & Co. in  Port Washington ,  New York . “They’ve been
able to diversify not only by acquisition but by alliance so the
result has been a nice trajectory in earnings and share price.”  Lan operates a fleet of 135 passenger aircraft and 14
dedicated freighters, while Tam has 156 planes, according to a
joint statement distributed in January.  In the past decade through March, Lan stock returned 2,380
percent, before adjusting for price swings. The next biggest
return among major airlines in that period is Aeroflot with 344
percent. The outperformance has helped push Lan’s share price to
30 times reported profit, compared with an average ratio of 15
among global peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.|  ‘Among the Highest’  While an attractive operating environment and strong
controlling shareholders have helped the stock, Lan’s valuation
is “among the highest in the world,” said George Ferguson, a
senior aerospace analyst for Bloomberg Industries. “It’s more
than you would have to pay for some of the fastest-growing
airlines in China,” he said.  Lan’s communications department didn’t immediately respond
to requests for comment made by telephone and e-mail.  Brazil  was the missing element for Lan given that country’s
foreign ownership restrictions. Because Brazilian law caps
foreign capital in airlines at 20 percent, Tam controlling
shareholders will retain 80 percent of the voting stock while
Lan will have about 70 percent of the combined carrier,  LATAM
Airlines Group  SA.  Investors will get 0.9 Lan share for each Tam share held in
an exchange expected to begin later this month and conclude in
May, Ignacio Cueto, currently chief operating officer of Lan,
said March 7. His brother Enrique will become chief executive of
LATAM, while Tam’s Mauricio Rolim Amaro will be chairman. Both
airlines would continue operating separately with their own
brands.  ‘Lot of Faith’  “There’s a lot of faith that all the synergies they
identified will be realized in short order,” Nicolai Sebrell,
an airlines analyst with Morgan Stanley said from Sao Paulo.
“And why not? This is the best operator in the region.”  The size of the acquisition relative to the size of Lan has
added to the usual implementation risks, said Mann.  “It’s kind of drinking out of the fire hose,” he said.
“You can drown if you’re not careful.  Brazil’s middle class reached 54 percent of the population
of 191 million last year from 34 percent in 2005, according to a
study published in March by Cetelem BGN Research and Ipsos,
which said the average middle class monthly income was 1,450
reais ($777). Annual economic growth in  Latin America  has
averaged 4.1 percent since 2005 compared with 2.4 percent
globally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Lan has posted annual profits since 1994 and turned
quarterly profits throughout the global financial crisis, Tam
has had annual losses in two of the last four years because of
increased competition and higher fuel prices.  ‘Less Volatile’  The companies plan to develop the cargo business from
Brazil. They estimate savings from the tie-up at $600 million to
$700 million four years after completing the transaction.  “I would anticipate and hope that some of the management
expertise on the Lan side would be able to supplement the Tam
side, with the result being a less volatile more rational
overall network,” Mann said.  Shares of Tam, which also has  American depositary receipts 
in the U.S., ended at 44.53 reais in  Sao Paulo  today, while
Lan’s agreement is valued at 47.28 reais a share.  The extra yield investors demand to buy Tam’s 9.5 percent
U.S. dollar bonds due in 2020 instead of U.S. Treasuries fell
118 basis points, or 1.18 percentage point, to 691 basis points
on Aug. 16, 2010 from 809 basis points on Aug. 12, 2010, the day
before the merger was announced, according to Trace, the bond
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The spread has since widened 10 basis points to 701
basis points on April 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  