-- Anglo Has Power-Line Permit for Minas-Rio Project Suspended
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-04-11T16:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/anglo-has-power-line-permit-for-minas-rio-project-suspended-1-.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the mining
company with operations from  Africa  to Chile, had a license for
a power line at its Minas-Rio iron-ore  project  in  Brazil 
suspended.  A Minas Gerais state court suspended the license required
to install the line, according to an e-mailed statement by the
state prosecutor’s office sent today. Prosecutor Francisco
Chaves Generoso told the court in a civil lawsuit that Anglo
failed to fulfill some of the conditions to obtain the permit,
according to the statement.  Mining companies in Brazil, the world’s second-largest
iron-ore exporter, are facing labor shortages and environmental-
permit delays. Anglo, which has had time and budget overruns
since Minas Rio was bought in 2008, last month suspended work
for three days after a regional court  ordered  it to halt parts
of the project to avoid endangering the area’s artistic and
cultural heritage.  The permit to build a power-transmission line was the last
“big license” required for the iron-ore project before the
company applies for authorization to start operating the mine
and processing unit, Anglo said on March 16, when it obtained
the license.  Power Line  Anglo hasn’t been served notice of the injunction and the
company has followed all legal requirements for the
environmental licensing of the Minas-Rio project, James Wyatt-
Tilby, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  Anglo  gained  1.1 percent to 2,225 pence at the close in
 London  today.  The iron-ore project, which includes a mine, processing
plant and 326-mile (525-kilometer) pipeline to Acu port in  Rio
de Janeiro  state, will have an initial capacity of 26.5 million
metric tons a year. London-based Anglo expects to make the first
shipment in the second half of 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ; 