-- Syria Vows to Abide By UN Cease-Fire That Starts Tomorrow
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-04-11T17:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/annan-warns-of-unimaginable-outcome-to-syria-conflict.html
Syria’s government told the  United
Nations  it will abide by a cease-fire that begins tomorrow
morning, though it reserves the right to respond to any attacks.  The statement today came after  Kofi Annan , the UN and Arab
League special envoy, warned that failure to agree to the cease-
fire would have serious repercussions for the region and called
for increased international pressure on the government of
President Bashar al-Assad to end the conflict.  Syrian forces will “cease all military fighting” as of 6
a.m. Damascus time, according to a letter from the foreign
minister released by Annan’s office in Geneva. Syria reserves
“the right to respond proportionately to any attacks carried
out by armed terrorist groups against civilians, government
forces or public and private property.”  Assad’s government failed to meet a UN deadline yesterday
to withdraw forces from flashpoints across the country after
saying on April 8 that it wouldn’t do so without written
guarantees from rebels it labels as “armed terrorist groups.”
The UN estimated about two weeks ago that more than 9,000 people
have been killed in the conflict, now in its second year.  Government forces today used helicopters, tanks, heavy
machine guns and mortars in Homs in central  Syria  and carried
out raids in Deir al-Zour, killing two people, while fighting
continued outside Damascus, the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights said in e-mailed statements. The army killed 30 people
today, Al Jazeera television reported, citing activists.
Government forces killed at least 38 people yesterday, the U.K.-
based observatory said.  No Comprehensive Cease-Fire  “On both sides, it will be difficult to adhere to any form
of comprehensive cease-fire across Syria,” said Ayham Kamel,
Washington-based Middle East analyst at Eurasia Group. “There
are significant challenges for Assad being able to control the
military across the country, particularity as some rebels will
continue to attack. It is unlikely that we’ll see any form of
significant troop withdrawal from key areas.”  Free Syria Army commander Riad al-Asaad told Al Jazeera
television by telephone that his group, composed primarily of
army defectors, has “expressed a commitment to the initiative”
to halt the fighting. “Since yesterday we have ceased fire, and
we did not fire a single bullet,” he said.  ‘Day of Reckoning’  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the UN  Security
Council  must “throw its full weight behind Annan’s plan and
insist on it being implemented.” The conflict threatens
regional peace and there will be “a day of reckoning for
Assad’s crimes,” Cameron said at a news conference in Jakarta
today before the Syrian announcement.  Annan told reporters in Tehran that “any error can have
unimaginable consequences.” He said  Iran ’s government told him
it supports his six-point plan for an end to violence.  Annan’s plan called for Assad’s forces to stop firing heavy
weapons and begin withdrawing from populated areas by yesterday.
The armed opposition is supposed to respond by laying down its
weapons by 6 a.m. Damascus time tomorrow.  Syria’s main opposition group, the Syrian National Council,
said 1,000 people have been killed by government forces in the
past eight days. Assad originally agreed on April 2 to withdraw
troops from populated areas.  Governments including the U.S., the European Union,  Japan 
and  Canada  have imposed trade sanctions against Assad’s family
and Syrian officials that include travel bans and asset freezes
in a bit to step up pressure on the government.  Russian Role  Pressure has also been mounting on  Russia  to back stronger
action against Syria after Assad failed to meet the earlier
deadline. Russia has wielded its veto power on the Security
Council, the UN’s decision-making body, to protect Syria from
efforts by Western powers and their Arab allies to impose
sanctions against Assad’s regime and call on him to step down.  “The Russians have continuously said they want to avoid
civil war, they want to avoid a regional conflict,” Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday at the U.S. Naval
Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland . “But their refusal to join with
us in some sort of constructive action is keeping Assad in
power, well-armed, able to ignore the demands of his own people
of his region and the world.”  Western powers said they are weighing their next steps at
the Security Council, which alone has the power to impose
sanctions and binding resolutions. U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice,
who holds the presidency of the council, said yesterday that the
“logical next step” would be to increase pressure on the Assad
regime through collective action.  U.K. Foreign Minister  William Hague  said yesterday that the
process would begin “of seeking the referral by the Security
Council of the situation in Syria to the  International Criminal
Court .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  