-- AOL, Mitek, Nike, Stein Mart, Printex: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-11T11:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/aol-mitek-nike-stein-mart-printex-intellectual-property.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  investor  Starboard Value
LP (STAVOLP)  said the sale of patents to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  doesn’t go far
enough in solving the Internet company’s problems, urging it to
find new ways to extract value from its advertising business.  Starboard asked AOL to return more cash to shareholders and
reiterated plans to nominate candidates for AOL’s board,
according to a letter from the investor to New York-based AOL
today. Starboard first announced its plan to nominate five
directors in February.  AOL said April 9 it agreed to sell more than 800 patents to
Microsoft and license others in a transaction valued at $1.06
billion, triggering its biggest stock gain in more than two
years. The company’s revenue has dropped 29 percent since it was
spun off from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in late 2009, putting it under
pressure from shareholders such as Starboard that say it needs
to find ways to generate more revenue from its assets.  “The announced sale of the patents does little to address
our serious concerns with the company’s poor operating
performance and substantial losses in the display business,”
Jeffrey C. Smith, Starboard’s co-founder and chief executive
officer, said in the letter. “Management and the board have
been unable to meaningfully improve profitability in the display
business and unwilling to consider alternative strategies.”  Maureen Sullivan , an AOL spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Starboard, which owns about 5.3 percent of AOL, estimates
the company’s display-advertising business is losing more than
$500 million a year, including $150 million in Patch, a
distributor of local news. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, excluding losses from the display
business, would have been $932.5 million in 2011, compared with
the less than $400 million AOL reported, Smith said.  The New York-based firm also called for AOL to change a
“dismal track record of capital allocation,” after the company
said it would return a “significant portion” of the patent
sale proceeds to shareholders.  “We do not understand why the company would only return a
‘significant portion,’” Smith said. “Why wouldn’t the company
simply return all of the proceeds?”  Mitek Systems Says It Will Fight USAA Patent Infringement Suit  Mitek Systems Inc. (MITK) , the software developer that has fallen
by half since a customer accused it of misappropriating check-
imaging technology, said it has the resources to fight the
lawsuit filed last month by insurer USAA.  Mitek Systems has “sufficient resources to pursue this
aggressively,” Chief Executive Officer James DeBello said in an
interview April 9. The San Diego-based company continues to work
with San Antonio-based USAA, he said. “We are a core part of
the key product offering.”  Mitek’s shares have fallen in each of the eight trading
days since March 29, when USAA, which also provides banking and
retirement services, filed a federal fraud suit against Mitek.  USAA said it invented the technology to permit customers to
use their mobile phones to deposit checks and that Mitek
“misappropriated” the information while working under
contract.  Mitek Systems will probably have to settle with USAA
because it can’t afford a drawn-out legal dispute, Bhavan Suri,
an analyst with William Blair & Co. in  Chicago , said in an April
3 research note. Mitek had $17.5 million in cash and equivalents
as of Dec. 31, according to a regulatory filing.  Mitek Systems has signed eight of the 10 largest banks in
the U.S. to use its applications that permit users to remotely
deposit checks using their smartphone cameras, DeBello said.  “Mitek invented this technology,” DeBello said, saying
the company has the patents to prove its case. “As an innovator
of this technology and in the market the longest, we have
created the gold standard.”  Closely held USAA, also known as United Services Automobile
Association, has 8.8 million customers. The company has been
using the technology since 2006, a spokesman, Paul Berry, said
by telephone. Mitek Systems was helping with “a small
portion,” he said.  USAA provides less than 10 percent of Mitek’s revenue,
DeBello said. Analysts had estimated Mitek would almost double
its sales to $19.4 million this fiscal year from $10.3 million
in the year that ended Sept. 30, 2011.  The patent suit, filed March 29, alleges Mitek infringed
five parents, all covering methods and systems for mobile image
capture and the processing of checks.  The case is United Services Automobile Association v. Mitek
Systems Inc., 5:12-cv-00282-FB, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Texas  (San Antonio).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Nike Suit Ends With Reebok Ordered to Recall Tebow Jerseys  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s  Reebok International (RBK)  must recall  New York  Jets
jerseys and T-shirts with quarterback  Tim Tebow ’s name on them,
a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in  Manhattan  signed an
order April 9 closing a suit filed by  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and ordering
that Reebok offer to buy back jerseys in retail stores and
recall any jerseys under its control.  Reebok’s licensing agreement with the National Football
League ended March 31, and Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike this
month became the official supplier of licensed NFL apparel. Nike
sued March 27 to block Reebok from selling the jerseys, which
were sold after Tebow’s trade to the Jets.  Castel’s order was issued with the agreement of both sides.
Court papers referred to a settlement agreement that wasn’t
immediately available. Castel had issued orders blocking Reebok
from selling the jerseys as the case progressed.  Nike spokeswoman Mary Remuzzi and Daniel Sarro, a Reebok
spokesman, said in e-mailed statements that the companies are
“pleased to have reached a mutually agreeable resolution.”  Lawyers for Canton, Massachusetts-based Reebok had argued
that the company had the right to sell the jerseys and T-shirts
under a sell-off provision of its licensing agreement with
 Players Inc. (MMMS) , the marketing affiliate of the National Football
League Players Association.  Tebow, 24, helped lead the Denver Broncos to the NFL
playoffs after taking over as the team’s starting quarterback
last year. He was traded to the Jets on March 21.  Tebow, a Christian who prays on the field after his team
wins, was named the most popular professional athlete in the
U.S. in an ESPN poll this year. His Broncos jersey was the
second-highest selling of all NFL players last season, Nike said
in the complaint. Public reaction to Tebow’s sudden popularity
has been called “Tebow mania.”  The case is Nike Inc. v. Reebok International Ltd., 12-
cv-2275, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Stein Mart Accused of Infringing ‘Families Are Like Quilts’ Poem  Stein Mart Inc. (SMRT) , the Jacksonville, Florida-based retail
chain, was sued for copyright infringement by a Texas resident.  Renee Baker, of Chandler, Texas, sued Stein Mart, and
several others for infringing the copyright to a poem she wrote
in 1989. She incorporated her poem, “Families Are Like
Quilts,” into a stitchery project and sells a pattern for the
stitchery artwork with the poem.  Stein Mart is accused of selling a pillow that contains “a
substantial portion” of her poem. This is done without
authorization, she claims, and asked the court to halt this
activity.  Additionally, she seeks awards of profits related to the
alleged infringement, money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs and asked that the court the destruction of all
infringing products and promotional materials.  Stein Mart didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Baker is represented by  Daniel Vance Thompson  of the Law
office of Daniel V. Thompson PC of Dallas.  She has also  placed a notice  on  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s auction website
noting that from time to time items are placed for sale on that
site containing lines from her poem without authorization. She
said that auctions violating copyright are subject to
cancellation regardless of whether the infringement is
intentional. EBay is not a party to this suit.  The case is Baker v. K&K Interiors, 6:12-cv-00251, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  Printex Gets Another Chance Against Aeropostale in Suit  L.A. Printex Industries Inc., a fabric company that has
filed more than 200 copyright infringement cases in the past
decade, persuaded a federal appeals court to give its suit
against a clothing manufacturer another chance.  Vernon, California-based Printex sued  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  in
federal court in  Los Angeles  in October 2008, alleging that the
New York-based clothing manufacturer was selling shirts made
from fabric that infringed one of Printex’s designs.  The trial court granted Aeropostal’s request to dismiss the
case, finding that there was no genuine issue of copying.  Printex then filed an appeal with the 9th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeal. In its April 9 ruling, the appeals court said
the lower court had erred in not finding copying.  Writing for the court, Judge Ronald M. Gould said that the
Printex design was widely enough distributed and the design in
the Aeropostale shirts were similar enough that a jury could
find that the design was copied.  The case was sent back to the trial court for further
proceedings.  The lower court case is L.A. Printex Industries Inc. v.
Aeropostale, 2:08-cv-07085-DDP-E, U.S. District Court, Central
District of  California  (Los Angeles).  Russia ’s Interior Ministry Considers ISPs’ Role in Piracy, Porn  Efforts to document the distribution of pirated and
pornographic content are being made by the cybercrime department
of Russia’s Interior Ministry, the Moscow Times  reported .  The investigation is being carried out countrywide, with
results to be released within a month, an official of the cyber-
crime department told the Moscow Times.  One of the aims of the investigation is to pressure
Internet service providers to take responsibility for their
customers’ illegal activity, the newspaper reported.  Those who violate IP rights or distribute child pornography
can face a six-year prison sentence if convicted, according to
the Moscow Times.  Republic of Fritz Hansen, a Danish furniture maker, has
taken a novel approach in its battle against copycat designs.  The Allerod, Denmark-based company is the maker of the
“Series 7” chair, made from steel and bent laminated wood. The
design, which premiered in 1955, is one of the most copied in
the world, the San Francisco Chronicle reported.  Instead of filing a copyright infringement suit, the
company posted a video on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing
site March 22. The video shows several chairs labeled
“knockoff” and one with a sign that says “Fritz Hansen
Original.”  In an effort to prove the inferiority of the knockoffs, a
man turns each chair upside down and jumps on the curve
connecting the chair back to the seat. Each “knockoff”
shatters under the assault, while the original chair withstands
multiple attempts to break it.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 