-- Apatow’s ‘Girls’ Has Sex, City, Heart; No ‘Trust’: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/apatow-s-girls-has-sex-city-heart-no-trust-review.html
“I think I might be the voice of my
generation,” says Hannah, the heart and soul of  HBO (TWX) ’s
exceptional new comedy “Girls.”  Two years out of college, with nothing to show but a few
pages of her  Brooklyn  memoir and the unpaid internship she calls
a job, she’s come begging her fed-up parents for money.  Played by “Girls” creator, writer and frequent director Lena
Dunham, Hannah probably isn’t that voice. But Dunham has a real
shot.  The director of 2010’s indie film darling “ Tiny Furniture ,”
Dunham has set her series in hipster Brooklyn, but the sharp,
naturalistic “Girls” couldn’t be further from the cartoon
terrain of “2 Broke Girls” and “New Girl.”  The young women of “Girls” are smothered by  student loans 
and grim job prospects. They’re articulate in the language of
love without quite understanding their feelings.  Mostly, though, they navigate a  New York  of cramped
apartments and unending compromise. In other words, the real
world, where Hannah’s plea for a “thrifty” monthly allowance of
$1,100 isn’t a punch line.  Hannah herself is a TV rarity. A bit overweight,
forthrightly sexual, and with no more or less than her fair
share of self-esteem issues, Hannah can take a clueless sex
partner’s attempt at flattery--“You’re not that fat anymore”--
without dissolving into sitcom panic.  Tangle of Doubt  Hannah’s gorgeous roommate and best friend Marnie (Allison
Williams) also up-ends expectations. She has a model’s figure, a
real job and a cute boyfriend (Chris Abbott). Beneath the
perfection, she’s a tangle of doubt -- and a steadfast friend.  Despite an onscreen shout-out to “The Mary Tyler Moore
Show,” Marnie and Hannah are no Mary and Rhoda. Dunham has
written characters so nuanced and honest they feel utterly new.  The series (produced by Dunham,  Judd Apatow  and Jenni
Konner) unerringly captures life between adolescence and
adulthood.  Hannah, getting an HIV test, thinks she’s being
sophisticated when she tells her doctor that she doesn’t care if
she tests positive for the now-manageable condition.  “That’s an incredibly silly thing to say,” the doctor shoots
back.  Rounding out the quartet of girlfriends are Jessa (Jemima
Kirke), a British bohemian with a bit of a mean streak, and her
American cousin Shoshanna (Zosia Mamet), a 21-year-old virgin
obsessed with “Sex and the City.”  In the “Girls” universe, nothing is quite so uncool as that
dated ‘90s fantasy of Jimmy Choos and glitzy Manhattan
nightclubs. The new generation has moved in.  “Girls” airs Sunday on  HBO  at 10:30 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ****  ‘Don’t Trust’  ABC’s (DIS)  gal-buddy sitcom “Don’t Trust the B---- in Apartment
23” has the great misfortune of debuting the same week as
“Girls.”  But bad timing can’t be blamed for everything. Derivative,
sophomoric and full of smug pop culture references, “B----” (the
dashes are official) is exactly what “Girls” isn’t.  Dreama Walker plays June, a fair-haired Wall Streeter who
holds on to her Midwestern naivete longer than she does her job.
Answering a Craigslist ad, she moves in with Chloe (Krysten
Ritter), the raven-tressed, club-hopping B of the title.  The odd-couple jokes are tired, and even the gimmick of a
celebrity playing himself -- James Van Der Beek -- has been done
better (Matt LeBlanc’s “Episodes”). By the third or fourth
“Dawson’s Creek” joke, “B----” has overplayed its meager hand.  “Don’t Trust the B---- in Apartment 23” airs today on ABC at
9:30 p.m. New York time. Rating: *1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Today's Muse highlights: Philip Boroff on “Wicked”’s 
profits; Katya Kazakina on New York women gallerists; Robert 
Heller on Florence + the Machine; Richard Vines on London 
restaurant Dabbous.  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 