-- Apple, Bofa Settlement, Facebook, Cordray Speech: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-04-11T11:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/apple-bofa-settlement-facebook-cordray-speech-compliance.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and the publisher
Macmillan could be sued as soon as today by the U.S.  Justice
Department  over alleged collusion in the pricing of e-books,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Apple and Macmillan, which have refused to engage in
settlement talks with the Justice Department, deny they colluded
to raise prices for digital books, the people said. In an
antitrust case, they will argue that pricing agreements between
Apple and publishers enhanced competition in the e-book
industry, which was dominated by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   The Justice Department is probing how Cupertino,
California-based Apple changed the way publishers charged for e-
books on the iPad, a person familiar with the matter said last
month. The Justice Department’s antitrust division told Apple
and five publishers that it’s preparing to sue them for
allegedly fixing the prices of electronic books, a person
familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News March 8.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster, Lagardère SCA’s Hachette Book
Group and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins are seeking to avoid a
costly legal battle and could reach a settlement as soon as
today, two people familiar with the matter said.  The U.S. is still leaving the door open for last-minute
settlement discussions this week, a person familiar with the
situation said.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department’s
antitrust division, and representatives of Apple, Simon &
Schuster, Hachette and Macmillan, which is a unit of
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, declined to comment on
prospects for lawsuits or settlements. Erin Crum, a spokeswoman
for HarperCollins didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and
phone call seeking comment.  In the Courts  N.Y. Renews Opposition to BofA $8.5 Billion Mortgage Accord  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  renewed his
opposition to  Bank of America Corp. ’s proposed $8.5 billion
mortgage-bond settlement, saying the deal covers “a small
fraction” of investor losses.  Schneiderman’s office asked a New York state judge
yesterday to allow it to intervene in the case, saying in a
court filing that there are “serious questions about the
fairness and adequacy of the proposed settlement.”  “The proposed cash payment represents only a tiny
percentage of the losses investors have faced and will continue
to face,” the attorney general said.  Schneiderman’s request comes after litigation over the
settlement was sent back to state court from federal court for
consideration. He previously raised objections to the agreement
and won approval from a federal judge to intervene and
participate in the case.  The settlement would resolve claims from investors in
 Countrywide Financial Corp. (CFC)  mortgage bonds.  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. , as trustee for investors, is seeking approval of
the deal in state court.  In a letter yesterday to  New York  State Justice Barbara Kapnick, who is overseeing the case, the attorney general’s
office said it has been unable to reach an agreement on the
intervention with other parties in the case.  In its court filing, the attorney general removed claims
first filed last year against BNY Mellon over its role as
trustee and will no longer pursue them as part of the
Countrywide settlement, Danny Kanner, a spokesman for
Schneiderman, said.  “We have separated our affirmative claims from our
intervention motion, and intend to aggressively pursue the
state’s interest through every means available, including
further investigation and litigation if necessary,” Kanner
said.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the attorney general’s filing. Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for BNY Mellon, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The case is In the application of the Bank of New York
Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Checking Facebook at Work Isn’t Crime, Appeals Court Rules  Employees who check Facebook, shop online or send personal
e-mail from work in violation of their companies’ policies
aren’t committing a crime under a federal computer fraud law, a
U.S. appeals court said.  Yesterday’s decision came in a lawsuit in which federal
prosecutors charged a former  Korn/Ferry International (KFY)  employee
with trade secret theft and mail fraud and violations of the
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act for getting information from the
company’s database to start a competing business. Prosecutors
appealed a district court ruling throwing out the computer fraud
charges.  “Minds have wandered since the beginning of time and the
computer gives employees new ways to procrastinate” though
workers are rarely disciplined for such conduct, wrote Judge
Alex Kozinski for a majority of appeals court judges in  San
Francisco . “Under a broad interpretation of the CFAA, such
minor dalliances would become federal crimes.”  Kozinski cited a Florida case in which an employee suing
her company for wrongful termination was countersued by the
employer for violations of the CFAA because she checked Facebook
and sent personal e-mails at work. The employee would have had
to face the claims if the anti-hacker CFAA, which punishes an
individual who “exceeds authorized access” on a computer for
stealing, was construed to include violations of company
computer use policies, Kozinski said.  A federal court had dismissed the company’s counterclaims
in the Florida case.  Dan Gugler, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Korn/Ferry,
didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment
on yesterday’s ruling.  “The decision leaves intact the ability of the government
to prosecute someone for getting into a computer they don’t have
permission to get into,” said Dennis Riordan, an attorney for
David Nosal, the Korn/Ferry employee. “What it prevents from
happening is people getting prosecuted from watching March
Madness at work.”  The case against the ex-Korn/Ferry worker is U.S. v Nosal,
10-10038, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco).  Compliance Policy  FTC Reveals Schedule For Reviewing Regulations and Guides  The Federal Trade Commission on April 6 unveiled its
updated 10-year schedule for the systematic review of all
current rules and guides, BNA reports. The commission last year
accelerated its regulatory review program and under that
schedule, more than one-third of its 65 rules and industry
guides will undergo a review by the end of 2012. The FTC is
reviewing 22 rules and guides, and will begin three more reviews
this year to ensure that its rules and guides are timely,
effective, and “not overly burdensome.”  The review program has been in place at the FTC since 1992.
The agency stressed the importance of rules and guides in its
consumer protection mission, but acknowledged the need for
periodic review of the rules and guides.  For more,  click here.   Compliance Action  Gupta Prosecutors Add One Alleged Tip Claim to Prosecution  Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
charged with passing inside tips to convicted Galleon Group Inc.
co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , faces a new claim involving a
quarterly sales forecast for  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , U.S.
prosecutors said in a court filing.  Prosecutors filed an amended bill of particulars yesterday
providing details about the alleged tips they plan to prove
Gupta provided in their case against him.  Gupta tipped Rajaratnam and their unnamed co-conspirators
about “P&G’s organic sales growth forecast for the October-
December quarter prior to P&G’s public announcement on or about
Dec. 11, 2008,” according to the filing in federal court in
Manhattan.  Gupta, the one-time McKinsey & Co. leader, was charged by
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office in October. He
pleaded not guilty and is scheduled to go on trial May 21.  “As we have stated from the onset, the government’s
allegations are totally baseless,” Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary
Naftalis , said in a statement yesterday. “The facts in this
case demonstrate that Mr. Gupta is innocent of all of these
charges, and that he has always acted with honesty and
integrity.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-907, U.S. District Court,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Speeches  Consumer Bureau Plans Broader Rules for Mortgage Servicers  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will propose
rules for the mortgage servicing industry that go beyond the
March 12 agreement among state and federal authorities and major
banks.  The servicing settlement was “an important step forward on
the road to renewal,” CFPB Director  Richard Cordray  said
yesterday in a  Washington  speech. “But it was only a partial
step, as it covered only certain financial institutions and only
certain categories of the mortgage loans that they service.”  The consumer bureau would require servicers to disclose key
information on monthly statements, give clear warnings before
 interest rates  adjust, warn consumers before taking out hazard
insurance on their homes, and credit payments immediately, the
agency said in a fact sheet posted on its website. The rules
will be formally proposed “this summer,” and completed by
January, according to the fact sheet.  The $25 billion settlement with five banks, including  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , was filed in federal court
in Washington on March 12. The agreement, which ended a joint
federal-state investigation that began in 2010, doesn’t cover
mortgage loans backed by government-sponsored enterprises, such
as  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac.  Cordray, who was Ohio attorney general when the inquiry
began, said the settlement didn’t cover “the many independent
servicers that specialize in the servicing of subprime or
delinquent loans.” Those servicers include companies such as
 Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)   The bureau will also propose regulations on mortgage
servicing that go beyond the requirements in the Dodd-Frank law
that created the agency, according to the fact sheet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 