-- Apple, Publishers Seek to End EU E-books Antitrust Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-11T17:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/apple-and-publishers-seek-to-end-eu-ebooks-antitrust-prob.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest
technology company, and four publishers may be able to settle a
European Union probe into digital book sales similar to one that
resulted in a U.S. lawsuit.  Apple, CBS Corp.’s Simon & Schuster,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Harper
Collins, Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan
unit and  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre sent “possible
commitments” to the European Commission, EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in an e-mailed statement
today. The EU will review the offers with competitors to see if
they would address antitrust issues.  The U.S. Department of Justice sued Apple, Macmillan and
 Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin in New York today, claiming the publishers
colluded to fix eBook prices.  Simon & Schuster , Hachette and
HarperCollins reached settlements with the DOJ.  “We are currently engaged in fruitful discussions with
them, without prejudice to the outcome of these talks,” Almunia
said. “We will assess any final proposals of commitments and we
will test them with third parties in order to check whether they
are sufficient to preserve competition for the benefit of
consumers in this fast-growing market.”  The European Commission opened a probe into Cupertino,
California-based Apple, the four publishers and Penguin in
December to examine the iPad-maker’s deals with publishers and
the publishers’ deals with retailers.  ‘Productive Discussions’  “We are in active and productive discussions” with the EU,
Adam Rothberg, a spokesman for Simon & Schuster in  New York ,
said in an e-mail.  Penguin wasn’t mentioned in the EU statement on the
possible settlement. Charles Goldsmith, a spokesman for Pearson
in  London , declined to immediately comment.  Tanya Ridd, a spokeswoman for Apple in London, declined to
comment. Siobhan Kenny, a spokeswoman for HarperCollins in
London, declined to comment because the company is still
negotiating details of the settlement with regulators.
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck declined to immediately
comment.  Hachette didn’t immediately respond to phone calls and e-
mails.  PricewaterhouseCoopers  said last year that European e-book
sales have been sluggish, partly due to the small range of non-
English titles and fixed price agreements between publishers and
stores in 13 countries. Almunia has said he wants to fight
“artificial restrictions imposed by some companies to cross-
border trade” and was examining the way e-books are
distributed.  Apple previously settled an EU antitrust case in 2009 by
agreeing to reduce prices for U.K. iTunes music downloads and
was probed over restrictions on iPhone applications in a case
the EU closed last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 