-- ArcelorMittal, Tata Share 839 Million Euro CO2 Windfall in 2011
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-04-11T16:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/arcelormittal-tata-share-839-million-euro-co2-windfall-in-2011.html
ArcelorMittal and  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) 
shared a 839 million euro ($1.1 billion) windfall of European
Union carbon permits last year, after needing fewer than they
were given for free.  The two steel companies, which are among  Europe ’s 20
biggest carbon-dioxide emitters, held 62.4 million spare
emissions permits between them, according to preliminary
European Union data compiled by Bloomberg. Carbon permits for
2011 were worth an average of 13.45 euros in their last 12
months of trading on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London .  Europe’s flagging economy sapped demand for metals, cement
and power. That increased an oversupply of allowances held by
companies. The entire carbon program had 2.1 billion euros worth
of spare allowances last year, according to Bloomberg
calculations. Factories and power stations got 153 million more
emissions permits than needed. Emissions dropped 2.5 percent
across Europe, according to the data.  “This decrease in CO2 emissions surprised most analysts
and might be due to the economic stagnation in Europe,” Cedric
Bleuez, managing director at Carbon Market Data in Paris, said
today in a statement. That’s “combined with the effect of
 energy efficiency  and renewable energy policies,” which reduces
emissions from power generation, he said.  ArcelorMittal Surplus Rises  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s surplus rose 47 percent to 47.3 million
permits last year. The company has had the highest surplus out
of all the installations in the program since trading started in
2005. Almost 13,000 factories and power stations in Europe must
comply with the bloc’s emissions trading system by handing in
carbon permits each year.  The program’s second phase, which operated in the five
years through 2012, distributed free allowances to help
companies manage their costs. Those free allowances will be
reduced from next year. Any spare permits can be sold into the
market or saved for use in later years.  RWE AG (RWE)  and Vattenfall AB were the two biggest emitters last
year and were required to purchase the most allowances, the
preliminary data show.  RWE AG (RWE)  emitted 55 million metric tons of
carbon dioxide above its quota, which would have cost about 739
million euros at the average price, while Vattenfall produced 31
million tons more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  