-- Argentina May Buy Stake in YPF, Provincial Governor Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C r a z e   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-04-11T20:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/argentina-may-buy-stake-in-ypf-provincial-governor-says.html
Argentina may buy a stake in  YPF
SA (YPF) , the nation’s largest energy company, and give provincial
officials a seat on the board after disputes about oil
investment and production, a governor said.  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner may
announce the acquisition tomorrow after meeting with governors
of oil-producing provinces, Jorge Sapag, governor of Neuquen,
said in a  statement  posted on the provincial website today.
“The national government will probably want to manage” the
Buenos Aires-based company, Sapag said.  Six provinces have announced the withdrawal of 12 YPF
licenses to drill and produce oil since March 13. Fernandez’s
administration has put pressure on the company to increase
investment and production to curb Argentina’s fuel imports,
which doubled to $9.4 billion in 2011. The lost licenses
represent about 5 percent of YPF’s crude output, according to
the Argentine government.  YPF is  controlled  by  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,  Spain ’s largest energy
company, with a 57 percent stake. Argentina’s Eskenazi family
owns a 25 percent stake and operates the company. YPF declined
to comment.  Alfredo Scoccimarro, a spokesman for Fernandez, didn’t
immediately return a message left at his office seeking comment.  YPF fell 5 percent to 114.5 pesos at the close in  Buenos
Aires , the lowest price since June 2009. The shares have
declined 23 percent during the last seven trading days, compared
with a 5.8 percent decline in the benchmark Merval index.  News of the Argentine government’s plan to buy a stake in
YPF was reported earlier today by El Cronista. The Buenos Aires-
based newspaper didn’t say where it got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  