-- Asians on Record Building Spree in Australia’s Apartment Market
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-04-11T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/asians-on-record-building-spree-in-australia-s-apartment-market.html
Asian developers including  Fraser &
Neave Ltd. (FNN)  and  SP Setia Bhd. (SPSB)  are building a record number of
apartments in Australia, betting on a market where local
companies have been sidelined by tight financing.  Frasers Property Australia , a division of Singapore’s
third-biggest developer, is building a A$2 billion ($2.1
billion), 2,000-unit  project  in Sydney with  Japan ’s  Sekisui
House Ltd. (1928)  In Melbourne, Malaysia’s SP Setia is constructing the
two-tower Fulton Lane development and Hong Kong-based  Far East
Consortium International Ltd. (35)  is building the 2,600 apartment
Upper West Side complex.  Companies from outside Australia are building about 13,000
units, or 32 percent of the apartments being planned or built, a
record share, according to property broker CBRE Group Inc.
Backed by capital from their home countries, the groups are
moving deeper into the market even as prices decline, seeking an
advantage over local developers, who have been constrained by
lender demands for higher equity investments and that more units
be sold before construction is started.  “There’s still occupier demand for residential, and if the
local developers aren’t able to deliver, then that presents an
opportunity for overseas developers,” said Kevin Stanley,
Sydney-based  executive director  for global research at CBRE. The
foreign companies are “predominantly working alone, and many of
them have established operations here, which suggests that these
groups want to be here for the long term.”  Asian companies are responsible for more than 90 percent of
the apartments being developed by overseas firms, CBRE said.
Singaporean firms are constructing 37 percent of the foreign
projects, followed by 20 percent from  Hong Kong  and 12 percent
from Malaysia, the broker said.  Asian Dominance  Apartment prices have fared better than detached houses as
 Australia ’s  property market  retreated over the past year.
Apartment prices fell 2.5 percent across the nation’s eight
state capital cities in March from a year ago, less than the 4.7
percent decline for houses, according to Brisbane-based
researcher RP Data.  Approvals (AUBAC)  for building apartments and renovations slumped
16 percent in February from the previous month, while those for
detached homes dropped 3.4 percent, the statistics bureau said
on April 2.  A decline in apartment permits is partly the result of
limited access to financing following the global financial
crisis, the government’s National Housing Supply Council said in
its  State of Supply report  in December. With an increasing
number of single-person households and those without children,
demand for apartments is expected to outstrip demand for
detached houses, it said.  Rental Demand  About a quarter of Australian households are made up of
people living alone, the fastest-growing group, Melbourne-based
think tank Grattan Institute said in a  report  last month.  Even as  home prices  slide, demand for rental property is
climbing as potential buyers put off purchasing amid concerns
that the housing market is slowing. Apartments in Australia’s
eight capital cities had rental yields of 4.8 percent in March,
up from a low of 4.4 percent in September 2010, according to RP
Data. Rental yield is defined as the gross annual rental income
as a percentage of the purchase price. The rental vacancy rate
dropped 0.1 percentage point to 1.7 percent in February from
January,  SQM Research  numbers show.  Frasers Property Australia has A$3.5 billion of property
developments planned, including the 11-building Central Park
project in central Sydney, Chief Executive Officer Guy Pahor
said in October. The development is expected to create 255,000
square meters (2.7 million square feet) of floor space,
including shops and offices, at the former Kent Brewery site in
the inner suburb of Chippendale.  Sydney Outperforms  In Sydney, where Frasers is building 80 percent of its
projects, prices rose 1.1 percent in the three months ended
March 31, while the average across Australia’s eight capital
cities was unchanged, according to RP Data. Almost a quarter of
Sydney residents lived in apartments, compared with 13 percent
in Melbourne, 7.1 percent in Perth and 8.4 percent in Adelaide,
according to the statistics bureau.  Frasers and its partner Sekisui House Australia in October
arranged A$550 million in syndicated debt from Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
to fund the Central Park project. Frasers had been financing
development internally, with backing from its parent.  Kuala Lumpur-based SP Setia entered Australia in 2010,
purchasing the Fulton Lane site in Melbourne’s center with
capital from  Malaysia , Choong Kai Wai, the company’s Australian
chief executive officer, said in a phone interview.  Stringent Lenders  “Setia’s goal is to broaden our income base, so we looked
for locations that were near to universities and shopping
centers, with strong demographic growth,” Choong said from
Melbourne. “We want to eventually deal with Australian banks.
They’re knocking at our door.”  Banks have become more stringent in their lending to
developers, often requiring as much as 100 percent of units to
be sold before construction and deposits as high as 30 percent
of the project’s value, said Ross Griffiths, chief credit
officer at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . Still, there is an
appetite to extend loans, he said.  “If there’s demand for the property and it financially
stacks up, then there’s money available,” Griffiths said at a
conference in Sydney in March. “There are certainly
developments that are happening, by developers who are well
known to us, with a track record and pre-sales.”  In contrast, smaller developers are facing “stricter
collateral, covenant and pre-commitment requirements” than in
prior years, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said in its  Financial
Stability Review  on March 28.  Higher Costs  Australian developers also face higher borrowing costs than
their Asian counterparts.  Australand Property Group (ALZ) ’s weighted
average cost of debt was 8.1 percent as of Dec. 31,  Mirvac
Group (MGR) ’s was 7.4 percent, and Perth-based  Finbar Group Ltd. (FRI) ’s was
6 percent as of June 30, company statements show.  Fraser & Neave  said its average borrowing cost for the year
ended Sept. 30 was 3.23 percent. While Choong declined to
provide SP Setia’s borrowing costs in Malaysia, he said they
were lower than Australian firms.  The Australian central bank has left the overnight cash
rate target at 4.25 percent for the past three meetings.
Singapore’s three-month  interbank rate  was 0.40 percent
yesterday; Malaysia’s benchmark rate has been at 3 percent for
five months; and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, which doesn’t
have an independent interest-rate policy because of the local
currency’s peg to the  U.S. dollar , has kept its base rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent since December 2008.  Fulton Lane  “Developers, particularly in the medium-density, smaller
apartment blocks, are having real issues getting finance, even
with presales,” said Andrew Harvey, senior economist at the
Housing Industry Association in Sydney. The entry of overseas
groups “will be another difficulty in an already difficult
environment.”  SP Setia returned home to market the first tower at  Fulton
Lane  last July, selling 70 percent of the 28-story building’s
291 units, Choong said. Many buyers were investors seeking
rental returns or to house their children while in university,
he said.  The developer, which last month began pre-selling
apartments in the second, 45-story tower, has so far sold more
than a third of the 487 units in Australia and Malaysia, and is
planning sales campaigns in  Singapore ,  China  and elsewhere in
 Asia , Choong said. SP Setia has purchased a second piece of land
in South Yarra, a riverside Melbourne suburb about 5 kilometers
(3.1 miles) south-east of the city center, for a development it
plans to begin marketing in September, he said.  Melbourne Oversupply  Lending conditions are particularly tight for residential
developments in Melbourne, driven by concerns there will be an
oversupply, the RBA said last month.  Melbourne, where about 42 percent of the apartment projects
are being built by overseas groups according to CBRE, has seen
price declines exceed the national average.  Home prices in Melbourne fell 5.4 percent in March from a
year ago, compared with an average drop of 4.4 percent across
Australia’s capital cities, according to RP Data. The number of
homes up for sale in  Melbourne  rose 23 percent in March from a
year earlier, SQM Research numbers show.  Some international groups have “immersed themselves in the
speculative allure” of Australian property despite falling
prices, said David Lawson, director of the Center for Economic
Stability Incorporated, which was co-founded by Steve Keen,
author of the book “Debunking Economics.”  ‘Increasing Pressure’  “Right now, investors around the world are pursuing any
market potential for gains, and there are still many groups out
there promoting the Australian property market despite its
recent lack of performance,” he said. These investors “will
find themselves under increasing pressure in the coming
months.”  That hasn’t stopped Far East Consortium, which is
developing the A$1 billion, four-tower  Upper West Side  project
in Melbourne’s center, funding close to half the project with
equity from Hong Kong, and the remainder with local bank debt,
according to Craig Williams, the company’s Australian director.  Far East has sold almost the entire 700-unit first tower,
to be completed late this year, and more than 80 percent of the
second tower’s 584 apartments, Williams said.  More than two thirds of Upper West Side’s sales are to
Australian purchasers, Williams said. About half the buyers in
the first tower, and 65 percent in the second are investors,
said Lauren Sheldon, residential project marketing associate at
Colliers International, who is responsible for sales of the
Upper West Side apartments.  “We specifically target off-market sites that we believe
will have a certain market niche to them,” Williams said.
“Every three or four years, someone forecasts doom and gloom.
But we’ve sold and settled every apartment we’ve ever built.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  