-- Stocks Rise on Alcoa Results as Spanish Bonds, Euro Gain
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-11T20:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/asia-stocks-aussie-drop-on-europe-s-p-500-futures-gain.html
U.S. equities halted the longest
slump of the year and European stocks rebounded from a two-month
low as  Alcoa (AA)  Inc. opened the earnings season with an unexpected
profit. Spanish bonds rose as a European Central Bank official
signaled the ECB may revive its bond-purchase program.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.7 percent to close
at 1,368.71, snapping a five-day slump. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  climbed 89.46 points as Alcoa rallied 6.2 percent. The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.7 percent. The euro ended a five-
day drop against the yen, while yields on Spanish and Italian
10-year debt dropped at least 10 basis points. Oil helped lead
commodities higher as U.S. stockpiles of gasoline and distillate
fuels declined, while natural gas tumbled below $2 per million
British thermal units for first time since January 2002.  The  S&P 500  slid 4.3 percent in the previous five sessions
as $2 trillion was erased from global equities amid concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis was worsening and weaker-than-forecast U.S.
jobs growth. Today’s rebound came as Alcoa’s results boosted
optimism at the start of the first-quarter earnings-reporting
season, while ECB board member Benoit Coeure spurred speculation
the central bank will help reduce Spain’s borrowing costs after
10-year yields touched 6 percent for the first time this year.  “The environment is still very positive for stocks,”
Robert Hagstrom,  fund manager  at Legg Mason Capital Management
Inc., said on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” program.
Legg Mason manages about $638 billion. Bull markets “need
corrections, need a pullback, in order to be sustainable. We
think about that all the time. Until we actually go through
it,” he said. Then “it’s the risk-off traders, or Chicken
Little, maybe, that the world is coming to an end. But it’s not
coming to an end.”  ‘Modest to Moderate’  U.S. equities held onto gains after the  Federal Reserve 
said the economy maintained its expansion in all 12 of its
regions as manufacturing, hiring and retail sales showed signs
of strength in the face of higher fuel prices.  “The economy continued to expand at a modest to moderate
pace from mid-February through late March,” the Fed said today
in its Beige Book business survey, published two weeks before
the Federal Open Market Committee meets to set monetary policy.
“Hiring was steady or showed a modest increase across many
districts.”  Slump Halted  The S&P 500 ended its longest losing streak since November
as financial, consumer-discretionary, telephone and industrial
stocks led gains in all 10 of the index’s main industries.
Alcoa,  Bank of America Corp. , JPMorgan and Cisco Systems Inc.
rose more than 2 percent to lead the  Dow (INDU)  higher.  Alcoa marked the unofficial start of an earnings season by
reporting a profit of $94 million, or 9 cents a share, after
orders rose and the largest U.S. aluminum producer closed
higher-cost smelting capacity. Profit excluding restructuring
costs and other items was 10 cents a share, compared with the
average analyst estimate for a loss of 4 cents.  Analysts project profit growth slowed to 0.8 percent in the
first quarter.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is scheduled to report results
tomorrow after the close of trading, while JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and  Wells Fargo & Co . will release earnings on April 13.  A rally in Alcoa shares following earnings has foreshadowed
gains for the S&P 500 in the past, according to  Ryan Detrick  at
Schaeffer’s Investment Research. Since 2005, the benchmark gauge
has risen an average 4 percent in the three-month period that
followed a positive reaction to earnings from Alcoa, which is
typically the first company in the Dow to report results.  ‘Positive Catalyst’  “This earnings season could be a major positive
catalyst,” Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer’s,
said in a telephone interview from Cincinnati. “We’ve had a
strong selloff ahead of it. Should earnings come in slightly
better than expected, that could turn out to be one of those
buying opportunities.”  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,  Italy ’s biggest
banks, led a rebound in financial shares, advancing more than
5.4 percent.  CGGVeritas SA (GA) , the world’s largest seismic surveyor
of oil fields, climbed 4.5 percent after saying it boosted
vessel production in the first quarter. Givaudan SA, a Swiss
maker of flavors and fragrances, gained 3.7 percent as sales
increased.  Six countries in Europe sold debt today, with Italy meeting
its target and  Germany  receiving bids for less than its maximum
objective.  Germany’s 10-year bund fell, with the yield rising 14 basis
points to 1.78 percent. The 10-year  Italian bond yield  fell 15
basis points to 5.53 percent, while the 10-year Spanish bond
yield declined 10 basis points to 5.88 percent. The euro
strengthened 0.5 percent to 106.07 yen and gained 0.2 percent to
$1.3108.  The yield on the 10-year U.K. gilt increased four basis
points to 2.05 percent after its debt agency sold 4.5 billion
pounds ($7.2 billion) of September 2017 securities.  Commodities Gain  Lead and aluminum climbed more than 1.6 percent to lead
gains in 17 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI. Oil
increased 1.7 percent to $102.70 a barrel, rebounding from an
almost two-month low. Natural gas dropped as low as $1.976 per
million British thermal units for the first time in more than 10
years on speculation there won’t be enough weather-driven demand
for the fuel in coming weeks to reduce an inventory surplus.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.1 percent,
falling for a sixth straight day and reaching the lowest level
since Jan. 30.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  fell 0.9 percent, its
third straight decline. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.1
percent, while benchmark indexes in the  Czech Republic  and
Turkey rallied more than 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  