-- Asian Stocks Drop for Sixth Day on Europe Debt Concerns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-04-11T11:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/asian-stocks-drop-for-sixth-day-on-europe-debt-concerns.html
Asian  stocks  slipped, with the
benchmark index headed for its longest losing streak since
August, as Spanish yields surged closer to levels that prompted
other European countries to seek bailouts. Indonesian stocks
pared declines after an earthquake struck near Sumatra.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that depends on  Europe  for
about 80 percent of sales, fell 3.2 percent in  Hong Kong .  China 
Shipping Development Co. declined 7.6 percent after the
commodities transporter said it may post a first-quarter loss on
lower cargo rates.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Sharp Corp.,  Japan ’s biggest
makers of liquid-crystal-display televisions, dropped after
posting record losses amid declining TV sales and a stronger
yen.  “ Spain  is in a very difficult situation and more likely
than not to require some type of official intervention,” said
 Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment markets
research at Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which
oversees about $150 billion. “Europe is still 20 percent of the
world economy and obviously a big customer of  Asia .”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.7 percent to 123.07 as
of 8:54 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than three shares sliding for
each that rose. The gauge has fallen about 2.8 percent this
month amid renewed concern Europe’s debt crisis is spreading and
signs U.S. jobs growth may be slowing.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.8 percent today,
while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 1.1 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 1.1 percent. The Shanghai
Composite Index added 0.1 percent after declining as much as 1.1
percent.  Indonesian Earthquake  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  fell 0.5 percent, trimming
earlier losses of 0.9 percent as Indonesia’s Aceh province was
hit by a magnitude 8.7 earthquake in the final hour of trading.
Buildings in neighboring Singapore shook and tsunami warnings
were issued in Thailand and countries around the Indian Ocean.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index dropped 1.2 percent.  Thailand’s SET Index slid as much as 1.2 percent, with the
Thai Tourism & Leisure Index falling the most since Nov. 25.
Central Plaza Hotel Pcl, the nation’s largest hotel operator by
market value, dropped 4.1 percent. Laguna Resorts & Hotels Pcl,
which operates in coastal Phuket province, fell 2.4 percent to
40 baht.  “The tsunami report has further weakened investors’
sentiment in the Thai market, which has already been under
selling pressure from profit taking,” Andy Jenwipakul, the head
of research at SCB Securities Co. Ltd., said by phone today.  South Korean markets are closed today as the nation holds
parliamentary elections. The vote takes place as North Korean
plans to launch a rocket in the next few days fuel regional
tension.  Spanish Yields Rise  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.8 percent
today. The gauge fell 1.7 percent in  New York  yesterday as
Spanish bonds slumped after Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
declined to rule out a rescue. Bank of Spain Governor Miguel
Angel Fernandez Ordonez said the nation’s lenders may need extra
capital if the economy weakens more than expected.  Companies that do business in Europe declined after yields
on 10-year Spanish bonds reached the highest this year and
closer to levels that prompted Greece, Ireland and Portugal to
seek bailouts. Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy yesterday said
Spain’s future is at stake in its battle to tame rising
borrowing costs.  Esprit decreased 3.2 percent to HK$16.22 in Hong Kong.
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , which operates ports in Germany and
Spain, fell 1 percent to HK$73.95.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , an
automaker that gets 18 percent of sales from Europe, dropped 2.2
percent to 131 yen in Tokyo.  China Shipping Development declined 7.6 percent to HK$5.08
after saying it may report a first-quarter loss as weak demand
and a glut of shipping capacity dragged cargo rates lower.  Sony’s Record Loss  Sony sank 4.5 percent to 1,515 yen in Tokyo after Japan’s
largest electronics exporter posted a record loss of 520 billion
yen ($6.4 billion) for the year ended March 31. Plans to take a
300 billion yen charge to write down deferred tax assets. Sharp
fell 3.2 percent to 513 yen after reporting a record annual loss
of 380 billion yen.  The two companies have lost business to rivals Apple Inc.
and Samsung Electronics Co. as television sales plunge and
currency appreciation erodes earnings.  “Investors have kept hoping for their revival and have
been repeatedly let down,” Einosuke Yoshino, a fund manager at
Commons Asset Management in Tokyo, said today by telephone.
“They make slow decisions and have weak leadership.”  Market Retreats  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  has retreated about 4.7 percent
since the start of March as China cut its economic growth target
and on speculation stocks had risen too fast after the index
advanced 15 percent in the first two months of the year. Shares
on the gauge traded at 12.6 percent times  estimated earnings ,
compared with 13 times for the  S&P 500  and 10.5 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Flinders Mines Ltd. (FMS) , a developer of Australian iron-ore
mines, tumbled 9.1 percent to 22.5 Australian cents after
prospective buyer OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel delayed a
decision on a loan to help finance the deal. MMK, as the Russian
steelmaker is known, agreed in November to buy Adelaide-based
Flinders for A$554 million ($568 million).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  