-- Australian Home Loans, Confidence Drop Pressures Rates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-11T07:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/australian-home-loans-confidence-drop-pressures-rates.html
Australian  home-loan approvals  fell
for a second month on the fastest exodus of first-home buyers in
a decade, increasing pressure on the central bank to cut
interest rates as  consumer confidence  weakens.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments fell 2.5 percent in February from a month earlier,
the biggest drop since March 2011, the statistics bureau said in
Sydney today. A private survey showed consumer confidence
declined to an eight-month low as concerns mount among mortgage
holders paying the highest borrowing costs across major
developed nations.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled
last week he may end a three-month pause in rate cuts as soon as
next month if weaker-than-forecast growth slows inflation. The
central bank lowered borrowing costs in November and December,
to 4.25 percent, to buttress the housing market, support jobs
and boost confidence among consumers who are saving more.  The data “underscore a pretty soft underbelly in terms of
the Australian household sector: they’re cautious, they’re not
feeling so great, they’re not borrowing,” said Su-Lin Ong, head
of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Sydney. “At the margins, it adds to the case to
further easing by the RBA.”  Local Currency  The Australian dollar hovered near a three-month low,
trading at $1.0298 at 4:35 p.m. in Sydney. Traders are pricing
in a 91 percent chance the RBA will reduce borrowing costs by a
quarter percentage point at the next policy meeting, a Credit
Suisse Group AG index showed.  The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry today urged
the RBA to cut rates by half a percentage point to arrest
declining competitiveness and “break through” low business and
consumer confidence.  “History shows that delays or timidity in adjusting
monetary policy when structural changes like the high dollar and
lower competitiveness are embedding themselves in our economy
have costly repercussions for business viability and jobs,”
 Peter Anderson , chief executive officer of the ACCI, said in a
statement.  Government figures tomorrow are expected to show
unemployment rose to 5.3 percent in March from 5.2 percent a
month earlier, according to the median of 24 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Employers probably added 6,500 jobs, the poll
showed, almost one-third the average monthly growth in
employment during the past decade.  Home Lending  Today’s home-loans report showed the total value of loans
fell 1.3 percent to A$20.3 billion ($20.8 billion) in February.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers declined 4 percent,
the report showed. The value of loans to investors who plan to
rent or resell homes advanced 4.4 percent.  First-home buyers accounted for 17.2 percent of dwellings
that were financed in February, down from 20.3 percent in
January and higher than 16 percent a year earlier, the report
showed. That was the steepest fall since February 2002,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Home-loan approvals rose for nine months through December,
before falling a revised 1.1 percent in January, today’s report
showed.  “We had this sort of modest upswing throughout a lot of
last year and that was assisted by some stamp-duty concessions
for first-home buyers in New South Wales and some grants in
Queensland,” RBC’s Ong said, referring to two Australian
states. “But that seems to be fading and the data is consistent
with that.”  Biggest Banks  Home-loan growth may weaken further after Australia’s four
biggest banks raised standard variable  mortgage rates 
independently from the RBA in February, drawing criticism from
the government. The central bank has said that competition for
deposits, recent covered-bond sales and the cost of swapping
funds raised offshore into Australian dollars added to the price
lenders paid to raise money.  “Housing market conditions remain soft,” with preliminary
data indicating “that dwelling prices have fallen a little in
early 2012,” the central bank said in its financial stability
review released last month.  Today’s consumer confidence report showed the sentiment
index dropped 1.6 percent to 94.5 in April, the weakest reading
since August. The  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute
survey was taken April 2-5 and involved 1,200 consumers.  ‘Clear Message’  “The Reserve Bank disappointed many last week by not
delivering a much-needed rate cut,”  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief
economist, said in a statement, noting confidence among
borrowers slumped 5.1 percent. “The results of this survey
should be sending a very clear message to the Reserve Bank that
Australia needs lower interest rates.”  The government will maintain the central bank’s
independence and resist controls on the local currency, Finance
Minister  Penny Wong  said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp.
radio interview in response to a union chief calling for
intervention to aid struggling manufacturers.  “In terms of a proposition that you peg the dollar or
intervene in  interest rates , the government will not be doing
that,” Wong said today. “The settings that have served
Australia well, including through this investment boom, include
the independence of the Reserve Bank in setting interest rates
and the floating dollar.”  Paul Howes, national secretary of the Australian Workers
Union, said the RBA has consistently made the wrong call on
setting rates and that high borrowing costs are spurring the
currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  