-- Australia Scrambles Three-Wicket Victory in First Cricket Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-12T01:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/australia-beats-west-indies-by-3-wickets-in-first-cricket-test.html
Australia  beat West Indies in their
series-opening cricket Test after chasing down a target of 192
in fading light on the final day to seal a three-wicket win.  The touring team overcame a middle-order slump to reach
192-7 in Bridgetown, Barbados, after dismissing West Indies for
148 in its second innings before lunch. Shane Watson top scored
with 52, while  Mike Hussey  hit 32 off 26 balls to get Australia
within three runs of the win before getting out.  Ben Hilfenhaus , who finished with bowling figures of 4-27,
scrambled the winning single with the sun setting on the
Kensington Oval to seal Australia’s fifth straight Test victory
after sweeping  India  at home in December and January.  “It was very hard fought,” Australia captain  Michael Clarke  said at the presentation ceremony. “Full credit has to
go to our bowlers, not only the way they batted in our first
innings but the way they came out and bowled in the second
innings as well. That went a long way to us winning the game.”  Australia, which gave up a 43-run first-innings lead as
Clarke declared at 406-9 to try and force a result, had reached
126-2 in its chase before off-spinner Narsingh Deonarine
dismissed Ed Cowan, Ricky Ponting and Clarke to leave the
touring team at 140-5.  Wicketkeeper Matthew Wade, making his Test debut, scored 18
before Hussey and  Ryan Harris  added 12 runs in a seventh-wicket
stand that ended when Hussey was bowled by Kemar Roach when
trying to hit the winning runs.  Harris was named man of the match after taking five wickets
and hitting a Test-best 68 not out in the first innings, when
Australia’s tail-end batsmen contributed 121 runs to rally their
team from 285-8 in reply to West Indies’ 449-9 declared.  “We had our opportunities, we just didn’t capitalize,”
West Indies captain Darren Sammy said. “It’s one we thought we
had but we have two more so we’ll come back and fight and look
to be stronger.”  The second Test starts April 15 in Port of  Spain , Trinidad,
before the final match in Dominica.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  