-- B.C. Corporate Taxes Won't Increase, Minister Falcon Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/b-c-corporate-taxes-won-t-increase-minister-falcon-says.html
British Columbia will probably
scrap plans to raise corporate taxes because better-than-
forecast economic growth will help the provincial government
balance its budget next year, Finance Minister Kevin Falcon
said.  “I think it’s very unlikely” that we will raise the  tax
rate , Falcon said in an interview yesterday after addressing the
 Canadian Association of New York.  “It will only happen if our
own assumptions are not met. I think that is extremely
unlikely.”  Signs of a U.S. economic recovery have convinced Falcon
that growth in British Columbia’s economy this year will
probably beat the 1.8 percent expansion he forecast in the
Canadian province’s February budget.  The fiscal plan included the possibility of a one-
percentage point increase in B.C.’s corporate tax rate to 11
percent as of April 1, 2014.  The  U.S. economy  “is showing more resilience that we
anticipated and we think that means it’s very unlikely we’ll
ever have to touch the corporate tax rate,” Falcon said. “I
feel very good that we can outperform” on the economic
forecast.  British Columbia anticipates a C$968 million ($964 million)
budget shortfall in the year that began April 1, according to
budget documents. The government’s blueprint projects a C$154
million surplus in the 2013-14 fiscal year and a C$250 million
surplus the following year.  Falcon, whose ruling  Liberal Party  will face an election
within about a year, said British Columbia will pay down debt
and take steps to make its tax system more competitive once the
budget is balanced.  ‘Stimulate Investment’  “It may not just be tax levels, it may be other things
that can stimulate investment,” he said in an interview at the
Harvard Club of  New York . “What else can we do to encourage
investment and capital formation in British Columbia?”  Housing prices in British Columbia will drift “downward,”
representing a welcome development in  Canada ’s westernmost
province, Falcon said.  Prices for residential real estate in B.C., Canada’s third-
most-populous province, may fall about 5 percent in the next 24
months, Falcon said.  “There will be some downward drift in the B.C. housing
market and that won’t be an unhealthy thing,” Falcon said,
adding that price speculation is not a significant feature in
the province. Price declines “will not be dramatic, certainly
nothing like we’ve seen in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  