-- Banks Marketing Alibaba Loan Said to Extend Syndication Date
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-04-11T08:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/banks-marketing-alibaba-loan-said-to-extend-syndication-date-1-.html
Banks marketing a $3 billion loan
for  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (1688)  to other lenders in senior
syndication have extended the deadline for responses to April 20
from April 13, two people familiar with the matter said.  The six banks hired to underwrite and arrange the loan in
February also received their first commitment in marketing, of
$300 million from a U.S. investment bank, the people said,
declining to elaborate and asking not to be identified because
the details are private. The date for banks to respond was
extended to give lenders considering joining the facility more
time to process information on the borrower, the people said.  John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Alibaba,
wasn’t immediately available to comment on the financing when
contacted at his office by telephone today.  Alibaba Group, run by billionaire Jack Ma, offered HK$13.50
($1.74) a share for the 27 percent it doesn’t already own in its
Hong Kong-listed unit, Alibaba.com Ltd., according to a Feb. 21
regulatory filing to the stock exchange.  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , DBS Bank Ltd.,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. signed the loan to finance the planned deal, according to
the filing.  The two-part facility, split into a $2 billion one-year
borrowing and a $1 billion three-year amortizing loan, is not
expected to be marketed in general syndication to a wider group
of lenders after the senior syndication phase closes, the people
said today.  Lenders are being asked to join with commitments of either
$300 million or more, $200 million or more and $100 million or
more, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  