-- Best Buy Probe Into Former CEO Dunn’s Conduct Continues
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-04-11T22:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/best-buy-says-probe-into-former-ceo-dunn-s-conduct-continues-1-.html
Best Buy Co.’s (BBY)  probe into former
Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn ’s personal conduct remains
open after the electronics retailer’s interim CEO told employees
the disclosure of Dunn’s departure was confusing.  Mike Mikan, director and interim CEO, assured 167,000
employees worldwide in an e-mail today that the Richfield,
Minnesota-based company will keep them apprised of developments.  Best Buy, the world’s largest electronics retailer,
announced Dunn’s resignation yesterday, saying that the change
was part of a “mutual agreement” that new leadership was
needed. The company later said a board committee was
investigating Dunn’s “personal conduct, unrelated to the
company’s operations or financial control.”  “I know the news of Brian’s departure was a surprise, and
that the shift in focus of the news coverage later in the day
likely raised additional questions for many of you,” Mikan said
in the e-mail. “I’m very aware that was difficult to read and
experience.”  Best Buy will “redouble our efforts to ensure employees
learn about important company news from us, first,” Mikan said.
A copy of the e-mail was provided to Bloomberg News by the
company.  The  shares  of Best Buy rose 3 percent to $21.96 at the
close in  New York . The stock has dropped 6 percent this year.  “Brian’s resignation certainly had an effect on the
investigation, but the investigation remains open,” Greg Hitt,
a spokesman for Best Buy’s board, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Board is still looking into these issues, the
investigation has not been closed.”  The company won’t discuss the conduct it is investigating
or elaborate on the statement, Hitt said by telephone.  The retailer has been cutting jobs and shifting to smaller
store formats amid competition from Internet retailers such as
Amazon.com Inc. The company said last month it would close 50
U.S. big-box stores this year and expand its smaller Best Buy
Mobile stores to as many as 800 outlets by its fiscal 2016, from
305 now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  