-- Billionaire’s India Strategy Dims as Oil Deal Deadlocked
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-04-11T17:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/billionaire-s-india-strategy-dims-as-oil-deal-deadlocked.html
Billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov,
who controls  Russia ’s biggest mobile phone operator, is
struggling to strike deals with  India  and link his telecoms and
energy empire with  Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  His  AFK Sistema (AFKS)  investment firm had 21 Indian wireless
licenses revoked Feb. 2 by the Asian nation’s highest court.
Talks to sell 25 percent of Sistema’s OAO Bashneft unit, a
Russian oil producer with a $10 billion market value, to Indian
state-owned Oil & Natural Gas Corp. are deadlocked over price.  Evtushenkov, with a $7.7 billion fortune according to
Forbes, wants a bigger energy company and more phone clients
among India’s 1.2 billion people. He pitched the Bashneft deal
as the first step in creating a venture with India’s largest oil
explorer to help double annual output to 60 million metric tons.  The billionaire’s investment company “will benefit from a
strategic investor into Bashneft,” said Alexander Burgansky, an
oil and gas analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp. “But it doesn’t
have to be ONGC, particularly if it sees obstacles in India
across its other business lines.”  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  broached the licensing
dispute with Indian premier  Manmohan Singh  last month without a
resolution, as the two countries try to build ties. Singh’s
government is appealing the invalidation of Sistema’s wireless
licenses. A hearing is set for this week.  No Exit  India’s cabinet yesterday decided to invoke a
constitutional provision under which President Pratibha
Devisingh Patil can ask the Supreme Court to clarify some parts
of its order canceling the licenses.  The setbacks haven’t discouraged Sistema, according to
Vsevolod Sementsov, a spokesman for the Moscow-based company.  “We don’t have any plans to move out of India,” Sementsov
said by phone April 9. “Sistema wants to agree with India on
how to solve the telecoms problems.”  Sistema’s shares advanced 17 percent in  London  in the first
quarter, trailing the 19 percent increase in the benchmark  MSCI
Russia index . Bashneft jumped 27 percent in Russia in the
period, the top performer on the  Micex Oil & Gas Index (MICEXO&G) , which
climbed 8.3 percent. Russia’s Urals export blend crude averaged
$116.98 a barrel, rising 7.5 percent from the fourth quarter of
last year.  Bashneft shares declined 0.8 percent to 1,675.30 rubles at
the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow. ONGC  declined  0.2 percent to
264.10 rupees in Mumbai, the lowest since March 29, reducing
gains to 2.9 percent this year.  Avoiding Backlash  Bashneft and Evtushenkov’s OAO  Mobile Telesystems (MTSS) , Russia’s
largest mobile-phone operator and known as MTS, generate about
90 percent of Sistema’s sales.  Evtushenkov mentioned the 60 million-ton target, aided by
possible expansion outside Russia with India’s ONGC, last year
in Davos,  Switzerland . That’s more than the U.K.’s output in
2011 and more than double the combined production of Bashneft
and OAO Russneft, in which Sistema holds 49 percent.  Sistema missed a target for closing the Bashneft sale in
the fall of 2011. Indian officials overseeing ONGC are acting
conservatively to avoid any backlash if ONGC is perceived as
overpaying, Sistema Chief Executive Officer Mikhail Shamolin
said last month. Talks continue with ONGC as well as other oil
and gas companies and private equity funds, he said.  “ONGC is being cautious, and Sistema has no plan to sell
for cheap,” Shamolin said.  Imperial Energy  ONGC faced criticism for its $2.4 billion purchase of
Imperial Energy Ltd. in Russia in 2008 as the Comptroller &
Auditor General of India called for more accountability of state
finances. In March last year, the auditor accused ONGC of losing
11.8 billion rupees ($232 million) in the 15 months ended March
2010 after the unit produced at half of plan.  “ONGC has paid excessively for acquisitions before and
that’s making them very, very careful for all future deals,”
said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , a strategist at SMC  Global
Securities Ltd. (GLBS)  in New Delhi. “India has to get its act
together if it wants to be a global leader.”  ONGC’s overseas arm and Sistema agreed in 2010 to look at a
deal involving Imperial Energy and Bashneft, as well as Russneft
and international assets and exploration licenses.  The Indian energy producer has sought to lower the price
for the  Bashneft (BANE)  stake because of Russia’s shifting and
burdensome taxation of oil producers, said a person with
knowledge of ONGC’s position, who declined to be identified,
citing the confidentiality of talks. The person declined to give
ONGC’s valuation estimate. ONGC’s press service didn’t comment.  Bashneft Disadvantage  Russian tax incentives intended to stimulate oil output by
reducing the crude export duty have left Bashneft at a
disadvantage because it refines more than it produces. The lower
duty has increased domestic prices.  An Indian court this week will hear an appeal of the
 Supreme Court  that revoked 122 wireless licenses, 21 of them
belonging to Evtushenkov’s investment firm. Auditors found
frequencies were sold too cheaply in 2008.  Sistema’s largest commitments outside the former  Soviet
Union  are in India, with more than $3 billion investments in
Sistema Shyam TeleServices Ltd., which uses the MTS brand. It
also has offices for its microchip division Sitronics and the
satellite navigational service Glonass. MTS does not own shares
in Sistema Shyam.  Sistema said last month it may apply for arbitration with
India to protect its telecommunications investment if the
governments don’t resolve the dispute.  India’s Supreme Court accepted the government’s appeal
against its judgment last week and may allow companies to
operate until a final decision is made. Judges will hear the
arguments April 13. Auditors argue that the 2008 sales deprived
the treasury of as much as $31 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  