-- BMW Fends Off Audi for Luxury-Car Lead With Revamped 3-Series
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-04-11T08:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/bmw-fends-off-audi-for-luxury-car-lead-with-revamped-3-series.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
defended its lead in luxury-car sales in the first quarter as
the revamped 3-Series sedan helped it stave off challenges from
 Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ’s Audi and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz.  Deliveries of the namesake BMW brand rose 11 percent to
356,548 cars and sport-utility vehicles in the first three
months of 2012, the Munich-based company said today in a
statement. The performance beat Audi’s sales of 346,100 vehicles
and Mercedes’s 313,902.  “The BMW Group achieved an all-time high in sales last
month and the best first quarter in its history,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s sales chief, said in the statement. “We aim to
continue the momentum with additional new models this year.”  Audi and Mercedes, which have both vowed to surpass BMW for
the top spot in luxury-car sales this decade, failed to close
the gap after BMW overhauled the best-selling 3-Series in
February. Sales of the sedan rose 19 percent to 29,004 in March.  The maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce cars plans to grow
faster than the overall auto market in 2012 on the back of new
models, including the four-door 6-Series Gran Coupe and an
updated version of the 7-Series luxury sedan, BMW said today.
Audi and Mercedes are also targeting record sales this year.  The new models will probably secure BMW’s position as the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles  in 2012. Sales of the
brand are projected to rise 7.1 percent to 1.39 million autos
this year, compared with Audi’s 4.4 percent gain to 1.29 million
and Mercedes’s 5.6 percent advance to 1.28 million, according to
data from IHS Automotive.  Continuing Growth  Audi is expecting a lift in sales in the second half after
it introduces a new version of the A3 compact, which will be
broadened to include a sedan variant as well as a plug-in hybrid
version. The Ingolstadt, Germany-based VW unit posted record
sales in the first quarter after deliveries in  China  climbed 41
percent to 25,941 vehicles. Sales globally rose 11 percent.  “We kicked off 2012 very successfully and expect growth to
continue in the months to come,”  Peter Schwarzenbauer , Audi’s
sales chief, said in a statement yesterday.  Mercedes, based in Stuttgart,  Germany , will roll out the A-
Class compact in September as it seeks to catch up with BMW and
Audi. The sporty hatchback is one of at least five new small
cars, which will include a four-door coupe and a compact SUV,
aimed at boosting the brand’s appeal with younger drivers.
Mercedes’s global sales rose 12 percent in the first quarter,
lifted by demand for the S-Class sedan.  “To date we have recorded a new sales record in every
month of this year,” Joachim Schmidt, head of sales at
Mercedes, said in an April 3 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  