-- Bo Ouster May Calm China Passage to Slower Economic Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-12T04:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/bo-xilai-ouster-may-calm-china-passage-to-slower-economic-growth.html
Bo Xilai’s downfall and the arrest
of his wife on suspicion of murdering a U.K. citizen may have a
stabilizing influence on  China ’s economy by unifying the ruling
Communist Party before a once-in-a-decade leadership transition.  The party on April 10 suspended Bo from the ruling
Politburo, saying he was suspected of committing “serious
discipline violations,” China’s official Xinhua News Agency
reported. His wife, Gu Kailai, 53, and an aide were put in
custody for suspicion of murdering British businessman Neil
Heywood, Xinhua reported separately.  Bo’s removal may foster more stability in the world’s
second-biggest economy ahead of the 18th Communist Party
Congress, said Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director
at China Merchants Securities Co. The congress later this year
will pick a new party head and Politburo. Bo, 62, threatened to
upset China’s consensus-dependent leadership if he remained in
the inner circle, said Jonathan Fenby, China director of the
U.K. investment-research service  Trusted Sources .  “It paves the way for the new leadership ahead with more
stability,” Wan said in a phone interview in Hong Kong
yesterday. China Merchants Securities oversees about $1.5
billion in assets.  Shares Rise  Chinese share prices rose in the two days since Bo’s
dismissal was announced, with the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
gaining 0.4 percent as of 11:29 a.m. after gaining 0.1 percent
yesterday, and global investors considered China’s sovereign
debt to be less risky in trading today.  Contracts insuring China’s sovereign debt for five years
fell 2 basis points to 115.5 as of 11:36 a.m. in Beijing,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  That’s on course for its lowest since April 9, the day
before Bo’s Politburo suspension was announced, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The contracts, which typically climb as investor confidence
deteriorates and decrease as it improves, pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ‘United Front’  “The expulsion of Bo Xilai from the communist party and
politburo should be seen as a positive for the smooth transition
of power in China,” said Michael Kerley, manager of Henderson
Far East Income Ltd. at  Henderson Global Investors  in  London . It
has about 64.3 billion pounds ($102.4 billion) under management.  “Bo was a  rising star  in Chinese politics but was a
maverick with policies that favored tradition rather than
reform,” he said in an e-mail. “It is very likely that the
Communist Party puts on a  united front  in the months ahead to
ensure that the transition to a new leadership passes
smoothly.”  Bo’s disgrace endangers his so-called Chongqing model of
 economic growth , which focused on state-led spending on
infrastructure projects, often through local government finance
vehicles. Nine such vehicles in Chongqing, covering everything
from water works to highways to cultural attractions, reported
total debt of more than 157 billion yuan ($24.9 billion) in bond
prospectuses issued last year.  Local Debt  The rise of local government debt has been a focus of
concern by China’s leaders, including Premier  Wen Jiabao . They
have pledged to curb it in order to keep the country’s debt
burden under control and prevent the banking system from being
swamped with bad loans.  The end of Bo’s career means that he won’t have a chance to
imprint his debt-driven economic ideas on the elite Politburo
Standing Committee, the nine-member group that exercises supreme
power in China. Bo had been mentioned as a possible candidate
for the next committee by analysts including Ding Xueliang, a
social sciences professor at the  Hong Kong  University of Science
and Technology.  Bo’s departure reinforces China’s consensus-driven
leadership, which has pushed for slower growth, targeting a 7.5
percent rate this year. The policy focus is on more consumption
and less spending of the kind that drove Chongqing’s economy, as
well as  on monetary policy by the People’s Bank of China that
seeks to control inflation and control investment bubbles.  Party Line  The party worked quickly to foster a common line on Bo’s
suspension among its 80 million members, ordering them to
support the decision in a front-page commentary in the  People’s
Daily (PEODOZ) , the party’s official organ. Party papers across the
country, from Guangdong in the south to Shanxi in the north,
reprinted the directive.  “The death of Neil Heywood is a serious criminal case
involving the family and close staff of a Party and state
leader,” the commentary said. “Bo has seriously violated the
Party discipline, causing damage to the cause and the image of
the Party and state.”  China’s central television station read the charges against
Gu every hour on the hour yesterday, detailing how she had been
arrested on suspicion of murdering Heywood in Chongqing.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said his government wants
to “get to the bottom” of the case.  ‘Disturbing and Tragic’  “We did ask the Chinese to hold an investigation,”
Cameron told a news conference in Jakarta yesterday. “We are
pleased they are now doing that and I stand ready to cooperate
in any way we can. It is very important we get to the bottom of
what has happened in this very disturbing and tragic case.”  Both Heywood and Bo’s son, Guagua, attended the  Harrow
School  in the U.K., the older Heywood in the 1980s and Guagua
from 2001 through 2006, according to Luke Meadows, information
officer for the Harrow Development Trust and Harrow Association.  The U.K. had been told by China that Heywood had died of
alcohol poisoning, according to  John Gallagher , spokesman for
the British embassy in Beijing.  Bo won national recognition and praise for a crackdown on
organized crime in Chongqing, where he served as the top
official until last month, that also drew the ire of legal
experts.  Peking University  Professor He Weifeng accused Bo of
trampling on legal rights.  Red Songs  Bo also pushed state-led investment to narrow wealth gaps
and fund infrastructure projects, and revived so-called red
songs and sayings from the era of Chairman  Mao Zedong . Unlike
most fellow members of the Politburo, Bo didn’t shy away from
reporters. He took questions on March 9 in Beijing a week before
he was ousted from his Chongqing post, defending his record and
his wife’s character.  That was after his former police chief, Wang Lijun, had
spent the night of Feb. 6 at the U.S. Consulate in  Chengdu , an
event confirmed by both the U.S. and Chinese governments. On
Feb. 8, Wang was booked with a first-class seat on an  Air China (753) 
flight from Chengdu to Beijing accompanied by a vice minister
for state security, Bloomberg News reported on Feb. 10.  Bo’s suspension from the Politburo “was a positive
development,” said  Li Cheng , a scholar at  Washington ’s
 Brookings Institution  who focuses on Chinese elite politics.
“You eliminated a notorious individualist, a Maoist, and that
contributed to China’s long-term development because Bo held
rule of law in contempt.”  A commentary in today’s People’s Daily reaffirmed the
country’s commitment to “preserve the good situation of stable
reform and opening.”  The danger for the party is that people see Bo’s ouster and
the charges against Gu as politically motivated, reflecting a
schism in the leadership as factions in the Communist Party
jostle for power.  “They’ve struggled with how to portray this,” said
Christopher K. Johnson, a senior adviser at the Washington-based
 Center for Strategic and International Studies  and a former
China analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency. “Their
greatest fear is to show any inkling that the leadership is
anything but totally unified.”  Fenby, author of the forthcoming book on contemporary China
called “Tiger Head, Snake Tails: China Today,” said Bo’s fall
unified factions within the party’s leadership because
collectively they all realized Bo posed a danger to them.  “The rogue player, Bo, has been eliminated,” Fenby wrote
in a note on the Trusted Sources  website . “Consensus rules, at
least for the time being.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  