-- BOJ Members Asked to Meet Lawmakers Amid Pressure to Loosen
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-04-11T07:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/boj-members-asked-to-meet-lawmakers-amid-pressure-to-loosen-1-.html
The ruling  Democratic Party  of
 Japan  has asked four members of the  Bank of Japan ’s policy board
to meet with DPJ lawmakers this month amid pressure for the
central bank to increase monetary easing to end deflation.  Kouhei Ohtsuka, a leader of the ruling party’s official
policy group on countering deflation requested that they attend
the next meeting, he told reporters in Tokyo today. They haven’t
yet responded, he said.  Political pressure on the BOJ is increasing, with the
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  considering a plan to reduce
the central bank’s independence by changing the law that sets
out the BOJ’s role. Some ruling party members have expressed
support for the plan, and lawmakers from both parties have
called for the bank to do more to combat deflation and support
the world’s third-biggest economy.  “I feel a great sense of crisis” over efforts to alter
the BOJ law, BNP Paribas chief economist  Ryutaro Kono  said at a
forum in Tokyo today. Kono’s nomination to the BOJ board was
rejected last week by the opposition controlled upper house.  The nine person board has two vacancies, leaving only four
members -- Ryuzo Miyao, Yoshihisa Morimoto, Sayuri Shirai, and
Koji Ishida -- once the governor and deputy governors are
excluded. While the governor and one deputy have answered
questions in the Diet this year, the other board members have
not.  The request is not intended to place political pressure on
the bank, Ohtsuka said. “In this economic climate, with
continuing deflation, the responsibility that the BOJ policy
board members have to shoulder is very heavy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  