-- Brazil Sugar Cane Crop to Match Last Year Because of Dry Weather
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-04-11T17:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/brazil-sugar-cane-crop-to-match-last-year-because-of-dry-weather.html
The sugar cane crop in  Brazil ’s
Center South, the main producing region of the world’s largest
grower, may match last year’s poor harvest, Ismael Perina
Junior, president of sugar-cane growers association  Organizacao
dos Plantadores de Cana da Regiao Centro-Sul do Brasil , said
today in a telephone interview.  The region may produce 500 million metric tons of cane this
season compared with 494 million tons last harvest when a
combination of dry weather, frost, flowering and advanced age of
cane fields pared yields, Perina Junior said.  A relatively dry December, February and March will
“compromise” the current harvest which began last month and
runs to the end of the year, Perina Junior said. The rainy
season starts in December and ends in April, he said.  “It’s going to be a complicated year for production of
fuel,” he said. Average rainfall “was much lower than
normal,” he said.  Brazil reduced the amount of ethanol it mixes with gasoline
last year after prices of the renewable fuel soared to record
levels.  Soybean growers in the region, who plant in October and
harvest by March, saw production fall by a fifth this year,
which indicates that cane growers may suffer similar cuts in
yield, he said.  Brazil lowered the mix of anhydrous ethanol with gasoline
in October to 20 percent from 25 percent, Salim Morsy, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s  Sao Paulo  office, said
today in an e-mail.  The industry expected to produce as much as 540 million
tons in December, he said.  Prices of anhydrous ethanol reached a record high of 2.47
reais ($1.35) a liter on April 15 last year, according to
 information  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  