-- Bubba Watson Steers General Lee to Magnolia Lane Masters Return
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-04-11T18:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/bubba-watson-steers-general-lee-to-magnolia-lane-masters-return.html
Bubba Watson can see his return to
Augusta National Golf Club in a blur of orange topped by the
Confederate flag speeding down Magnolia Lane.  Watson, the newly crowned champion of the  Masters
Tournament , owns the General Lee, the brightly painted 1969
Dodge Charger that was featured in the 1979-85 television show
“The Dukes of Hazzard.” The car, with the colors of the
Confederacy on its roof and racing number “01” on the doors --
was  purchased at auction  by Watson in January.  Along with a Ford Raptor pickup truck, it’s the main
transportation for Watson, who said it would look great driving
up to the club in Augusta,  Georgia , where he won the golf
season’s first major championship three days ago.  “I don’t know how much they would love it but I would love
to,” Watson said in an interview today. “When you have the
General Lee, you drive the General Lee.”  Watson is a shaggy haired, self-taught, left-handed golfer
from Bagdad,  Florida , who’s gained fans for his everyman persona
and willingness to show his emotions on the course. He won his
first major at the Masters on April 8 by beating  Louis Oosthuizen  in a sudden-death playoff, hooking an approach shot
from out of the trees for what became a championship-winning
par.  For the last two days, Watson has worn his Masters champion
green jacket in a New York media tour that’s included at least a
dozen television appearances and a half-dozen radio interviews.  Car Nut  The 33-year-old Watson paid $110,000 for the General Lee,
and he might not need to shell out any money for his next
vehicle. The self-professed car nut doesn’t count an automaker
among his sponsors, and that is an endorsement opportunity his
agent, Jens Beck, said he plans to explore.  “He’s bought more cars in the last five years than anybody
I’ve ever represented,” Beck said in an interview. “Having a
car-company sponsorship, that would be very easy for him.”  Beck said he’s fielded inquiries from “all over the
spectrum” since Watson won. He said he is focused on servicing
Watson’s current sponsors and then finding an appropriate fit
for future endorsements, which won’t happen this week.  “It’s important that he gets to be that person with the
brand that he is with us, that they accept that Bubba is
Bubba,” Beck said. “We don’t want to script Bubba and we don’t
want sponsors to script him.”  Watson’s sponsorships include  golf clubs  by Ping, a unit of
Phoenix-based Karsten Manufacturing Corp.; Acushnet Co.’s
Titleist golf balls and FootJoy golf shoes;  Richard Mille 
watches; Motorola Mobility Inc. fitness device  Motoactv ;  Travis
Mathew  clothing; and green-energy company  Schuco International
KG .  Pink Driver  As with the General Lee, Watson isn’t afraid to flash a
little color in his golf-club choice. He uses a pink Ping driver
in support of  cancer research , commemorating his father, Gerry,
who died of  lung cancer  in October 2010. Ping announced
yesterday that it would produce 5,000 of the drivers, giving 5
percent of proceeds to charity.  Adding an automaker to his sponsors list intrigues Watson.  “Any car would be great, but obviously, American made,
because I’m American and I love the USA, that would be a big
plus for me,” Watson said. “I’d love to be part of the process
of building cars.”  Watson long will be remembered for the 150-yard Masters-
winning approach shot he hit from trampled pine straw amid the
course’s magnolia trees, sweeping the ball from left to right
before it came to rest 10 feet from the hole on No. 10.  Lefties Rule  “For right-handers it would be a lot harder because it’s a
slice,” Watson said. “To hit it that low and slice it would be
tough. Phil (Mickelson) could hit the shot,  Mike Weir , Steve Flesch. All the lefties that play could hit that shot.”  Watson and his wife, Angie, recently adopted a baby boy.
They live in  Arizona  and rent a home in  Orlando , Florida, where
he’ll likely move, according to Beck. Perhaps after a road trip
next year, the General Lee also will find itself among the
Magnolia trees at Augusta National.  “The gauges don’t work so it has 86 miles on it,” Watson
said of the car’s past use, which included stunts such as flying
off ramps and over TV bad guys. “When it jumped, it broke some
stuff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 