-- Bulgaria Cabinet, Central Bank at Odds Over Fund Management
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-04-11T15:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/bulgaria-cabinet-central-bank-at-odds-over-fund-management-1-.html
Bulgaria’s Cabinet clashed with the
central bank over a decision to invest 30 percent, or about 700
million lev ($470 million), of a so-called Silver Fund in
 government securities  and use the return for state payments.  The government decided to change the law regulating the
fund where proceeds from state-asset sales are transfered to pay
pensions after 2020 so it can be invested in financial
instruments yielding higher returns, Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  told reporters in Sofia today. The central bank, where
the fund is kept on deposits, opposes the move.  The current law allows for the fund’s assets, which total
about 2 billion lev, to be invested in foreign bonds, while the
government wants to diversify investment options with Bulgarian
bonds, the government said in a statement. It plans to increase
the amount of assets invested in riskier securities by 10
percent each year, until it reaches 70 percent of the fund’s
assets in 2016.  The Bulgarian National Bank “proposes to have this draft
law withdrawn,” the central bank said in an e-mailed statement.
The decision to introduce it to Parliament for approval, “if
ever, should be taken after a serious discussion among all
institutions responsible for the macro-economic and financial
stability of the country.”  Silver Fund  The Silver Fund is part of  Bulgaria ’s fiscal reserves and
investing a part of it would erode the reserves and turn that
part from an asset into a liability, the central bank said.
Bulgaria’s fiscal reserve fell to 3.8 billion lev at the end of
February from 8 billion lev in July 2009, when Prime Minister’s
Boiko Borissov’s administration took office.  Bulgaria, the EU’s poorest country in terms of economic
output per capita, weathered the global crisis without borrowing
from international lenders. The government seeks to cut the
budget gap to 1.35 percent of gross domestic product this year
from 2.1 percent in 2011 to help contain fallout from the euro
debt crisis.  Bulgaria also needs to repay 835 million euros in 11-year
Eurobonds maturing on Jan. 15, 2013, and plans to sell Eurobonds
worth 950 million euros possibly in June, the government said on
April 4. This will be the first time in 11 years that Bulgaria
will tap international markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  