-- California Bond Yield Penalty Narrows on Demand
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-04-12T21:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/california-bond-yield-penalty-narrows-on-gain-in-demand.html
California (STOCA1) , poised for its first
credit upgrade by  Standard & Poor’s  since 2006, has sold almost
one-third of a $1.35 billion debt issue with its relative
borrowing cost at the lowest point in more than three years.  California took bond orders from individuals for a second
day, including securities due in 10 years with a preliminary
yield of 2.82 percent, said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for
Treasurer Bill Lockyer. The yield, unchanged from yesterday’s
marketing, is 62 basis points more than a Bloomberg Fair Value
 index  of top-rated bonds. The yield  spread  for California
issuers over AAA debt hasn’t been that narrow since 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  S&P puts California’s general obligations at A-, its
fourth-lowest investment grade and the worst ranking for any
state. The credit-rater in February changed its outlook to
positive after Governor  Jerry Brown , 74, and lawmakers took
steps to ease a looming cash shortfall and cut the $20 billion
annual  structural deficit  by three quarters.  “They’re definitely getting a better acceptance right now,
just given that they’ve taken some positive steps over the last
year,” said Daniel Solender, who manages more than $15 billion
of municipal securities at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey . “The deficits looking forward, while still sizeable,
aren’t as big as they were.”  Dresslar said that as of 10:15 a.m. local time, investors
had ordered $392 million of the securities. He said yields
across the board were unchanged from yesterday.  Narrower Spreads  “We determined, based on market conditions, that was the
way to go,” Dresslar said by telephone. “The narrower spreads
speak to the budget actions taken over the past couple of years
by the governor and the Legislature.”  Lockyer is selling $890 million of general-obligation bonds
for public works and $464 million to refund debt. He’ll seek
final pricing with institutions such as mutual funds tomorrow.
He offered 30-year maturities at 4.45 percent for a second day,
or  77 basis points  more than the index of top-rated securities.  Brokers took orders for 25 percent of the debt during the
first day of sales, Lockyer said. By comparison, 38 percent was
sold on the first day of a $2 billion offering last month.  California  has reduced the amount of general-obligation
bonds it sells to the smallest two-year total since 2006 as
lawmakers work to erase budget deficits. The latest issue will
probably be the state’s last until around October, Dresslar
said.  Stoking Demand  Combined with a proposal by Brown to raise income taxes,
the lack of new offerings has stoked demand after municipal-bond
yields reached four-decade lows earlier this year. The rate on
general-obligation debt maturing in 20 years fell  to 3.6 percent 
in the week ended Jan. 19, the lowest since April 1967, a Bond
Buyer index shows. The index climbed to 4.08 percent last week.  The narrowing difference between California bonds compared
with top-rated debt has cooled interest among some investors.  “We did see the deal and perceived it as narrow and so we
declined it,” said Josh Gonze, co-manager of the $297 million
Thornburg California Limited-Term Municipal Fund in  Santa Fe ,
 New Mexico . “But other investors will approve of it and say
yes. So they will get the deal sold.”  Brown, a Democrat, has proposed erasing a $9 billion  budget
deficit  partly by asking voters to temporarily raise income and
sales taxes at the ballot box in November. If that fails, his
plan calls for $5 billion of automatic cuts midway through
fiscal 2012, which begins July 1. Most would come from schools.  The state’s fiscal condition remains precarious. March
revenue trailed budget projections by 4.2 percent, missing the
forecast by $233.5 million, according to Controller John Chiang.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  