-- California Teacher Fund Targets Pension-Inflating Spiking
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-04-25T01:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/california-teacher-fund-targets-pension-inflating-spiking.html
(Corrects spelling in fourth paragraph of story published
on April 11.)  The California State Teachers’
Retirement System cut payments to a former  San Francisco  Bay
Area superintendent after concluding that a $61,000 raise in his
final year of work was intended to boost his pension.  Yet in another case, plan managers didn’t touch a charter
school founder’s retirement pay after finding that a 67 percent
increase spread over her last three years of service wasn’t
designed to inflate her post-employment income.  The two episodes show the difficulty in restraining public
worker pensions in the U.S., which often derive from earnings in
the final years on the job. The challenge is particularly acute
for the California fund, also known as Calstrs. The nation’s
second-biggest public-retirement plan had assets to cover just
69 percent of liabilities in June, compared with the 75 percent
state average in 2010, according to Bloomberg Rankings.  “Calstrs has not yet developed a systematic method of
identifying and verifying extraordinary late-career salary
surges already being used to calculate retirement benefits,”
 Scott Thompson , a former analyst at the fund, said in a 2010
internal memo. “We should do so without further delay.”  The $152 billion teachers’ system based in West Sacramento
set up a panel in September to probe for abuse such as pension
spiking. However, none of the 190 cases picked for review have
been resolved, with no rollbacks.  Trying for Thoroughness  “We try to be as thorough as possible because whatever
determination we make is going to affect a person’s income for
the rest of their life,” said  Ricardo Duran , a fund spokesman.  Across the nation, widening deficits may force greater
taxpayer contributions to public pensions, as the average so-
called funded ratio has fallen from 83 percent in 2007, the
Bloomberg Rankings show. The California plan had a projected
$64.5 billion unfunded liability in June, up from $56 billion a
year earlier. Estimates put the projected deficit for all U.S.
public pensions at about $1 trillion to $3 trillion.  In previous years, the California fund lacked a methodology
to spot potential abuse, according to Thompson, whose job
included identifying such cases. He was fired last year for
insubordination, according to information presented to the State
Personnel Board, where an appeal is pending.  Thompson was dismissed after he rolled back a retiree’s
pension and defied orders to reinstate the cut, the teachers’
plan indicated in personnel board filings. He has told the board
he was fired for complaining about unchecked abuses. He declined
to comment for this report.  Review Tomorrow  The Teachers’ Retirement Board, which oversees the fund
serving more than 856,000 members and beneficiaries, plans to
review the effort to crack down on spiking at a meeting
tomorrow. The state controller and Governor  Jerry Brown , 74,
both Democrats, have taken on spiking to ease taxpayer burdens.  The practice of inflating pay rates in the last years of
employment to boost retirement income helps drive pension costs
higher. It was so pervasive in San Francisco, a grand jury
concluded in 2009 that one in four retiring police officers and
firefighters in the previous decade got raises of at least 10
percent in their final year on the job, pushing up pension costs
by $132 million or more.  With John Bayless, who left the Cabrillo Unified School
District near San Francisco in 2007, the fund took action.  Payment Cut  In his final full year of nine as superintendent of the
3,500-student  system  25 miles (40 kilometers) south of San
Francisco, Bayless got a $61,000 raise. When he retired in 2007
at 56, his annual pension topped $154,600 -- exceeding his
salary before the 45 percent increase, retirement system records
show. After its review, the fund cut the payment by 26 percent
last year to just under $114,600.  The teachers’ fund determined that the raise to almost
$197,700 was designed to inflate his pension, Duran said,
without providing details to avoid tipping off abusers.  Bayless declined to comment, saying by e-mail that he has
appealed. Kirk Riemer, now president of the Cabrillo board and a
member since 2006, denied any attempt to pad Bayless’s pension.  “The compensation and decisions on that were based on what
we felt was due,” Riemer said by telephone, citing “deferments
and forward-looking things.”  By contrast, plan managers didn’t reduce Yvonne Chan’s
pension, even though her salary rose $100,000, or 67 percent,
over her final three years at the 2,000-student Vaughn Next
Century Learning Center in a low-income corner of  Los Angeles .
She started the San Fernando Valley charter school in 1993.  Her pay climbed to $250,000 when she left in 2008 from
$150,000 in the 2004-2005 academic year, plan records show. The
documents don’t explain the increases. The top figure determined
her pension.  Chan was traveling in  China  and couldn’t be reached to
comment, Eugene Chan, her husband, said by telephone. He said
she didn’t have access to e-mail.  Both cases predate the efforts begun last year to curb
spiking, Duran said. The initiatives  include  analysis, an
anonymous hotline to report suspicious pay increases and the
six-person review panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  