-- Cameron Says Indonesia’s Democracy Offers Hope to Muslim World
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-04-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/cameron-says-indonesia-s-democracy-offers-hope-to-muslim-world.html
British Prime Minister  David Cameron  praised  Indonesia ’s transition to democracy and said its
success in overcoming authoritarian rule and religious extremism
should guide the way for other Muslim nations seeking change.  Cameron told students at  Al Azhar University  in Jakarta
today that Indonesia has demonstrated it’s possible to develop
democracy and a modern economy without compromising security or
the ability to practice their religion, according to remarks
released by his office. It’s the third day of a diplomatic and
trade tour of  Asia  by the British premier.  “The people of Indonesia can show through democracy there
is an alternative to dictatorship and extremism,” Cameron said
in remarks prepared for the speech. “That here in the country
with the biggest Muslim population on the planet, religion and
democracy need not be in conflict.”  Democracy has become entrenched in the Southeast Asian
nation and the role of the military has been scaled back since
President Suharto quit in 1998 after 30 years in power. The
current president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, became the nation’s
first directly elected leader in 2004 and won a second term five
years later.  Before arriving in Jakarta yesterday, Cameron said his
decision to relax controls of arms exports to Indonesia was a
sign of its democratic maturity. Britain’s previous Labour Party
administration stopped sales of arms to Indonesia after  BAE
Systems Plc (BA\)  Hawk aircraft were used to bomb rebels in Aceh.  Cameron said the transformation of Indonesia’s political
and economic landscape over the last decade should inspire other
Muslim nations seeking to break from the shackles of
dictatorship while resisting the ideology of religious zealots.  ‘Choose Democracy’  “Following your example, young Muslims across the world
will be inspired to choose democracy as their future,” Cameron
said. “That will be the greatest defeat that al-Qaeda or al-
Gamaa al-Islamiya could ever suffer.”  Cameron noted the country’s role in advising Egypt
following the overthrow of  Hosni Mubarak , saying also that
Indonesia offered hope for establishing political plurality and
attaining membership of the Group of 20 largest economies.  “Far from endangering safety, prosperity and religious
identity, it is democracy that ensures them,” Cameron said.
“This has huge implication for others seeking the same
fundamental freedoms in places like  Egypt , Iran and  Syria .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Jakarta at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  