-- Cameron Says U.K. Can Work With Suu Kyi for Democracy in Myanmar
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/cameron-to-talk-politics-not-trade-on-first-visit-to-myanmar.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said there will be opportunities for Britain to work with
Myanmar’s opposition leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, and make the
country’s transition to democracy “irreversible.”  Cameron will this week become the first Western leader to
visit Myanmar since Suu Kyi’s  National League for Democracy 
rejoined the political system and won 43 of 45 seats in April 1
special elections. The visit will focus on political issues and
Cameron won’t discuss boosting trade, according to an official
in the premier’s office.  “Burma is a bright spark, where you see an inspirational
leader who has been so patient and hard-working, and wanting to
see democracy flower in that country, we see that flowering
taking place,” Cameron said in television interviews in Jakarta
yesterday, using the country’s former name. “Britain has helped
put huge pressure and sanctions on that regime and I think there
will be opportunities now to work with  Aung San Suu Kyi  and make
that process irreversible.”  President Thein Sein’s army-backed party won a 2010
election in Myanmar that the NLD boycotted. Along with the
military, it still controls more than 80 percent of
parliamentary seats.  Cameron will travel to Myanmar after leading a trade and
diplomatic mission to  Japan , Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore
with representatives from more than 30 British companies. Most
will leave the delegation in Malaysia or Singapore and fewer
than a dozen who will go to Yangon, Myanmar’s main city, as
tourists, said the official, who declined to be identified in
line with government policy.  Sanctions Call  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said April 4 that
the U.S. will selectively lift restrictions on Myanmar. The
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  called on the U.S. and
 Europe  last week to end sanctions, a step that might allow
Myanmar’s economy to further open and give investors access to
its mineral wealth and market of 64 million people.  The British government “discourages trade and investment”
in Myanmar and offers no commercial services to companies
looking to trade or invest there, according to the U.K. Trade
and Investment website. Investment in the country is
“negligible,” according to UKTI.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Jakarta at  gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  