-- Cameron Wants to ‘Get to Bottom’ of Heywood Death in China
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-04-11T11:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/cameron-wants-to-get-to-bottom-of-heywood-death-in-china-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
the U.K. wants to “get to the bottom” of the death in China of
British businessman Neil Heywood, in his first comments on the
case since the wife of a suspended senior Communist Party
official was arrested.  “We did ask the Chinese to hold an investigation,”
Cameron told a news conference today in Jakarta after talks with
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. “We are pleased they are
now doing that and I stand ready to cooperate in any way we can.
It is very important we get to the bottom of what has happened
in this very disturbing and tragic case.”  Gu Kailai, the wife of suspended Politburo member  Bo Xilai ,
and a personal attendant are “highly suspected” of killing
Heywood, who died in Chongqing in November, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported late yesterday. Bo served as the top
official in Chongqing until last month. The U.K. was originally
told that Heywood died of alcohol poisoning.  Bo’s wife and the attendant, Zhang Xiaojun, “have been
transferred to judicial authorities on suspected crime of
intentional homicide,” Xinhua said. Bo has been suspended from
his party posts and is “suspected of being involved in serious
discipline violations,” Xinhua said in a separate report.  The U.K. embassy in Beijing asked earlier this year for an
investigation into Heywood’s death based on increasing rumors
and suspicions, spokesman  John Gallagher  said on March 26. Gu
Kailai and her son were on “good terms with Heywood” and then
had “a conflict over economic interests, which had been
intensified,” Xinhua reported.  Harrow School  Heywood and the son of Bo and Gu, Bo Guagua, both attended
 Harrow School  in northwest  London , with Heywood attending in the
1980s and Bo from 2001 to 2006, Luke Meadows, information
officer for the Harrow Association, said in a March 27 e-mail.
Heywood, 41, lived in Beijing with his wife and had two
children, according to U.K. birth records.  The Communist Party ordered its more than 80 million
members to back the moves against Bo and his wife. Central
television read the charges against Gu every hour. A commentary
on the front page of today’s  People’s Daily (PEODOZ) , the party’s
mouthpiece, urged cadres to “firmly support the correct
decision” to investigate Bo.  Bo’s downfall, which comes as  China  prepares for a once-in-
a-decade leadership change this year, is the biggest political
upheaval in the country’s top ranks since Communist Party
General Secretary Zhao Ziyang was purged in the wake of the 1989
Tiananmen protests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Jakarta at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  