-- Car Geek's Startup Makes Hybrids 'Look More Elegant and Tough'
-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 2012-04-11T20:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/car-geek-s-startup-makes-hybrids-look-more-elegant-and-tough-.html
     When Paul Goldman bought a Toyota (TM) Prius in
2008, he
loved its efficiency but hated its aesthetics. So the  Redwood
City , California, marketing consultant and amateur car racer
juiced it up, drawing on his teen experience in his Lithuanian
grandfather’s auto salvage yard outside  Boston , where he would
use scrap cars for parts and install them for customers.  For his second-generation Prius, “I got new, bigger
wheels and tires and put a body kit on that changed the
exterior appearance entirely to make it look more elegant and
tough," says Goldman. "But it was very challenging to find
stuff.”  Goldman's souped-up hybrid got lots of compliments, and
his neighbors in Silicon Valley started asking where they
could find this "new model" Prius. That’s when Goldman sensed
business potential, albeit in a niche-of-a-niche market. He
founded JuicedHybrid in 2009, an Internet retailer of
aftermarket accessories for dozens of hybrid and electric
cars. Now, with some 3,500 products in its online catalog and
more than a dozen new hybrids rolling out over the next two
years, Goldman and his nine-person team are scrambling to keep
up.  The startup is following a long tradition of small
companies dominating the $28.6 billion aftermarket parts and
accessories business, says Peter MacGillivray, vice president
of communications and events at SEMA, the specialty automotive
industry's trade group. The trend started with the
entrepreneur who designed luggage racks for the Model T Ford.
“Regardless of what powers your vehicle, there are enthusiasts
who want to modify and personalize it," he says. "Often those
hard-core enthusiasts are the ones who come up with ideas for
new products and move into the industry."  With gas at $4 a gallon, electric cars and hybrids were
the fastest-growing segment in the U.S. auto market in the
first quarter, according to a recent Bloomberg News story, and
sales were up 49 percent to 117,182 vehicles in the first
quarter, from 78,527 a year earlier. Hybrids represent less
than 1 percent of all light vehicles operating in the
U.S., with market penetration strongest in California, Oregon
and  Washington , according to Polk, an  auto industry 
researcher.  Goldman, 50, is a serial entrepreneur whose previous
company, a logistics business he started in 1990 after
learning warehouse automation and systems integration at
Pitney Bowes (PBI), was acquired in 2000. Over the past
decade, he has headed a pair of e-mail marketing companies and
worked as a consultant for companies that include Sony (SNE), 
Intel (INTC), Sun Microsystems (ORCL), and  Genentech  (ROG:VX). 
“The background I have gained in supply-chain management and 
the Internet in highly competitive environments has helped me 
tremendously with [JuicedHybrid],” Goldman says.  Events outside his control -- specifically, the Toyota
auto recall and Japanese tsunami -- nearly put JuicedHybrid
out of business when it had just passed the starting line. The
company had $300,000 in first-year sales and $1 million in
2010. But 2011 sales, at $3 million, didn't grow as expected.
“Our business is driven by new car sales and since Prius has
the largest hybrid market share, the drop in their sales
affected our sales substantially,” Goldman says.  Brad Berman, former editor of hybridcars.com and a
clean-car consultant and blogger in Berkeley,  California , sees
the drop as a blip -- he's adamant that the auto industry is
committed to cranking out more efficient vehicles. "Even if
consumers weren’t demanding it, there are mandates for it and
new fuel standards that are taking us in that direction," he
says.  The Toyota downturn forced JuicedHybrid to triple its
product line, from 1,000 to 3,000 items, adding parts and
accessories for other hybrids, including the Ford (F) Fusion
and Honda (HMC) Insight. Goldman's most crucial investment
along the way, he says: search engine optimization, now the
biggest traffic-driver to the site.  Along with raising capital and hiring four to six
additional employees, Goldman hopes to open a brick-and-mortar
shop by year-end. It would carry the company’s top 50 sellers
in a garage attached to Juiced’s 10,000-square-foot warehouse.
“We didn’t have the resources to do that last year, but we
might think about it later this year. There are so many hybrid
owners nearby; it might be a good move for us to have a
storefront right in the heart of Silicon Valley,” Goldman
says. “When I drive to work and look to the right and left, I
see people driving hybrids. There are people all around here
who are so committed to the environment and doing the right
thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at
 karen@kareneklein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick
Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net 
