-- McDonald’s in Hospitals Targeted by Group Seeking Fast Food End
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-04-11T17:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/mcdonald-s-in-hospitals-targeted-by-group-seeking-fast-food-end.html
The  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio 
doesn’t hire smokers, banned  trans fats  from the food it serves
and took sugary soft drinks out of vending machines as part of
an effort to emphasize the health in health care.  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD)  may be going next.  Corporate Accountability International chided 20 health-
care facilities, including the  Cleveland Clinic  and seven
children’s hospitals, for having the fast-food chain on their
sites. The consumer group  urged  the hospitals in a letter
yesterday to end their contracts with McDonald’s and “stop
fostering a food environment that promotes harm, not health.”  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant operator, has
introduced items including apple slices, yogurt and salads to
provide healthy  offerings  to customers concerned about obesity
and nutrition. The changes won’t be enough to keep the
restaurant at the Cleveland Clinic, one of the nation’s top-
rated hospitals, when its 20-year lease soon expires, said
Eileen Sheil, a clinic spokeswoman.  “We feel as a health-care institution we should walk the
talk,” Sheil said today in a telephone interview. “We are
doing everything in our power to do that.”  McDonald’s offers a variety of options for meals that
contain less than one-third the daily recommended levels of
total fat, sodium and calories, said Danya Proud, a spokeswoman
for the  Oak Brook , Illinois-based company. Nutrition and
ingredient information is available and the company continues to
assess and improve menu choices, she said in an e-mail.  ‘Proud’ of Menu  “We are proud of our menu and the actions we have taken to
evolve the variety of choices we offer our customers, which have
led our industry,” Proud said. “McDonald’s promotes the idea
that it’s not about where you eat; rather, it’s about what and
how much a person chooses to consume during every eating
occasion.”  Of the 14,000 McDonald’s restaurants nationwide, just 26
are in hospitals or on their campuses, she said.  That’s too many, according to the letter from Corporate
Accountability International to the hospital administrators.  “Every day, parents, children and health professionals
turn to your institution for advice on well-being, for support
in preventing and treating illness, and for sustaining a healthy
community,” the Boston-based group said in the letter posted on
its website. “However, in your role as a local health leader,
you have allowed McDonald’s - a corporation that has disregarded
public health in the name of profits - to operate within an
environment devoted to helping our children get well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  