-- Cheapest Valuation in 3 Months Buoys Mechel: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-11T23:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/cheapest-valuation-in-3-months-buoys-mechel-russia-overnight.html
OAO Mechel (MTL)  rose for the first time
in six days in New York after  Russia ’s biggest coal producer for
steelmakers traded at its cheapest level since January.  Mechel (MTLR)  climbed 2.2 percent yesterday, after sliding 9.1
percent in the five days to April 10 when it  traded  for 4.96
times earnings estimates, the least since Jan. 17 and three
times cheaper than the average valuation for  coal stocks  listed
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Futures (VEA)  expiring in June on
Moscow’s dollar-denominated  RTS (RTSI$)  Index fell 0.3 percent to
156.035 in U.S. trading.  American depositary receipts of Mechel have tumbled 10
percent since March 22, when Russia’s environmental regulator
said the Moscow-based company broke license agreements at
deposits run by its Yakutogol unit in the nation’s  Far East .
Exacerbating the drop, Mechel said on March 29 that it was
seeking loan waivers on expectations falling coal prices caused
it to breach financial covenants. The company sold 15 billion
rubles ($506 million) of three-year bonds on April 10.  “It’s better to buy Mechel now, it’s cheap enough and the
risk of buying the stock now is higher, but so is the potential
benefit,” Oleg Petropavlovskiy, a mining and metals analyst at
Moscow-based Broker Credit Service, said by phone yesterday.
“It’s been clear to everyone that the license won’t get taken
away, but the market hasn’t realized that yet” and the
successful debt sale “is an indicator that the company is
financially stable,” he said.  Third-Cheapest ADR  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies
traded in the U.S. rose 1.8 percent to 104.10 yesterday, the
biggest one-day advance since Feb. 24. The  Market Vectors Russia
ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that holds Russian shares, climbed 1.9
percent to $29.79, the steepest jump since March 26.  Mechel advanced to $8.83 in U.S. trading yesterday, the
biggest one-day gain since April 2. Mechel ADRs have risen 3.9
percent this year, after tumbling 71 percent in 2011, their
biggest annual loss since 2008. The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
measure has climbed 15 percent this year.  The third-cheapest U.S.-traded Russian stock after  OAO
Lukoil (LUKOY)  and OAO Gazprom, Mechel’s ADRs traded at a 2.1 percent
discount to its Moscow shares yesterday, the most in almost a
week. Mechel rose 2.2 percent to 267.30 rubles, or $9.01, on
Russia’s  Micex Index. (INDEXCF)  One ADR is equal to one ordinary share.  The ratio of outstanding put options to sell Mechel ADRs
versus calls to buy them  rose  to a five-month high on March 29.  Russia’s environmental watchdog said in a statement on
March 26 that it hadn’t repealed licenses for Mechel’s South
Kuzbass unit. License violations had been found at the
subsidiary operating in Siberia, people familiar with the
investigation said last month, declining to be identified.  Violations ‘Overblown’  “We’re seeing a steady stream of positive news that’s
boosting Mechel,” Boris Krasnojenov, a metals and mining
analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by phone
yesterday. “It successfully closed books for the bond
placement, the license violations story was overblown, nobody
will take away their licenses. The debt load is big but as long
as Mechel has the support of the government it’ll refinance
it.”  Mechel had about $9 billion of net debt at the end of last
year, and a ratio of net debt-to-earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of about 3.7,  George Buzhenitsa ,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone on March 29. The
company needs to reduce the ratio to 3.5 or less to meet its
covenants, he said. Mechel has $2.66 billion of debt payments
due this year, according to a company presentation in December.  The ADRs traded for 5.1 times estimated earnings yesterday,
compared with an average 13.25 valuation for coal stocks listed
on the  S&P 500 .  Rising Volatility  Consol Energy Inc. (CNX) , the third-largest U.S. coal producer
and a member of the S&P 500’s coal and consumable fuel industry
sub-index, trades for 14.7 times projected earnings, while the
ratio for  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. producer of
coal, trades for a valuation of 8.4.  ADRs of Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural gas producer
and Russia’s biggest company, have a valuation of 3.6 times
estimated earnings, while the ratio for Lukoil, the country’s
largest non-state oil producer, was 4.4 times yesterday.  The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings in
the index futures, gained 1 percent to 32.39 points in U.S.
trading.  Moscow’s  Micex-RTS stock exchange  is improving trading
access for London-based investors in a bid to expand the range
of brokers that can access the bourse, according to spokesman
Nikita Bekasov.  Direct London Trading  The introduction of new technology to bolster direct
trading access and increase the speed of order flows will enable
a wider range of Russia-licensed brokers to trade the market,
Bekasov said in an interview from Moscow yesterday. Under the
new system, Russian subsidiaries of international brokerage
firms will be able to offer direct trading access from the U.K.
capital, he said.  The bourse is in the process of selecting partners to
provide the technology for the project, Bekasov said.  Russia’s 30-stock Micex Index gained 0.5 percent to
1,505.77 in Moscow yesterday, while the  RTS (RTSI$)  gauge advanced 0.5
percent to 1,615.69.  Oil, Russia’s biggest export earner, rose for the first
time in three days after the U.S. Energy Department said that
fuel stockpiles declined and as Benoit Coeure, a member of the
European Central Bank executive board, suggested the regulator
may restart bond purchases for  Spain , soothing concerns over the
regional debt crisis.  Crude oil for May delivery gained 1.7 percent to $102.70 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Brent oil for May
settlement added 0.3 percent to $120.18 on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange, while Urals crude, Russia’s chief
export blend, was little changed at $117.15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  