-- Chile’s Cap Sees Risk of Project Delays From Energy Shortage
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-11T16:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/chile-s-cap-sees-risk-of-project-delays-from-energy-shortage-1-.html
Cap SA (CAP) ,  Chile ’s biggest steel and
iron-ore producer, said plans to expand its mines in the country
may be delayed by electricity shortages.  Energy supply in Chile is a problem, Cap Chairman Roberto
De Andraca told shareholders in Santiago today. Cap, which plans
to invest more than $500 million this year, will be able to fund
expansions with its own cash, he said.  The government of President Sebastian Pinera, who last week
swore in his fifth energy minister in two years, aims to double
power supply in the next decade to match demand growth as mining
companies plan investments totaling $91 billion.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, urged Chilean
authorizes yesterday to find ways to increase power supply.  While BHP has enough power for its Chilean operations until
2015 and can supply the initial expansion of its Escondida
copper mine, the company is looking to secure more supplies
after that, the company’s Base Metals President Peter Beaven
told reporters in Santiago yesterday.  Cap expects global iron-ore prices to remain steady at
about $148 a ton this year before slumping to about $100 in the
long term, De Andraca said. Steel prices will remain low as long
as there is an excess of global production capacity, he said.  The company, based in Santiago, expects sales to grow about
5 percent this year and doesn’t expect to lose money from its
steel division, De Andraca said. Cap is in negotiations to enter
 Colombia , he said, without elaborating.  Cap shares gained 0.5 percent to 20,350 pesos at 1:14 p.m.
in Santiago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  