-- China Aluminum Demand Growth to Drive Price, Novelis Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-11T07:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/china-s-aluminum-demand-to-grow-at-8-10-novelis-says.html
China ’s aluminum demand will grow 8
to 10 percent annually on average for the next five years on
uses from beverage cans to cars, driving up prices over time,
according to Novelis Inc., the world’s biggest user.  “One would expect the demand in China and Asia to drive up
the aluminum price, given the scarcity of aluminum that’s
available to the market,” Philip Martens, chief executive
officer, said in an interview today in Changzhou city, Jiangsu
province, where it will build its first automotive sheet
manufacturing plant in China. Prices in London may return to
$2,500-$2,700 a metric ton, he said, without giving a timeframe.  China accounts for about 40 percent of global consumption
of aluminum. The metal, used in construction, beverage cans,
electronics and the automotive sector, has fallen 23 percent in
the past year in  London  on concerns that the sovereign debt
crisis in  Europe  and the moderation of growth in the largest
user could result in shrinking demand.  “The economy in China, all things considered, we still see
as solid and stable,” Martens said. “Within China, the basic
drivers of the use of aluminum are going to continue.”  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported an
unexpected first-quarter profit yesterday after orders rose. The
company forecasts a global deficit this year of 435,000 tons.
Three-month aluminum on the London Metal Exchange climbed 0.7
percent to $2,079 a ton at 3:09 p.m. in Shanghai.  Dramatic Growth  Novelis is “very bullish” on a range of aluminum usage in
China, as beverage-can consumption is expected to grow rapidly
in the next two to three years on “significant” capacity
expansion, and the automotive sector should “grow
dramatically” in the longer-term following a change in
automotive designs, Martens said.  The company will  invest  $100 million to build  Asia ’s
largest automotive heat-treatment line for aluminum sheets in
Changzhou with an annual capacity of 120,000 tons. The plant is
expected to start operations in late 2014.  “What we are seeing is a substitution away from steel to
aluminum,” Martens said. “As more aluminum is used in the body
structure of cars, the demand really has increased.”  The company’s global sales to the car industry may reach a
record this year as “there is significant recovery in the U.S.,
where sales should probably hit the highest annual rate since
2007.”  China Robust  China’s passenger-car sales grew 4.5 percent in March,
beating analyst estimates, as dealerships increased discounts to
attract buyers amid record fuel prices, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said today.  “Most of the product lines we provide aluminum sheets to
are high-end, luxury cars, which are still very strong and
robust,” Martens said.  The nation’s  gross domestic product  may have gained 8.4
percent in the first quarter from a year ago, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. That compares with
8.9 percent in the fourth quarter, the slowest in 10 quarters.  “Even if the Chinese economy slows down to 6 to 7 percent
gross domestic product, it’s still a significant amount of
growth on a year-on-year basis,” he said.  The Atlanta, Georgia-based company produces 19 percent of
the world’s flat-rolled aluminum products, and buys about 4.5
million to 5 million tons a year, including products and scrap.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  