-- China Stocks Rise to Two-Week High as Developers Advance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-11T08:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/china-s-stock-futures-drop-as-european-debt-crisis-worsens.html
China’s stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index to a two-week high, as speculation property
sales and new lending will rebound overshadowed concern Europe’s
debt crisis is worsening.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  led a gauge of developers to its
highest close in almost a month. FAW Car Co., which makes
passenger cars in China with Volkswagen AG, advanced 2.9 percent
before an industry report on the nation’s March car sales.
Chongqing Three Gorges Water Conservancy and Electric Power Co.
sank 1.6 percent, pacing declines among Chongqing-based
companies after the city’s former top official Bo Xilai was
suspended from his Communist Party posts.  “The market is expecting the government to support the
economy by measures like offering discounts on  mortgage rates  or
boosting lending if the economy continues to slow down,” said
 Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “Stocks may find support at this level due to the
policy outlook.”  About four stocks gained for every three that fell in the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which closed 0.1 percent higher at
2,308.93, the highest level since March 27. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
added less than 0.1 percent to 2,520.04. The  Bloomberg China-US
55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, retreated 2.5 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Pro-growth Measures  The Shanghai index reversed a loss of as much as 1.2
percent in the last hour of trading yesterday to close 0.9
percent higher as some investors said measures may be introduced
at today’s regular meeting of the State Council, or cabinet.
About 6.7 billion shares changed hands in the gauge yesterday,
23 percent lower than the daily average this year.  The Shanghai Composite has gained 5 percent this year on
speculation the government will cut lenders’ reserve
requirements and  interest rates  to boost the economy. Stocks in
the gauge are valued at 9.7 times estimated earnings, compared
with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to weekly
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. Thirty-day  volatility  was at 17.7
today, near the lowest level this month.  A measure of  property stocks  in the Shanghai Composite
advanced 0.9 percent to its highest close since March 13. Poly
Real Estate,  China ’s second-largest developer by market value,
gained 1 percent to 11.78 yuan. The company said on April 9
contracted sales jumped 47 percent last month.  Poly’s March Sales  China Vanke Co., the biggest developer, added 0.8 percent
to 8.49 yuan. China Merchants Property Development Co., the
third largest, rose 2.4 percent to 21.70 yuan.  “The lending data for last month might be better than
expected, while property is a direct beneficiary if loans
improve,” Cui Juan, a Beijing-based analyst at Minzu Securities
Co., said by phone today. “Home sales in March also rebounded
from previous months.”  New loans may have reached 900 billion yuan ($143 billion)
in March, exceeding the amounts in the first two months of 2012,
the China Securities Journal reported on April 9. The central
bank may release the figure as early as today.  FAW Car gained 2.9 percent to 10.96 yuan. Jiangling Motors
Corp., the Chinese commercial vehicle partner with Ford Motor
Co., climbed 1.9 percent to 22.07 yuan. BYD Co., the automaker
part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., jumped
6.5 percent to 30.60 yuan.  China’s passenger-car sales grew 4.5 percent in March,
beating analyst estimates, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said today in a statement after the market closed.
Sales were forecast to increase 3.9 percent, according to the
average estimate of a Bloomberg News survey of eight analysts.  European Debt  Chinese equities fell earlier today as Spanish bonds
slumped after Economy Minister Luis de Guindos declined to rule
out a rescue and Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said the nation’s lenders may need more capital if the
economy weakens more than expected.  Europe  is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  Chinese trade data yesterday showed an unexpected surplus
for March and slowing growth in imports and exports. Overseas
shipments rose 8.9 percent last month, more than economists’
forecast. Still, it was down from 18.4 percent growth in
February.  “The slowdown in export growth was broad-based with the
biggest drag coming from Europe, driven by the sovereign debt
crisis that remains to be fully resolved,” HSBC Holdings Plc
economists Xiaoping Ma and Hongbin Qu said in a report
yesterday. Exports to the European Union contracted by 3.1
percent in March, it said.  Economic Data  Net exports may become a major drag on economic growth in
the first quarter, reinforcing the need for further policy
easing, according to the report.  The statistics bureau is due to report the nation’s first-
quarter gross domestic product and other March data including
industrial production on April 13. The  economy  probably grew 8.4
percent in the first three months of the year, according to the
median estimate of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
economy expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011, the
least in 10 quarters.  Chongqing Three Gorges lost 1.6 percent to 14.39 yuan.
 Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132)  slid 0.9 percent to 28.09 yuan.  Murder Suspect  Gu Kailai, Bo’s wife, and a domestic helper are “highly
suspected” of killing British businessman Neil Heywood, who
died in Chongqing in November, Xinhua reported late yesterday.
The U.K. was originally told that Heywood died of alcohol
poisoning.  “That may put some pressure on Chongqing-related
companies,” said Li of Central China Securities.  Chinese equities  in the U.S. slid to a two-month low, led
by consumer stocks, as import growth that trailed economists’
estimates added to concern that the world’s second-largest
economy is faltering.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index dropped to the lowest level
since Jan. 31 yesterday. The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) ,
the biggest Chinese exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 1.7
percent in its second day of declines to a three-month low of
$35.75.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai .
Editor: Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  