-- China’s Growth May Have Slowed Ahead of Wen Revival
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-12T03:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/china-s-growth-may-have-slowed-ahead-of-wen-revival.html
China’s economy  probably expanded
at the slowest pace in almost three years in the first quarter,
setting the stage for monetary loosening and aid to exporters to
drive a rebound and fuel global growth.  Gross domestic product rose 8.4 percent from a year earlier
following an 8.9 percent increase in the fourth quarter,
according to the  median estimate  of 41 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of a report tomorrow. The data may also
show that industrial production and retail sales accelerated in
March while spending on fixed assets slowed.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and HSBC
Holdings Plc predict the world’s second-largest economy will
pick up this quarter as Premier  Wen Jiabao  cuts banks’ required
reserves and directs funds to infrastructure projects and
smaller companies. That would help a global expansion clouded by
U.S. job gains that trailed forecasts in March and renewed
concern over  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “China’s slowdown is at the end of the tunnel as growth is
going to start picking up pace,” said Liu Li-Gang, chief
Greater China economist at ANZ in  Hong Kong , who previously
worked at the  World Bank . “A rebound in growth starting this
quarter will be a stabilizer for the world recovery as Wen’s
measures boost loan growth, offsetting weaker property sales and
related consumption.”  ‘Worst’ Almost Over  Liu forecasts GDP expansion of 9 percent in the three
months ending June 30. Bank of America Corp. predicts 8.5
percent for that quarter and 8.6 percent in the second half as
“the worst is almost over” for China, said Lu Ting, a Hong
Kong-based economist at the company. Deutsche Bank AG, Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Daiwa Capital Markets last month raised their
growth forecasts for 2012 partly on anticipation of looser
monetary policy.  China has allowed the yuan to weaken 0.2 percent this year
against the dollar, following 2011’s 4.7 percent gain in the
currency, amid a slowdown in exports. The yuan was little
changed yesterday at 6.3081.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks has
advanced 5 percent this year through yesterday, compared with 8
percent for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, as January-February
data showed cooling production and loan growth. The Chinese
gauge rose 0.4 percent today as of the 11:30 a.m. local-time
break.  The World Bank today lowered its forecast for China’s
growth this year to 8.2 percent from 8.4 percent as a sluggish
world recovery damps export demand and domestic investment and
consumption growth decelerate. A pickup in world trade next year
may help drive a “mild recovery,” the institution said, raising
its 2013 expansion estimate to 8.6 percent from 8.3 percent.  Wen’s Push  Wen, during a visit to Fujian and Guangxi provinces April
1-3, pledged to push ahead on key investment projects,
accelerate export tax-rebate payments, and ensure “reasonable”
liquidity. Executives at companies including  China Shipping
Group Co. (CSHGCZ) , the nation’s second-largest container line, and
Quanzhou-based sportswear maker Peak Sport Products Co.,
complained to Wen about rising costs and cooling overseas and
domestic demand, state media reported.  Economic indicators have diverged so far this year. An
official  manufacturing survey  showed a fourth straight month of
expansion in March, contrasting with a similar survey by HSBC
and Markit Economics that recorded the worst contraction since
November. Import growth in March trailed forecasts even as
exports exceeded estimates, signaling cooling domestic demand.  China ’s passenger-car sales grew 4.5 percent in March from
a year earlier, beating analyst estimates, as dealerships
increased discounts to attract buyers amid record fuel prices.  Industrial Growth  The statistics bureau may also say tomorrow that industrial
output advanced 11.6 percent in March from a year earlier, up
from 11.4 percent in the two months through February.  Retail sales probably rose at a faster pace of 15.1 percent
last month, while investment in factories, real estate and
infrastructure expanded 21 percent in the first quarter,
compared with 21.5 percent in January and February, economists
estimate.  A bounce-back in the coming months is no guarantee.
Authorities may “continue to respond with cautious and
selective easing” because of “highly mixed” first-quarter
data, said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist at Societe
Generale SA. That may result in an “extended downturn,” said
Yao, who estimates growth will slow from 8.1 percent in the
first quarter to 7.8 percent this period, followed by a
“shallow rebound” beginning in July.  Property Curbs  China, the world’s largest consumer of steel and copper,
may find its economy hampered by a contraction in the euro area
and a recovery in the U.S. that Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said is far from complete. Wen has also vowed to
prolong property-market curbs that include higher  mortgage rates 
and home purchase restrictions.  “The worst is not yet over for the property sector, which
will see real estate investment continue to cool this quarter,”
said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “How soon the government will start to
relax property curbs will decide how strong China’s growth
rebound will be.”  The central bank may lower the reserve-requirement ratio,
currently 20.5 percent for large lenders, by another 100 basis
points this quarter after two cuts since November, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey last month. Seven out
of 20 economists expect a cut in the benchmark lending rate,
which has stood at 6.56 percent since the last increase in July.  “China’s growth rebound will hinge on how fast policy
makers can deliver further policy easing,” said  Qu Hongbin ,
HSBC’s chief China economist in Hong Kong. “Otherwise the
slowdown may be longer and steeper than expected.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  