-- China Car Sales Beat Estimates, Easing Demand Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-11T08:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/china-car-sales-beat-estimates-easing-demand-concerns.html
China ’s passenger-car sales rose
4.5 percent in March, beating analyst estimates, as dealerships
increased discounts to attract buyers amid record fuel prices.  Deliveries of passenger automobiles, including multipurpose
and sport-utility vehicles, climbed to 1.4 million units last
month, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said
today in a statement. Sales were projected to increase 3.9
percent, according to the average estimate of a Bloomberg News
survey of eight analysts.  The rebound may ease concern that a slump in auto sales in
January and February, the worst two-month start to a year since
2005, will deepen and threaten foreign automakers from  General
Motors Co. (GM)  to  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  that depend on the world’s biggest
vehicle market to help make up for declining demand in  Europe .
The gain in March was insufficient to keep first-quarter
deliveries from falling for the first time since 2005.  “China is holding up, but it’s still suffering from a
hangover of the boom in 2009 and 2010,”  Ashvin Chotai , London-
based managing director for Intelligence Automotive  Asia , said
in a phone interview. “We can expect a fairly sluggish 2012.”  Slowing Demand  Auto demand rose 32 percent in 2010 after the government
introduced subsidies and rebates to encourage buying, before
slowing to 2.5 percent last year after the incentives lapsed.  China’s vehicle sales this year will probably miss their 8
percent growth forecast as the slowing economy and rising fuel
costs curb buying, Gu Xianghua, deputy secretary general of
state-backed CAAM, said on March 20.  The association will “observe for another quarter” before
deciding whether to adjust the full-year forecast, Dong Yang, an
official with the industry group, said today in Beijing.  Prices of locally produced cars fell 1.7 percent in March
from a year earlier, a third consecutive decline, according to
the  National Development and  Reform Commission’s pricing center,
which tracked data from 36 major cities.  The timing of a three-day national holiday at the start of
April also helped spur some buying, said Han Weiqi, analyst at
 CSC International Holdings (CSCIW1) . Chinese consumers prefer to buy cars
prior to long public holidays in order to use them over the
vacation period, Han said.  Vehicle Deliveries  Total vehicle deliveries in March, including commercial
vehicles, rose 1 percent to 1.83 million units, the industry
association said today. Sales of sport-utility vehicles jumped
32 percent, sedan sales rose 13 percent, while minivan sales
fell 1.1 percent, according to today’s statement.  For the January-March period, passenger-car sales fell 1.3
percent, the first decline since the first quarter of 2005 when
deliveries dropped 3.2 percent, CAAM data show.  GM, the largest foreign automaker in China, said on April 5
that deliveries in the nation rose 11 percent to 257,944
vehicles last month. The Detroit-based company set a quarterly
record in the first quarter of the year, led by demand for
vehicles including the Buick Excelle and Chevrolet New Sail.
Toyota’s China March sales rose 2.2 percent to 86,000 units, Niu Yu, the Japanese company’s spokesman, said on April 9.  Honda reported April 9 a 12 percent gain in sales in March.
Luxury carmakers  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Audi AG (NSU)  --
offering the biggest markdowns on their high-end models since at
least 2009, according to pricing guide cheshi.com -- also saw
sales surge.  Audi’s March sales in China including  Hong Kong  rose 37
percent. BMW boosted mainland China sales 41 percent last month.  Even so, some analysts predict an increase in retail fuel
prices last month will weigh on car purchases in coming months.
China, the world’s second-largest oil consumer, raised prices of
gasoline by 7 percent and for diesel by 7.8 percent on March 20,
the biggest increases in more than two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “When you look at historical data, every time fuel prices
are increased, it typically impacts sales in the quarter after
the rise,” said  John Zeng , an analyst at LMC Automotive in
 Shanghai .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  