-- Chongqing Stocks Drop After Bo Suspension: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-11T04:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/chongqing-stocks-drop-after-bo-suspension-shanghai-mover.html
Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132)  led declines
for shares of companies based in the southwestern municipality
after  Bo Xilai , the former top official in the city, was
suspended from his Communist Party posts.  Shares of Chongqing Brewery dropped as much as 2.6 percent
in Shanghai and were trading 1.2 percent lower at 28.01 yuan at
the 11:30 a.m. local-time break. Chongqing Water Group Co.
dropped 1 percent.  Chongqing Road & Bridge Co. (600106)  slid 1.5 percent.
China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index declined  0.3 percent .  The official Xinhua News Agency reported late yesterday Bo
was suspended from his posts in the Politburo and Central
Committee after an investigation led to his wife being arrested
on suspicion of murdering a U.K. citizen.  “Investors are concerned about some uncertainty in
Chongqing,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “That may put some pressure on
Chongqing-related companies.”  Bo’s suspension, which comes a month after he was removed
as party secretary in Chongqing, adds to evidence that the
party’s central leadership is repudiating his political legacy
in one of the nation’s largest metropolitan areas. It also
highlights the party’s goal of securing a stable once-in-a-
decade leadership transition scheduled for later this year.  Gu Kailai, Bo’s wife, and a domestic helper are “highly
suspected” of killing British businessman Neil Heywood, who
died in Chongqing in November, Xinhua reported yesterday. The
U.K. was originally told that Heywood died of alcohol poisoning.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  