-- McKesson Wins $31.6 Billion Veterans Agency Drug Contract
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-11T22:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/mckesson-wins-31-6-billion-u-s-veterans-agency-drug-contract.html
McKesson Corp. (MCK)  won a Department of
Veterans Affairs drug contract valued at as much as $31.6
billion over as many as eight years, the agency said in a
statement today.  The San Francisco-based company has been the VA’s primary
medicine supplier for veterans hospitals and the department’s
mail-order pharmacies since 2004. McKesson, the largest U.S.
drug distributor based on revenue, has received as much as $27
billion in orders under the current contract.  It beat  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) , based in Dublin,  Ohio , and
the  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based  AmerisourceBergen Corp. (ABC)  for
the new contract.  The agreement “will provide an overall savings to the
government of approximately $3.26 billion,” according to the VA
statement posted on the Federal Business Opportunities website.  McKesson shares rose as much as 4.7 percent to $91.99 in
late trading. The shares had risen 13 percent this year before
today’s announcement.  VA officials had hoped to award the new contract by the end
of March, according to a December letter from Eric Shinseki, the
VA secretary, to a U.S. lawmaker. The award was delayed after
two small businesses challenged the VA’s decision to exclude
small businesses from the new drug contract.  GAO Protests  The Government Accountability Office, which arbitrates
contract disputes, denied one protest on April 6. The second
company withdrew its GAO protest on April 9, though it also
filed a separate challenge with the department.  McKesson is “extremely pleased” to continue its work as
the VA’s primary drug supplier, John Hammergren, the company’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in a statement.  “We are confident in our ability to meet the VA’s growing
needs over the term of our relationship, and in the process
create significant value for the VA and for McKesson’s
shareholders,” he said.  Josh Taylor, a VA spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  Congress and the VA’s inspector general are investigating
illegal spending through the current contract with McKesson,
which is also used by other agencies, including the U.S. Bureau
of Prisons and the Indian Health Service.  VA officials have said the McKesson contract was used to
make as much as $1.2 billion in unauthorized and potentially
illegal purchases that weren’t explicitly covered by the
agreement. The items bought included generic drugs, condoms and
sunscreen.  W. Scott Gould, a deputy VA secretary, told lawmakers at a
February hearing that some of the spending was illegal. Agency
staff didn’t always seek competitive bids for some items bought
from McKesson, as required by federal acquisition regulations,
he said.  McKesson abided by the terms of the contract, Gould said.  Cardinal Health and AmerisourceBergen spokesmen didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  