-- Clinton Says Asia Needs U.S. Leadership
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/clinton-says-asia-needs-u-s-leadership-citing-region-s-concern.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said there is no alternative to U.S. leadership in the Asia-
Pacific region, recognizing concerns that the U.S. is moving to
deny rising Asian nations “their fair share of influence.”  “When it comes to ensuring stability and security in the
Asia-Pacific and beyond, there simply is no substitute for
American power,” Clinton, the top U.S. diplomat, said in a
speech last night at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis,
Maryland.  Clinton acknowledged tensions with China, citing “cyber
intrusions” that include the online theft of American
intellectual property, and called for setting clear Internet
governance policies with Beijing. She dismissed regional
misgivings that talk of American leadership is code for
protecting Western prerogatives.  “That is not the case,” she said. “China is not the
 Soviet Union , and we are not on the brink of a new  Cold War  in
 Asia .”  President  Barack Obama  has made Asia a central focus of his
foreign policy, and the interconnected nature of U.S.-Asia ties
underscores the importance of the administration’s “pivot”
toward the region, Clinton said.  Exports to Asia are crucial to the U.S. economic recovery
and reaching consumers in the region’s growing middle class is
central to growth, Clinton said.  “The shape of the global economy, the advance of democracy
and human rights, and our hopes for a 21st century less bloody
than the 20th all hinge to a large degree on what happens in the
Asia-Pacific,” Clinton said.  North Korea Concerns  North Korea  and other security issues will continue to
drive U.S. involvement in the region, Clinton said. North Korean
threats to launch a long-range missile, if carried out, would
violate United Nations Security Council resolutions and put its
neighbors at risk, she said.  Coming just weeks after North Korea agreed to a moratorium
on nuclear and missile testing, “the speed of the turnaround”
raises questions about the country’s seriousness in saying that
it wants to improve relations with the U.S. and its neighbors,
Clinton said. “Recent history strongly suggests that additional
provocations may follow,” she said.  The U.S. will continue to be “very candid” about areas of
tension, such as cyber attacks that threaten economic and
national security, Clinton said.  “Because the  United States  and  China  are two of the
largest global cyber actors, establishing clear and acceptable
practices in cyberspace is critical,” she said.  Regional Network  Clinton also touted the need for a strong regional network
of organizations, such as the East Asia Summit, to enforce rules
and settle disputes including competing claims over the oil-rich
 South China Sea .  Agreements such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a bloc of
nine countries, also create a level economic playing field that
allow for an “integrated Pacific economy that is open, free,
transparent, fair,” she said.  The international economic system is based on “universal”
and “fundamental freedoms” that emerging powers such as India
and China will have to protect as they gain greater stature,
Clinton said.  “They have benefited from the security it provides, the
markets it opens and the trust it fosters,” she said. “As a
consequence, they have a real stake in the success of that
system. And as their power grows, and their ability to
contribute increases, the world’s expectations of them naturally
rise as well.”  Disagreement on Syria  While the U.S. and China have worked closely on some
international challenges, including coping with North Korea and
 Iran ’s alleged nuclear program, they haven’t agreed on an
approach to the regime generated violence in  Syria .  China has worked with  Russia  to veto attempts at the UN to
sanction the Syrian government for a crackdown that has left as
many as 9,000 dead, according to UN estimates. In Annapolis,
Clinton acknowledged China’s support for Syria.  “Some of today’s emerging powers act as ‘selective
stakeholders,’” she said, “picking and choosing when to
participate constructively and when to stand apart from the
international system.”  “While that may suit their interests in the short-term, it
will ultimately render the system unworkable,” Clinton said.
“And that would end up impoverishing everyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Annapolis,  Maryland  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  