-- Colombian Peso Advances From One-Week Low on Appetite for Yield
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-04-11T21:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/colombian-peso-advances-from-one-week-low-on-appetite-for-yield.html
Colombia ’s peso rose from a one-
week low as better-than-forecast U.S. earnings and speculation
European policy makers may revive bond purchases buoyed demand
for higher-yielding, emerging-market assets.  The peso advanced 0.3 percent to 1,787.83 per  U.S. dollar ,
extending its gain this year to 8.4 percent, the best
performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. It touched 1,799 yesterday, the weakest level since
March 29.  “Global markets are on a more positive note today, helping
gains in the peso,” said Daniel Velandia, head analyst at
brokerage Correval SA in Bogota. “Investors are taking
advantage of the recent declines in the peso to sell at levels
we likely won’t see a lot of.”  Stocks in  Europe  and the U.S. rose as Alcoa Inc. opened the
earnings season with an unexpected profit and as Spanish bonds
gained after a European Central Bank official signaled the ECB
may restart its bond-purchase program.  The peso touched a six-week low on March 29, a day after
Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the central bank
should consider boosting dollar purchases and study possible
“surprise” moves to halt the currency’s advance.  Speaking to lawmakers yesterday, Echeverry said the
government and the central bank want to avoid job losses
stemming from the peso’s rally and that Colombia needs to
consider “all the alternatives.” In an April 8  opinion column 
published in El Tiempo newspaper, Echeverry said the currency
has reached a “worrying” level.  ‘Verbal Intervention’  The central bank has said it will purchase a minimum of $20
million daily in the  spot market  until at least Aug. 4 in a bid
to stem the peso’s rally.  Echeverry’s “verbal intervention” is helping ease gains
in the local currency, Velandia said.  “As the peso strengthens toward 1,770, people start
betting on higher odds of more measures,” he said.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 7.1 percent, according to the central bank. The price
rose 0.452 centavo to 123.188 centavos per peso.  Colombia’s borrowing costs fell at an auction of fixed-rate
securities today after inflation unexpectedly slowed in March,
boosting appetite for the bonds.  Bond Auction  The government sold peso bonds due August 2026 to yield 7.3
percent, the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement, down from
7.39 percent at the last auction on March 28. Colombia also sold
bonds due October 2018 to yield 6.63 percent, down from 6.75
percent while the yield on the June 2016 securities fell to 6.23
percent from 6.36 percent, according to the statement.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.4 percent in March, the
national statistics agency said in an April 4 report, down from
3.55 percent in February and less than the 3.63 percent median
estimate among economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Banco de la
Republica targets inflation between 2 percent and 4 percent this
year.  “Investors have been cutting their inflation bets,” said
Velandia. “People were expecting high inflation readings
between January and April and that didn’t happen.” Velandia
said he will likely revise his 3.5 percent year-end inflation
forecast to about 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  