-- Colombian Congress Passes Bills to Implement U.S. Trade Accord
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-11T16:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/colombian-congress-passes-bills-to-implement-u-s-trade-accord.html
Colombia ’s Congress last night
passed bills to implement a  free-trade accord  with the U.S.,
advancing the agreement ahead of President Barack Obama’s visit
this weekend for the Summit of the Americas.  The Senate and lower house passed the legislation last
night, Colombia’s trade ministry said in an e-mailed statement
today. The deal, projected to increase U.S. exports by as much
as $1.1 billion a year when in full effect, won U.S. approval in
October after Colombia pledged to strengthen protection of labor
unions.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  are among the
accord’s biggest backers.  The agreement may enable Colombia to boost exports,
including oil, metals and cut flowers, to the U.S. and will
immediately eliminate duties once in effect on more than 80
percent of U.S. consumer and industrial products exports to
Colombia, with remaining tariffs phased out over 10 years.  The U.S. exported $14.3 billion in goods to Colombia last
year and imported $23.1 billion, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department.  The trade pact, which was first agreed more than five years
ago under President George W. Bush, was stalled in the  U.S.
Congress  amid Democratic opposition. The Obama administration
sent it back to lawmakers in October after Colombia pledged to
strengthen protection for organized labor leaders.  “The trade agreement implementation review process is
still underway, but the United States has indicated its desire
to see the agreement with Colombia enter into force as soon as
possible,” Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, said in an e-mail.  Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos will host heads of
state from the Americas in the Caribbean resort city of
Cartagena this weekend for a meeting focused on regional
cooperation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 