-- Computer Sciences Pares Decline on CEO Turnaround Comments
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-04-11T20:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/computer-sciences-drops-most-in-three-months-washington-mover.html
Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) , a
technology contractor for governments and companies, pared a
decline in its stock today after new Chief Executive Officer
Mike Lawrie gave what he called a “candid glimpse” of his
turnaround plans for the company.  The shares  dropped  2.8 percent to $27.39 at the close in
New York following Lawrie’s comments on a conference call
regarding the company’s fourth-quarter preliminary results,
which missed analysts’ estimates. The stock earlier fell 8.9
percent for the steepest intraday decline since Dec. 27.  Earnings were hurt by a “pool” of contracts that were
mispriced and the cost of delivery underestimated, Lawrie said
today on the call -- his first since taking over as CEO last
month. The company booked all costs from a U.K. health-contract
writedown and posted “substantial” restructuring charges for
job cuts mainly in the Nordic and U.K. regions, as Lawrie seeks
to reduce costs in line with sales.  “The business does have significant challenges and we
should absolutely consider this a pretty significant turnaround
effort,” Lawrie said. “The business can clearly be fixed.”  CSC must make more changes, including some in leadership,
Lawrie also said on the call. There may be further incremental
restructuring costs as contracts are adjusted and renegotiated
and the company places more emphasis on profitability than
revenue growth, he said.  ‘Outstanding Question’  Profit, excluding certain costs, for the quarter ended
March 30, will be 19 cents to 21 cents a share, CSC said
yesterday. Analysts predicted 97 cents, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue will be about $4.1 billion, the
company said, in line with analysts’ projections.  “Free cash flow and earnings per share were meaningfully
below our estimate” without clarity on one-time charges,  David Grossman , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a note
before today’s call. “The key outstanding question is the run-
rate profitability and free cash flow of this business once you
sift through the various issues impacting the business and the
new management team’s plan to improve.” He recommends buying
the shares.  CSC has been under increasing scrutiny as it failed to
reach an agreement last month with the U.K.’s  National Health
Service , after writing off almost $1.5 billion of a disputed
contract and withdrawing guidance in December. Earlier this
month, the company said it’s still in talks with the British
health service and that it can’t guarantee it will reach a deal.
CSC reiterated both points in yesterday’s statement.  Missed Deadlines  In May, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said his
government wouldn’t sign any more agreements with CSC until
reviews were completed examining how a contract to centralize
electronic patient records missed deadlines. In August, U.K.
lawmakers also recommended the matter be investigated.  “The company certainly doesn’t revolve around NHS,”
Lawrie said today. “We’ve taken a lot of pain and taken our
medicine if you will, and now we hope to reap some of the
benefits.”  Lawrie, who previously ran London-based  Misys Plc (MSY)  and had
worked at International Business Machines Corp. under former CEO
Lou Gerstner, replaced Mike Laphen as CSC CEO in March. He
pledged to be more transparent with investors and analysts to
“re-establish trust and credibility.”  CSC is being investigated by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over accounting irregularities in its Nordic
and Australia regions, as well as in some Americas outsourcing
and other contracts. The company expanded its internal audits
last year, and appointed Chris DePippo as chief ethics and
compliance officer.  (Visit  http://www.csc.com/investorrelations  to listen to
CSC’s conference call.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jillian Ward in  San Francisco  at 
 jward56@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  