-- Congo’s Mutinous Army Commanders Will Face Justice, Kabila Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-04-11T15:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/congo-s-mutinous-army-commanders-will-face-justice-kabila-says.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
President  Joseph Kabila  called for army commanders involved in a
mutiny of about 300 soldiers last week in the country’s east to
face military justice, an army spokesman said.  Kabila has spent the last two days meeting with the army’s
top commanders and with members of civil society in Goma,
capital of eastern North Kivu province, army spokesman Lt.
Colonel Sylvain Ekenge said.  At least 16 deserters were killed in fighting after leaving
their posts in North and South Kivu provinces last week, Ekenge
said by phone from Goma today. About 15 soldiers have been
arrested across the border in  Uganda , and “more than 90
percent” of the mutinous soldiers have returned to their bases,
he said.  Congo’s east, which is  Africa ’s richest tin-producing
region and has large deposits of gold, has been mired in
conflict for more than fifteen years.  The deserters were a mix of former rebels, including some
loyal to Bosco Ntaganda, an ex rebel leader who is now a general
in Congo’s army wanted for  war crimes  by The Hague-based
 International Criminal Court .  Kabila has declined to arrest Ntaganda, who has links to
neighboring Rwanda, since he was integrated into the army in
2009.  The president told local civilian leaders today that any
commanders guilty of criminal acts should be arrested and face
justice, Thomas D’Aquin Muiti, head of the North Kivu Provincial
Coordination for Civil Society in Goma, said after meeting with
Kabila.  “We think the moment has come,” Muiti said by phone.
“The President did not mince words. All people who are
responsible for criminal acts should face justice and if Bosco
Ntaganda is guilty of criminal acts in principle he should face
justice.”  Calls to Ntaganda’s mobile phone did not connect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  