-- Copper Extends Slide to Lowest Since January as Demand May Slow
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-04-11T17:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/copper-may-decline-for-third-session-on-chinese-demand-concern.html
Copper fell in  New York  to the
lowest price since mid-January as signs of a worsening debt
crisis in  Europe  and slowing growth in China fueled concern that
demand for the metal will stall.  Rising bond yields and missed deficit targets in Spain
signaled that the region’s fiscal crisis may escalate. Today’s
drop for copper is the third straight and follows a report
yesterday showing imports of the metal fell from a month earlier
in China, the world’s biggest user.  “Concerns about the health of the global economy are
weighing on copper,” Frank Cholly, a senior commodity broker at
RJO Futures in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “The
Euro-zone crisis may reignite. It looks like  China  is slowing.”  Copper futures for May delivery fell 0.3 percent to settle
at $3.6395 a pound at 1:14 p.m. on the Comex in New York, after
reaching $3.6305, the lowest since Jan. 17. The metal has
dropped 4.1 percent this week, the biggest three-session slump
in a month.  Prices have closed lower than the 100-day and 200-day
moving averages for the past two days. Falling below the
measures can be a bearish signal to some investors who follow
historical price patterns.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 0.1 percent to $8,040 a metric ton ($3.65 a pound).  Also in London, aluminum rose 1.6 percent to $2,099 a ton,
the biggest gain since Feb. 24.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
producer of the lightweight metal, yesterday reported an
unexpected first-quarter profit after orders rose and the
company closed higher-cost smelting capacity.  Lead and zinc also gained on the LME, while nickel and tin
fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  