-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall From Two-Month High on Earnings
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-04-11T21:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-decline-from-highest-since-january.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk dropped from the highest level since January after
 Alcoa Inc. (AA)  posted an unexpected first-quarter profit,
unofficially kicking off the earnings season.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased by 2.5 basis points to a mid-price of 102 basis points
at 5:05 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The gauge fell after Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, reported yesterday that orders rose and it closed
higher-cost smelting capacity. The cost to protect against a
default by  American Express Co. (AXP)  fell 4 basis points to 82.5
basis points, according to data provider CMA. Analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg estimate the biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by
purchases next week will increase its quarterly earnings per
share compared with a year earlier.  “The timing of the Alcoa news was fortuitous from the
perspective of investors,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co., said in a telephone interview.
“We’re seeing markets calm down because things possibly got
blown out of proportion” over earlier concern about  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Investors may be anticipating policy actions by
European officials to spur growth, he said.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
indicated in Paris that the bank may revive its bond purchase
program to reduce  Spain ’s borrowing costs. Yields on Spanish 10-
year bonds had climbed to a four-month high of 6.02 percent
today before falling after Coeure spoke.  Spain Yields Drop  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched 105
basis points yesterday, the highest level since Jan. 25.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond-market stress, fell the most in more than a month, dropping
2.18 basis points to 29.51 basis points. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate debt and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  