-- CSN Voting Rights in Usiminas Blocked by Brazilian Regulator
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-04-12T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/csn-rights-over-usiminas-stake-suspended-by-brazil-s-cade-1-.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) ,
 Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker, lost  voting rights  on its
stake in  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  two weeks before
its rival holds a  shareholders’ meeting  to choose board members.  CSN, as the Sao Paulo-based company is known, is barred
from buying more shares in Usiminas and will be fined 10 million
reais ($5.5 million) if it doesn’t comply with guidelines,
Brazil’s antitrust regulator, known as Cade, said in a statement
late yesterday. CSN still has rights to dividends paid by
Usiminas, Brazil’s second-largest steelmaker by output, it said.  CSN had been buying shares in Belo Horizonte, Brazil-based
Usiminas for more than a year to have more influence in
decisions made by its bigger competitor. The company held 20.14
percent of Usiminas’ preferred stock and 11.97 percent of its
common shares as of Dec. 31, CSN said March 26.  Cade’s decision prevents CSN from appointing members to
Usiminas’ board, fiscal council or other surveillance and
management bodies, according to a separate statement sent by
Usiminas to Brazil’s securities regulator yesterday. CSN can’t
convert Usiminas preferred shares into voting ones or use its
position as shareholder to obtain ”commercially sensitive
information” about its rival, it added.  Usiminas plans to hold its annual shareholders’ meeting in
 Belo Horizonte  on April 25, according to the company’s website.
An official at CSN declined to comment yesterday.  The ruling by the antitrust regulators may speed up a
decision by CSN to sell the stake in its rival as it may become
less strategic, Barclays Plc analysts led by Leonardo Correa
said in a research note yesterday.  ’Less Appealing’  ”One interpretation could be that this ruling should make
CSN’s current position in Usiminas less appealing to hold on
to,” the analysts wrote. ”We calculate that CSN would be
losing close to 810 million reais on its investment.”  CSN will take “all measures” to preserve its investment
in Usiminas, Investor Relations Executive Officer David Salama
said during a conference call with investors March 27 without
providing details.  CSN’s efforts to alter its rival’s management or control
structure were thwarted last year when the Techint Group,
through its Ternium SA and Tenaris SA units, agreed to pay 5.03
billion reais for a 27.7 percent voting stake in Usiminas,
joining Nippon Steel Corp. in the controlling group of the
steelmaker.  Usiminas voting shares  fell  7.4 percent to 17.85 reais in
 Sao Paulo  yesterday, the biggest drop in almost eight months.
CSN was  little changed  at 16.55 reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Millard at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net  