-- CVC’s Metropolitan to Pay $644 Million for Telecom Assets
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-04-11T03:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/cvc-s-metropolitan-to-pay-644-million-for-telecom-assets.html
A CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
affiliate agreed to buy telecommunications assets from  City
Telecom (HK) Ltd. (1137)  for HK$5 billion ($644 million). City Telecom
rose in  Hong Kong  trading.  Metropolitan Light Co., owned by a partner of funds advised
by CVC Asia Pacific Ltd., will buy City Telecom’s businesses
including Hong Kong Broadband Network Ltd., the carrier said in
a filing today. City Telecom plans to pay a special dividend of
HK$2 billion, or HK$2.50 a share, when the sale is completed,
while the remaining funds will be used to expand the company’s
multimedia business, it said.  CVC, the private equity company that owns a controlling
stake in the Formula One auto-racing series, will enter a
telecommunications market where there is more than one fixed-
line connection per household. City Telecom competes against
carriers including billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Hutchison
Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. (215) , and his son’s  PCCW
Ltd. (8)  in Hong Kong’s phone market.  To pay for the transaction, Metropolitan will receive
HK$2.65 billion from funds advised by CVC Asia Pacific, and has
access to HK$2.5 billion of debt funding from banks including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Standard Chartered Plc, City Telecom
said in its filing.  Stock Climbs  City Telecom rose 8.3 percent to HK$5.38, the highest
intraday level since June 8, as of 11:29 a.m. in Hong Kong,
valuing the company at HK$4.1 billion. The stock resumed trading
today after being suspended pending the announcement.  The proposed sale requires the approval of City Telecom
shareholders, the company said.  Hong Kong has a household fixed-line penetration rate of
102 percent, according to data from the Office of the
Communications Authority, the industry regulator.  CVC Capital manages more than $44 billion of funds, and its
portfolio includes 61 companies with more than 400,000
employees, according to City Telecom’s filing.  Separately, CVC and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc were seeking
to raise as much as $220 million selling shares in Hong Kong-
listed luggage maker Samsonite International SA, Wall Street
Journal reported, citing a term sheet.  Samsonite shares fell 7.8 percent to HK$14.42 in Hong Kong
trading, the largest intraday decline since Oct. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  