-- Daewoo Shipbuilding Expects 34% Surge in Offshore Orders
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-04-12T11:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/daewoo-shipbuilding-expects-34-surge-in-energy-equipment-orders.html
Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. (042660)  expects to boost offshore equipment contracts 34
percent this year and is in talks for its first order for a
floating liquefied natural gas plant.  The world’s third-biggest shipbuilder may win the FLNG
order early as next month, Senior Executive Vice President Ryu Wan Soo said in an April 9 interview in Seoul, without
elaboration. The shipyard said in a February filing that it was
in talks to build a plant for  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. (PET)   Daewoo may also get a separate FLNG contract around year-
end, which isn’t included in its full-year order target, Ryu
said, as energy companies buy gas equipment to meet surging
Asian energy use. Investment in LNG and oil-drilling may help
Daewoo win $8.5 billion of contracts for offshore products this
year, equal to 77 percent of its companywide order target.  “There is going to be quite a lot of demand for offshore
equipment,” said Hur Sung Duck, an analyst at HI Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. “There should be more orders coming
from the  Middle East  in the second half.”  Daewoo has already won $2.2 billion worth of offshore
orders this year. The tally includes a $2 billion deal for a
floating oil production and storage unit from Tokyo-based Inpex
Corp. That was the shipbuilder’s largest contract since 2007.
Offshore deals totaled $6.34 billion last year.  The company also expects an order for two semi-submersible
oil-rigs as early as next month, Ryu said, without naming the
customer. The shipbuilder is in talks with Limassol, Cyprus-
based Songa Offshore SE on a potential order for two semi-
submersibles, it said in a March 28 statement.  Shares Climb  Daewoo rose 2.7 percent, the biggest gain in more than a
week, to close at 28,800 won in  Seoul . The stock has advanced 19
percent this year, compared with an 8.8 percent climb for  South
Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index.  Demand for semi-submersibles, which are used in deep waters,
is rising as energy companies explore new areas, including parts
of the  North Sea , Ryu said. Energy companies will probably order
about 15 new rigs industrywide this year, of which the majority
will be semi-submersibles, he said.  “Demand for offshore units is expected to grow for at
least two to three years as  oil companies  plan to spend more on
exploration and production,” Ryu said. “We should be able to
achieve our order target for this year.”  FLNG Orders  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140)  won a $3 billion order from
Royal Dutch Shell Plc for a 260,000-ton FLNG facility in May.
The 488-meter long plant, to be used at the Prelude field off
 Australia , will cool gas into LNG so it can be moved by tanker.  “Demand will eventually gain speed,” Ryu said. “Still,
the first few steps will take some time because this product is
technologically unproven.”  Daewoo has also resumed talks on a possible tie-up with a
shipyard in  Brazil  and it may make a decision on whether to
pursue a deal by the middle of the year, Ryu said. He declined
to name the Brazilian company.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540) , the world’s largest
shipbuilder, Keppel Corp. and Sembcorp Marine Ltd. have already
made investments in Brazil, where state-controlled  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  has a five-year plan to spend $224.7 billion. The
company is developing the largest crude discovery in the
Americas since  Mexico ’s Cantarell field in 1976.  “Brazil is a market that really can’t be ignored,” Ryu
said. Singapore-based Keppel today announced a provisional
agreement worth about $4.12 billion to build five rigs for
Petrobras-backed Sete Brasil Participacoes SA.  Worldwide spending on deepwater exploration and production
may total $232 billion in the five years through 2016, led by
 Latin America , according to  Douglas-Westwood  Ltd., an energy
industry consultant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  