-- David Suchet Barks; Olivier Award Tips: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-04-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/david-suchet-barks-olivier-award-tips-london-stage.html
Eugene O’Neill ’s “A Long Day’s
Journey Into Night” is three hours of misery, despair and
dysfunction in search of a plot. It’s also a superb vehicle for
great actors with the requisite theatrical chops. A new
production offers three dazzling and passionate performances.  The action is set in 1912. Laurie Metcalf (from
“Roseanne”) is Mary Tyrone, a mother fighting a losing battle
with morphine addiction and self-hatred. It’s a role full of
tenderness and barbed passive-aggressive darts -- “I know you
didn’t mean to humiliate me” -- which Metcalf delivers with a
beguiling motherly vulnerability. As the morphine takes hold she
gabbles and slurs her words, inviting both pity and contempt. No
monster, she.  David Suchet (“Poirot”) is Mary’s husband James, an
alcoholic miser and former star actor. He squabbles with his
feckless offspring, and snarls at his wife’s retreat into drug
abuse. Suchet employs the fruity delivery and grand gestures of
an old-style Shakespearean to portray a man pretending his life
isn’t crumbling into dust.  Kyle Soller is their son Edmund, a guilt-plagued tyro
writer suffering from consumption. He’s living on the edge,
facing death, trying to fan a spark of creativity in his soul.
Soller is like a caged bird, frantically beating his wings.  Family Showdowns  The son’s fight with his father, in which he screams that
his parent is too tightfisted to give him a chance of recovery
in a good sanatorium, is a humdinger.  All three measure their performances beautifully. They save
energy for the big showdowns, invest every moment with telling
details, and find ways to vary displays of despair. Director
Anthony Page does a solid job, drawing fine performances and
avoiding gimmicky scenic interventions.  The production looks handsome, on a set that recreates the
wooden parlor of a beachside summer home, circa 1912.  It all helps to take your mind off the rambling and
repetitive exposition, the overlong buildup to the father-son
climax, and the redundant secondary climax (another fight
between Edmund and his brother James, played by the lukewarm
Trevor White).  Structure was never O’Neill’s strong point. His talent lay
in stripping characters bare, layer by layer, with forensic
precision.  It’s little surprise that three such deeply committed
actors look dazed and shell shocked at the end of the evening.
The wonder is that it’s a pleasure to watch them expose such
dark places of the soul. Rating: ***.  Olivier Rivalry  O’Neill also crops up in the  Olivier Awards , the U.K.
theater world’s annual self-administered pat on the back, which
will be announced on April 15. The playwright’s “Anna
Christie” is up for four prizes: best actress (Ruth Wilson),
best actor (Jude Law), best revival and best lighting (both
Donmar Warehouse). Not bad for a lumbering symbolic drama about
a reformed trollop pining for love.  Terrific as Law was in that piece playing the beefcake love
object, he faces tough competition. Benedict Cumberbatch and
Johnny Lee Miller are joint nominees for sharing the role of the
monster in “Frankenstein” at the National Theatre. James
Corden is named for his sterling work in the multinominated
farce “One Man, Two Guvnors.” ( Nicholas Hytner  is on the list
for the latter as best director.)  I hope Law gets it, though I suspect it’ll go to funny-man
Corden.  The list of nominees shows what a good year it has been for
comedy: the laugh-a-second “Noises Off,” amusing “Much Ado
About Nothing” and zany “The Ladykillers” all contend.  Clockwork Comedy  My money is on the Old Vic’s “Noises Off” winning best
revival for its flawless, clockwork precision. “One Man, Two
Guvnors” has to be a shoe-in for best new play. (Even if, since
it was written in 1743, this adaptation is technically a
revival. Who wants to split hairs?)  It’s a tough call for best actress. Celia Imrie was
hilarious as an amorous actress in “Noises Off”; Marcia Warren
was a delightfully dotty old lady in “The Ladykillers.” How to
compare them with the glacial Kristin  Scott Thomas 
(“Betrayal”) or restrained Lesley Manville (in  Mike Leigh ’s
“Grief”)?  The most-nominated show is the lively musical “Matilda”
about a downtrodden little girl with magical powers. It has 10
citations, including one for all four little girls who play the
title role, and another one for best musical.  Girl Gaggle  Though I was blown away by “Ghost: The Musical,” only a
blockhead would bet on anything other than a gaggle of cute
little girls. I can hear their shrieks already.  English National Opera has three of the four nominations
for best opera production. Since two of those are for the
appalling “Castor and Pollux” and dreary “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream,” I can only assume the selection panel wanted to play a
strange practical joke. Their third nomination is for “The
Passenger,” David Pountney’s wonderful production of a third-
rate piece. Not a great list.  Otherwise, the nominations show a theater scene in rude
health. All to be revealed on April 15.  “Long Day’s Journey Into Night” is at the Apollo Theatre.
Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  +44-844-482-9671. For
more about the Olivier Awards, see  http://www.olivierawards.com .  Today’s Muse highlights: Jason Harper on  Jeep , Rich 
Jaroslovsky on  technology , Farah Nayeri's London  weekend .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 