-- Delta Said to Seek 10% Fuel Savings With ConocoPhillips Refinery
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-04-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/delta-said-to-seek-10-fuel-savings-with-conocophillips-refinery.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , whose daily
2011 fuel bill was $32 million, may buy a  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
refinery to help save 10 percent on a significant portion of its
fuel needs, a person familiar with the matter said.  Talks are under way about an idled ConocoPhillips  facility 
in Trainer, Pennsylvania, said two people who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private. Delta would get
fuel from Trainer and from other refiners in exchange for
products made there that Delta doesn’t use, one person said.  ConocoPhillips plans to shut the Trainer operation unless
it can find a buyer by the end of May as tighter  profit margins 
squeeze East Coast refineries. For Atlanta-based Delta, a deal
would help shave annual fuel costs that reached $11.8 billion
last year for its main jet operations and regional partners, or
36 percent of all spending.  “The question is whether the stress and costs of running a
refinery is outweighed by having your own boutique jet-fuel
provider,” said  Sander Cohan , a global transportation fuels
analyst and principal with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield, Massachusetts.  Delta seeks to save 10 percent on fuel tied to the Trainer
deal, according to the person familiar with the airline’s
strategy. Fuel from that refinery and others linked to the
agreement would cover some though not all of the needs at the
world’s second-largest carrier, said the person, who didn’t have
specifics.  ‘Good Price’  “If Delta can get it for a good price and figure out how
to use the rest to lower its costs on a certain number of
gallons of fuel, then it’s a good idea,” said  Michael Derchin ,
an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. would help finance the fuel and handle
sales of the other products, CNBC reported yesterday, without
naming its sources.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the New York-based
bank, declined to comment, as did Eric Torbenson, a spokesman
for Delta, and  Rich Johnson , a ConocoPhillips spokesman.  “The sales process for the Trainer refinery is
confidential and I’m not able to discuss any of the details,”
Johnson said in a telephone interview. “We are still in the
process of seeking a buyer for the refinery.”  Johnson reiterated Houston-based ConocoPhillips’s intent to
reach a deal for the Trainer refinery by the end of next month.  Daily Output  The Trainer facility, in suburban Philadelphia, has the
capacity to refine  185,000 barrels of crude per day , according
to ConocoPhillips. Gasoline accounted for more than half of the
plant’s  production capacity  as of last year, the company said.  Delta uses about 3.9 billion gallons of jet fuel a year,
which translates to about 254,000 barrels a day. A 1-cent a
gallon price increase equals $40 million more in costs on an
annualized basis.  Jet fuel  for immediate delivery in New York
Harbor has averaged $3.12 a gallon in the past 12 months before
today. Five years ago from yesterday, the trailing 12-month
average was $1.94.  Buying the plant may help insulate Delta as ConocoPhillips,
 Sunoco Inc. (SUN) ,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,  PetroPlus AG (PPHN)  and  Hess Corp. (HES) 
close or plan to sell refineries along the U.S. East Coast, in
 Europe  and the  U.S. Virgin Islands  in response to rising crude
prices and waning demand.  The plants are disadvantaged because they pay more for
imported crude than other U.S. refiners with better access to
growing supplies of oil from shale fields in  North Dakota  and
Texas. Profitability at East Coast refineries fell in 2011 to
the lowest point in nine years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Closing all the refineries under pressure in the region
would erase more than 51 percent of U.S. East Coast refining
capacity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  