-- Disney Stung by ‘John Carter’ Loss Plots ‘Avengers’ Blitz
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-04-11T20:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/disney-stung-by-john-carter-loss-plots-avengers-blitz.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , after losing $200
million on the sci-fi film “John Carter,” is mounting a
superhero-style marketing campaign to ensure its next big-budget
movie, “Marvel’s The Avengers,” is a blockbuster.  The company’s interactive unit designed an online game, the
parks division covered a Florida  monorail  in ads and the Disney
XD cable network is running an “Avengers” cartoon, all to help
boost awareness of the film, which opens May 4 to kick off
Hollywood’s summer box-office season.  “It’s quite a contrast to another recent Disney effort,”
said Jeff Gomez, founder of  Starlight Runner Entertainment , an
Internet consultant that works with studios. “There are a
number of elements that are unprecedented.”  A lot is riding on “The Avengers,” the first Marvel film
Disney has marketed since buying the comic-book company for $4
billion in 2009. Under Rich Ross, the TV executive who became
studio chairman in October of that year, Disney has cut its
slate in half, betting on fewer films to boost profits. That
plan’s risk was underscored by “John Carter,” which will drag
the unit to a second-quarter loss of as much as $120 million.  “The Avengers” may generate domestic ticket sales of $155
million its opening weekend and $370 million in U.S. and
Canadian theaters, estimates Phil Contrino, editor of
BoxOffice.com.  Marketing Effort  That would be more than five times the domestic tally of
“John Carter” and a bigger opening than  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s “The Hunger Games” last month, the
third-largest debut of all-time at $152.5 million, according to
Box Office Mojo.  “I don’t think there’s any need to worry about this one,”
Contrino said in an e-mail. “It’s a sure thing.”  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , rose 0.9 percent
percent to $41.37 at  the close in  New York . The shares have
advanced 10 percent this year.  “The Avengers,” about a team of superheroes battling to
save Earth, stars Robert Downey Jr. and  Scarlett Johansson ,
reprising their roles as  Iron Man  and the Black Widow from
2010’s “Iron Man 2.” That film posted $624 million in
worldwide ticket sales for distributor  Paramount Pictures  on a
budget of $200 million, according to IMDB.  Disney spent an estimated $220 million producing “The
Avengers,” $30 million less than on “ John Carter ,” according
to the Internet Movie Database, a research website.  ‘Huge Failure’  The company is avoiding mistakes it made with “John
Carter,” said Peter Sealey, a former Columbia Pictures
executive who is now a consultant. He cited a “Carter” trailer
that didn’t excite viewers, a change in the studio’s top
marketing officer two months before the release and the removal
of the identifying words “of Mars” from the title.  “It was a huge marketing failure,” Sealey said, adding
Disney will “get the train back on the track.”  Disney has been stoking interest in ‘The Avengers’’ since
at least July 2010, when the stars and director Joss Whedon
appeared at the annual Comic-Con International convention in  San
Diego . The film premieres today at the Disney-run El Capitan
theater in  Los Angeles , before going into wide release.  The company gave away free screenings in 10 cities where
the most Facebook users signaled they liked the film. More than
1 million did so, according to the site. The trailers have
broken records for downloads on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s ITunes.  Playdom, acquired by Disney in 2010 and part of the
interactive unit, created its first social game for a Disney
product. Introduced on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s site last month,
“Marvel: Avengers Alliance” has 640,000 daily users, according
to researcher  AppData .  ‘Avengers’ on Rye  Disney also lined up an estimated $100 million in
“Avengers”-related marketing by partners including  Hershey
Co. (HSY) , hotelier  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s
Acura, a record for Marvel, according to the trade publication
Variety.  David Funk, senior vice president of sales and marketing at
 Land O’Frost Inc ., a Lansing, Illinois-based luncheon meat
maker, began discussing sponsorship packages with Marvel a year
ago. He declined to put a dollar figure on his company’s effort,
which include a sweepstakes for an “Avengers”-themed trip to
New York, supermarket displays, trading card giveaways and a TV
commercial with a superhero mom making a sandwich.  “They told us this was going to be the biggest movie in
their entire portfolio,” Funk said in an interview. “We
figure: they’re going all out, we’ll go all out too.”  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , the largest U.S.-based motorcycle
maker, produced a website where fans can design cartoon
characters and virtual motorcycles. In July, Harley and Marvel
will pick their five favorites, publishing them in online comic
books and giving the winners custom-made Harleys, according to
Dino Bernacchi, director of North American marketing
communications at the Milwaukee-based company.  “This is experiential marketing and that’s what we’re
looking to do more of,” Bernacchi said in an interview. “Who
doesn’t want to be a part of comic history and what cooler way
to do it than riding in on a Harley?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  