-- Dong to Spend $795 Million Turning Fossil Plants to Wood
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-11T12:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/dong-energy-to-spend-794-million-turning-fossil-plants-to-wood.html
Dong Energy A/S,  Denmark ’s state-
controlled utility, plans to invest about 500 million pounds
($795 million) to convert three of its coal- and gas-fired power
stations to generate heat and electricity from wood pellets.  The Danish plants will have a capacity of about 1 gigawatt,
said Thomas Dalsgaard, executive vice president and head of
generation for Fredericia-based Dong, by phone yesterday.  “If all goes well then we hope to decide on all the
conversions in the first half of 2013 and then the construction
phase will last between one to three years so that these three
units will be converted by 2015,” Dalsgaard said.  Denmark plans to cut its energy consumption by 12 percent
by 2020 from 2006, it said  March 28 . It already gets 70 percent
of its renewable-energy use from biomass such as straw, wood and
waste. Lower taxes on biomass than coal and gas power generation
encouraged  Dong Energy  to convert the plants.  The decision on whether to proceed depends on securing
environmental permits and long-term agreements with heating
customers, Dalsgaard said. Dong, which owns 17 coal and gas-
fired  power plants , plans to lower carbon-dioxide emissions in
power and heat production per energy unit produced to 15 percent
of 2006 levels by 2040, according to its  website . In 2010, 14.5
percent of the company’s power output came from  wind energy .  Biggest Hurdle  The biggest hurdle for the conversions is sourcing biomass,
Dalsgaard said. Dong currently uses about 1 million metric tons
of wood pellets and 500,000 tons of straw a year at its Danish
plants. The conversions would see the figure for wood more than
double to 2.5 million tons a year, he said. Dong now sources
most of its biomass from the Baltics, Poland and  Russia  and may
begin buying materials from other areas including  North America .  Dong has also set up a unit to build bio-refineries. New
Bio-Solutions is studying ways to turn agricultural residue and
waste such as straw into gas and bio-ethanol, Dalsgaard said.  Dong is developing a full-scale refinery in Denmark, and
combining one of its power plants with the “world’s largest”
anaerobic-digestion facility, owned by a third party, along with
use of bioethanol and waste technology, Dalsgaard said.  Anaerobic digestion breaks down materials in the absence of
oxygen to make a biogas that can be used to generate power. A
decision on whether to proceed with the project will be taken
next year, with the proposed plant due to be working in 2015.  Dong plans projects outside Denmark with partners and is
looking to team-up with waste-management businesses in the U.K.,
as well as considering projects in the U.S. and  Asia .  “We’re also having dialogue with some of the  oil companies 
that are eventually going to be the customers for biofuels, so
it’s a broad range of partners we’re targeting and we’re having
a dialogue with many of them,” Dalsgaard said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  