-- Doxie Go Scans to IPad, No Wires Needed: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-04-11T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/doxie-go-scans-to-ipad-no-wires-needed-rich-jaroslovsky.html
For most of us, the paperless life
remains just a dream. We’re awash in memos, documents, photos.  It would be far more convenient, not to say environmentally
friendly, if we could keep everything neatly organized and
accessible on our various devices. But in an increasingly mobile
and wireless world, most scanners remain stationary and tethered
to a computer.  I’ve been trying out one alternative: the  Doxie Go + WiFi .
It’s a compact, portable color scanner that, in exchange for
putting you through one-time set-up pain, provides a significant
gain by allowing you to easily digitize paper documents and
wirelessly transfer them to an iPad, iPhone, Android device or
online service, as well as a computer.  The Doxie Go + WiFi, which is made by North Carolina-based
 Apparent , costs $249; minus the Wi-Fi, it’s $199. It measures
10.5 inches long, 1.7 inches tall and 2.2 inches deep -- roughly
the dimensions of a Saran Wrap box -- and weighs under a pound.
There’s no multi-sheet feeder, so you’ll be putting things into
Doxie’s slot a page at a time.  The Easy Part  Half the set-up process -- the part involving the scanner
itself -- is simple. You’ll need access to an Internet-connected
Mac or Windows PC to download the Doxie software, and then
connect the scanner with the included USB cable to charge the
battery. Apparent says the unit is good for about 100 scans
between charges; you can also use the cable with a mobile-device
wall charger.  The Wi-Fi is where things get a little ugly. Instead of
integrating the function, Apparent merely provides a four-
gigabyte  Eye-Fi  card. That’s the same thumbnail-sized adapter
sold for use in digital cameras to allow instant uploading of
photos. The Doxie manual tells you how to configure it for use
in the scanner’s SD slot.  Those instructions include: plugging the Eye-Fi and its
card reader into a Mac or PC, installing still more software,
configuring that software, ejecting the reader, plugging it back
in and dealing with three more set-up screens.  Complications  Things are a little less complicated if you use the Doxie
with a computer instead of an iPad or iPhone. But they’re a
little more complicated if you also want to connect your
documents with online photo-sharing or note services like
 Yahoo (YHOO) ’s Flickr,  Google (GOOG) ’s Picasa or  Evernote .  After setting up the scanner in under 10 minutes, it took
me another 45 or so to get the Wi-Fi installed and properly
functioning.  Not surprisingly, all the futzing left me somewhat cranky.
My attitude changed once I was actually able to begin using the
Doxie.  For one thing, it couldn’t be easier. There’s only one
button, to turn it on and off. It also glows either green or
amber to tell you whether you’re scanning at a resolution of 300
dots per inch, which takes about 10 seconds for a standard 8.5-
by-11 inch sheet, or 600 dpi, which takes about 35 seconds.  Using both modes, I scanned a variety of items, including a
receipt, old photos, a handwritten memo, a vintage baseball card
and a magazine cover. Since the Doxie and my destination device,
an iPad, were on the same Wi-Fi network, the documents showed up
with no more effort than opening an app.  No Network, No Worries  No Wi-Fi network? No worries. In that case, the Eye-Fi
creates its own local wireless connection. I simply selected it
from the list of available networks on the iPad, then launched
the app. Since my iPad has cellular data service, I didn’t even
have to give up my Internet connection during the transfer.  To the iPad, the Doxie appeared to be a camera, so its
images showed up as photos in the camera roll. From there, my
options were almost limitless. I could e-mail the tax receipt to
my accountant, crop and edit the photo using  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhoto app
and add a scrawled memo to an Evernote archive.  In addition, because I use the PhotoStream feature of
Apple’s iCloud service, my scans automatically showed up on my
iPhone and my desktop iMac. The Doxie desktop software,
available for both Mac and Windows, allows you, among other
things, to save documents in  Adobe (ADBE) ’s PDF format, where their
contents can be searched.  Doxie isn’t the only mobile scanner to use the Eye-Fi
scheme.  Xerox (XRX)  and Visioneer sell a similarly priced and equipped
 device . While I haven’t had a chance to try it out, it isn’t as
lightweight, and has two buttons to Doxie’s one.  In my book, simplicity counts for a lot. Now if only Doxie
could extend that concept to the Wi-Fi setup.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 