-- Dutch State Erred in ABN Amro, ING Bailouts, Committee Finds
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-04-11T13:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/dutch-state-erred-in-abn-amro-ing-rescues-committee-finds.html
The Dutch government made “large
errors” in its bailouts of Fortis,  ABN Amro  Holding NV and  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  in 2008 and 2009, pushing up risks and costs for the
country’s taxpayers, a parliamentary committee said today.  “The risks the state took upon itself were large and not
transparent,” lawmaker Jan de Wit, who headed an  investigation 
into the measures taken by the Dutch authorities, said about the
rescue of Fortis’s Dutch units in a statement today. “Execution
of the rescue plans was lacking. Valuations used were incomplete
and inaccurate.” Information exchange between the Finance
Ministry, its adviser  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and the Dutch central bank was
also “insufficient,” he said.  De Wit submitted his report in The Hague today after
confidentially interrogating 71 people under oath. The
government bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and insurance units and
its stake in ABN Amro for 16.8 billion euros ($22 billion) in
October 2008 to shore up the financial system as the company ran
out of short-term funding, customers withdrew deposits and
investors lost confidence. Subsequent aid almost doubled the
costs of the bailout to about 30 billion euros.  De Wit said Fortis’ problems were mostly related to its
joint 72 billion-euro takeover of ABN Amro in a consortium with
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in 2007.
The Dutch central bank and the ministry of finance shouldn’t
have approved that deal, he said. RBS was later bailed out by
the U.K. in the wake of that takeover.  ‘Non-Optimal Outcome’  ABN Amro’s banking businesses were later merged and
separated from the insurance unit, now called  ASR Nederland NV (ASRO) .
ABN Amro Group NV, as the nationalized bank is now called, is
carefully reading the report, spokesman Arien Bikker said.  The committee also criticized the bailout of ING, the
country’s biggest financial-services company. The bank and
insurer received 10 billion euros in aid in October 2008, and
then transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage
assets to the Dutch government in January 2009.  “The reserved attitude of the ministry of finance toward
accepting a direct solution of the U.S. mortgage portfolio led
to a non-optimal outcome for both the state and ING, with far-
reaching consequences for ING and higher risk for the taxpayer
than needed,” De Wit said.  ING Aftermath  ING “will further review and assess the report of the
committee, taking into account the international context and the
interests of all stakeholders,” the company said in a statement
on its website. “ING has taken decisive actions to reduce the
size and complexity of the company and has implemented numerous
changes to strengthen its financial position, risk management,
governance model and remuneration structure.”  The European Union ordered ING to divest its insurance
operations, its U.S. online bank and Dutch mortgage lender
WestlandUtrecht Bank before the end of 2013 as a condition for
approving its bailout. The firm still has to repay the
Netherlands 3 billion euros of aid.  In its first study in May 2010 into the causes of the
financial crisis, the parliamentary committee found the Dutch
central bank failed to act on warning signs. Today’s report came
after a formal inquiry, whose hearings under oath make it the
parliament’s strongest investigative tool.  Public Hearings  Public hearings were held with 46 people, including current
ING CEO Jan Hommen and former central bank President Nout Wellink and ex-finance minister Wouter Bos.  The Dutch central bank in a statement today that decisions
at the time were taken during “an unprecedented hectic period
in which the stability of the Dutch financial system was at
stake.”  Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager in 2010 demanded changes
at the central bank after De Wit found supervision of DSB Bank
NV and Landsbanki Islands hf’s Dutch Icesave unit, which both
collapsed, had been insufficient.  De Jager last year decided central bank presidents can no
longer serve a third term, effectively ending the reign of
president Nout Wellink. The Amsterdam-based regulator will study
the report and see whether additional measures are needed on top
of planned reforms. The  finance ministry  will comment on the
report later today.  “It’s now parliament’s role to study accountability and to
establish what should happen in terms of consequences,” De Wit
said at a press conference today.  De Wit’s study included a list of recommendations,
including setting up a European supervisor and so-called ring-
fencing of banks’ operations outside  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  