-- ECB Says Rodriguez-Palenzuela to Become Ireland Troika Officer
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/ecb-says-rodriguez-palenzuela-to-become-ireland-troika-officer.html
The  European Central Bank  is to
appoint Diego Rodriguez-Palenzuela as its lead official in so-
called troika negotiations with Ireland.  Rodriguez-Palenzuela, currently head of the Frankfurt-based
central bank’s capital markets division, will take over as the
ECB’s head of mission to Ireland from current troika
representative Klaus Masuch after the end of the next review
mission to the country, which is due to start on April 16.  “Rodriguez-Palenzuela will take over at some point after
the review is completed,” ECB spokesman William Lelieveldt said
yesterday. Masuch will continue to represent the ECB in troika
talks with Greece, he said.  The troika consists of the ECB, the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Commission. It makes quarterly reviews of
the three euro-area nations receiving international bailouts --
Ireland,  Greece  and Portugal.  Ireland has been seeking help from its European partners
since September to refinance about 30 billion euros ($39.4
billion) of so-called promissory notes used to rescue former
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building Society,
which the state seized, merged and rebranded as Irish Bank
Resolution Corp.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said there is a “coalition
of interests” between the government that the ECB to find a way
to reduce the costs associated with the promissory notes and to
wean IBRC off emergency borrowing from the Irish central bank,
the Irish Times reported April 6, citing an interview.  As part of a broader deal, the government also plans to
move loss-making assets, mainly  mortgage loans  that track the
ECB’s key rate, out of some other state-controlled banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  