-- Coeure Triggers Bets ECB Will Restart Bond Purchases for Spain
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-11T13:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/ecb-s-coeure-suggests-bond-purchases-could-be-used-for-spain.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure triggered speculation that the bank
will revive its bond-purchase program to lower  Spain ’s borrowing
costs as the region’s debt crisis threatens to boil over again.  Spanish “market conditions are not justified,” Coeure,
who heads the ECB’s market operations division, said at an event
in Paris today. “Will the ECB intervene? We have an instrument,
the securities markets program, which hasn’t been used recently
but it still exists.”  The euro rose and Spanish bond yields declined as Coeure’s
comments reassured investors that the ECB will act again if
needed to stem the crisis. With Spain’s three-month-old
government struggling to reduce the  budget deficit  and crack
down on overspending by regional administrations, borrowing
costs have surged, nearing the levels that precipitated bailouts
for  Greece , Portugal and Ireland.  “We expect a very significant intensification of the euro-
area debt crisis to materialize this quarter as the market
refocuses on the fundamentals and the fiscal challenges of each
country,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “The ECB should be preparing itself”
for “the return of significant financial market tensions.”  Markets Rally  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds, which climbed to a
four-month high of 5.99 percent this morning, slid to 5.82
percent after Coeure spoke. The euro gained more than a quarter
of a cent to $1.3134 at 2 p.m. in  Frankfurt  and European stocks
rose, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  up 1 percent.  Spain’s 10-year borrowing costs have jumped more than 1
percentage point since March 2, when Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the country will miss a 2012 deficit goal approved by
the European Union. The euro area’s fourth largest economy is in
recession and unemployment is nearing 24 percent.  Rajoy said today that Spain won’t need a bailout and will
regain investors’ trust with the deepest austerity measures in
three decades, including spending cuts and tax increases.  “They lend to you if they are confident you will pay it
back,” he told his governing People’s Party in  Madrid . “There
are countries near to us that couldn’t and they are in the
situation everyone knows about. This is not the case for Spain.”  Coeure said it will take time for the government’s “very
strong deficit measures” to take effect and praised the
“enormous” political will to implement reforms.  Chorus of Optimism  He joined a chorus of positive comments about Spain from
policy makers around  Europe  today.  The Spanish government has undertaken a “comprehensive
reform” of its finances, labor market and banking system, German
Finance Ministry spokesman Johannes Blankenheim said. French
government spokeswoman Valerie Pecresse said market concern over
Spain is “excessive.”  Spain may “aggressively” tap support from the ECB instead
of seeking a bailout, said Bill O’Neill, chief investment
officer for Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa  at Merrill Lynch
Wealth Management in London. The ECB may revive its bond-
purchase program around Spain, he added.  The ECB “should be a little more aggressive” with its
bond purchases, Banco Santander SA Chief Executive Officer
Alfredo Saenz said yesterday.  Dormant Bond Program  The ECB hasn’t purchased any  government bonds  for four
weeks after its injection of more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of three-year loans into the banking system helped
debt markets rally.  Some ECB policy makers oppose the  bond program , which was
started in May 2010 to stem the spread of the sovereign debt
crisis, arguing it blurs the line between fiscal and monetary
policy.  “It’s interesting that Coeure does not mention another
three-year tender, but sees a possible restart of the SMP,”
said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in
 London . “I think reviving the peripheral bond-buying program
could face some resistance, especially by northern European
governors who see it as too ‘political’ an instrument.”  Still, the loans don’t have the ability to target
individual market segments in the same way the bond program
does, said Michala Marcussen, global chief economist at  Societe
Generale  in Paris.  “If you’re looking to target specific dislocation, and the
Spanish government is making all the right noises, that’s the
most efficient tool in the box,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  