-- Egypt Yields Jump on Panel Suspension, IMF Delay: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-04-11T15:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/egypt-yields-jump-on-panel-suspension-imf-delay-cairo-mover.html
Egypt ’s dollar bond yields surged
the most in more than three months and the nation’s default risk
rose after a court halted the work of a panel drafting a new
constitution and on bets foreign aid may be delayed.  The yield on the country’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in
2020 advanced 28 basis points, or 0.28 of a percentage point, to
7.1 percent at 4:13 p.m. in Cairo, prices compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s the biggest gain since Jan. 5. The cost of insuring
Egypt’s debt against default for five years rose eight basis
points to 638, the highest level in almost three months,
according to data provider CMA.  A Cairo court yesterday decided to halt work by the 100-
member panel chosen by parliament to write the constitution
after the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  last year. Speculation is
growing that a $3.2 billion loan from the  International Monetary
Fund  may be delayed, putting more pressure on the nation’s
foreign reserves, which plunged  50 percent  in the year to March
to $15.1 billion.  The bonds are being affected by a “general risk-off
sentiment, uncertainty related to the political picture,
especially the presidential race, and diminishing prospects of
an IMF deal given the latest stance of the Muslim Brotherhood,”
said Emanuele  Del Monte , who helps oversee about $1.5 billion in
emerging-market debt at Fideuram Asset Management Ireland Ltd.  IMF Loan  Perceptions of Egypt’s default risk are the highest in the
region, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles data from the privately negotiated market. The
contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations.  The government obtained approval today from two
parliamentary committees for an economic plan required to obtain
the IMF loan, said Ashraf Badreldin, a lawmaker with the
legislature’s biggest Islamist bloc, the Freedom and Justice
Party. The support was granted on the basis that the funds won’t
be disbursed to Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri’s government
because parliament doesn’t trust it to “manage the money in a
way that will achieve the hoped-for goals,” he said.  Badreldin said last week his party may reject the aid
package when the issue is presented before parliament because
the government hasn’t answered questions from lawmakers about
the loan. The party, the political arm of the  Muslim
Brotherhood , holds 47 percent of seats in the lower house, the
largest bloc.  Vote for President  The IMF said yesterday loan talks were continuing and the
agency will stay in contact with Egyptian authorities in “the
coming weeks as they finalize the remaining details of their
economic program.”  Twenty-three candidates have filed to run in the nation’s
presidential election, scheduled for May 23 and 24, the Election
Commission said this week. The vote pits Islamist candidates
against a number of secular figures including  Omar Suleiman , one
of the most-senior figures in Mubarak’s regime.  Egypt’s 2040 dollar bonds also declined, pushing the yield
16 basis points higher to 8.3 percent, the highest level in
almost six weeks. The Egyptian pound, which is subject to a
managed float, weakened 0.1 percent to 6.0414 a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  