-- Ellis Says Australia to Avoid U.S.-Style Housing Slump
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-11T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/ellis-says-australia-to-avoid-u-s-style-housing-slump.html
The U.S. needs to make its mortgage
market more attractive for banks and provide additional
adjustable rates for homeowners to improve the health of the
housing industry, a  Reserve Bank  of Australia official said.  “The United States has chosen a host of institutional
arrangements outside the housing-finance system that result in
U.S. households facing more idiosyncratic and collective risk
than their counterparts in many other developed countries,”
 Luci Ellis , head of financial stability at the RBA, said in the
text of remarks to a panel session at the Federal Reserve Bank
of Atlanta 2012 Financial Markets Conference.  She advocated a popular mortgage in Australia that allows
borrowers to make prepayments that can be redrawn later. “Think
of this as like a home-equity loan where the maximum balance
declines over time,” she said, adding they have been an
effective vehicle in  Australia  for “precautionary savings.”  While Australia avoided a property bust during the 2008-09
financial crisis,  house prices  dropped by the most on record in
2011 as global economic uncertainty and concerns about its
impact at home kept a lid on demand.  A private survey today showed Australian  consumer
confidence  fell to an eight-month low as concern mounted among
mortgage holders paying the highest borrowing costs across major
developed nations.  Americans “are not more prone to whipping themselves into
a speculative frenzy” than people in other countries, Ellis
said.  She said a healthy mortgage market is only feasible when
sound mortgage lending is an attractive business for
prudentially regulated firms.  “During the boom, on-balance sheet mortgage lending was
not seen as being profitable or attractive business for U.S.
banking institutions,” Ellis said. “That is extraordinary to
foreign eyes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  