-- Telus Says Mason Doesn’t Have ‘Economic’ Interest in Carrier
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-04-11T20:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/telus-says-mason-doesn-t-have-economic-interest-in-carrier.html
Telus Corp. (T) ,  Canada ’s third-largest
wireless carrier, said a major investor trying to block the
company’s plan to scrap a dual-share structure doesn’t have the
long-term interests of Telus in mind.  Mason Capital Management LLC, which holds 18.7 percent of
the Vancouver-based carrier, yesterday said it will vote against
converting all non-voting shares into voting stock on a one-to-
one basis at a May 9 shareholder meeting.  New York-based Mason is more interested in turning a quick
profit by short-selling the stock, said Telus Chief Financial
Officer Robert McFarlane. Investors taking short positions
borrow and sell a stock, aiming to profit by repaying the
borrowed shares at a lower price.  “They have no net economic interest in Telus,”  McFarlane
said in an interview yesterday. “They shorted as much as they
bought.”  Asked today for his reaction to McFarlane’s comments, a
Mason spokesman, Jonathan Gasthalter declined to comment. Mason
has or had 10.96 million common shares and 21.67 non-voting
shares in short positions, it said in a regulatory filing
yesterday. It has 32.7 million long common shares and 602,300
long non-voting shares.  Telus wants boost the appeal of its shares as it competes
with  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , and new mobile
carriers for a bigger stake of Canada’s wireless market.  Non-voting shares have typically traded at a discount to
their counterparts with  voting rights  and Telus is seeking to
eliminate the disparity, the company said Feb. 21 in plans for
the vote.  If shareholders vote to eliminate the dual-share structure,
the common stock would trade in  New York  as well as Toronto.  Large Turnout  Ensuring a large turnout for the vote will be critical to
winning the vote, McFarlane said. Telus needs 66.6 percent
support in each class to win the resolution and Mason’s stake is
a “good chunk” of the one-third of shares plus one needed to
block the resolution, he said.  “The more people are educated about what’s being attempted
here by someone who doesn’t have an economic interest in the
company, hopefully will increase the rate of people wanting to
vote and hopefully will vote for the company’s proposal,”
McFarlane said.  Non-voting shares of Telus were little changed at C$56.08
at 4:03 p.m. in Toronto as common shares dipped 0.2 percent to
C$57.40. The non-voting shares have gained 2.6 percent this year
and common shares have dropped 0.4 percent.  Short interest  in Telus more than doubled to 40.5 million
shares from February 22 to March 22 and by April 9 had dropped
to 34.5 million, according to  Data Explorers , which tracks
short-selling data on a daily basis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  