-- Temasek President Lee Sues to Shut Primus Over Rent Dues
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-04-11T08:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/temasek-president-lee-sues-to-shut-primus-over-rent-dues.html
Lee Theng Kiat, president of
 Temasek Holdings Pte (TMSK) , sued the  Singapore  unit of  Primus Pacific
Partners Ltd. (PPPTLZ) , a Hong Kong-based private-equity firm, seeking to
shutter the unit for failing to pay rent on a bungalow.  Primus Ventures (Singapore) Pte owes Lee and his wife
S$67,802 ($53,840) in unpaid rent, according to papers filed
with the Singapore High Court. Primus Pacific is led by founding
partners Huan Guocang, HSBC Holdings Plc’s former China
investment banking head, and Ng Wing-Fai, who was managing
director at  Taiwan ’s Fubon Financial Holding Co., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company “should be wound up on the ground that it is
unable to pay its debts,” according to Lee’s winding up
petition. A closed hearing is scheduled for April 13.  Primus Ventures breached a two-year tenancy agreement on
the seven-bedroom property when it didn’t pay the monthly rent
of S$35,000 from October through December, according to the
complaint. In February, the firm paid part of the S$135,638 the
Singapore court ordered it to pay Lee. Similar houses in the
Cornwall Gardens area have sold for S$20 million.  Contact details for Primus Ventures couldn’t be located
through the Internet or directory assistance. Five calls and
three e-mails to Primus Pacific in  Hong Kong  seeking comment
weren’t returned. Lee declined to comment.  Primus Pacific owns almost all of Primus Ventures, which is
listed as a “live” company, according to records filed with
Singapore’s Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority.  Three Presidents  Lee, 59, was appointed president and general counsel of
Temasek, Singapore’s state-owned investment company on April 1.
Lee is one of three presidents at Temasek, which managed S$193
billion as of March 31, 2011. The others are John Cryan and
Gregory Curl.  Primus Ventures also failed to use the premises and
furniture in a “careful manner,” according to the complaint.
The couple estimated it would cost them about S$38,800 to fix
defects including faulty lighting- and fan-fixtures, and hiring
professional cleaners, according to the court papers.  Lee and his wife have owned the house, located on 2,005
square meters (21,580 square feet) of land, since 2004,
according to records with the Singapore Land Authority. The
property has a swimming pool, koi pond, garage, and a guest
house, the court papers show. A similar sized property in the
neighborhood would cost at least S$20 million, according to home
sales lodged in the past two years with the  Urban Redevelopment
Authority .  Primus Financial Holdings Ltd. together with  China
Strategic Holdings Ltd. (235)  in 2010 had its $2.15 billion bid for
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Taiwan unit rejected by the
island’s regulators. Primus Financial was set up in 2009 and
managed by  Robert Morse , a former Citigroup Inc. Asia investment
banking chief, and Primus Pacific’s Huan and Ng.  Huan on March 12 quit the board of Hong Kong-listed New
China Life Insurance Co., citing a change of “work
arrangement.”  The cases are Lee Theng Kiat v Primus Ventures (Singapore)
Pte CWU 41/2012 and S14/2012 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  