-- Emerging Stocks Drop for Sixth Day on Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-11T10:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/emerging-stocks-drop-for-sixth-day-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped for
a sixth day amid concern a worsening  Europe  debt crisis will
dent exports and as oil traded near an eight-week low.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 0.3 percent to
1,013.09 as of 10:30 a.m. in  London , the lowest since Jan. 31.
Russian oil producer  OAO Tatneft (TATN)  fell 2.3 percent to its worst
in more than a month.  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , the Czech unit of
Societe Generale SA, and Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  helped
Czech’s PX Index rebound from the lowest in almost three months.
Indexes in Turkey and  South Africa  declined.  Russia ’s Micex
advanced.  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said yesterday the
nation’s future is at stake in its battle to tame surging bond
yields. Yields on 10-year Spanish bonds reached the highest this
year and closer to levels that prompted  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal to seek bailouts. Oil hovered near its lows after an
industry report showed stockpiles rose for a third week in the
U.S., the world’s biggest consumer of crude.  “Equities are currently under intense pressure, as are
emerging market currencies and peripheral bond markets in the
Eurozone,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-based
ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments today. “Anything with
a risk profile of any sort is being shunned.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has climbed 11 percent this
year, beating a 6.5 percent advance in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed nations. The gauge of developing-country shares is
 valued  at 10.4 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 12.3.  South Africa, Poland, Turkey  Spain’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos declined to rule
out a rescue and Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said the nation’s lenders may need more capital if the
economy weakens more than expected. Europe is  China ’s biggest
export market, making up about 18 percent of the nation’s
overseas shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.
The region is also the largest trading partner of countries
including South Africa and  India .  South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  retreated
0.2 percent as Standard Bank Group Ltd. and  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ,
the nation’s largest and fourth-largest lenders, declined 1.3
percent each.  Polish stocks advanced 0.5 percent as  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , the
country’s second-largest lender, gained 2.8 percent. The  PX
Index (PX)  in the Czech Republic advanced 1.1 percent and Russia’s
Micex Index added 0.6 percent.  Turkey’s  National 100 (XU100)  Index fell 0.6 percent as  Turkcell
Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) , the country’s largest mobile-phone
company, dropped 1.4 percent to its lowest level since November.  Oil Producers Fall  Oil producers fell after crude futures declined 1.4 percent
to an eight-week low in  New York  yesterday. Futures gained 0.6
percent in electronic trading today. Cnooc Ltd. slumped 2.1
percent in  Hong Kong , while  PetroChina Co. (857) , China’s biggest oil
producer, retreated 1.5 percent.  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  led gains by Indian carriers,
surging 6.7 percent after the Times of India said the government
may decide tomorrow to end a ban on foreign carriers owning
stakes in local operators.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index  of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps retreated one basis
point to 290, according to data provider CMA.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  declined four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 363, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  