-- Emerging-Market Growth Accelerates on Industry, HSBC Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-04-12T10:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/emerging-market-growth-picks-up-on-industry-rebound-hsbc-says.html
Emerging-market economies probably
grew at the fastest pace in nine months in the first quarter as
manufacturing rebounded from a slump and services expanded,
according to HSBC Plc, which cited a purchasing-managers survey.  The HSBC  Emerging Markets  Index, which is compiled by
London-based Markit Economics and tracks conditions at more than
5,000 reporting companies, advanced to 53.4 from 52.4 in the
previous three months, the first increase in three quarters.  “There’s been a gentle improvement and a slight
acceleration in economic activity,” Murat Ulgen, HSBC’s London-
based chief economist for central and eastern  Europe  and sub-
Saharan Africa, said yesterday in a phone interview. “Despite
all the problems in the West -- subdued growth and unemployment
-- emerging nations are generally immune and holding up well.”  Emerging markets will continue to benefit from productivity
gains and better access to capital, HSBC said. Governments there
also have more room than their developed-world counterparts for
fiscal stimulus while central banks are shifting focus to
supporting growth from curbing inflation as price increases
ease, except in  India , it said.  Emerging-market stocks were little changed as concerns over
a North Korean rocket launch overshadowed speculation that  China 
and India may loosen monetary policy to bolster their economies.
The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.06 percent to
1,016.86 as of 8:55 a.m. London time.  Brazil, India  Emerging-market economic activity hasn’t returned to its
levels before the global financial crisis that started in 2008,
when HSBC’s index averaged about 57, Ulgen said.  Economic expansion was driven by the fastest services
growth in four years in  Brazil  and in three years in India, HSBC
said. The pair also led China and  Russia  in manufacturing
growth. Chinese industrial output fell for a third quarter.
Russian manufacturing dropped to near a nine-month low.  China’s economy  expanded at the slowest pace in almost
three years in the first quarter, a report tomorrow probably
will show, setting the stage for monetary loosening and aid to
exporters. Gross domestic product rose 8.4 percent from a year
earlier following an 8.9 percent increase in the fourth quarter,
according to the  median estimate  of 41 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The Chinese economy, the world’s second-largest, will grow
about 8 percent in 2012, helped by stimulus measures such as a
100-basis-point cut in reserve-ratio requirements, tax breaks
and other budgetary steps predicted by HSBC, said Ulgen.  The global economy will expand 3.3 percent this year and
3.9 percent in 2013, according to January forecasts from the
 International Monetary Fund . Developing nations will grow 5.4
percent in 2012, while advanced economies will expand 1.2
percent, the IMF estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  