-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rebound as Europe Crisis Concern Fades
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-11T17:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/emerging-market-stocks-rebound-as-europe-crisis-concern-fades.html
Emerging-market stocks gained,
ending a five-day slide, amid speculation the  European Central
Bank  will act to lower  Spain ’s borrowing costs, curbing the
impact of the continent’s debt crisis on global growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.1 percent to
1,016.85 at 12:57 p.m. in New York, led by materials producers.
Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  jumped 0.5 percent, as  oil companies  OAO
Surgutneftegas and OAO Lukoil gained. The  Bovespa (IBOV)  advanced after
plunging the most in five weeks yesterday in Sao Paulo.  ECB Executive Board Member Benoit Coeure triggered
speculation the bank will revive its bond purchase program to
lower Spain’s borrowing costs at an event in Paris today.
Spanish “market conditions are not justified,” he said.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy pledged today he’ll press
ahead with measures to overhaul the economy and cut spending.  Coeure’s comments “cooled off the rising Spanish yields,”
 Tim Hall , who manages $700 million at Deltec Asset Management in
New York, said by phone. “Any sign that these countries are
buying some time and trying to implement the right policies, I
think the market will react positively.”  Emerging-market stocks have gained 11 percent this year to
trade for 10.5 times estimated profit. That’s cheaper than
developed-country stocks on the MSCI World Index, which cost
12.3 times earnings estimates. The MSCI World has advanced 7.2
percent this year.  The IShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)   exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
rose 1.4 percent to $41.88 in New York. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 3.8 percent to 29.16.  Bovespa Rises  The Bovespa gained 0.6 percent, rebounding from a two-day
fall that erased 3.1 percent from the gauge.  Banco do Brasil SA 
jumped 1.8 percent and  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  added 1.4
percent.  Alfa SAB (ALFAA) ,  Mexico ’s largest publicly traded producer of
petrochemicals and processed meats, gained 3.2 percent, leading
the benchmark  IPC index , after saying preliminary first-quarter
sales increased 8.9 percent from a year earlier.  The  PX index  rose for the first time in seven days in
Prague, as  Erste Group Bank AG (RBAG)  jumped 5.1 percent. Turkey’s  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100)  gained 1.2 percent, advancing for the first
day in six.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland stocks in
 Hong Kong  lost 0.9 percent.  Earthquake  Thai stocks slumped as northwestern  Indonesia  was hit by an
earthquake that prompted tsunami warnings across parts of  Asia .
The warnings were later canceled. Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  fell 1
percent, while Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite (JCI)  slid 0.5 percent.
The quake came shortly before the close of trading in Jakarta.  South Korean markets were closed for election day. The
 IShares MSCI South Korean Index Fund (EWY) , a U.S. exchange-traded
fund that holds stocks from  South Korea , gained 1.3 percent. The
Bank of  New York  Mellon Korea ADR Index of American depositary
receipts from the country advanced 1.2 percent.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  declined nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 358, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  