-- Emerging Asia Can Refrain From More Stimulus on Growth, ADB Says
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-04-11T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/emerging-asia-can-refrain-from-more-stimulus-on-growth-adb-says.html
Policy makers in developing  Asia 
can refrain from further monetary and fiscal stimulus because
growth will remain robust, while oil-price spikes can revive the
threat of inflation, the Asian Development Bank said.  Asia excluding  Japan  will expand 6.9 percent this year from
7.2 percent in 2011, the Manila-based lender forecast in its
Asian Development Outlook 2012 report released today. That is
lower than its September forecast of 7.5 percent. Growth will
accelerate to 7.3 percent in 2013, the fastest pace in three
years, it said.  “There is no clear case for short-term policy responses,
but if inflationary pressures build up again and capital inflows
resume, there may be a need to readjust monetary policy to
maintain  price stability ,” Changyong Rhee, ADB chief economist,
said in a statement.  Asian central banks from  Thailand (BTRR1DAY)  to  Malaysia (MAOPRATE)  have
refrained from interest-rate cuts and policy makers in  Indonesia (IDBIRATE) 
and  South Korea  are expected to keep borrowing costs unchanged
at meetings this week. Most Asian currencies have risen this
year and the ADB warned that volatile capital flows remain a
concern as the region weathers the global slowdown.  Inflation in Asia excluding Japan will ease to 4.6 percent
this year and 4.4 percent next year, from 5.9 percent in 2011,
the ADB forecast. Crude oil averaged $118.45 a barrel last
quarter, the most since the three months ending June 2008,
prompting fuel-price increases from China to  Vietnam  in recent
weeks.  Fanning Inflation  “Continued instability in the Middle East, including
threats of oil supply disruptions, could lead to another round
of temporary price spikes, in turn fanning the embers of
inflation in developing Asia,” the ADB said.  Policy makers in the region are balancing the need to
support growth while containing price pressures. While budget
deficits have narrowed, governments have no room for complacency,
the ADB said.  Sri Lanka  raised key rates last week for the second time
this year after inflation accelerated. The Philippines will
consider keeping borrowing costs steady as high  oil prices 
threaten to spur cost pressures, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco signaled last month, while Malaysia’s monetary
authority said it expects slower growth in a “complex global
environment.”  Europe ’s debt woes “present the greatest risk to the
global outlook,” the ADB said. Asia’s challenge has shifted
from financial contagion to slower export growth, it said,
urging policy makers to rebalance their economies toward
domestic and regional consumption, and prepare for the
possibility of an extended period of weak European demand.  China Exports  The debt crisis has damped  China ’s exports, with shipments
to the European Union, the nation’s largest trading partner,
declining 1.8 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
Zheng Yuesheng, head of the customs bureau’s statistics
department, said yesterday.  In addition, a key threat to the region’s long-term growth
and stability is rising income disparities, which can damp the
impact of expansion, and “even undermine the basis of growth
itself,” the ADB said.  China will expand 8.5 percent this year, the lender said,
lower than a September forecast of 9.1 percent, and a projection
of 8.8 percent in December from ADB’s Office of Regional
Economic Integration in Manila. China will expand 8.7 percent in
2013, it said today.  India ’s economy will grow 7 percent in the
year ending March 31, down from a previous estimate of 8.3
percent. It will gain 7.5 percent in 2013-2014, ADB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  