-- Leonard Green Said to Gather $6 Billion for Largest Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-04-11T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/leonard-green-said-to-gather-6-billion-for-largest-fund.html
Leonard Green  & Partners LP, the
private-equity firm that backed Whole Foods Market Inc. and J.
Crew Group Inc., has raised more than $6 billion to make its
next fund its largest, said two people familiar with the matter.  The firm, based in  Los Angeles , gathered $5.8 billion in
commitments from limited partners for Green Equity Investors VI
LP, said the people, asking not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. With the general partner investment,
the fund will surpass $6 billion at closing.  Michael Gennaro, Leonard Green’s chief operating officer,
didn’t return an e-mail yesterday seeking comment.  Some of the big buyout firms that compete with Leonard
Green are targeting smaller pools of capital than before in a
difficult fundraising environment. The amounts New York-based
KKR & Co. and Providence Equity Partners Inc. in Providence,
 Rhode Island , are seeking for their latest flagship funds are
down at least 40 percent from the previous pools.  Leonard Green’s general partner commitment was increased
this year to $250 million from $200 million, the people said.
The firm made other changes to the fund in 2011, including
agreeing to give limited partners 100 percent of the transaction
fees charged portfolio companies instead of the originally
planned 80 percent. It also imposed a $6 billion limit on
outside investors to keep the fund from getting too big,
according to the people.  The firm started raising money in last year’s third quarter
with a goal of matching its fifth fund, which closed at $5.3
billion in 2007. Leonard Green had raised about $4 billion as of
December.  Returns of 15%  The prior fund was producing a multiple of 1.3 times
invested capital and an internal rate of return of 15 percent as
of Sept. 30, according to performance data from Washington State
Investment Board, one of the firm’s pension-fund clients.  The firm, founded in 1989 by Leonard I. Green, is headed by
Managing Partners John Danhakl, Peter Nolan and Jonathan Sokoloff. It invests in deals of $500 million to $2 billion in
enterprise value, according to its website, and specializes in
consumer-focused companies such as BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. and
Jo-Ann Stores Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  