-- MetLife Can’t Escape Home-Loan Risk in Banking Exit: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-04-11T14:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/metlife-can-t-escape-home-loan-risk-in-banking-exit-mortgages.html
MetLife Inc., the life insurer
that’s eliminating most of the 4,300 jobs at its mortgage unit
and selling deposits to reduce federal oversight, is finding it
harder to escape risk from  home loans .  The loan-servicing operation is bracing itself for fines
from the  Federal Reserve  tied to foreclosure practices and may
face penalties from other regulators, according to the New York-
based insurer’s annual report.  Fitch Ratings  said last month
that MetLife used dubious appraisals for mortgages that were
packaged into a bond sale, the type of underwriting flaw that
investors may cite to demand a company repurchase the debt.  Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  is seeking to exit
what the company called a “small, little bank” after the unit
subjected the insurer to oversight from federal regulators who
twice rejected his plan for a  dividend  increase. MetLife
continues to bear repurchase risk tied to about $60 billion in
mortgages issued starting in 2008, even as Kandarian focuses on
expanding life insurance sales in  Asia  and  Latin America .  Insurers “tend to be conservative and they don’t like
unknowns and I don’t blame them,” said Terry Wakefield, a
mortgage industry consultant in Mequon,  Wisconsin , who helped
start a home lending unit for a Prudential Financial Inc.
predecessor. “MetLife found themselves in a position that they
never anticipated when they got into the business.”  Shoddy Foreclosures  Lenders led by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  have suffered more than $72 billion in costs from faulty
underwriting and shoddy foreclosures after the  housing market 
collapsed.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was ordered by the Fed last week to
review foreclosures conducted by its Saxon servicer before it
agreed to sell the unit, and compensate injured borrowers.  MetLife’s originations were a smaller part of the  company’s
business  and were mostly arranged after housing began to slump.
Its reserves for violations of so-called representations and
warranties made about the quality of sold loans totaled $69
million on Dec. 31, or $13 million higher than a year earlier.  The “risk they have due to mortgage origination will
linger,” said Alan Devlin, an analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP.
“But I don’t think the risk will be significant for them.”  The bank unit, which services about 1 percent of U.S. home
loans, posted third-quarter operating  earnings  of $51 million,
accounting for 4.3 percent of MetLife’s total. In the fourth
quarter, it reported a portion of the bank’s operating results
along with divested businesses.  The Fed  fined  five lenders $766.5 million in February for
servicing mistakes and said six more firms previously cited for
deficiencies would face penalties. The regulator didn’t
“identify these six institutions, but  MetLife Inc. (MET)  is among the
institutions that entered into consent decrees” with the Fed
last year, the firm said in a February filing.  Department of Justice  MetLife’s bank also met with the  Department of Justice 
regarding mortgage servicing and  foreclosure practices  and may
face fines from state and federal enforcement authorities, the
company said. The Fed hasn’t contacted MetLife regarding a fine,
said  John Calagna , a spokesman for the firm.  MetLife CEO Kandarian, who was promoted to the job in May,
has been retreating from banking to avoid the stronger federal
oversight imposed on deposit-takers after the 2008 financial
crisis. The Fed last month rejected his plan to buy back stock
because it determined the firm would fall short of a capital
standard in a severe economic downturn. The regulator also
blocked MetLife from increasing its annual dividend last year.  The insurer rose 1.7 percent to $35.45 at 10:34 a.m. in  New
York , extending gains this year to 13.7 percent. It declined 30
percent in 2011.  ‘Natural Hedge’  The company started MetLife Bank in 2001, to complement the
insurance business. The business could serve as a “natural
hedge” when  interest rates  declined, it said in 2010.  It purchased the mortgage unit of First Horizon National
Corp., the Memphis, Tennessee-based bank, in 2008 to expand in
home loans as established competitors scaled back or failed,
putting it among the 10 largest lenders. In 2010, it hired Brian Hale, the former managing director of national production at
Countrywide Financial Corp., the top-ranked mortgage lender
before the housing slump, to lead the business.  In January, it said it would stop originating mortgages,
eliminating most of the unit’s 4,300 of employees, after a
failed attempt to sell the lender. MetLife said the move could
cost as much as $110 million. It retained a servicer that
oversees about $82 billion of home loans and continues to make
so-called reverse mortgages used by seniors to tap  home equity .  In December, the insurer agreed to sell about $7.5 billion
of its approximately $11 billion in deposits to General Electric
Co. MetLife Bank had $25.5 billion of assets as of Dec. 31,
according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Selling Jumbos  The company has sold about $3 billion of so-called jumbo
mortgages in a series of auctions this year as part of the
retreat, according to two people familiar with the sales, who
declined to be identified because the transactions were private.
Most have been bought by other banks, they said.  Jumbo home loans are ones larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in some areas. Limits range from
$417,000 to $625,500 for  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  loans with
the lowest costs for borrowers using 20 percent down payments.  About $600 million of the MetLife mortgages ended up in a
March transaction by Credit Suisse Group AG that bundled a total
of $741 million of loans into securities.  Fitch said in a March 29 report there were “certain
irregularities” in MetLife’s practices, after reviewing the
deal. It “ultimately” wasn’t asked to rate the transaction
because its potential grades were considered too low, the credit
assessor said in an e-mailed statement.  Fitch Report  “Notably, in cases where MetLife’s origination guidelines
called for more than one appraisal to be obtained, the lowest
valued appraisal was not uniformly used to determine
eligibility,” Fitch said.  A due diligence firm’s assessment also showed that 8.4
percent of the total loan pool was MetLife mortgages whose
property valuations couldn’t be supported, according to Fitch.
DBRS Ltd., which rated the bonds, said that reviews of the
insurer’s “underwriting guidelines and third-party due
diligence resulted in more conservative assumptions being
applied to loss rates.”  “We disagreed with the Fitch report,” MetLife’s Calagna
said in a statement. The bank “maintained a robust risk
management group that included a collateral risk management
department consisting of over 30 licensed appraisers,” he said.
When two valuations were required, usually for loans of more
than $1.5 million, those individuals “reconciled the two
appraisals using numerous automated tools and local market
expertise,” he said. “The approach taken by MetLife exceeds
what other lenders are generally doing.”  Loan Delinquencies  None of the $268.6 million of fixed-rate jumbo mortgages
issued by MetLife in 2010, still outstanding and held by the
insurer in February were delinquent that month, according to a
DBRS report. Only 0.3 percent of the $842.9 million of loans
from 2011 were 30 days late or more.  MetLife is also more protected against repurchases than
most lenders who have contributed loans to mortgage
securitizations since the market revived in 2010 because it
didn’t agree to binding arbitration when there are disputes,
said Rui Pereira, a managing director at Fitch.  That means bond investors would need to take the insurer to
court and “we’ve seen how that’s played in the recent crisis,”
he said in a telephone interview, referring to the legal battles
being waged by lenders such as Bank of America.  ‘Could be Terrible’  Potential flaws in the jumbo loans that MetLife had
retained in its portfolio may signal worse practices for debt it
sold to government-supported  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, or got
insured by the  Federal Housing Administration , said Brad Golding, managing director at Christofferson, Robb & Co. Those
entities often have stronger rights to force repurchases.  “If their portfolio product is bad, the product they meant
to be selling could be terrible,” said Golding, whose New York-
based hedge fund manages about $1.4 billion.  Bank of America, which bought Countrywide in 2008, and
JPMorgan have seen the biggest losses since 2007 from home loans
apart from the costs stemming from debt they own, according to
the data compiled by Bloomberg. The banks are suffering mainly
from buyback demands tied to loans issued before bad lending
sparked a collapse in the mortgage market and U.S. home prices.  Loans made since 2008 were originated in “the most
conservative of times” in comparison with mortgages from the
three years before that, said  David Lykken , managing partner at
Mortgage Banking Solutions, an Austin, Texas-based consulting
firm.  Repurchase Requests  Even so, JPMorgan last year received repurchase requests on
$1.6 billion of loans made in 2008 or later, out of a total of
$5.4 billion of demands, as loan buyers such as government-
supported Fannie Mae enforce their rights, according to
 disclosures  posted on the website of that New York-based bank.  MetLife’s risks of repurchases as of Dec. 31 were tied to
approximately $58.6 billion of loans issued since 2008, mainly
through government-supported programs, according to the
insurer’s annual report.  Calagna, the company spokesman, said appraisals for those
mortgages were designed to “meet or exceed” required
guidelines and its other practices were sound.  “These loans were originated and underwritten in accordance
with investor guidelines and in compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations,” he said  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  