-- Mets Lose for First Time This Season, Yankees Win in 12 Innings
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-11T04:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/mets-lose-for-first-time-this-season-yankees-win-in-12-innings.html
The  New York  Mets lost David Wright
and their first game of the Major League Baseball season 6-2 to
the Washington Nationals, while the  New York Yankees  needed 12
innings to defeat the Baltimore Orioles 5-4.  The  Boston Red Sox  lost 7-3 to the  Toronto Blue Jays  and
have dropped four of their five games this season.  Raul Ibanez hit a ground-rule double to score Robinson Cano
in the 12th inning for the Yankees (2-3) at Oriole Park at
Camden Yards. Derek Jeter started the game with a solo home run
to give New York a 1-0 lead before the Orioles (3-2) scored four
runs through the fifth inning. The Yankees scored three runs in
the sixth to tie the game.  Clay Rapada (1-0) got two outs for the win and Mariano Rivera had two strikeouts while recording his first save of the
season. Loser Pedro Strop (0-1) allowed one run on two hits
while striking out two in two innings for the Orioles.  At Citi Field in New York, Ian Desmond homered and Jayson Werth drove in two runs for the Nationals (3-2). Justin Turner
had a run-scoring single and Ronny Cedeno batted in the other
run for the Mets (4-1) wi8th a double.  Ross Detwiler (1-0) gave up two hits and struck out six in
five scoreless innings for  Washington . Dillon Gee (0-1)
surrendered four runs on eight hits and struck out six in 5 1/3
innings for New York.  Mets third baseman Wright fractured the middle joint of the
little finger on his right hand, the team said. He has been
cleared to return when he can tolerate discomfort.  At Rogers Centre in Toronto, Edwin Encarnacion hit a run-
scoring single in the first inning and a solo home run in the
seventh to lead the Blue Jays (3-2). Adrian Gonzalez had a
sacrifice fly in the sixth to score  Jacoby Ellsbury  and a
ground-rule double in the ninth to add two more runs for the  Red
Sox  (1-4).  Kyle Drabek (1-0) gave up one run on three hits and struck
out four in 5 1/3 innings for the Blue Jays.  Daniel Bard  (0-1)
went five innings for Boston, allowing five runs on eight hits
and striking out six.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  