-- Europe’s Debt Crisis Getting Worse, Pimco’s El-Erian Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-04-11T19:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/europe-s-debt-crisis-getting-worse-pimco-s-el-erian-says.html
Europe ’s fiscal crisis is getting
worse and will keeping fueling market instability, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’sMohamed A. El-Erian.  “The problems in Europe are getting bigger,” El-Erian,
co-chief investment officer at the world’s biggest bond fund,
said on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays  as he prepared to speak before the Federal Reserve Bank of
 St. Louis . “Europe has a debt issue and Europe has a growth
issue, and until Europe deals with both, we are going to have
these reoccurring periods of nervousness in the market.”   Yields (GSPG10YR)  on Spanish bonds rose this week to the highest level
since December and those on Italian notes advanced to the most
since February. Those yields fell today as European Central Bank
Executive Board member Benoit Coeure triggered speculation that
the bank will revive its bond-purchase program to lower  Spain ’s
borrowing costs.  “Spain shows the markets remain nervous,” Coeure said at
an event in Paris today. “Will the ECB intervene? We have an
instrument, the securities markets program, which hasn’t been
used recently but it still exists.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.7 percent today
after falling 4.3 percent in the five days ended yesterday
partly on concern Europe’s economic recovery is stalling.  ‘Bought’ Tranquility  “People are realizing that the tranquility that we have is
bought rather than earned,” El-Erian said. “It depends on the
ECB putting in liquidity in order to calm markets. At the first
indication that the ECB may not be committed to this, people get
really nervous.”  Investors should avoid the bonds of  Greece (GGGB10YR)  and  Portugal , he
said, adding that Italy and Spain are more attractive because
they don’t have a solvency issue.  Amid challenges, Europe is still very important to the rest
of the world, El-Erian said.  “No single country in the world can totally decouple from
Europe,” he said, adding that Europe is the biggest economic
zone in the world and the region’s banks are global and have a
huge influence on risk appetite.  El-Erian is speaking today in the St. Louis Fed’s Homer
Jones Memorial Lecture on central bank policy activism. Fifteen
of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the central bank said
the odds are that it will need a third round of bond purchases,
or quantitative easing, to bolster the  U.S. economy , according
to a Bloomberg News survey conducted in the week of March 26.  Pimco’s  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has returned 6.46 percent in the
past year, beating 44 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 0.57 percent over the past
month, outperforming 93 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hays in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  