-- European Stocks Rebound; Banks and Carmakers Lead Gains
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-04-11T16:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/european-stock-index-futures-fall-as-spain-concerns-grow.html
European stocks gained, rebounding
from a two-month low, as banks and automakers advanced and
Spain’s prime minister said the country wouldn’t need a bailout.  Deutsche Bank AG was among stocks leading banks higher.
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  rose 3 percent. Aluminum producer  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) 
rose 2.2 percent.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  tumbled 14 percent after it lowered
the first-quarter outlook for its handset division.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.7 percent to 254.43 at
the close in  London .  European stocks  tumbled 2.5 percent
yesterday to their lowest level since Jan. 30, amid mounting
concern about the region’s debt crisis and as a U.S. report
showed employers in the world’s largest economy added fewer jobs
in March than forecast.  “Fundamentally, the equity market offers extreme value and
I am very happy to be buying on the dips,” said George Godber,
who helps oversee $22 billion as a  fund manager  at Charles
Stanley’s Matterley division in London. His Matterley
Undervalued Assets Fund rose 12 percent in 2012. “Equities are
the only place to be.”  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said  Spain  faces a “huge”
task generating jobs and growth as it looks to rein in its
 budget deficit . Addressing lawmakers of his People’s Party in
Madrid today, he also said he wants to make it “as clear as
day” that Spain won’t need a bailout.  Spain’s 10-year borrowing costs have jumped more than 1
percentage point since March 2, when Rajoy announced that the
country will miss its 2012 budget-deficit goal approved by the
European Union. Euro-region finance ministers on March 12
settled on narrowing the shortfall to 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product from 8.5 percent last year, even as the nation
battles its second recession since 2009.  Coeure Comments  European Central Bank Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
triggered speculation that the bank will revive its bond
purchase program to lower Spain’s borrowing costs.  Spanish “market conditions are not justified,” Coeure,
who heads the ECB’s market operations division, said at an event
in Paris today. “Will the ECB intervene? We have an instrument,
the securities markets program, which hasn’t been used recently
but it still exists.”  The euro rose and Spanish bond yields declined as Coeure’s
comments reassured investors that the ECB will act again if
needed to stem the crisis.  Bank Optimism  HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s biggest bank, said there is a
“glimmer” of light for European bank earnings as it upgraded
the industry to overweight for the first time in four years.  European bank earnings may have “bottomed” as long as the
region’s economy doesn’t contract by more than 2 percent this
year, HSBC analyst Peter Sullivan wrote to clients today.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s largest bank, added 2.3 percent to
34.48 euros. Barclays Plc gained 2.8 percent to 212.1 pence.
Italian banks gained, with UniCredit, the country’s biggest
bank, adding 5.5 percent to 3.21 euros after falling 8.1 percent
yesterday. Intesa Sanpaolo SpA also rose 5.5 percent to 1.20
euros. Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl gained 5.9 percent to 34.8
euro cents.  Banco Santander SA, Spain’s largest bank, added 2 percent
to 5.30 euros, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA rose 3.8
percent to 5.60 euros. BBVA was raised to buy from hold at
Deutsche Bank.  Beige Book  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  will release its Beige
Book regional business survey today. The central bank said in
its last report on the local economic climate surveyed by the
nine branches of the Fed that the  U.S. economy  expanded at a
“modest to moderate pace” in January and early February as
factories increased production.  Preferred shares of Volkswagen added 3 percent to 128.80
euros, after four days of losses. Europe’s largest carmaker said
first-quarter auto sales rose 10.5 percent to 1.36 million
units.  Daimler AG (DAI)  added 1.2 percent to 41.31 euros.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of luxury vehicles,
gained 2.5 percent to 66.71 euros.  Norsk Hydro, a European aluminum producer, advanced 2.2
percent to 29.95 kroner after  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, reported an unexpected first-quarter profit
after orders rose and it closed higher-cost smelting capacity.  G4S Plc (GFS) , the world’s largest security company, gained 2.6
percent to 280.1 pence after the stock was upgraded to
overweight from equal weight at Morgan Stanley.  Givaudan Rises  Givaudan, the Swiss maker of flavors and fragrances, rose
3.7 percent to 894.50 francs. The company reported improved
first-quarter sales as it continued to pass on the higher cost
of raw materials including vanilla and citrus oils with
increased pricing.  Sales gained 4.7 percent to 1.06 billion Swiss francs
($1.16 billion), the Geneva-based company said in a statement
today. Revenue growth was in line with Givaudan’s target of
expanding by between 4.5 percent and 5.5 percent each year.  Nyrstar NV, the world’s largest producer of refined zinc,
gained 4 percent to 6.10 euros.  Japan ’s zinc demand may increase
7.2 percent this year to a four-year high as the economy
recovers from an earthquake and tsunami and the weaker yen helps
boost exporters, Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co., the country’s
largest smelter, said.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, added 2.6
percent to 13.24 euros. Eramet SA, operator of the world’s
biggest ferronickel plant, gained 3.1 percent to 100 euros.  Nokia Drops  Nokia tumbled 14 percent to 3.27 euros, its lowest level
since 1997, after the company cut its profit forecast for its
handset division. The first-quarter operating margin for the
devices and services business was probably minus 3 percent based
on the non-IFRS accounting standard, Espoo, Finland-based Nokia
said in a statement today. The company had predicted “around
breakeven” with a range of 2 percentage points in either
direction. Second-quarter figures will be “similar to or
below” those for the current quarter, it said.  Getinge, a Swedish maker of hospital equipment, fell 5.3
percent to 175.70 kronor after it said first-quarter profit
missed analyst estimates.  Profit before tax was between 560 million kronor ($82
million) and 570 million kronor, the Getinge-based company said
in a statement today. Profit a year earlier was 568 million
kronor. Analysts predicted 672 million kronor, the average of
six estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  fell 3.6 percent to 437.8
pence. The recruitment services company reported first-quarter
profit of 136 million pounds and said markets continue to be
weak and visibility remains limited.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  fell 0.8 percent to 649
pence. The pay-TV broadcaster in which Rupert Murdoch’s News
Corp. owns a 39 percent stake, was downgraded to underperform
from neutral at Bank of America Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  