-- Leverenz Wields $25 Billion in Emerging Stocks With Top Fund
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-04-11T13:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/leverenz-collects-warhol-returns-with-ctrip-in-top-emerging-fund.html
Justin Leverenz, who runs the $25
billion  Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund (ODMAX) , is beating 97
percent of his peers by ignoring the economy.  The 43-year-old  money manager  has been buying shares of
 Yandex NV (YNDX) ,  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  and Colgate-Palmolive
 India  Ltd., companies he says face little competition and serve
growing markets that are insulated from fluctuations in gross
domestic product.  “Emerging-market investors are chasing credit cycles,
chasing inventory cycles and trying to move money from one
country to the other,” said Leverenz, whose fund returned about
42 percent during the past five years, 32 percentage points more
than the average gain at 76 rivals tracked by Bloomberg. “I
invest in companies.”  Leverenz’s focus on business models instead of economic
trends puts him at odds with the surging popularity of emerging-
market exchange-traded funds, which avoid stock-picking to track
the returns on broad equity indexes. Betting on economic booms
and busts in developing nations is no longer the best strategy
for stock investors because the countries have cut debt and
boosted foreign-exchange reserves, Leverenz said in an interview
in his office in lower Manhattan.  Warhol Returns  “Investors in businesses are positioned to do well in the
next decade,” said Leverenz, who has overseen a 133 percent
increase in the Oppenheimer fund’s assets since he took the helm
in May 2007, making it the world’s biggest actively-managed
equity mutual fund focused on developing nations, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. “A few companies enjoy such
extraordinary benefits that no one can replace them for a long,
long period of time.”  Leverenz, an art enthusiast who buys paintings from  China ,
Russia and India, compares the companies in his fund to artists
such as  Andy Warhol  who consistently generate higher returns
than their peers. A Warhol self-portrait sold for $38.4 million
at Christie’s International in  New York  last May.  “If you look at the price distribution of paintings or
sculptures, very few people command the economics,” said
Leverenz, a father of three who lives in New York’s Westchester
County. “When I look at the companies, it’s the same
observation.”  Yandex, Russia’s most popular Internet search engine, has a
60 percent share of the nation’s online search market and posted
a 50 percent jump in fourth-quarter  earnings  as ad revenue
increased.  Ctrip, Colgate  Ctrip, China’s largest online travel agency, may boost
profit by more than 20 percent annually during the next five
years as more of the country’s 1.3 billion people book their
hotels over the Internet, according to Leverenz, a fluent
Mandarin speaker who was a director of Asian technology research
at New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  before joining
OppenheimerFunds Inc. in 2004.  Colgate-Palmolive India, the local unit of the world’s
largest toothpaste maker, posted a 75 percent surge in profit
during the three months ended December, compared with a 16
percent average gain for makers of household products in
 emerging markets , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yandex shares gained 2.3 percent at 9:47 a.m. in New York
trading, while Ctrip increased 0.8 percent. Colgate-Palmolive
India slipped 0.8 percent in Mumbai.  Size Concern  The Oppenheimer Developing Markets  fund  usually owns about
100 stocks, Leverenz said, compared with more than 800 in the
MSCI emerging-markets index. The top five positions typically
account for about 15 percent of assets, versus 10 percent in the
 MSCI gauge , and the fund holds stocks for an average five years,
according to Leverenz.  About 72 percent of the fund’s investments as of February
were in 10 countries, with 39 percent in the so-called BRIC
nations of Brazil, Russia, India and China, according to
Oppenheimer’s website.  Leverenz’s focus on individual companies hasn’t insulated
the fund from equity-market  swings . The fund lost 8.9 percent
during the past 12 months as the MSCI Emerging Markets index
declined 13 percent amid concern economic growth in developing
nations is slowing, data compiled by Bloomberg show. During the
global financial crisis in 2008, the Oppenheimer fund fell 48
percent as the MSCI index lost 53 percent.  Growth in the Oppenheimer fund’s assets may eventually hurt
returns by limiting the number of stocks Leverenz can buy, said
Karin Anderson, a senior mutual fund analyst at Morningstar Inc.
in  Chicago . It’s more difficult for larger funds to purchase and
sell thinly-traded stocks without affecting the market price,
she said.  ‘Paradigm Shift’  “It’s something to keep an eye on,” Anderson said in a
phone interview. “You don’t want to see so much money coming in
that he can’t find the opportunities he wants in the smaller-cap
spaces that are less liquid.”  Companies in the Oppenheimer fund as of February had a
weighted median market capitalization of about $15 billion,
according to Oppenheimer’s website. That compares with an
unweighted median of about $5.1 billion for the MSCI emerging-
markets  index .  For much of the past three decades, developing-market
 investors  have made money by purchasing shares during economic
booms and then cashing out before the inevitable collapse, said
Leverenz, who also held research and fund management positions
at Barclays de Zoete Wedd in Taiwan and Edinburgh-based  Martin
Currie  before joining Oppenheimer.  BRIC Reserves  Turkey’s benchmark equity  index  surged fivefold in 1999,
before a financial crisis wiped out half of its value during the
following 15 months. The  MSCI Russia Index (MXRU)  soared 112 percent in
1997, then tumbled 83 percent the following year after the
government defaulted on $40 billion of local debt and devalued
its currency.  Now, emerging economies are undergoing a “paradigm shift”
toward stable growth that will make picking the right stocks a
bigger driver of returns than identifying changes in the
countries’ economic and credit cycles, Leverenz said.  Emerging-market governments have cut debt to 34 percent of
gross domestic product from 52 percent a decade ago as their
annual economic growth averaged 6.5 percent, compared with 3.6
percent in the 1990s, according to data compiled by the
 International Monetary Fund . Brazil, Russia, India and China,
the four-biggest emerging economies, have a combined $4.3
trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, up from $439 billion a
decade ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The creditor in the system is the developing world,”
Leverenz said. “Emerging markets no longer have the same
economic volatility as they did in the 1980s and 1990s.”  ETF Flows  Surging inflows into developing-nation ETFs show that many
investors still prefer betting on trends in economic and
earnings growth rather than buying individual stocks.  The only emerging-market equity funds with more assets than
Leverenz’s fund are the $54 billion  Vanguard MSCI Emerging
Markets ETF (VWO)  and the $40 billion  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
Index ETF , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Both ETFs,
which trade throughout the day like stocks on U.S. exchanges,
are designed to mimic the MSCI benchmark index without trying to
outperform the gauge.  Emerging-market ETFs tracked by research firm EPFR Global
have lured $14 billion of net investor inflows during the past
six months. That compares with $3.7 billion of inflows into
developing-nation mutual funds, which are typically priced once
a day after the close of regular trading.  Yandex Growth  The Vanguard ETF has  returned  18 percent in the past six
months, topping the 16 percent gain in the Oppenheimer fund,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m not interested in keeping up with the competitors,”
Leverenz said. “It’s impossible for me to outperform in every
environment.”  His fund’s gain during the past five years has  topped  the
Vanguard ETF by 24 percentage points, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The Oppenheimer fund held about 7.5 million shares of
Yandex at the end of February, or 4.7 percent of the company’s
outstanding  stock , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yandex,
which raised $1.3 billion in a U.S. initial public offering in
May, will boost per-share earnings by 74 percent through 2013,
according to the average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with estimated growth of 40 percent at
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s most-popular search engine.  Yandex, based in The Hague, Netherlands, has climbed 30
percent this year, while  Mountain View , California-based Google
slipped 2.9 percent.  ‘Monopolistic Business’  “Search is always a monopolistic business” because the
more users the engine attracts, the more effective it becomes,
said Leverenz, who also holds shares of Seongnam, South Korea-
based  NHN Corp. (035420) , owner of the country’s biggest search engine,
and Beijing-based  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the largest in China.  Leverenz has been buying shares of Shanghai-based Ctrip
during the past six months, building a  stake  of at least 9.4
percent through February, according to Bloomberg data. While he
admired the business for “years and years,” the shares only
became  cheap  enough to snap up last year after growth in the
world’s second-largest economy slowed and Ctrip reported lower
profit margins, Leverenz said.  The company still has “huge” growth opportunities because
most Chinese hotels lack online booking systems and Ctrip has a
stronger brand than its competitors, said Leverenz, who has a
degree in Chinese studies and political economy from the
University of California San Diego.  Brand Recognition  Ctrip has  dropped  11 percent in U.S. trading this year,
following a 42 percent tumble in 2011. The stock is valued at 16
times estimated 2012 profits, down from 24 times projected
earnings a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There’s a massive gravitation toward Ctrip and it’s going
to be a major threat to competitors,” Leverenz said. “But it’s
a company you have to have patience with. You have to have a
really strong stomach.”  The Oppenheimer fund holds a stake in  Colgate-Palmolive
India (CLGT)  amounting to about 5 percent of the company’s outstanding
shares, which advanced 14 percent in Mumbai trading this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company has a 52.5 percent
share of the country’s toothpaste market and about 27 percent of
the mouthwash market, according to a January report from India
Infoline Ltd., a Mumbai-based brokerage.  “Colgate owns the toothpaste market in India,” Leverenz
said. “It’s a very nice market structure and has been very
profitable.”  The Mumbai-based company’s brand recognition in the world’s
second-most populous country will drive growth as rising incomes
enable more people to buy personal-hygiene products, he said.
India’s per-capita GDP will probably rise to $2,348 by 2016 from
$1,527 last year, increasing more than three times faster than
in the U.S., according to the IMF.  “India is developing very rapidly,” Leverenz said. “The
world has totally, fundamentally changed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  