-- Ex-Goldman Sachs Programmer Didn’t Commit a Crime, Court Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-11T20:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/ex-goldman-sachs-programmer-didn-t-commit-a-crime-court-says.html
Sergey Aleynikov, the former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  programmer who was freed after his
conviction for stealing computer code was overturned, didn’t do
anything to violate the federal laws prosecutors used to charge
him, an appeals court said.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  New York , which had ordered
Aleynikov freed from prison in Fort Dix,  New Jersey , in
February, today issued an opinion explaining its reasons. The
court said the two laws prosecutors used to charge Aleynikov, 
the National Stolen Property Act and the Economic Espionage Act, 
don’t apply to his case.  “We conclude that Aleynikov’s conduct did not constitute
an offense under either the NSPA or the EEA, and that the
indictment was therefore legally insufficient,” Chief Judge
Dennis Jacobs wrote in the opinion, on behalf of two members of
a three-judge panel. Judge Guido Calabresi filed a separate
opinion agreeing that Aleynikov didn’t violate the laws.  Aleynikov, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in  Russia , was
convicted in December 2010. He was serving an eight-year prison
sentence at the time his conviction was overturned.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment on today’s opinion.  On his last day of work at New York-based  Goldman Sachs in 
June 2009, Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of thousands of lines of
source code from the firm’s high-frequency trading system,
prosecutors said.  He circumvented Goldman Sachs’s security, sent the code to
a server in Germany, compressed and encrypted it, and took it
with him to a meeting with new employers in Chicago, the U.S.
said. Prosecutors argued Aleynikov wanted it as a “cheat
sheet” to start a trading system at his new job.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 11-1126,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 