-- Ex-Tyco Chief Kozlowski Says He Rejected Plea Agreement
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-11T22:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/ex-tyco-chief-kozlowski-says-he-had-sense-of-entitlement-.html
L.  Dennis Kozlowski , the  Tyco
International Ltd. (TYC)  chief executive officer convicted in 2005 of
looting his company, said he rejected a plea deal that would
have earned him two to six years in prison.  Kozlowski told the New York state Parole Board during an
April 4 hearing that he declined the offer from the Manhattan
district attorney’s  office  because he had “rationalized” that
he wasn’t guilty, according to a transcript released today.
Kozlowski told the panel he is no longer maintaining his
innocence in the case.  “Back when I was running Tyco, I was living in a CEO-type
bubble,” Kozlowski told the board, according to the transcript
released by the state Department of Corrections and Community
Supervision. “I had a strong sense of entitlement at that time,
and I had a sense of greed, and in doing so I stole money from
Tyco, and I stole a lot of money.”  Kozlowski, 65, was convicted in June 2005 of  securities
fraud , grand larceny and falsifying business records and
received a sentence of 8 1/3 to 25 years in prison. The parole
board last week denied the 65-year-old Kozlowski’s request for
parole “due to concern for the public safety and welfare.”  Inflated Stock  The jury, in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan,
found that Kozlowski and ex-Chief Financial Officer Marc Swartz
stole about $137 million from Tyco in unauthorized compensation
and made $410 million from the sale of inflated stock. An
earlier trial resulted in a mistrial after a juror reported
receiving threats.  Jurors at both trials saw a tape of a $2 million birthday
party Kozlowski threw on the Italian island of Sardinia in June
2001, financed in part by Tyco. It featured an ice sculpture of
Michelangelo’s “David,” with vodka flowing from its penis, and
a concert by singer  Jimmy Buffett .  Kozlowski, a 1968 graduate of  Seton Hall University  in  New
Jersey , who started with Tyco as an assistant comptroller in
1976, told the board he has paid $134 million in restitution and
a $70 million fine in full. He said he sold his assets,
including homes and a boat, “as quickly as possible” and has
“very, very little left.”  ‘Deeply Sorry’  “I stole from the company,” Kozlowski said. “I misplaced
the trust of people that counted on me, people who worked at
Tyco, people who were invested in Tyco, my friends, my family,
and I can’t begin to describe how deeply sorry I am for that
behavior, and I have come to recognize that a number of years
ago while I was in jail.”  Kozlowski was transferred in January to the Lincoln
Correctional Facility, a minimum-security facility on
 Manhattan ’s 110th Street near Fifth Avenue, from the medium-
security Mid-State Correctional Facility in Marcy, New York, his
lawyers said last month.  Kozlowski said he helped prisoners at Mid-State earn their
general equivalency diplomas and worked as a laundry porter,
according to the transcript. He also said he completed an
alcohol and substance abuse treatment  program  during the past
six months that earned him a “merit certificate” that allowed
him to appear before the board.  Kozlowski said he now works as a clerk at a company that
helps former offenders, veterans and others prepare for job
interviews. He said he leaves the Lincoln facility each weekday
morning and returns each evening. He is allowed to spend Friday
and Saturday nights outside the prison, he told the board.  Kozlowski, who became the face of corporate greed with a
$6,000 shower curtain and paintings by Monet and Renoir in his
Fifth Avenue apartment paid for with shareholders’ money, ended
the hearing by asking the panel to grant him parole, a request
that was denied the next day.  “I am fully responsible for stealing money from Tyco,”
Kozlowski said. “I’m extremely sorry about it, and as you
consider parole for me here today, I am asking you for your
mercy. I am not too proud to beg you for your mercy here today.
I’m extremely sorry for what I have done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  