-- Ex-Village People Singer Willis Fights to Reclaim Copyrights
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-04-11T20:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/ex-village-people-singer-willis-fights-to-reclaim-copyrights.html
Victor Willis , ex-lead singer of
the Village People, is testing a 1976 law that lets creators
regain U.S. copyrights to their works in what the Songwriters
Guild of America predicted will provide a precedent for “many
termination claims that will be filed in the coming years.”  A federal judge in  San Diego  may rule as early as this
month on Willis’s request to throw out a lawsuit by the
publisher of the 1970s disco group’s hits, including
“Y.M.C.A.,” “In the Navy” and “Go West.” The publisher,
 Scorpio Music SA , sued last year to stop Willis from terminating
the rights he signed over almost 35 years ago.  The case may provide the first interpretation of a law that
took effect Jan. 1, 1978, giving artists and other copyright
holders the option to end post-1977 transfers after 35 years.  The outcome is “critical to whether songwriters and other
creators will be enabled on both a legal and a practical basis
to pursue and enjoy their statutory rights, or whether
publishers will be allowed to frustrate those rights through a
protracted-litigation strategy,” the guild said in court papers
supporting Willis.  Terminations can begin next year for anyone who served
notice of an intent to recapture a copyright. Willis would own
his works for the rest of his life, and his heirs would own them
for 70 years more. Court filings don’t include estimates of the
value of the copyrights.  Jay Cooper, an entertainment industry lawyer, said a
copyright is often worth about 10 times its average annual
royalties in the most recent three to five years.  Valuing Copyrights  Variables such as whether a song has been used in
commercials and how often it has been recorded affect the value,
and without that information an estimate is impossible, said
Cooper, of Greenberg Traurig LLP in Santa Monica,  California ,
who represented the singer  Sheryl Crow  when she sold her music
publishing catalog.  A question before U.S. District Judge Barry Ted Moskowitz
is whether Willis can recover copyrights on works he wrote with
others. He was one of three people on most of the copyrights.  “People are talking about it like it’s the Mayan
prediction for the world ending in 2012,” said Barry Slotnick,
an entertainment lawyer with the New York office of  Loeb & Loeb
LLP (1300L) . “But no one knows what’s going to happen.”  Congress gave creators the right to terminate copyright
agreements because they often sign away rights before the true
market value of their work is established, the songwriters’
guild said in its filing.  Young Writers  Transfers typically take place early in songwriters’
careers when they have little or no leverage against publishers
in “far superior bargaining and economic positions,” the guild
said.  The issue is especially important for recording artists who
assign rights when “they’re young and have unequal bargaining
positions,” said Lee Phillips, an entertainment attorney with
Manatt, Phelps & Phillips in  Los Angeles . Willis was in his 20s
in the 1970s.  Scorpio Music SA, based in Paris, and New York-based Can’t
Stop Productions Inc., which represents Scorpio in the U.S.,
said in a complaint filed in July that they owned the
compositions for which Willis provided lyrics from 1977 to 1979.  Willis has received “hundreds of thousands of dollars”
under the agreements, 12 percent to 20 percent of Can’t Stop
royalty receipts for more than 30 years, according to Scorpio.  The publisher said Willis can’t terminate the rights to the
Village People songs because they are “joint works written by
more than one person.”  Different Paths  While Willis assigned his rights to Can’t Stop, other
writers signed agreements with Scorpio Music, according to the
companies’ complaint.  “Willis, simply because he signed documents different from
the ones signed by the other authors of the same joint works, is
neither the sole grantor nor only author of any of the
compositions,” according to the complaint.  The companies said in a filing that the law “unambiguously
requires the agreement of the majority of authors” to invoke
the right of termination. Willis said in his court papers that
the “express, clear and unambiguous language” of the law means
that, since he executed the grants alone, he can terminate them.  Stewart L. Levy , an attorney with Eisenberg Tanchum & Levy
in  New York  who represents Scorpio, said it would create
“havoc” in the  music industry  if Willis was allowed to
terminate his copyright separately from the others.  Willis was the original lead singer for the  six-man, gay-
themed disco act  created in 1977 by the French producers  Henri
Belolo  and  Jacques Morali .  Named as Co-Authors  Morali and Belolo were listed with Willis as the authors of
most of the 33 songs for which he seeks to terminate his
copyright grant.  Willis was typically costumed as a motorcycle policeman for
performances. Others often dressed as an American Indian, a
G.I., a construction worker, a cowboy and a biker, based on
homosexual stereotypes in New York’s  Greenwich Village .  The U.S. Navy allowed the group to shoot the video of its
1979 hit “In the Navy” on the frigate USS Reasoner in exchange
for the right to use the song in a recruitment campaign. The
Navy canceled the campaign after a public outcry over the use of
taxpayer funds to finance a video of the act.  The judge must first determine whether the parties intended
to make an individual or collective grant of the copyright, said
Larry Iser, an intellectual-property lawyer whose clients have
included the songwriters and musicians  David Byrne , Jackson Browne and Axl Rose.  Plain Language  “If it is true that Willis made an individual grant of his
interest to the New York company independent of the other
songwriters, under the plain language of the statute, he should
be able to terminate his individual grant,” Iser, of Kinsella
Weitzman Iser Kump & Aldisert LLP in  Santa Monica , said in a
phone interview.  Brian Caplan , a New York-based attorney who represents
Willis, said in a phone interview that his client is entitled to
50 percent of royalties because “a royalty rate is no
measurement for what creativity is.”  Willis left the Village People in 1980 “over lifestyle
differences” and, after returning in 1982, left for good in
1984, according to his  website .  Important Development  In a statement today, Linda Smythe, Willis’s publicist,
said an important development in the case was the publishers’
decision last month not to pursue their claim that Willis was
“work for hire” and focus solely on whether Willis can
terminate without the consent of his late writing partner
Morali.  “The dismissal of the work for hire claim by Can’t Stop
and Scorpio Music is a major blow to their case and vindicates
Victor Willis as the singer and writer of the Village People’s
biggest hits,” Smythe said. “The court will likely recognize
their remaining claims as lacking merit as well.”  The Songwriters Guild called Scorpio Music’s reading of the
law “tortured” and “simply nonsensical” in its court filing.  “It requires a belief that Congress somehow intended that
joint authors, or their far-fledged descendants, none of whom
are parties to a grant made by a co-author, must nevertheless
give assent as a precondition to the exercise by such co-author
of his or her termination of an individual grant,” the guild
said.  The case is Scorpio Music v. Willis, 11-01557, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  