-- Mexico Bond Yields Fall on Rate-Cut Speculation; Peso Rises
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-04-11T18:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/mexico-bond-yields-fall-on-rate-cut-speculation-peso-rises.html
Mexico ’s peso bond yields dropped
to a five-month low on mounting speculation that policy makers
will cut benchmark borrowing costs this month for the first time
since 2009.  The yield on Mexico’s fixed-rate peso-denominated debt due
in December 2013 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 4.53 percent at 12:19 p.m. in Mexico City, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the lowest level since Nov.
14. The peso rose 0.1 percent to 13.1477 per dollar.  Mexico’s central bank, known as Banxico, will cut the
benchmark rate by 50 basis points to a record-low 4 percent
later this month, Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit forecast today.
The yield on the 2013 fixed-rate debt has fallen 18 basis points
since the day before a report showing Mexico’s annual inflation
rate dropped more than analysts had forecast in March to 3.73
percent.  “The latest inflation data have been below market
expectations, so the market is beginning to consider that a cut
from Banxico may become a reality,” Gerardo Welsh, a bond
trader at Banco Base SA said by phone from San Pedro Garza
Garcia, Mexico.  The central bank board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens
left the overnight rate unchanged at 4.5 percent for the 25th
straight meeting last month.  “If current favorable conditions in the inflation outlook
are consolidated, it may be advisable to adjust downward the
benchmark  interest rate ,” according to the minutes of the
meeting published on March 30.  Mexico’s peso, which touched an 11-week low yesterday, rose
as speculation the  European Central Bank  may take action to
reduce  Spain ’s borrowing costs spurred demand for higher-
yielding assets.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
suggested the bank could revive its bond-purchase after Spain’s
additional budget cuts failed to stem concern the nation may
need a bailout.  Europe ’s debt crisis helped make the peso the
worst performer in  Latin America  in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  