-- Facebook Finds No Friends Among Tax-Happy French Candidates
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-04-12T10:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/facebook-finds-no-friends-among-tax-happy-french-candidates.html
Jacques-Antoine Granjon, the long-
haired founder of Paris’s Vente-Privee.com, says French
presidential candidates are missing the point when it comes to
creating jobs.  “Tax, tax, tax, that’s all I’ve heard,” Granjon, the 49-
year-old creator of  Europe ’s biggest online flash-sale retailer,
said in an interview. “The Web is a goldmine for jobs, but
politicians just don’t get it.”  While a 12-year-high jobless rate has prompted French
candidates to make cutting unemployment a top priority, they’ve
said little about encouraging the creation of the next  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  or Google Inc. in  France . Entrepreneurs like Granjon say
they have little hope the winning candidate will replicate
Silicon Valley’s flourishing ecosystem of ideas, investment and
education in Paris’s Internet district, dubbed Silicon Sentier.  Slapping more taxes on entrepreneurs and Web companies may
push startups away from Paris’s nascent technology hub. The next
president should take a leaf out of the playbook of Google,
 Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. and Facebook, which foster French startups, say
businessmen such as Dan Serfaty, who started Viadeo, a European
version of  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)   The French units of the U.S. companies identify local
initiatives, support them with funds and technology and export
their ideas outside their home market.  Taxing Efforts  “France has a very promising ecosystem; it’s packed with
seed companies, innovative startups, engineers and talent,”
said Olivier Esper,  Google (GOOG) ’s policy counsel in France, where the
 Mountain View , California-based company has more than doubled
its staff in the past 18 months to 400 people, mostly engineers.
“The country’s definitely at a turning point.”  The first round of the election will be held on April 22,
with the top two contenders in that vote squaring off on May 6.
As election campaigning has heated up, the two frontrunners’
efforts have turned into a race to tax the most.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has revived proposals to tax
companies like Google, Amazon and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  for revenue they
make in France, accusing them of “fiscal dumping” in a speech
on April 5. Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  plans to slap
a 75 percent tax for all personal income exceeding 1 million
euros ($1.31 million), drawing criticism from entrepreneurs.  “Entrepreneurs get hit by more stray bullets,” Marc Simoncini, founder of the French dating site  Meetic (MEET) , said in a
Twitter post after Hollande’s “millionaire tax” announcement.  What Entrepreneurs Want  Technology startups had expected more from Sarkozy, who
created a  National Internet Council  in April 2011 to advise him
and hosted the likes of Google, Facebook and EBay at a Paris
Internet conference dubbed the e-G8 in May. Google and Microsoft
opened more than 40,000 square meters, or about 431,000 square
feet, of research space in the city in the past three years.  Entrepreneurs said they want politicians to talk more about
the Web in the campaign, recognizing it as a vector of growth
and jobs.  They want enterprise creators to be put at the center of
jobs plans with fiscal measures that induce investors to fund
innovative startups and lower charges on young companies.  Meetic’s Simoncini, who in May agreed to sell 16 percent of
the company to IAC/InterActiveCorp, was among French “business
angels,” to invest more than 350 million euros in about 300
companies last year, including 120 startups, according to Eric Harle, president of France’s Venture Capitalist Association.  ‘Greatest Adversary’  France can create the next Facebook or Twitter if it can
keep deep-pocketed investors happy and attract even bigger
financial fish, said Serfaty, whose Viadeo is the world’s
second-biggest social network for professionals behind  LinkedIn .  Candidates have instead fueled populist hostility toward
finance. Hollande, who leads in the polls in the decisive second
round of the election, said in his first major speech in January
that finance is his “greatest adversary.”  Serfaty said Paris-based Viadeo opened offices in the
Silicon Valley in March 2011 -- to go where the money is. He
also sought funding in October from the Fonds Strategique
d’Investissement, or FSI, the French sovereign fund set up in
2008 by Sarkozy. Viadeo today said it raised $32 million in
financing, including $10 from the FSI.  The FSI’s presence in Web companies is minuscule stacked up
against its more hefty investments. While it invested 7.5
million euros in Dailymotion SA, France’s version of YouTube, in
2009, its biggest holding is a 13.5 percent stake, valued at 3.8
billion euros, in one-time state monopoly  France Telecom SA. (FTE) 
Gemalto NV, a maker of smart chips used in bank and identity
cards, and patent-rich Silicon-On-Insulator Technologies, or
Soitec, are among “digital” companies the FSI has invested in.  ‘Financial Tissue’  “If you want your companies to develop and not just get
bought out, you need the right financial tissue,” said  Jean
Ferre , head of platforms and ecosystem development in France for
Microsoft. “You need business angels, venture-capitalists and
the possibility for entrepreneurs to get their business listed
on the stock market.”  Microsoft’s Bizspark, which helps some 30,000 startups
worldwide grow through networking, mentoring and technology,
grew out of a French initiative in 2005. The program is helping
French online advertising company Criteo operate in the U.S.,
for example, Ferre said.  “Three geeks can get together in a garage somewhere in
France and, next thing you know, their Facebook app is a
worldwide bestseller,” said Julien Codorniou, Facebook France’s
head of partnerships. “There are no such things as
international barriers anymore.”  Paf Le Chien  About 12 million people have played  Paf Le Chien , a dog-
throwing game that came from Lille, in northern France. Half of
the players are in  South America , said Codorniou.  In a country where successful startups have often been
bought out, politicians need to focus on helping local successes
to grow, entrepreneurs said.  Germany ’s Axel Springer acquired
real estate ads website SeLoger.com in 2010. The same year,
Japanese company  Rakuten Inc. (4755)  bought France’s Priceminister.  “My students know if things get too rough in France, they
can pack-up and leave,” said Guilhem Bertholet, who helped
create business school HEC’s incubator for startups and struck a
deal with Google for 250,000 euros of annual financing for a
university chair. “Singapore is a popular destination.”  Entrepreneur Tariq Krim, who sold his company Netvibes to
local software-maker Dassault Systemes SA two months ago, said
the country would be drained of its gray matter as more startups
get taken over by foreign competitors and cities like London or
Berlin prove better at attracting talent.  Keeping Pace  Earlybird Venture Capital , a fund based in the German
capital, said last week that it raised $100 million to invest in
startups. In the U.K., Prime Minister  David Cameron  has backed
plans to create a “Tech City” in East London.  “Politicians often point to factories to talk about the
industrial sector, but industry today in France also means tech
startups,” Krim said. “That’s where jobs are being created.”  As heavier industry moves to low-wage parts of the world,
politicians would do well to court technology startups instead
of getting in their way, said Granjon of Vente-Privee.com, which
is pushing into the U.S. by teaming up with  American Express Co. (AXP)   “The Internet scares politicians,” he said. “It’s new
and they’re having trouble keeping pace with it. Companies don’t
vote, so politicians just aren’t interested in them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  