-- Farmers Foil Utilities Using Cell Phones to Access Solar
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s ,   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-04-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/farmers-foil-utilities-using-cell-phones-to-access-solar.html
On a January evening, Anand is
shelling betel nuts by the light of an electric lamp in
Halliberu, his village in  India ’s Karnataka state.  As his friends gather on the lamp-lit porch to swap
stories, children play in the yard, Bloomberg Markets reports in
its May issue. Inside, after decades of cooking in the dark,
Anand’s mother prepares the evening meal while a visiting
neighbor weaves garlands of flowers.  In October, Bangalore-based Simpa Networks Inc. installed a
solar panel on Anand’s whitewashed adobe house along with a
small metal box in his living room to monitor electricity usage.
The 25-year-old rice farmer, who goes by one name, purchases
energy credits to unlock the system via his mobile phone on a
pay-as-you-go model.  When his balance runs low, Anand pays 50 rupees ($1) --
money he would have otherwise spent on kerosene. Then he
receives a text message with a code to punch into the box,
giving him about another week of electric light.  When he pays off the full cost of the system in about three
years, it will be unlocked and he will get free power.  Before the solar panel arrived, Anand lit his home with
kerosene lamps that streaked the walls with smoke and barely
penetrated the darkness of the village, which lacks
electrification. Twice a week, he trudged 45 minutes to a nearby
town just to charge his phone.  Electricity Revolution  “Things are much easier now,” Anand says, describing how he
used to go through 5 liters (1 gallon) of fuel a month, almost
half of it bought from the black market at four times the price
of government kerosene rations. “There was never enough.”  Anand is on the crest of an electricity revolution that’s
sweeping through power markets and threatening traditional
utilities’ dominance of the world’s supply.  From the poorest parts of  Africa  and  Asia  to the most-
developed regions in the U.S. and Europe, solar units such as
Anand’s and small-scale wind and biomass generators promise to
extend access to power to more people than ever before. In the
developing world, they’re slashing costs in the process.  Across India and Africa, startups and mobile phone
companies are developing so-called microgrids, in which stand-
alone generators power clusters of homes and businesses in
places where electric utilities have never operated.  In Europe, cooperatives are building their own generators
and selling power back to the national or regional grid while
information technology developers and phone companies are
helping consumers reduce their power consumption and pay less
for the electricity they do use.  ‘Power to the People’  The revolution is just beginning, says Jeremy Rifkin, a
professor at the Wharton School of the  University of
Pennsylvania  and author of The Third Industrial Revolution
( Palgrave Macmillan , 2011).  Disruptive to the economic status quo, the transformation
opens up huge opportunities to consumers who may find themselves
trading power in the future much as they swap information over
the Internet today, he says.  “This is power to the people,” says Rifkin, who was once
best known as a leading opponent of the  Vietnam War .  For now, though, the alternative-energy industry still
relies on subsidies in much of the developed world, and
governments are reining in aid for clean energy as they struggle
to trim their budget deficits.  Germany , the biggest market for solar panels, plans to cut
subsidies to owners of photovoltaic generators by up to 29
percent in April and said it would impose monthly reductions
thereafter.  End of the Boom  “Governments are running out of cash,” says Benny Peiser,
director of the London-based Global Warming Policy Foundation,
which is described by its chairman, former U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer Nigel Lawson, as “open-minded on the contested
science of global warming.”  “The boom will eventually come to a halt once the subsidies
come to a halt,” he says.  And yet as subsidies are wound down in  Europe , investors
such as Boston-based Denham Capital Management LP are shifting
their attention to developing markets. In March, Denham invested
$190 million in a joint venture with Madrid-based  Fotowatio SL 
to build solar parks in  South Africa  and  Latin America .  India has 30 gigawatts of mainly diesel generators that
could be replaced by cheaper solar power tomorrow, says Tarun
Kapoor, joint secretary at the  Ministry of New and Renewable
Energy . (One gigawatt is enough energy to power about 200,000
U.S. homes.)  Utilities Under Pressure  Within a decade, installing photovoltaic panels may be
cheaper for many families than buying power from national grids
in much of the world, including the U.S.,  Japan ,  Brazil  and the
U.K., according to data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The ultimate losers in this shifting balance of power may
be established utilities. They’ve invested billions of dollars
in centralized networks that are slowly being edged out of
markets they’ve dominated.  “Over the next decade, utilities are going to be under a
lot of pressure,” says Gerard Reid, a partner and energy banker
at London-based investment adviser Alexa Capital.  Reid predicts that power prices will come down across
Europe as new entrants that create electricity from renewable
sources break up traditional utilities’ oligopoly.  As it is, with big utilities also generating more and more
power with alternative fuels, renewables provided 20 percent of
the European Union’s power in 2010, up from 14 percent five
years earlier, according to the Paris-based  Renewable Energy 
Observatory. The EU aims to raise that share to about 34 percent
by 2020.  Enter the Phone Company  European utility stocks  are already suffering as entrants
using new technologies pour in to meet demand. The Bloomberg
European Utilities Index touched a seven-year low in September,
and German power futures contracts were in the doldrums as of
March 12.  The changing makeup of power generation is attracting
companies from other industries as well as smaller developers
such as  Simpa Networks , the venture capital-backed developer
that installed Anand’s solar panels.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s biggest mobile operator, for
example, has signed on as a partner to a pay-as-you-go solar
microutility called  SharedSolar  to sell airtime and electricity
to Bharti’s 50 million subscribers in Africa.  In many underdeveloped regions, it hasn’t made economic
sense for utilities to build the capital-intensive
infrastructure required to deliver energy from traditional
sources.  ‘Second Great Leapfrog’  In parts of Africa, the poor, lacking electricity, buy
power in the form of batteries, kerosene and candles; in effect,
they’re paying as much as $4 per kilowatt-hour, according to
Vijay Modi, a Columbia University professor who heads the
SharedSolar project. That’s about 66 times what a resident of
 Manhattan  is charged for electricity.  Simpa co-founder Paul Needham says filling the power gap
will entail a transformation similar to the one in which mobile
phones bypassed traditional landlines to deliver
telecommunications services to vast populations in India and
Africa.  “What we’re seeing is the beginning of the second great
leapfrog story,” says Needham, who estimates that 1.6 billion
people in the world don’t have access to electricity.  In Europe, competition from the growing renewables sector
is forcing traditional utilities to become greener.  Dinosaur of the Year  Two years ago, environmentalist group Nature and
Biodiversity Conservation Union dubbed Chief Executive Officer
 Juergen Grossmann  of  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility,
dinosaur of the year for his role in helping to persuade the
government to extend the lifetimes of the country’s nuclear
reactors.  In February, RWE invited reporters to Essen, the heart of
Germany’s coal and steel industry, to tout the 22 billion-euro
($29 billion) company’s expansion into renewable energy and
smart grids.  RWE created an online store selling energy-efficient
appliances and this year will install 100,000 smart electricity
meters in Muelheim an der Ruhr, once a Ruhr Valley center of
coal mining and steelmaking.  “The new-energy transformation is greener, more
decentralized,” Bernd Widera of RWE’s power distribution unit
said during the 2012 E-world conference in Essen.  Cheaper Electricity  The most-advanced technologies and policies are being road-
tested in Germany. In Feldheim, a village of 43 homes near
Berlin, Michael Knape strides across the soccer pitch.  As the area’s mayor, he’s showing a group of visitors from
 China , Japan and the U.S. the field’s brand-new floodlights,
financed by levies on the local wind farm and powered by a mix
of wind and biogas generators.  The lights are hooked up to a 450,000-euro local grid that
in October 2010 made Feldheim the first German municipality to
run entirely on its own renewables-fueled generators.  “Here you can see what the future could look like,” Knape
tells the group. “The people aren’t green idealists. They are on
board because the electricity is cheaper.”  Local families pay 17 euro cents per kilowatt-hour for
power, 31 percent less than what EON AG, Germany’s biggest
utility, charges the residents of neighboring Niemegk for
electricity. Feldheim’s prices, set by the cooperative that owns
the local  power grid , are guaranteed for 10 years.  ‘Plus-Energy’ Housing  Feldheim’s households put down about 3,000 euros each to
help pay for the village heating system. Half of the 1.7
million-euro cost was covered by a grant from the European
Regional Development Fund. The remainder was financed with a
 bank loan  paid back through heating bills.  Germany is now the world’s biggest renewable power
producer, with 53.8 gigawatts of wind and solar generators.  “The people in Germany have taken matters into their own
hands and overhauled the energy mix despite vicious resistance
from the big utilities,” architect Rolf Disch says.  Disch is an iconic figure in the world of energy
innovation.  His home in Freiburg, southern Germany, which he built in
1994 and still lives in, was the first in the world to produce
more energy than it consumes, he says. Disch built a tract of 59
energy-producing homes in the town.  Wolfgang Schnuerer, a retired elementary school principal,
bought a “plus energy” house in Freiburg in 2004, paying about
15 percent more than the cost of a similar property with a
traditional power supply.  ‘The Great Transformation’  Through a south-facing, triple-insulated glass facade,
sunlight pours into the house, which is heated, when needed, by
a local biomass cogeneration plant.  His heating bill, in a town where winter temperatures drop
to as low as minus 15 degrees Celsius (5 degrees Fahrenheit),
was just 144.64 euros or all of 2011 -- 96 percent less than
what he had paid at his previous home.  Schnuerer, 75, an asthma sufferer, says he stopped taking
cortisone four months after moving into the house because its
filtration system ventilates the air every 90 seconds, which has
alleviated his respiratory condition.  “I call it our feel-good house,” he says. “We’re saving
 carbon emissions  and making money with it.”  The feel-good factor will spread, says Mahesh Bhave, who
teaches business strategy at the Indian Institute of Management
Kozhikode in Kerala.  ‘Things Will Be Different’  “As renewable energy prices drop, every household and
business has the incentive to become a stand-alone power plant,”
he says. “This is the great transformation of our time.”  For Anand, solar-powered electricity is a pathway to
prosperity: It allows him to work a few extra hours each day on
chores, such as shelling betel nuts, that need to be done in the
light. Local children can boost their chances of one day getting
a better-paying job by extending their study time.  Other villagers are catching on. His neighbor Chandra, who
also uses only one name, 42, has bought the same solar system as
Anand’s, and six other families are awaiting installation.  Looking across the rice paddies, Anand takes in Halliberu’s
60 homes.  “Come back in a couple years and everyone will have one,”
Anand says. “Things will be different.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  