-- Fed Says Economy Grew at ‘Modest to Moderate’ Pace
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-11T21:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/fed-says-economy-growing-at-modest-to-moderate-pace-in-march.html
The Federal Reserve said the
economy grew in all 12 of its regions as manufacturing, hiring
and retail sales showed signs of strength in the face of higher
fuel prices.  “The economy continued to expand at a modest to moderate
pace from mid-February through late March,” the Fed said today
in its  Beige Book  business survey, published two weeks before
the  Federal Open Market Committee  meets to set monetary policy.
“Hiring was steady or showed a modest increase across many
districts.”  The Beige Book offers anecdotal evidence helping policy
makers assess an economy that added 120,000 jobs in March, the
fewest since October. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last month
said that further “significant” improvements in the
 unemployment rate  would probably require a more-rapid expansion.  A “recent decline” in unemployment may reflect “a
reversal of the unusually large layoffs that occurred during
late 2008 and over 2009,” Bernanke said on March 26.  The economic survey is another indication the central bank
probably won’t begin a new program to purchase bonds in a
program of so-called quantitative easing, said  Chris Rupkey ,
chief financial economist with Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.  “An economy expanding at a moderate pace is moving further
and further away from last summer’s stall speed,” Rupkey said.  Gasoline Price Increases  Higher gasoline prices may weigh on the economy, today’s
report said. “While the near-term outlook for household
spending was encouraging, contacts in several districts
expressed concerns that rising gas prices could limit
discretionary spending in the months to come,” the Fed said in
the Beige Book.  Inflation was “modest,” the report said, and “upward
pressure on wages was constrained.”  The  U.S. economy , which grew at a 3 percent annual rate in
the final three months of last year, will probably expand 2.2
percent in 2012 and 2.4 percent in 2013, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 72 economists.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said today that while
the March jobs report was disappointing, he is still “not
convinced that another round” of asset purchases by the central
bank “would achieve a great deal.” Such policy should be held
in reserve for a “fairly negative change of direction of the
economy,” he said.  Before April 2  Today’s Beige Book reflects information collected on or
before April 2 and summarized by the Cleveland Fed.  In the previous Beige Book released on Feb. 29, the Fed
said “overall economic activity continued to increase at a
modest to moderate pace in January and early February.” It said
the districts of Cleveland, Chicago,  Kansas City ,  Dallas  and  San
Francisco  reported moderate growth in February.  In this month’s survey, a “moderate pace” of growth was
ascribed to  Boston , Atlanta,  Chicago , Dallas and San Francisco.
Cleveland and St. Louis cited “modest growth.”  New York  said
growth “picked up somewhat,” while Philadelphia and Richmond
noted “improving business conditions.”  The economy grew at a “solid pace” in the Minneapolis Fed
district and Kansas City cited “a faster pace.”  Manufacturers mentioned gains in automotive and high-
technology industries, the report said. The firms “expressed
optimism about near-term growth prospects, but they are somewhat
concerned about rising petroleum prices.”  Inflation ‘Modest’  “Overall price inflation was modest,” the Fed said.
“However, contacts in many districts commented on rising
transportation costs due to higher fuel prices.”  Retail spending reports were “positive,” and professional
business services “showed modest to strong growth,” according
to the report.  Service industries  in the U.S. grew in March, capping the
strongest quarter in a year and indicating the world’s largest
economy will keep generating jobs, according to the Institute
for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing index last week.  That index fell to 56 from a one-year high of 57.3 in
February, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed April 4.
Since mid-2011, the industries that account for almost 90
percent of the economy have outpaced gains in manufacturing,
which had been at the forefront of the two-year expansion.  “The economy is beginning to pick up a little steam,”
Mark Lemond, president and chief executive officer of Shoe
Carnival Inc., said in a March 21 conference call. “When the
customer has money in their pocket, they’re definitely willing
to spend it. This bodes well for the rest of 2012 and beyond.”  Stocks Advance  U.S. stocks advanced today, snapping a five-day decline for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after Alcoa Inc. reported an
unexpected first-quarter profit. The  S&P 500  increased 0.7
percent to 1,368.71 in New York. The 10-year Treasury yield rose
to 2.03 percent from 1.98 percent yesterday.  More insight into the Fed’s response to the data may come
this week when policy makers discuss the economic outlook. Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen will speak tonight in New York, and
William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New
York, is scheduled to speak tomorrow in Syracuse, New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  