-- Fed’s Lockhart Says Weak Jobs Report Doesn’t Require More QE
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-11T13:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/fed-s-lockhart-says-weak-jobs-report-doesn-t-require-more-qe-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said while the  jobs report  for March
was disappointing, it doesn’t alter his view that the U.S.
economy is growing moderately, and he would be “reticent” to
support additional asset purchases, or quantitative easing.  “I am still not convinced that another round in this time
frame would achieve a great deal,” Lockhart told reporters in
Stone Mountain,  Georgia , today. “I view it as a policy that
would respond more to a fairly dramatic negative change of
direction of the economy that could be evidenced by rising
unemployment, evidenced by plummeting growth.”  Fed policy makers are holding off on increasing monetary
accommodation unless the economic expansion falters or prices
rise at a rate slower than its 2 percent target, according to
minutes of their March 13 meeting released last week. The
central bank also affirmed its projection, first announced in
January, that subdued inflation and economic slack will probably
warrant exceptionally low rates through late 2014.  Lockhart said one weak jobs report isn’t enough to change
his view on the U.S. economy. The Labor Department said April 6
that employers added 120,000 jobs in March, half as many as in
February. It was the fewest jobs added in five months.
Unemployment fell to 8.2 percent from 8.3 percent as discouraged
workers left the  labor force . The gain in payrolls was less than
the most pessimistic estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Jobs Number  “I would have preferred to see double” the number of
jobs, Lockhart said. “It was in that sense disappointing.”
Still, “it was one month’s number. It could very well have been
affected by weather. The number is subject to revision. We don’t
know yet whether there will be revisions down the road.”  “So I think it is way too early to conclude the economy is
sputtering and that the employment progress we have made is
stalling out,” he said.  Lockhart, speaking with reporters at the Atlanta Fed
conference at Stone Mountain, also said that “sterilized”
quantitative easing, or asset purchases designed to reduce
possible inflation risks, remains an option.  “I think it is one of our options,” he said. “It is
obviously very similar to Operation Twist in the sense it
doesn’t add to the balance sheet and it puts pressure on long-
term rates.” Operation Twist refers to a program to buy long-
term Treasuries and sell short-term securities.  “So it is clearly an option, but I really have not been
presented with any detailed analysis” of such a plan, he said.  Lockhart said the  U.S. economy  may grow 2.5 percent to 3
percent this year, and inflation will stay near the Fed’s target
of 2 percent with inflation expectations “relatively stable.”  Lockhart, 65, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Lockhart voting this year. The Atlanta Fed
district includes  Alabama ,  Florida , Georgia, and portions of
 Louisiana ,  Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  