-- Fed’s Bullard Sees Jobless Rate at 7.8% by End of 2012
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-04-11T21:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/fed-s-bullard-sees-jobless-rate-at-7-8-by-end-of-2012.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said an improving U.S. economy may push
the  unemployment rate  down to 7.8 percent by year’s end, and the
central bank will probably keep policy unchanged while it waits
for more evidence of expansion.  “For right now we’ll stick with the idea that the economy
will generally be better in 2012 than 2011,” Bullard said on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays 
today. “So far in 2012 the economy has surprised on the
upside” and usually when that happens Fed policy makers “will
want to get confirmation of that by waiting for more data.”  U.S. job growth slowed in March even as the manufacturing
and services sectors continued to signal growth, underscoring
the mixed signals policy makers are parsing as they track the
recovery’s progress. Fed officials last month said they would
favor renewed easing only if growth falters or inflation falls
below the 2 percent target, minutes of the meeting showed.  “Unemployment will continue to tick down this year as long
as the expansion keeps going,” Bullard, 51, said in the
interview in  St. Louis .  In positive signs for the economy, both manufacturing and
services continued to rebound in March, according to the
Institute for Supply Management’s indexes of the two sectors
released last week. Still, U.S. employers added 120,000 jobs in
March, compared with 240,000 in February, according to Labor
Department figures released April 6.  Stocks Decline  The jobs report helped spur a decline in stocks this week,
with the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  yesterday capping its
longest losing streak since November. The index increased 0.7
percent to 1,368.71 at 4 p.m. New York time today, after
dropping 4.3 percent over the past five days.  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  reiterated
in its March 13 meeting that the economy will likely warrant low
 interest rates  through at least late 2014. That date will likely
change as the outlook for the economy shifts, Bullard said
today.  “As we get closer to the actual date, we’re going to have
to move it around because the situation will have changed,” he
said. “I wouldn’t be reluctant to revise it.”  Bullard currently estimates the economy will grow 3 percent
this year.  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases. He joined the St. Louis Fed’s research
department in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in
2008.  Bullard, speaking to reporters at the St. Louis Fed, said
the jobs report for March doesn’t change the outlook
“appreciably.”  “I think energy prices are a risk, but I don’t think  gas
prices  are a drag now on the economy,” Bullard said. “But they
could go higher and with the picture in  Iran , they could be a
problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  