-- Fed’s George Calls for Ending of Too-Big-To-Fail Policies
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-04-11T15:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/fed-s-george-calls-for-elimination-of-too-big-to-fail-policies.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George said regulators must eliminate too-big-
to-fail policies that bail out large financial institutions
during times of crisis.  “The critical and defining question for us is how to break
this pattern of growing safety nets and escalating crises, while
restoring much-needed market discipline to the financial
system,” George said in a speech today in  New York .  To achieve those goals, George said, regulators must not
view stress tests, or other forms of quantitative analysis and
models used by supervisors, “as being a substitute or
replacement for examiners and onsite supervision.”  The Fed said last month that 15 of the 19 largest U.S.
banks could maintain adequate capital levels even in a severe
recession scenario that assumes they continue to pay dividends
and buy back stock.  The results of the so-called stress tests showed that
nearly three years of economic expansion have helped U.S. banks
raise profits, rebuild capital, and increase liquidity after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 nearly toppled
the financial system.  “The breakdown we have seen in models-based approaches
suggests that we should not develop a false sense of security
from the stress tests and other new supervisory tools we are now
putting in place,” George said at the 21st Annual Hyman P.
Minsky Conference organized by the Levy Economics Institute of
Bard College.  More Transparency  Regulators must tackle the “challenge” of dealing with
financial innovation in areas such as the  derivatives market ,
George said in response to an audience question. “We have to
have more transparency,” including in the clearing and pricing
of derivatives, she said.  The Fed started the most recent test and review of banks’
forward-looking capital strategy in November, saying they should
have “credible plans” to meet tougher standards required by
new regulations and to continue lending even in period of
financial stress.  “Policy makers and regulators can face substantial
pressure to back off from implementing tighter oversight,
especially if such oversight interferes with financial
institutions going back to their usual operating parameters,”
George said. “Signs of this are already occurring with the
efforts by financial institutions and others to weaken or delay
stronger capital standards and other provisions of the Dodd-
Frank Act.”  Stocks Advance  U.S. stocks ended a five-day decline as Alcoa Inc. opened
the earnings season with an unexpected first-quarter profit. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1 percent to 1,372.91 at
10:48 a.m. in New York as Alcoa rallied 8.5 percent.  The long transition period to new capital rules means that
regulators will “allow the payout of capital at the same time
we’re asking banks to build it,” George said in response to an
audience question. “My objective would be to systematically
build high-quality capital in our banks sooner rather than
later,” she said.  George was the Kansas City Fed’s No. 2 official under
 Thomas Hoenig , who retired last year. She joined the Fed in
1982, spent much of her career in bank supervision and became
first vice president in 2009.  Risk Management  From 2001 to 2009, she was senior vice president in charge
of the Division of Supervision and Risk Management, overseeing
regulation of the Kansas City Fed district’s 170 state-chartered
member banks and almost 1,000 bank and financial holding
companies. She worked in  Washington  in 2009 as acting director
of bank supervision for the entire Fed system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  