-- Fed May Have Aggravated Income Inequality, El-Erian Says
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-11T21:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/fed-may-have-aggravated-income-inequality-el-erian-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  and other
central banks may have increased income inequality with policies
that boosted prices of stocks and other assets without having a
commensurate effect on the economy, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co.  In a lecture prepared for delivery at the Fed Bank of  St.
Louis  today, El-Erian said central banks may be nearing the
limits of their ability to spur growth and suggested that the
“collateral damage” their policies are having on the economy
and financial markets may soon outweigh the benefits.  “The unusual activism of central banks may, at the margin,
have worsened further wealth distribution,” said El-Erian,
whose company is manager of the  world’s largest bond fund . “To
the extent that such policy activism succeeds in bolstering
asset values, but not the real economy, the rich benefit
disproportionately.”  President  Barack Obama  highlighted income inequality this
week as he campaigned for higher taxes on top U.S. earners and
criticized Republicans for opposing them. Tax fairness will be a
central theme in the president’s re-election bid, Obama campaign
manager  Jim Messina  told reporters on April 9.  While the Fed and other major central banks did forestall a
global depression, they have had less success in promoting a
full-fledged recovery, El-Erian said.  Market ‘Distortions’  Policies of ultra-low  interest rates  and bond purchases
have caused distortions in financial markets, including the
promotion of “risk-on” and “risk-off” trading strategies,
the former International Monetary Fund official said. Other
“unintended consequences” of the bankers’ policies are a
shrinking money market fund industry in the U.S. and increased
financial pressure on pension funds, he said.  “Central banks in advanced economies needed -- and need --
help from other policy-making entities to deal with the twin
unfortunate reality of too much debt and too little growth,”
said El-Erian, who is also co-chief investment officer at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pimco.  In  Europe , the central bank’s “powerful” provision of
money to the region’s banks is “not a panacea” for the
troubles afflicting the 17-nation euro zone, he said.  “Unless it is helped by others, there is likely to be a
limit out there to how long it can, on its own, stop a liquidity
problem in  Italy  and Spain raising concerns again about a
solvency one,” El-Erian said.  He said he saw a risk of a “disorderly fragmentation” of
the currency union if governments there fail to shore it up
structurally and financially.  Yields on Spain’s 10-year government bonds have risen about
one percentage point since March 2, when Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy  said the country would miss its 2012 deficit goal approved
by the European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  