-- Female College Leaders Criticize Augusta’s Male-Only Membership
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/female-college-leaders-criticize-augusta-s-male-only-membership.html
The male-only membership at Augusta
National Golf Club, home to the  Masters Tournament , has drawn
the ire of female college presidents, who are leading increasing
numbers of prestigious schools in the U.S.  “It’s just an embarrassment that it’s still all male,”
said Debora Spar, president of Barnard College in New York.
“Any argument that can be made anymore for male-only
recreational sites is just kind of past its day.”  The annual golf tournament, which concluded April 8 in
Augusta,  Georgia , has been the subject of criticism for years
over its male-only practice. The spotlight amplified this year
because one of the event’s long-time sponsors,  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , has a new chief executive officer, who
happens to be a woman. Augusta National and IBM have refused to
comment on whether Virginia “Ginni” Rometty, who took over at
IBM in January, will be invited to join the club.  Both President  Barack Obama , through a spokesman, and  Mitt Romney , the leading Republican contender for president, said
last week that women should be allowed to join Augusta, a view
shared by Nannerl O. Keohane, former president of  Duke
University .  “Augusta National has become an international institution
of considerable significance for golfers, and the club should
recognize that there are serious women golfers and accomplished
women CEOs and other professionals who deserve admission as much
as their male counterparts,” Keohane, now a visiting professor
at  Princeton University , said in an e-mail. She has also served
as president of Wellesley College near  Boston , and is a fellow
of the Harvard Corporation, which governs the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based university.  Ivy League Women  Women lead four of the eight Ivy League colleges in the
northeastern U.S., including  Harvard University , Princeton,
Brown University and the University of  Pennsylvania . Of the
major research schools in the U.S. that belong to the
Association of American Universities, 25 percent are led by
women.  That far exceeds the 3.4 percent of Fortune 500 companies
that have CEOs who are women, according to Catalyst Inc., a
nonprofit group that analyzed data on women in management.  “This is something all Americans should be able to agree
upon: the era of excluding women from prominent private clubs is
over,” Amy Gutmann, president of the  University of
Pennsylvania , said in an e-mail. “They have long served as a
significant part of business and job-related networking, and as
such are intimately intertwined with the fabric of access to
opportunity in our country.”  Gutmann is the second female president at the Philadelphia-
based school. Harvard’s Drew Faust, Princeton’s Shirley Tilghman
and Brown’s  Ruth Simmons  declined to comment.  ‘Not a Politician’  IBM’s official 10-year sponsorship of the Masters put
Rometty, 54, in a tough spot, said Spar of Barnard, which is an
all-women's college. During the tournament, IBM officials 
declined to comment about the male-only practice or even confirm
whether Rometty attended the event. She was photographed near 
the 18th hole on the final day of competition, though wasn’t 
wearing the club’s signature green member’s blazer. The past 
four CEOS of IBM have all been Augusta members.  “She is in a role where she is valued for her managerial
expertise, her business acumen,” said Spar, who became a
director of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in June. “She’s not a
politician. She’s not a spokesperson for women’s rights. She’s
relatively new in the job. So I can really see why she may be
reluctant to get front and center on this issue.”  Rometty is a graduate of Northwestern University and
currently serves as a trustee, according to the Evanston,
Illinois-based school’s website. Morton Schapiro, Northwestern’s
president, declined to comment.  Corporate Boards  Women who lead universities, such as Spar, are increasingly
being tapped to become corporate directors. Last week, Harvard’s
Faust was nominated for the board of  Staples Inc. (SPLS) , the world’s
largest office-supply retailer.  Shirley Ann Jackson, president of Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute, sits on IBM’s board. She declined to comment on
Augusta, according to Theresa Bourgeois, a spokeswoman at the
school.  Augusta should take a lesson from American higher
education, Alice Gast, president of Lehigh University in
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, said in an e-mail.  “Lehigh University’s benefit from admitting women 40 years
ago tells me that Augusta would be wise to do the same,” Gast
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in  New York  at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  