-- Florida Man Charged in Shooting Death of Trayvon Martin
-- B y   D e r e k   K i n n e r   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-04-12T19:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/florida-man-charged-in-shooting-death-of-trayvon-martin.html
(Corrects possible prison terms in fifth paragraph in story
published yesterday.)  George Zimmerman, the Neighborhood
Watch volunteer who shot an unarmed 17-year-old Trayvon Martin,
was charged with second-degree murder in the black teenager’s
death in Sanford, Florida, a state prosecutor said.  The decision was announced at a press conference today in
Jacksonville. The youth’s death triggered protests in several
U.S. cities and drew comment from President  Barack Obama  after
officials initially declined to prosecute Zimmerman.  Brian Tannebaum, a veteran defense attorney in Miami, said
he was surprised by the second-degree murder charge, which he
said prosecutors may have a harder time proving than if they had
charged Zimmerman with manslaughter.  “I think the jury is going to have a tough time with the
idea that George Zimmerman murdered this kid. The word murder
takes away any possibility that it was an accident,” he said.
“When you look at manslaughter, you’re talking about something
that wasn’t excusable or justifiable and resulted in death. By
charging this as second degree murder, the state is saying ‘we
don’t think this is an act of negligence. We think this was an
intentional killing.’”  Possible Sentence  Tannebaum, the immediate past president of the  Florida 
Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, noted that under
Florida law, Zimmerman would have faced a maximum of 30 years in
prison if he was convicted of manslaughter because Martin was
under 18. If Zimmerman is convicted of second-degree murder, he
faces a minimum term of 25 years because a gun was used and may
be sentenced to life in prison, Tannebaum said.  Angela Corey, the special prosecutor named to investigate
Martin’s death, said at a press conference today that Zimmerman
is being held without bond on the murder charges. She said a
bond hearing would be held next week in Seminole County, where
Sanford, Florida is located.  “We did not come to this decision lightly,” Corey told
reporters.  The state’s “stand your ground” law, which allows
individuals who feel threatened in a public place to “meet
force with force,” prevented them from making an arrest in the
case, officials said at the time.  On the night that Martin was slain, two officials
“disregarded” the lead homicide investigator’s recommendation
to arrest the suspect,  Benjamin Crump , an attorney for Martin’s
family, said in a letter to the  Justice Department , which is
also investigating the matter.  Self-Defense Claim  Zimmerman, 28, claimed self-defense. The youth attacked him
on a sidewalk near his home, he told authorities in Sanford, a
city of 54,000 people about 20 miles north of  Orlando . Zimmerman
told police he shot Martin after being punched in the nose and
having his head slammed into the sidewalk, according to City
Manager Norton Bonaparte Jr.  Civil rights activists including  Jesse Jackson  and  Al Sharpton  called for Zimmerman’s arrest and have criticized the
state’s “stand your ground” law. Martin’s father, Tracy, told
the Sanford City Council last month that Zimmerman “needs to be
put on trial,” and “needs to be given a sentence by a jury of
his peers.”  Zimmerman said he was driving to a grocery store when he
saw Martin walking through the gated community, according to
Bonaparte. Zimmerman followed the teenager on foot and called
the police to report a suspicious person, according to a
recording authorities released. Zimmerman described Martin as
black, acting strangely and perhaps on drugs.  Dispatcher’s Instruction  A dispatcher told Zimmerman to stop following Martin, and
to wait for officers to arrive.  Zimmerman told the police he had been walking back to his
SUV when Martin approached from behind and asked whether he had
a problem. Zimmerman said no. Martin said, “Well, you do now”
and punched Zimmerman in the nose, according to the account
Bonaparte conveyed.  Zimmerman told officers he fell and that Martin got on top
of him and began slamming his head into the sidewalk. A police
report said Zimmerman was bleeding from the nose and back of the
head. Zimmerman said he began yelling for help “but no one
would help me,” according to the incident report.  A month after the shooting, Obama called for a full
investigation by authorities including the federal government.  “I can only imagine what these parents are going
through,” he said. “And when I think about this boy, I think
about my own kids.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Derek Kinner in Jacksonville, Florida, at  dkinner59@yahoo.com ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  