-- Congregation Prays as Charges Filed in Martin’s Killing
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r ,   D e r e k   K i n n e r   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-04-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/florida-prosecutor-to-speak-on-trayvon-martin-killing-today-1-.html
Pastor Valerie J. Houston spoke of
lighting a candle on Sundays for Trayvon Martin and brought the
congregation at Allen Chapel AME Church in Sanford,  Florida (STOFL1) , to
its feet.  “There has been an arrest,” Houston said last night
during a prayer service after a murder charge was filed in the
death of Martin, shot as he walked unarmed in his father’s
neighborhood. “Thank you, Jesus. Justice has been served.”  George Zimmerman, a Neighborhood Watch volunteer from
Sanford, was charged with second-degree murder in the Feb. 26
killing of Martin, a 17-year-old who he thought was a burglar.
Zimmerman, 28, may face life in prison if convicted, said State
Attorney Angela Corey, who announced the move from her
Jacksonville office yesterday. He turned himself in and was held
without bond, she said.  The killing of the black youth by a man whose father is
white and mother Hispanic sparked protests and rallies across
the country, a federal civil-rights investigation and comment
from President  Barack Obama , who said that if he had a son, the
child would have looked like Martin.  Mark O’Mara, Zimmerman’s Orlando-based criminal defense
attorney, said he was “surprised” by the charge. Zimmerman,
who may face a bond hearing in Seminole County today, will plead
not guilty, O’Mara said.  “He is troubled by everything that has happened,” O’Mara
said at a news conference. “I cannot imagine living in George
Zimmerman’s shoes.”  Fatal Encounter  Tracy Martin, the victim’s father, told reporters in
 Washington  after the charge was announced that “we’ve got a
long way to go and we have faith. It feels good to know that
he’s off the streets.”  In February, Zimmerman was driving out of his gated
community in Sanford, a city of 54,000 about 20 miles (32
kilometers) north of  Orlando , when he encountered Martin, who
was walking home from a convenience store.  Zimmerman followed the teenager on foot and called the
police to report a suspicious person, according to a recording
that authorities released. Zimmerman described Martin as acting
strangely and perhaps on drugs.  A dispatcher told Zimmerman that he didn’t need to follow
Martin and to wait for officers.  Zimmerman told the police he was walking back to his SUV
when Martin attacked him from behind, according to an account
confirmed by City Manager Norton Bonaparte Jr.  Uncertain Ground  Florida’s Stand Your Ground law, championed by the  National
Rifle Association , allows residents to use deadly force when
they feel threatened, even if they are capable of retreating.
Authorities said the law prevented them from charging Zimmerman
and police released him after the shooting.  The 2005 law has been invoked at least 140 times in
Florida, according to a Tampa Bay Times survey of public records
and news stories. Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican who
appointed Corey as special prosecutor March 22, has ordered a
 task force  to review the measure.  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , a longtime gun-
control advocate, and leaders from black groups held a news
conference in Washington to press for changes in similar laws
enacted in half the states, often at the behest of the NRA.  “The NRA should be ashamed of themselves,” Bloomberg
said. “Plain and simple, this is just trying to give people a
license to murder.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Planning to Win  Corey said she would attack Stand Your Ground as a defense.  “We have to have a reasonable certainty of conviction
before we file charges,” she said.  In  Sanford (13549MF) , where city officials estimated 10,000 people
gathered March 22 calling for Zimmerman to be arrested, downtown
was quiet after the announcement aside from a crush of reporters
at city hall and three news helicopters overhead.  Bonaparte and Mayor Jeff Triplett said they were
“relieved” by the charges and hoped they might promote
healing. The nation can learn from what happened in Sanford,
Triplett said in an interview.  “It’s almost like there was a wound, and this has
scratched the scab off of that wound, kind of opened up a lot of
history,” Triplett said.  While the arrest was welcome, it doesn’t address issues
including “vigilante law” in  Florida , said Jabari Paul,
religious-affairs leader for the state chapter of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People.  “We may have been one step to closer to getting on the
road of truth today,” Paul said at Allen Chapel. “But the
truth of the matter is, is that even though we celebrate victory
on one hand, we still have a problem on the other.”  Still, Martin can now rest in peace, said Francis Oliver,
68, a retired elementary-school teacher from Sanford who
attended last night’s service.  “Justice has shown its face, and justice is coming,”
Oliver said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Kinner in Jacksonville, Florida, at  dkinner59@yahoo.com ;
Mark Niquette in Sanford at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  