-- Frack Freely But Disclose Chemicals Put Into the Ground
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-11T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/frack-freely-but-disclose-chemicals-put-into-the-ground.html
The shale gas boom sweeping the
U.S. is prompting states to make energy companies disclose what
chemicals they are pumping into the ground to extract natural
gas through hydraulic fracturing.  The new rules, adopted in places such as  Colorado ,
 Pennsylvania  and  Texas , should provide a nervous public with
information it needs. Unfortunately, many of the rules contain
large loopholes that could jeopardize public health and will
only cast further suspicion on fracking, a practice with no
shortage of critics. Ultimately, the states’ haphazard efforts
highlight the need for a tough federal disclosure law.  The disclosure requirements in several states allow energy
companies wide latitude to claim “trade secret” status for the
chemical makeup of their fracking fluids. And at least two
states place unreasonable restrictions on doctors and other
health officials who learn about any of these “proprietary”
ingredients.  We agree that companies should be allowed to protect the
recipes for their proprietary fracking mixes. But regulators
need to know all the substances that are being pumped into the
ground. In certain cases, where companies demonstrate to
regulators a clear need to keep their recipes secret, the
amounts of specific ingredients could be shielded from public
view -- though still disclosed to officials.  As we have said before, fracking holds great promise: It
enables the extraction of natural gas, which is abundant,
cleaner to produce and burn than other fossil fuels, and cheap.
(On Wednesday, the price dropped below $2 per million British
thermal units.) And the gas boom is providing a rare bright spot
in a stubbornly sluggish economy.  Yet there are well-founded concerns about safety. Some of
the substances used in fracking fluids are relatively benign,
such as guar gum; others are more worrisome, like benzene.
Poorly constructed wells, improper handling of fluids as they
return to the surface, or plain, old-fashioned spills can lead
to the contamination of water.  It’s little wonder then that even those who  support 
fracking have called for the disclosure of chemicals. To their
credit, some companies have gone along willingly, even
voluntarily providing information to a public website called
 FracFocus . But disclosure is spotty, with landowners and
concerned citizens in some areas getting much better information
than others.  Enter about a dozen states that have sought to address this
failing by adopting disclosure laws.  Wyoming , one of the first,
requires companies to tell the state exactly what’s in their
secret mixes. And any request to treat an ingredient as
“proprietary” -- by shielding it from public view -- must be
approved by regulators.  In practice, however, the state is giving companies too
much  discretion . Over the past two years, Wyoming’s Oil and Gas
Conservation Commission has granted at least 50 exemptions for
“trade secret” protection, often based on thin reasoning,
according to a  lawsuit  against the commission filed earlier this
year by environmental groups.  Pennsylvania and Colorado also require companies to report
the chemicals they use. Yet companies can keep these ingredients
to themselves simply by telling regulators the information is
“proprietary.” Then, they do not have to disclose the
ingredients to the state unless they receive a written request
in the event of a spill or other incident.  More troubling, those states handcuff health officials. A
doctor who may have concerns about an ill child who has been
playing near a drilling rig can request information about the
secret chemicals being used there. But he has to promise in
writing not to tell anyone else what he learns -- even if he
believes other people are at risk.  It’s clear that a federal law is necessary. Groundwater
knows no boundaries and what happens in one state can affect
other areas.  Federal regulators should require that companies disclose
every ingredient in their fracking fluids, along with
concentration levels. To protect  trade secrets , companies should
not have to reveal what purpose the substance serves (it
shouldn’t matter to the public whether it is a gelling agent,
prevents bacteria or increases viscosity). And federal
regulators should keep confidential the relative amounts of each
ingredient if operators can demonstrate the need for a
proprietary exemption.  Shale gas is not a perfect fuel, but the risks of
extracting it can be mitigated with proper oversight. Federal
regulators should act quickly to help assuage growing public
concerns so that we can all benefit from fracking’s potential.  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights:  Edward Glaeser  on why  Mitt Romney  must
 change gears  for the general election;  Ezra Klein  on the  tax
pledges  of Republicans and Democrats;  Amity Shlaes  on how  labor
laws  hurt  job creation ;  Caroline Baum  on  promoting inflation  as
the wrong way to cope with debt; Gary Shilling on whether the
 Federal Reserve  will  rescue the economy ; Doug Skinner on
 corporate dividend policies ; and Robert Bruegmann on why the
 anti-freeway movement  hurts cities.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 