-- Fur Flies in High-Stakes Airlifts of Animals by Lufthansa
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-04-12T14:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/fur-flies-in-high-stakes-animal-airlifts-at-lufthansa-freight.html
An African white rhinoceros peers
through the bars of its  Frankfurt  compound, while across the
floor a Madagascan chameleon inches around its vivarium and an
Andean alpaca plucks hay from a bale.  It’s not a scene from the city’s zoo but from  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s Animal Lounge, a state-of-the-art complex that’s
at the center of the German carrier’s plans to dominate the most
specialized part of the $66 billion air-cargo industry.  Lufthansa,  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and Dubai-based Emirates,
which transports thoroughbreds for Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, horseracing’s leading owner, are competing in a high-
stakes market. Premium profit margins come with the risk of an
in-flight death involving a beloved family pet, top-ranked
stallion or priceless panda.  “It’s not like pharmaceuticals, where your main concern is
the temperature,” said Animal Lounge Director Axel Heitmann.
“If a bag of fish leaks it needs replacing with the right kind
of water and the right oxygen. And if something goes wrong you
can’t just hand a customer $1,000 and tell him to buy another
pet. He wants the dog or cat he’s had for 10 years.”  Lufthansa’s  Frankfurt (FRA)  facility handled 110 million
creatures of various varieties last year, four million more than
the number of human passengers carried by the airline and its
units, though the total was swollen by 80 million tropical fish
and 300 tons of worms, including live bait for anglers.  Dogs to Detroit  Among larger guests, the Cologne-based company’s annual
roster typically includes 14,000 dogs and cats, 8,000 pigs,
2,000 horses and about 150 zoo animals. So far this year the
latter have included a pygmy hippo, half a dozen penguins, two
pancake tortoises and a pair of beavers, as well as five rhinos.  While animal freight makes up only 1 to 2 percent of
Lufthansa’s total cargo revenue, the margins on carrying beasts
make it worth the risks, Heitmann said.  Lufthansa (LHA)  will fly three horses from Frankfurt to New York
for about 4,000 euros ($5,335) per beast, or a dog to  Detroit 
for 800 euros, according to Heitmann, who has been in charge of
the company’s animal transport business for six years. That
compares with 675 euros it can cost for a standard transatlantic
shipment of a similar weight to a racehorse.  “This sort of niche business is more profitable than
commoditized air cargo, but you need to invest a substantial
amount in specialist facilities to get the returns,” said John Manners-Bell, an analyst at Brinkworth, England-based Transport
Intelligence. “They’ll be looking at a much higher margin.”  Horse Trading  Emirates cargo chief Ram Menen said in an interview that
the sector is a “competitive” part of the air-freight market.  “We do go after this business,” Menen said in  Seattle 
after the Gulf carrier added a route there. “It’s lucrative and
the number of airlines that can actually do it is pretty small.
The horses we move are worth more than the plane itself.”  Equine flights have included one from Sydney,  Australia , to
Stewart airport in the Hudson valley, home to the Department of
Agriculture’s  New York Animal Import Center , which was the
longest flown by Emirates at 18 hours 15 minutes, Menen said.
Operated by a  Boeing Co. 777 freighter , the service carried 16
horses for breeders, earning “hundreds of thousands of
dollars.”  Other animal cargoes have included numerous pet tigers, a
plane full of dogs and cats evacuated from the Lebanon after a
missile strike, and zoo relocations that Menen calls “Noah’s
Ark” flights since they usually involve two of each species.  Lufthansa, the top freight carrier among passenger airlines
when its Swiss and Austrian subsidiaries are included, typically
gets bookings six to eight weeks in advance, with injections and
other procedures taking up half that period. Animals are also
examined by 24 vets at the  Frankfurt  center before flying.  Temperature Zones  The bigger the animal and more specialist its requirements,
the better the margin, Heitmann said. Species such as tropical
fish are fruitful on both counts, traveling in water heated to
between 24 and 28 degrees that Lufthansa also charges to carry.  Horses travel standing up three to a container, strapped in
on both sides “so they can’t get up to any funny business,”
said Heitmann. All are watched over by their grooms or
attendants, the executive said, adding that incidents with
equines are very rare, with the animal trade generally boasting
“ever-decreasing” mortality figures.  “It unfortunately does happen occasionally, but we have
built a lot of mechanisms in to prevent it,” he said  Emirates can maintain four different temperature zones in
its freighters, allowing it to carry a mixed load of horses and
 penguins  on one flight from  New York , with the birds bound for
Ski Dubai, the  Middle East ’s first indoor winter-sports resort.  Pet Growth  Lufthansa’s main markets include flows of tropical fish
from  South America  and Southeast  Asia  to buyers in  Europe  and
 North America , live fishing bait from Asia and horse exports
from breeders in South America and Europe to the U.S. and Middle
East, where some owners also now send their mounts to cooler
climes each summer to escape blistering local temperatures.  Germany  is also a pet exporter, with some owners preferring
a Doberman or Rottweiler sourced from the breed’s original home.
European small-animal exports have experienced growth as high as
15 percent over the past three years, with the rest of the
market expanding no faster than 3 percent, Heitmann said.  Air France-KLM is a key competitor, as is Luxembourg-based
 Cargolux Airlines International SA , Europe’s No. 1 freight-only
operator, which with a fleet of Boeing 747 jumbo jets says on
its website that “large herds of animals” can be accommodated.
Gulf carriers are not so much of a threat because locations like
Dubai are too hot to hold animals for long, even fish, since
warmer water holds less free oxygen, said Heitmann.  Panda Express  At the most rarified end of the market,  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the
world’s No. 1 cargo airline, has been transporting giant pandas
around the world since 2000, when it brought a pair from  China 
to  Washington . The most recent trip saw two arrive at Edinburgh
zoo aboard a “Panda Express‘‘-liveried 777 on Dec. 4, with
health checks every 30 minutes during the 10.5-hour flight.  There are some creatures that airlines won’t handle. Large
fish and cetaceans such as dolphins are no longer carried by
Lufthansa because the volume of water required could destabilize
the plane, or flood it in the event of a leak, according to the
executive, though Cargolux transports killer whales.  Poisonous
reptiles  are also ruled out because of the risk of escape.  ‘‘We could fly very exotic animals that make the eyes light
up when you see them, but it’s not worth it,’’ he said. ‘‘It
would be a nightmare to find you only had five of an original
six poisonous snakes, and that one might be in the passenger
cabin. You’d have to gas the plane if you couldn’t find it.”  ‘Little Surprises’  Wild-caught creatures are also precluded unless permitted
under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, or  CITES , which protects 35,000
animal and plant species, said Menen at Emirates, who has run
the carrier’s cargo unit since its foundation in 1985.  The Frankfurt animal lounge opened four years ago and cost
more than 10 million euros to set up. While operated by
Lufthansa, it handles all animal freight which passes through
the airport.  While Lufthansa is aware of what’s coming “95 percent of
the time,” the animal-cargo industry is never dull, according
to Heitmann, who spoke after agreeing to take charge of a water
monitor lizard found stowing away in the hold of a rival freight
carrier and which is destined for life at a local zoo.  “We get little surprises, such as a box marked ‘Live
Harmless Reptiles,’ -- which is sort of subjective,” he said.
“At least when I’m late home there’s always a story to tell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  