-- Fushi Copperweld Says Muddy Waters Wrong on Output, Financials
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-04-11T22:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/fushi-copperweld-says-muddy-waters-wrong-on-output-financials.html
Fushi Copperweld Inc. (FSIN) , a maker of
copper-clad metal wire, said assertions by short seller Carson Block that it overstated production and may have falsified
financial statements are untrue.  The Beijing-based company said the  report , released
yesterday by Block’s  Muddy Waters  Research as a narrated slide
show, was “vague and non-specific” and reflected no prior
discussions with the company, according to a statement today.  Fushi “denies all of its claims,” according to the
statement. The stock, listed on the Nasdaq Composite Index in
August 2007, has dropped 4.5 percent this week and 17 percent
this year. It climbed 5.4 percent yesterday $6.22 following
release of the Muddy Waters report as 6.6 million shares were
traded, 16 times the three-month daily average.  Chinese companies have faced increased scrutiny in  North
America  after Block alleged  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  overstated assets,
Longtop Financial Technologies Ltd. was delisted by the New York
Stock Exchange following a probe by U.S. regulators, and China
MediaExpress Holdings Inc. lost almost all its value as its
auditor quit.  Muddy Waters Research said Fushi “presents a high risk of
fraud” and that it overstated production at one of its
factories by almost 13-fold. Its 2008 and 2010 financial
statements may be inaccurate, according to the posting.  Block didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment. Zachery
Kouwe, a spokesman for the short seller, didn’t return an e-mail
and a phone message.  Sino-Forest fell 89 percent from June 1 through June 21
last year after Block said the Ontario- and Hong Kong-based
timber owner overstated the value of its assets. It filed for
 bankruptcy protection  last month. Focus Media Holding Ltd. lost
39 percent on Nov. 21 after the short seller said the Shanghai-
based company overstated its ad network and the value of
acquisitions. It has since rallied 60 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  