-- Gabelli Says Still Chance to Profit in Tech: Tom Keene
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-11T17:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/gabelli-says-still-chance-to-profit-in-tech-tom-keene.html
Technology companies  still may
offer opportunities to profit even as they show signs of
overvaluation, Gamco Investors Inc.’s Mario Gabelli said.  “You have these challenges all the time in the markets,”
Gabelli, the chairman and chief executive officer of Gamco in
Rye,  New York , said today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “The
market is allocating capital, sometimes it allocates it
poorly,” he said. “We’ll live with it, we’ll figure it out,
we’ll try to make money out of it some at point in time.”  U.S. technology companies are trading at higher valuations
than the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (S5INFT) , based on the past 12
months’ earnings and estimates for the next year. Gabelli said
while there may be some similarities to the technology bubble
that burst in the late 1990s, his firm is evaluating companies
such as  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the social-gaming company that went public
in December, and looking for stocks it believes are mispriced.  “The capitalistic system as an allocator of capital has a
lot of inefficiencies,” he said. “Social media is clearly the
new frontier, everyone says this time it’s different, you’ve got
to own the Zyngas of the world and so on. And we are examining
these.”  Technology companies in the  S&P 500  trade at 16 times
earnings from the past year, compared with 14.2 for the entire
index. For  earnings  in the next 12 months, computer makers,
software developers and Internet shares are trading 3.4 percent
higher than the S&P 500, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A gauge of technology stocks is up 19 percent year-to-date,
the most among 10 groups in the S&P 500. Earnings for the
quarter ended Dec. 31 beat estimates by 10 percent, the best
among the 10 groups and compared to the S&P 500’s overall
earnings exceeding estimates by 3.4 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  is a  stock  worth considering,
Gabelli said. The Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based company is
spinning off its flow-control unit to Pentair Inc. in a deal
that will give Tyco shareholders a majority of Pentair and
 values  the unit at $4.53 billion. The company is worth more
separated into those parts than its current share-price value
shows, Gabelli said.  “These spinoffs create values, they create opportunities,
and we’re focusing right now on Tyco,” Gabelli said.  Tyco  shares  climbed 0.3 percent to $53.29 at 1:12 p.m. in
New York today, its first gain in five trading sessions. Before
today, the shares had advanced 14 percent in 2012, compared with
an 8 percent gain for the S&P 500.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wksiling@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  