-- Gas Price at 10-Year Low Dashes New York Dream of Riches
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-04-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/gas-price-at-10-year-low-dashes-new-york-dream-of-riches.html
New York  is unlikely to enjoy the
energy boom that swept neighboring Pennsylvania because a
collapse of natural gas prices has dulled the enthusiasm of
companies waiting for regulators to permit drilling.  For almost four years, state officials blocked a drilling
technique known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, that is
opposed by some  environmentalists . Pennsylvania and Ohio allowed
producers such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Talisman Inc. (TLM)  to
employ the method, and have attracted billions of dollars in
investment. Like those states, New York sits atop the gas-rich
Marcellus Shale formation and its portion may hold enough gas to
supply the U.S. for three years.  Since New York began developing gas-drilling rules in July
2008, prices have plunged more than 80 percent to a 10-year low,
making it less attractive for companies. Residents hoping to
earn royalty payments of the kind that turned  Pennsylvania 
landowners into millionaires have lowered their expectations,
said Gary VanDriesen, spokesman for a coalition of land owners
in central New York.  “A windfall they thought they had coming soon is something
that’s a memory to them,” VanDriesen said in an interview.
“The older ones figure ‘well, my children or my grandchildren
will benefit from it.’’  Treated Water  The Marcellus Shale, a formation stretching from New York
to Tennessee, may contain a two-decade supply of gas for the
U.S. Drillers tap it by pumping millions of gallons of
chemically treated water underground to break up rock and free
trapped gas.  Companies spent about $20 billion on leases, drilling rigs
and royalty payments in Pennsylvania from 2008 to 2010, and
fracking in  Ohio  is forecast to add $5 billion to economic
output by 2014.  New York officials say they plan to complete rules for gas
fracking this year. However, Talisman, which has about 250,000
acres under lease in New York, is unlikely to be an active
driller in the state until prices rebound, said  David Mann , a
spokesman for the Calgary-based company. Oklahoma City-based
Chesapeake has scaled back drilling in Pennsylvania portions of
the Marcellus.  ‘‘People think that General Patton with an army of drilling
rigs is waiting at the border,’’ Tom West, a lawyer in New
York’s capital of  Albany  who represents gas producers, said in
an interview. ‘‘That’s not going to happen. It’s going to be a
very slow ramp up.”  Draft Rules  Environmental groups and  New York City  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  have said drilling shouldn’t occur near watersheds,
including reservoirs that supply 1.3 billion gallons (4.9
billion liters) of drinking water a day to New York City.
Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent
of Bloomberg News.  Those concerns were incorporated by the Department of
Environmental Conservation into draft rules, which include a
4,000-foot buffer zone between drilling rigs and watersheds for
New York City and Syracuse. The aim is to protect the
environment while capturing the economic benefits of drilling,
according to department chairman Joseph Martens.  The latest version of the standards released in October
were an improvement over prior drafts and may be “the most
comprehensive set of rules in the country,”  Kate Sinding , a
senior attorney with the  Natural Resources Defense Council  in
New York, said. Still, regulators failed to adequately deal with
disposal of drilling wastewater or to assess the cumulative
impacts in rural areas, she said.  ‘Massive Undertaking’  “This is a massive new undertaking,” Sinding said in an
interview. “It’s one with a huge variety of potential risks. We
don’t think it’s either unusual or inappropriate that it should
take a good number of years.”  What happens next depends largely on the price of natural
gas, said  John Martin , principal consultant with JPMartin Energy
Strategy LLC in Saratoga Springs. In July 2008, the month New
York said it would begin developing rules for fracking, natural
gas averaged $11.068 per million British thermal units on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . Gas for May delivery was $2.031
yesterday, down 32 percent this year.  “In 2008 the conditions were all different,” Martin said
in an interview. “Investment would have rolled in. I don’t see
anybody drilling wells right now.”  Marcellus Shale  The Marcellus Shale may contain 490 trillion cubic feet of
gas, enough to heat U.S. homes and power electric plants for two
decades, Terry Engelder, professor of geosciences at The
 Pennsylvania State University  in  University Park , said. New York
may have about 13 percent of the reserves, Engelder said. It’s
the world’s second-largest field behind South Pars, shared by
Iran and Qatar across the Persian Gulf.  New York’s geology is another hurdle. Based on wells in
northeastern Pennsylvania, New York’s shale probably will
produce primarily methane or dry gas, said Peter Fasullo,
principal at energy consulting firm En*Vantage Inc. in Houston.  Gas that includes liquids such as ethylene, used to
manufacture plastics, and propane can fetch twice as much as dry
gas.  “The New York play is very lean,” Fasullo said in an
interview. “Right now, there’s really no incentive to drill
that gas.”  Producers can break even in Marcellus Shale at $4 per
million Btu compared with fields in Wyoming and Arkansas, where
companies need $5 and $6 to turn a profit, according to an April
2011 report from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Early this year, Talisman began shifting resources out of
Pennsylvania and into wells in  Texas  and other fields that also
deliver liquids along with gas, Mann said.  Scaled Back  Chesapeake scaled back in dry-gas fields to 24 rigs from
about 75, and expects to steer 85 percent of capital to liquids-
rich wells this year and next, up from 10 percent in 2009,
Senior Vice President Jeff Mobley said at a March 27 conference.  “We expect our dry gas shale production to continue to
decline,” Mobley said. “Our growth from this point forward,
it’ll be 100 percent focused on the liquids-rich plays. ”  Fracking has been used to drill more than 4,400 wells in
Pennsylvania since 2009. Companies spent about $11.5 billion in
Pennsylvania’s shale in 2010, including $346 million in
royalties to property owners who leased their mineral rights,
according to a July  report  from The Pennsylvania State
University College of Earth and Mineral Sciences.  Deeper Utica Shale  In Ohio, companies including Chesapeake,  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) 
and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are drilling in the Utica Shale, which is
deeper than Marcellus. The Utica prospect will support 65,680
jobs and add $4.9 billion to Ohio’s economic output by 2014,
according to a Feb. 28 study by the Ohio Shale Coalition.  “The money that would have gone into New York from 2008 to
2012 went somewhere else,” Martin said. “That money is lost.”  Once rules are in place, New York may realize $1.9 billion
in gas investment including $152 million in royalties in 2015,
according to a June report from the  Manhattan Institute , a New
York research group. The report was released in June when gas
averaged $4.516 per million Btu.  “I don’t believe that the chance was missed at all,”
Richard Laskey, founder of the Central New York Landowners
Coalition, said in an interview. “It’s inconceivable to me that
they’re going to leave all this gas in the ground.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  