-- Gas Producers’ Credit Lines Shrink With Price: Corporate Canada
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-04-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/gas-producers-credit-lines-shrink-with-price-corporate-canada.html
Perpetual Energy Inc. (PMT) , which owns
almost a decade worth of natural gas reserves in  Canada , has
lost half its market value in five months as the price of the
fuel has plummeted. Now it’s lost part of its credit line too.  With natural gas reaching its lowest price in more than a
decade this spring, Calgary-based Perpetual’s credit lines were
cut by 10 percent or C$20 million ($20 million) on March 1 by
banks including the  Bank of Montreal , reflecting the drop in
value of the company’s reserves.  “Because of their exposure to gas, banks have reduced
their credit limit twice this year,” said Kyle Preston,
director of oil and gas research at National Bank Financial in
Calgary. “Much of their future depends on what happens in the
next readjustment of their credit lines.”  Perpetual, with C$171 million of remaining credit lines, is
one of several Canadian natural gas producers struggling to fund
operations using bank loans guaranteed by reserves. As funding
dries up, companies may halt drilling or shift to oil, which may
provide a boost to prices, said Bill Gwozd, vice president of
gas services at  Ziff Energy , an advisory firm.  “It’s not a matter of if, but when we start to see these
impacts because of the lower prices,” Gwozd said.  Perpetual, which gets about 90 percent of its revenue from
gas production,  suspended  its dividend and is selling oil leases
and a gas storage facility to cope with the low prices.
Perpetual Chief Financial Officer Cameron Sebastian didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  Reserves Pledged  Compton Petroleum Corp. (CMT) , a Calgary-based gas producer whose
shares have declined 44 percent this year, said on April 9 its
credit facility was cut by 21 percent to C$110 million after
lenders took into account the lower price of natural gas. The
company said it hired  RBC Capital Markets  in March to help raise
money and compensate for lower commodity prices.  Companies with investment-grade ratings typically get
credit from banks on an unsecured basis. Unrated or speculative-
grade producers need to pledge reserves for the loans. Under
Canadian law, producers must readjust their reserve valuations
by the end of April.  “Banks want to make sure they have a viable asset -- you
can’t blame them,” said Gwozd. “As these lower valuations
start to come out, company valuations will begin to drop in
addition to higher costs for borrowing.”  Volatility  The price for natural gas traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  has averaged $2.48 per British thermal unit this year
through April 9, versus an average of $4.03 for 2011. It hit a
low of $2.054 on April 10, its lowest since February 2002.  “A lot of people are not used to the kind of volatility in
natural gas prices that we’re seeing now and were more common in
the 80s and 90s,” said  Michael Tims , co-chairman of Peters &
Co., a Calgary-based investment bank.  Perpetual Energy arranged its C$210 million credit line in
May 2005 with six lenders led by  Bank of Montreal , Canada’s
fourth-biggest bank. It had drawn C$130 million of it as of Dec.
31, leaving it with C$41 million after C$39 million was cut.
Perpetual has a market value of about C$97 million.  Lone Pine Resources Inc. (LPR) , located a block from Perpetual,
has lost about half its value since an initial public offering
in May. In an effort to wean itself off bank loans, the Calgary-
based producer issued bonds for the first time in February. The
company paid 989 basis points more than government debt for the
$200 million five-year bond rated Caa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service and B- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Bond sales  Lone Pine’s bond sale “gave them a bit more of a cushion
on the liquidity side,” said Brian Lively, an analyst at Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston, who has a hold rating on Lone
Pine’s stock. “Lenders’ redetermination of credit facilities is
a concern.”  The producer agreed to pay 100 basis points more than
inter-bank lending rates for its C$500 million credit facility,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  and
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  helped arrange the loan for Lone Pine,
which has a market value of C$540 million.  Lone Pine is investing in its Evi oil field and shifting
away from its natural gas project at Nikanassin, both in
northwest  Alberta , said Terry Marshall, senior vice president at
Moody’s Canada Inc. in Toronto. The Caa2 rating Moody’s assigned
is two levels lower than S&P’s B-rating.  The company doesn’t expect to add to its credit facility
this year, said Chief Financial Officer Ed Bereznicki in
response to a question during the company’s fourth-quarter
conference call on March 23.  Scaling Back  Investors of Lone Pine debt demanded a higher premium than
for  PetroBakken Energy Ltd (PBG) ., which raised $900 million of eight-
year notes on Jan. 25, paying a 714 basis-point spread. The  bond
issue  by the Calgary-based company was rated a level higher than
Lone Pine’s at Caa1 by Moody’s and a level lower at S&P at CCC+.  PetroBakken also produces oil, lessening its reliance on
natural gas for revenue and valuations. All of Lone Pine’s
assets are pledged to banks under its revolving credit line,
according to a Feb. 6 Moody’s report.  Withdrawing credit from smaller producers may help speed a
decline in production across the industry, said Gwozd. Wells
that aren’t profitable will be shut as money for drilling dries
up, he said.  “It’s not necessarily just the small producers that will
be affected” by falling commodity prices, Gwozd said.  Larger competitors, which are less dependent on bank
financing, have already begun to curb output.  Encana Corp. (ECA) ,
Canada’s biggest natural-gas producer, said Feb. 17 that it
would scale back North American supplies by as much as 600
million cubic feet a day, joining  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and
 EQT Corp. (EQT) , which have made similar moves.  Supplies Surge  Supplies of the fuel have surged in  North America  helped by
technology known as hydraulic fracturing which injects sand and
fluids into horizontal wells to unlock hydrocarbons trapped in
deep, underground rocks. At the same time, slower economic
growth has limited demand as producers push to expand the fuel’s
use to vehicles and power plants as well as for export in the
form of liquefied natural gas, or LNG.  Supply and demand of natural gas will probably reach a
balance as soon as the stored reserves diminish, said Michael Kohut, chief financial officer of  Trilogy Energy Corp. (TET)  At that
point, prices will come back to levels that are more profitable
for producers, he said.  One way Trilogy and other explorers are offsetting
penalties on their credit lines from the decline in natural gas
prices is to boost the oil component of their reserves because
the funding is tied to the entire value of an explorer’s fossil
fuel reserves.  Boosting Oil  Trilogy, also based in Calgary, has increased oil and
natural gas liquids production to about 40 percent of its total,
from less than 20 percent last year to help avoid paying higher
borrowing costs, Kohut said in a phone interview.  The company has a syndicated loan worth C$525 million that
it will add to this year and isn’t getting any “push-back”
from banks because of the increasing value of its oil reserves,
he said.  “There’s no question that companies heavily-weighted in
gas will be hurt this year,” Kohut said. “We have the luxury
to allocate capital depending on what happens to the price of
gas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  