-- Gasoline May Have Peaked on Sliding Demand, Slow Job Growth
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-04-11T20:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/gasoline-may-have-peaked-on-sliding-demand-slowing-job-growth.html
U.S. gasoline pump prices may have
peaked for the year as demand slides, job growth slows and crude
prices moderate.  Regular gasoline , averaged nationwide, has fallen five
straight days to $3.915 a gallon, the longest streak since
December, after surging 20 percent and peaking at $3.936 on
April 4, according to data from AAA, the biggest U.S. motoring
club. Americans have purchased 5.3 percent less gasoline so far
this year than in 2011, data from credit-card receipts analyzed
by MasterCard Inc.’s SpendingPulse showed yesterday.  Deliveries (DOEDMGAS)  to wholesalers last week fell 5.4 percent from a
year earlier, the Energy Department reported today. The
department forecast consumption to decline to 8.65 million
barrels a day in 2012, the lowest level in 11 years. The U.S.
added the fewest jobs in five months in March, the Labor
Department said April 6, limiting prospects for higher demand.  “Gasoline was the best-performing asset in the first
quarter, but the sentiment is turning,” Amrita Sen, a London-
based analyst at  Barclays Capital , said by phone. “For the time
being, our view is that it has probably peaked.”  Prices reached the highest level of 2011 at $3.985 on May
4, weeks before the U.S. Memorial Day holiday kicked off the
traditional start of the summer driving season. The record
retail price was $4.114 on July 15, 2008.  May Peak  Gasoline in the U.S. will  peak  in May at $4.01 a gallon,
the Energy Department said yesterday in its monthly Short-Term
Energy Outlook.  Gasoline futures have been the best performer this year in
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities amid a surge
in international crude prices as tensions built over  Iran’s
nuclear program , an improving U.S. job market and refinery
shutdowns.  Futures have retreated 3.5 percent since reaching $3.4166
a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange on March 26, a 10-
month high, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
accommodative monetary policy is needed for the  unemployment
rate  to continue declining.  Gasoline surged 27 percent through March 26, compared with
a 10 percent gain for heating oil and an 8.3 percent increase
for crude oil. The 2012 gain has been pared to 23 percent.  The government reduced its demand forecast yesterday.
Consumption will average 8.65 million barrels a day in 2012,
down from 8.74 million in 2011. That’s below last month’s
projection of 8.67 million.  Iran Talks  Iran  and the five permanent members of the  United Nations
Security Council  plus  Germany  are scheduled to hold talks on the
Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program April 14 after a 15-month
hiatus.  “Barring a blowup during the Iran talks over the weekend,
the craziness is over,” Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at
the Energy Management Institute in New York, said by phone.  The front-month Brent crude contract on  London ’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange reached $128.40 on March 1, the highest
since July 2008. It settled at $120.18 today. Brent is the
benchmark for oil used in European refineries that export
gasoline to the East Coast.  “The direction of crude price matters more than anything
else,” said  David Pursell , a managing director at Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. LLC in Houston. “In a flat Brent world, I
don’t think you can say gasoline prices have peaked. But for
gasoline prices to go higher, you’re going to have to have
better economic news.”  Eastern Refineries  Along the U.S. East Coast, Sunoco Inc. and ConocoPhillips
idled last year money-losing refineries in Pennsylvania with a
combined capacity of 363,000 barrels a day, or 24 percent of the
region’s output. Sunoco has said it will shut its 335,000-
barrel-a-day Philadelphia refinery by July unless it can attract
a buyer.  “The sentiment overall has become a bit bearish,” Sen
said.  The Energy Department increased its 2012 estimate
yesterday, saying the average price would be $3.95 a gallon
April through September, 2.5 cents higher than its forecast in
March. Gasoline could surpass the 2008 record and reach as high
as $4.25 this summer because of refinery shutdowns, said  Sander Cohan , a global transportation fuels analyst and principal with
Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  “It’s too early to say we’ve peaked,” Cohan said.  Less refinery capacity during the driving season will push
prices past $4 toward the record, said  Stephen Schork , president
of the Schork Group Inc., an energy advisory company in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania . At that point, expect the U.S. to
release oil from strategic reserves to lower prices, he said.  “It worked last year because nobody expected it, but once
you get around Memorial Day, I think you can expect it given
that it’s an election year,” Schork said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  