-- German Stocks Rebound; Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank Climb
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-04-11T15:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/german-stocks-rebound-deutsche-bank-commerzbank-climb.html
German stocks rebounded from their
lowest level in two months as banks rallied.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the nation’s two
largest lenders, rose more than 2 percent after HSBC Holdings
Plc’s equity strategists recommended buying European banks.
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, gained 1.4
percent after  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  of the U.S. reported an unexpected
first-quarter profit.  The DAX Index climbed 68.3, or 1 percent, to 6,674.73 at
the close in  Frankfurt . The gauge slumped 2.5 percent yesterday
to its lowest level since Jan. 31 after a report showed that
U.S. employers added fewer jobs in March than forecast and
Spanish and Italian bond yields surged. The DAX has still
 rallied 13 percent this year . The broader HDAX Index also rose 1
percent today, paring yesterday’s 2.5 percent plunge.  “Survey-based sentiment is now supportive of equities,”
Bernd Meyer, the Frankfurt-based head of cross asset-class
strategy at Commerzbank, wrote in a report. “Macro data will be
the key determinant of whether something more than a temporary
disruption can be avoided,” following recent declines in
equities, he wrote.  The volume of shares changing hands on the  DAX (DAX)  was 0.1
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank advanced 2.3 percent to 34.48 euros.
Commerzbank climbed 4.1 percent to 1.72 euros. HSBC strategists
Peter Sullivan, Robert Parkes and  Garry Evans  raised their
recommendation on European banks to overweight from neutral,
meaning that investors should buy the shares. The strategists
said that the deterioration in lenders’ earnings since 2007 may
have bottomed.  ‘Reassessment of Banks’  “Signs that earnings are bottoming could spark a
reassessment of the banks sector which has been in a value trap
for years,” the strategists wrote. “A case can be made for
over 50 percent upside on the assumption that price will equal
tangible book value. We stress that this is a long-term
equilibrium valuation and there is a catalog of risks that
explain why valuations are currently depressed.”  The  Stoxx 600 Banks Index (SX7P)  of European lenders trades at 0.6
times the value of its members’ assets, or book value, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ThyssenKrupp (TKA)  rose 1.4 percent to 17.62 euros. Alcoa, the
largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported after markets closed
yesterday a  first-quarter profit  of 9 cents a share after
customers from automakers to beverage-can manufacturers ordered
more of the metal. It posted earnings excluding restructuring
costs and other items of 10 cents a share, compared with the 4-
cent loss that was the  average estimate  in a Bloomberg poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  