-- German Developers Plan Solar Parks in Spain Without Subsidies
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-04-11T17:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/german-developers-plan-solar-parks-in-spain-without-subsidies.html
Two German solar energy developers
are planning to build photovoltaic plants in southern  Spain  that
will earn a return without government subsidies.  Wuerth Solar GmbH & Co. intends to build a 287-megawatt
plant in the Murcia area for 277 million euros ($363 million),
according to the regional authority. Gehrlicher Solar AG said it
plans to develop a 250-megawatt solar park in the Extremadura
region for about 250 million euros.  The projects, about three times larger than any European
solar plant, may be the first that don’t rely on feed-in tariffs
and compete with wholesale power prices. All plants in the
region so far depend on fixed premium rates for solar power,
which can be several times higher than wholesale prices.  Spain suspended the tariffs on Jan. 27 as part of
government austerity measures, threatening the survival of the
industry. Tariffs for large-scale solar were set at 121 euros
per megawatt-hour. Developers now look to build plants without
this support, helped by falling equipment prices.  Gehrlicher has an agreement with the regional authority for
a project in Talavan and will seek government approval within
months, Sonia Gomez, a spokeswoman, said today. The company,
based in Dornach near Munich, hopes to secure the permit in six
to eight months and start construction in the second quarter of
2013.  ‘Tremendous Interest’  “We are seeking to open the way for subsidy-free solar in
Spain, which is possible because grid parity is expected here
next year,” Gomez said by phone. “Institutional investors and
banks are already showing tremendous interest in this model.”  Wuerth, based in Schwabisch Hall near Stuttgart, also has
an agreement with the regional government for a record project.  The company, which sold its panel factory to solar
equipment maker  Manz AG (M5Z)  last year, aims to start building the
solar park in Jumilla from 2014 over two years, according to an
April 4 statement from the regional authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  