-- Germany, France Say Markets Are Overreacting to Spain Concerns
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-11T11:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/germany-france-say-markets-are-overreacting-to-spain-concerns.html
The governments of Germany and
 France  said investors are overreacting to concerns over Spain’s
ability to narrow its  budget deficit .  The Spanish government has undertaken a “comprehensive
reform” of its finances, labor market and banking system,
German Finance Ministry spokesman Johannes Blankenheim said
today. French government spokeswoman Valerie Pecresse said that
market concern over Spain is “excessive.”  “We regret that markets have not yet sufficiently
recognized these enormous reform efforts,” Blankenheim told
reporters in Berlin. “These reforms need time to take effect,
so what the Spanish government is undertaking is very
promising.”  Investor concern that Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
will fail to revive his country’s economy and compound the debt
crisis has sent Spanish 10-year borrowing costs to their highest
levels so far this year. European Central Bank Executive Board
member Benoit Coeure suggested today that policy makers might
intervene over the higher yields by reviving the central bank’s
bond-purchase program.  Spain ’s  10-year bond yield  rose as high as 6.02 percent
today, the most since December, before easing to 5.84 percent as
of 11:50 a.m. in  Madrid . Borrowing costs had tumbled from a
November peak approaching 7 percent after the ECB offered euro-
area banks three-year loans, calming markets.  “The yields on Spanish bonds have risen significantly
recently, but they still remain below their highs from last
November,” Blankenheim said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  