-- GM Lithium-Battery Explosion Sparks Fire at Company Test Lab
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-04-11T20:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/gm-lithium-battery-lab-explosion-injures-2-fire-department-says.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , maker of the
Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid sedan, said a test battery
exploded at a research facility near its Detroit headquarters.  A lithium-ion battery exploded today at GM’s technical
center in Warren, Michigan, with two people being taken to a
hospital,  David Frederick , the city’s fire chief, said in a
telephone interview. An “incident” occurred about 8:45 a.m. in
a laboratory conducing “extreme testing on a prototype
battery” unrelated to the Volt, GM said in e-mailed statements.  The battery explosion comes as GM seeks to reassure
consumers about the safety of the Volt, which uses  lithium-ion
batteries . Volt sales were hurt after a U.S. investigation into
battery fires was announced in November. The U.S. closed the
probe in January, saying the Volt and other electric vehicles
pose no more fire risk than other cars.  “The headlines are not positive for lithium-ion and
General Motors,” Dennis Virag, president of Automotive
Consulting Group in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, said in a telephone
interview. “It does bring up the subject of the dangers
associated with batteries.”  One of the injured people has life-threatening injuries,
the  Detroit Free Press  reported on its  website , citing Wilburt
McAdams, Warren fire commissioner.  “When the crews were on the scene, they reported smoke but
not a lot of fire,” Frederick said. Five employees were
evaluated by medical personnel and one received further
treatment, GM said.  Volt Sales Target  The Warren center is where GM, the world’s largest
automaker, developed the Volt and researches electric-vehicle
batteries.  The automaker aims to boost sales of the $39,000 Volt to
more than 3,000 a month, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson
said in an interview last week with Bloomberg Radio scheduled
for broadcast next month. The best month of U.S. sales of the
Volt so far was 2,289 in March.  “It seems like we’ve sustained ourselves through this
difficult period,” Akerson said. “We hope to get up to 3,000-
plus in the coming months and are certainly positioning it.”  GM said last week that Volt production will resume April
16, a week earlier than planned following March’s sales
improvement. The automaker had said it would halt production in
early March after selling 1,023 Volts in February and 603 in
January, below the rate needed to meet Akerson’s goal of 45,000
deliveries in the U.S. this year.  ‘Potential Problems’  Today’s explosion caused a fire that was extinguished,
 Kevin Kelly , a GM spokesman, said in a telephone interview. The
building was evacuated and all employees have been accounted
for, GM said in its statement.  “When you have high-energy density, whether it’s in
gasoline or diesel fuel or batteries or whatever, you’re going
to have potential problems,”  David Cole , chairman emeritus for
the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan, said
in an interview at a U.S. Army fuel-economy event elsewhere in
Warren. “When you’re developing new technologies and trying to
improve batteries, this is sort of par for the course.”  GM rose 1.3 percent to $24.03 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  