-- Grass Compares Israel to Myanmar, East Germany After Entry Ban
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-04-11T16:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/grass-compares-israel-to-myanmar-east-germany-after-entry-ban.html
Guenter Grass, the  Nobel Prize 
winning author of “The Tin Drum,” compared the ban on his
entering  Israel  to his treatment by dictatorships in Myanmar and
East Germany in an article for the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung 
newspaper.  On April 8, Interior Minister Eli Yishai declared Grass
persona non grata and barred him from entering Israel, after
Germany’s best-known living writer published a poem calling the
nation’s nuclear capacity a threat to world peace.  “I have been denied entry into a country three times,”
Grass wrote in the short article, which was pre-released by the
Sueddeutsche Zeitung before its publication tomorrow. He
compared the wording of Yishai’s ruling to the tone of his ban
by Erich Mielke, the minister in charge of East  Germany ’s Stasi,
or secret police.  Grass wrote that the experience would not erase fond
memories of his journeys to Israel, a country to which he still
felt “irrevocably bound.” He repeated his criticism of Israel.
“As a nuclear power of uncontrolled dimensions, the Israeli
government acts only on its own authority and heeds no
reprimands,” Grass wrote.  “Let the man say what he wants,” Israeli Foreign Ministry
spokesman Yigal Palmor, reached by telephone today, said of 
Grass’s latest article. “There’s no need to add more oil to the
fire.”  Nuclear Potential  In the poem titled  “What Has to Be Said,”  published on
April 4, Grass described Israel’s nuclear potential as “out of
control, because no one can examine it.”  He criticized Germany for promising to deliver a submarine
to Israel whose specialty is “directing warheads of mass
destruction to a place where the existence of a single nuclear
bomb is unproven,” referring to  Iran .  Grass, who is 84, unleashed a storm of criticism with his
poem. Yishai drew attention to the writer’s Nazi past as a
member of the Waffen-SS in the final months of World War II and
said he was attempting “to guide the fire of hate toward the
state of Israel.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 