-- Gross Cuts Treasuries, Raises Mortgages in Fed Buy Bet
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-11T20:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/gross-cuts-treasuries-raises-mortgages-in-fed-buy-bet.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., cut
holdings of Treasuries last month to 32 percent, the lowest
since December, and raised mortgages to the most since 2009.  Gross reduced the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in the $252.4 billion Total Return Fund in March
from 37 percent of assets in February, according to a report on
the company’s  website  today.  He raised the fund’s holdings of mortgages to 53 percent
last month, the highest since June 2009, from 52 percent in
February, in a bet that the  Federal Reserve  will buy the
securities in a new round of purchases.  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly
changes in its portfolio holdings.  The Fed will probably shift focus to buying mortgage
securities to keep borrowing rates low when its so-called
Operation Twist program ends in June, Gross said in a March 28
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .”  What the Fed will “try to do is twist in the mortgage
market; basically buy current-coupon mortgages in agency space,
3 percent and 3.5 percent coupons,” he said. “And basically
twist by repoing out the Treasuries they currently own in short-
term space.”  Treasuries Position  Gross cut the proportion of U.S. government securities in
the fund in February for the first time since eliminating the
securities from his portfolio in February 2011. He held a net
bet against the securities in the Total Return Fund last year
when he missed the biggest rally in Treasuries since 2008.  Gross issued a “ mea culpa ” to investors in October and
boosted the debt by January to 38 percent, the highest since
July 2010.  Gross’s  fund  has returned 6.5 percent in the past year,
beating 44 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It gained 0.6 percent during the past month, better
than 93 percent of competitors.  Treasuries lost investors 1.3 percent in the first quarter,
after returning 9.8 percent in 2011, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Index.  The fund kept emerging-market debt at 10 percent last
month, and cut the bonds of non-U.S. developed nations to 6
percent from 7 percent in February.  Gross raised the  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ’s net cash-and-
equivalent position to negative 23 percent from negative 31
percent. The fund can have a so-called negative position by
using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  The funds’s government and Treasury debt category includes
fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and
inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.36 trillion of assets as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  