-- IBM Takes On Oracle, Cisco to Simplify Server ‘Scut Work’
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/ibm-takes-on-oracle-cisco-to-simplify-server-scut-work-.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  is taking on  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  with
server computers and software packaged and automated to reduce
the time and money clients spend on “scut work.”  The world’s largest computer-services provider built what
it calls PureSystems over four years, delivering server systems
that are easier to install, automate, update and manage, IBM
said in a statement. That frees information-technology staff to
work on more valuable, business-specific tasks, it said.  IBM is positioning PureSystems as an offering that
simplifies technology building blocks to compete with Oracle’s
Exadata and Cisco’s UCS and VCE products. The system may also
help IBM fend off competition to its hardware and software sales
from Web-based cloud-computing services by providers such as
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , said John Rymer, a Forrester Research analyst.  “They’re being challenged now by folks coming out with
cloud environments,” Rymer, who did research work related to
the project for IBM last year, said in a phone interview. “This
product line is a very significant attempt by IBM to provide a
competitive option to some of those cloud environments,
something that can be installed on premise.”  Software and hardware together made up more than 40 percent
of Armonk, New York-based IBM’s  revenue  of $107 billion last
year, with services accounting for almost all of the rest.  Cloud Threat  IBM estimates companies use more than 70 percent of their
IT budgets managing and maintaining existing infrastructure,
said  Steve Mills , IBM’s senior vice president and group
executive overseeing software and systems. To help reduce costs,
IBM is offering standardized configurations and pre-installed
application “patterns” that companies can build upon more
quickly than constructing their systems from scratch, he said.  “We have this ability to mass-customize, to lower the cost
of computing,” Mills said in a phone interview. “Clients are
spending way too much money just trying to get things to work
properly.”  IBM identified the problem more than a decade ago when the
cost of getting server systems up and running surpassed the cost
of the hardware, Mills said.  Corporations want “IT employees to spend more time
developing business services and less time on all the scut work,
the basic manual labor of getting stuff configured right,
getting it installed correctly, scaling it, raising the
capacity,” Rymer said.  An in-house option that needs less tech support from the
start may also be competitive against cloud services, Rymer
said. Corporations are migrating to cloud providers such as
Amazon’s Web Services, as they seek to run and store
applications in outside data centers instead of buying and
maintaining the servers and other hardware themselves. Forrester
has  estimated  that the market for cloud-computing services will
reach $61 billion by the end of this year.  IBM fell 1.3 percent to $202.33 yesterday. The  stock  has
advanced 10 percent this year, and on March 5 closed above $200
for the first time, factoring in stock splits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  