-- Icahn Said to Near Purchase of Harbinger Iron-Mine Stake
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-04-11T21:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/icahn-said-to-near-purchase-of-brazil-miner-stake-from-falcone.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  is
nearing agreement to buy a stake in a closely held Brazilian
 iron ore  mining company from  Phil Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC, according to four people familiar with the talks.  Icahn is seeking to buy 14.9 percent of  Ferrous Resources
Ltd. (FER) , three of the people said, asking not to be identified
because the discussions are confidential. He intends to pay
$1.50 a share, partly in cash, which values the stake at about
$180 million, one of the people said.  Harbinger lost 47 percent for investors in its main fund
last year as Falcone was forced to cut the value of his $3
billion investment in broadband wireless venture LightSquared
Inc. by more than half. The hedge fund has been looking for a
buyer for part of its 26 percent Ferrous stake since at least
February to help pay down a loan from Jefferies Group Inc.  Icahn is also pursuing a position on the board of  Belo
Horizonte , Brazil-based Ferrous, according to three of the
people.  Keith Schaitkin, general counsel at Icahn Enterprises; Lew
Phelps, a spokesman for New York-based Harbinger; and an
official at an external public relations firm working for
Ferrous declined to comment.  The Harbinger Capital Master Fund, which holds a 19.5
percent stake in Ferrous, valued it at $3.13 a share, or $486
million, documents that describe the Jan. 30 loan from Jefferies
show. Falcone owes about $200 million to Harbinger lenders by
Oct. 31, including a $47.5 million payment due at the end of
this month.  Subprime Mortgages  The sale to Icahn at $1.50 a share is a third of what
Falcone paid for each in Ferrous’s last round of fundraising in
2008, when he bought part of his stake, one of the people said.
Harbinger acquired about $150 million worth of shares at $4.50
apiece in that transaction, the person said.  Falcone, 49, who founded Harbinger in 2001, bet millions in
2006 that securities cobbled together from subprime mortgages
would collapse, making the fund $11 billion in 2007. In 2008, it
was one of the world’s most successful hedge funds, with assets
of $26 billion. Today, Harbinger manages about $4 billion.  Icahn, 76, along with investors  David Tepper  and Andrew
Beal, bought $300 million of LightSquared debt sold by Farallon
Capital Management LLC in December. The move may help give Icahn
control of Reston, Virginia-based LightSquared’s spectrum for
less than what Falcone originally paid.  Voluntary Bankruptcy  LightSquared, which had planned to build a high-speed data
network for as many as 260 million users, is struggling to
survive after the Federal Communications Commission’s decision
to block the service because of potential signal interference
with global-positioning systems.  Falcone said earlier this month he would consider putting
LightSquared into voluntary bankruptcy.  “The rationale behind a voluntary filing is to complete
the vision, to complete the plan to build the network and
protect the company from the creditors who are more interested
in a quick flip,” he said in an interview.  LightSquared creditors, including Icahn, Tepper and Beal,
agreed to give Falcone a waiver not to put the company into
technical default after the FCC said it planned to revoke
LightSquared’s license. Falcone has a deadline of April 30 to
revisit that waiver with his creditors.  CVR Energy  Icahn is seeking to gain control of  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI)  and
said on April 3 that more than half of the company’s shares were
tendered in response to his unsolicited $2.6 billion offer.
 Sugar Land , Texas-based CVR said Icahn can’t buy the shares now
because of a restriction that limits individuals from acquiring
the company without board approval.  Ferrous has been trying to find a strategic partner to help
finance its Brazilian projects since at least 2009, having
shelved plans in June 2010 for a $400 million initial public
offering in  London  because of fluctuating equity markets.  In December, Ferrous proposed a $2.3 billion takeover of
rival  MMX Mineracao (MMXM3)  & Metalicos SA, the Rio de Janeiro-based
iron-ore producer controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , according to a letter detailing the plan obtained by
Bloomberg News. The companies held “several discussions” on a
merger during the past 18 months, the letter shows. MMX said on
Jan. 19 that it’s not interested in a Ferrous merger.  Ferrous is competing with miners including  Anglo American
Plc (AAL)  and MMX in expanding iron-ore projects in  Brazil , the
world’s second-largest exporter of the steel-making ingredient,
to meet rising Chinese demand. The company produced its first
ore last year and has six projects in the largest iron ore
producing region in Brazil, Minas Gerais state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  