-- Mid-Incomers Suffer in Polarized U.S. Job Market: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-11T20:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/mid-income-earners-suffer-in-polarized-u-s-job-market-economy.html
Americans at the top and bottom of
the income scale are benefiting most from the jobs recovery
while those in the middle are getting left behind.  Employees making above-average wages, like doctors and
energy-industry workers, and those at the other extreme,
including home-health aides and restaurant staff, have seen
outsized gains in hiring since the jobs recovery began in
February 2010, say economists at Wells Fargo & Co. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Professions in the middle, such as financial
services and specialty construction, aren’t faring as well.  Such a shortfall helps explain why income gains have yet to
return to levels seen before the recession began and why
 consumer spending  over the past two years has grown at the
slowest pace of any expansion in the post-World War II era. It
also points to a pool of unemployed Americans that will prevent
wage increases from flaring out of control and fueling inflation
as the economy grows.  “If we’re only creating jobs for the highly skilled and
for folks with basic skills, then you’re leaving an awful lot of
people behind,” said  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at Wells
Fargo in  Charlotte , North Carolina. “Until we have broad-based
growth, it’s hard to imagine how we can have a self-sustaining
economic recovery.”  Shares climbed today after Alcoa Inc., the first company in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to report quarterly earnings,
said it made a profit in the first three months of the year. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent to 1,368.71 at the
close in New York, snapping a five-day slump.  Job Distribution  The highest-paying jobs, which employ about 15 percent of
all workers, have accounted for 20 percent of the gains in
employment since February 2010, when the jobs recovery began,
Wells Fargo  calculations show . Those whose average earnings are
lower than 60 percent of all employees have accounted for about
46 percent of job growth in the same period.  Middle-income occupations, which employ about 40 percent of
all workers, have created about 34 percent of jobs since
February 2010, Wells Fargo found.  Measures of household sentiment reflect the composition of
job gains. Confidence among those making more than $100,000 a
year and for those with annual incomes between $15,000 and
$25,000 has improved more in the past six months than for
families making from $25,000 to $50,000, figures from the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed last month.  Recession’s Influence  The divergence in job gains, which extends a pattern that
began decades ago, was concentrated during the recession that
lasted from December 2007 to June 2009, according to economists
Nir Jaimovich and Henry E. Siu, both members of the National
Bureau of  Economic Research , the group that determines when
economic slumps begin and end.  Jaimovich, a professor at  Duke University  in Durham,  North
Carolina , and Siu of the University of British Columbia in
 Vancouver , found that 95 percent of the jobs lost during the
economic slump were among workers who carried out routine
assignments. These jobs, which usually pay average incomes and
include office and administrative roles, bank tellers, machine
operators and mechanics, disappeared during the recession and
show “no recovery to date,” the  researchers found .  ‘ATMs are Coming’  “If you’re a bank teller and the ATMs are coming, you know
eventually you are going to lose your job because an ATM doesn’t
need social security or vacations,” Jaimovich said in an
interview. These are the types of jobs that don’t come back
after a recession because firms find alternative ways to do
business, like using automated teller machines, he said.  On the other hand, employment was little changed during or
since the recession for a range of positions from computer
programmers to bartenders and home health aides, jobs that
encompass the high and low ends of the income spectrum and
require non-routine skills like flexibility, problem-solving or
human interaction, according to Jaimovich and Siu. Technology
allowing businesses to replace routine labor with equipment may
explain the lack of middle-income jobs, they wrote in a paper.  Shrinking manufacturing employment doesn’t explain the
entire decline, said Jaimovich. Factory workers account for
about 25 percent to 30 percent of all the jobs lost among
middle-skill positions, he said. “This is a story that goes
much further than the emptying of factory floors,” Jaimovich
said.  “Companies have been driving, and continue to drive, for
increased productivity, to do more with less, and the tool to do
that is technology improvement,” Jonas Prising, president of
Americas for Manpower Inc., the world’s second largest provider
of temporary workers, said in an interview. “What are getting
squeezed are the well-paying jobs with lower-skill levels that
used to give a middle-class income.”  In Demand  Tyler Stalder is among those in high demand. It didn’t take
the 24-year-old computer programmer long to find work in  San
Francisco ’s technology industry after he finished a one-year Web
development fellowship with a nonprofit. Stalder started working
for Singly, a startup company, on March 2 after less than two
months of job interviews.  “That’s kind of the benefit of having a high-demand skill-
set,” Stalder said last month. “I wasn’t that worried about
getting a job after the fellowship.” Stalder said he’s still
being contacted by prospective employers trying to recruit him.  Looking at earnings data,  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan in  New York , also concluded that above-
average earners are in demand.  Employment Shift  “Employment is shifting toward industries or occupations
with relatively high incomes,” Feroli wrote in a March 28 note.
Growth in a number of managerial and professional jobs like
doctors and college administrators, which pay on average 70
percent more than sales and office occupations, may explain the
shift alongside advancements in technology that reduce demand
for middle-skilled jobs, he said.  “We have seen this occupation polarization taking place
for a number of years now,” Feroli, a former researcher at the
 Federal Reserve , said in an interview. “If you look at the
economy from 30,000 feet, in most places the pace of wage growth
is really tepid. The evidence is that an extreme amount of
inequality is bad for growth.”  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the world’s largest economy, grew 2.2 percent last year after a
2 percent gain in 2010, the weakest back-to-back advance of any
expansion since the end of World War II, according to figures
from the Commerce Department.  Earnings Stagnate  Hourly earnings for all workers climbed 2.1 percent in the
12 months through March, according to figures from the Labor
Department issued last week. The gain remains short of the 3.9
percent advance in the year ended June 2007, six months before
the recession began.  One reason for the restraint in spending is that middle-
income households are no longer willing to take on more debt to
supplement a shortfall in wages, said Wells Fargo economic
analyst Joe Seydl, who worked with Vitner on the research.  “People are deleveraging,” Seydl said in an interview.
“The option to take on more debt isn’t there. What we’d rather
have is a better distribution of job gains, not so polarized at
the top and the bottom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  