-- Milan Clubs Prepare $38 Million Balotelli Bids: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-11T06:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/milan-clubs-prepare-38-million-balotelli-bids-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Balotelli Battle  Inter Milan  and AC Milan are leading the chase to take
Manchester City’s  Mario Balotelli  back to  Italy  with the Serie A
rivals poised to bid 20 million pounds ($38 million) for the
striker, the  Daily Mirror reported .  City manager  Roberto Mancini  met last week with Balotelli’s
lawyer, Vittorio Rigo, to discuss the player’s future and the
sale of the 21-year-old looks inevitable, the newspaper added.  Rodwell Ruled Out  Everton midfielder  Jack Rodwell  was ruled out of  England ’s
Euro 2012 campaign because he requires treatment for a chronic
hamstring condition and is unlikely to play again until next
season, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Everton manager David Moyes wants Rodwell to focus on
strengthening his body to protect against further strains and
the player will visit a specialist in Munich to devise a work
program, the newspaper added.  Muamba’s Pacemaker  Fabrice Muamba is to be fitted with a defibrillator
pacemaker in case the Bolton midfielder suffers another cardiac
arrest, the  Daily Mail reported .  Muamba, 24, is expected to have the device fitted under his
skin this week before he leaves London Chest Hospital, the Mail
said, adding that the pacemaker won’t stop him playing again.  “What has happened may happen again and therefore, if
there’s any risk, you want a safety net,” the Mail cited
Muamba’s cardiologist, Sam Mohiddin, as saying.  ‘Not a Crisis’  Tottenham captain Ledley King said the club isn’t
experiencing a crisis after a loss to Norwich two days ago put
its Champions League berth in doubt, the  Guardian reported .  “We need to stick together at this time, keep going until
the end of the season and keep working hard for each other,”
King was quoted as saying. “There is not a crisis in any way.”  Swansea Striker  Swansea is lining up a 6 million pound bid for striker
Lacina Traore, who has been compared to Emmanuel Adebayor, the
 Mirror reported .  Swansea is vying with Ajax to sign the 21-year-old Traore,
who wants to leave Kuban Krasnodar even after scoring 15 goals
in 32 games for the Russian team, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  