-- Indian Economy to Grow 7% as Investment Stays Subdued, ADB Says
-- B y   S u n i l   J a g t i a n i
-- 2012-04-11T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/indian-economy-to-grow-7-as-investment-stays-subdued-adb-says.html
India ’s economy may grow at near
the slowest pace since 2009 this year as investment remains
subdued, the Asian Development Bank said.  Gross domestic product  will expand 7 percent in the year
through March, the Manila-based lender said in its Asian
Development Outlook 2012 report today, lower than a September
forecast of 8.3 percent. Investment is set to stay “lackluster
for some time” after new project announcements fell, it said.  “The global environment remains fragile and a worsening of
the situation in the euro zone would have a significant adverse
impact,” the ADB said. “A poor monsoon, fiscal slippage, or a
continued policy logjam to resolve some of the longstanding
issues would also prove detrimental to growth.”  The  Reserve Bank of India  has signaled readiness to lower
 interest rates  from the highest level since 2008 to bolster
expansion, while flagging inflation risks from  government
spending , energy prices and a weaker rupee. Policy gridlock and
tax changes in the annual budget last month have clouded the
outlook for investment flows into  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  India’s GDP rose 6.9 percent in the 12 months through March
2012, the least in three years, as costlier credit hurt
expansion, government estimates show.  Cuts in  borrowing costs , reviving demand for Indian exports,
some progress on “stalled reforms” and fewer bottlenecks
should boost industrial activity in the second half of the
current fiscal year and into the 2013-2014 period, the ADB said.  “But their effect is likely to be limited until the
government eliminates the policy issues,” the lender said.  Inflation Prediction  Indian  inflation  was 6.95 percent in February, near a 26-
month low. Price increases have eased after the  Reserve Bank 
raised rates by a record 3.75 percentage points from March 2010
to October last year, to 8.5 percent.  Still, India’s inflation remains the fastest in the so-
called BRIC group of major emerging economies that also includes
Brazil, Russia and  China . The ADB predicted prices will rise 7
percent in the current financial year, and 6.5 percent in the 12
months through March 2014 partly on easing oil costs.  India will grow 7.5 percent in the next fiscal year as the
global economy recovers, the lender said. The targets for
expenditure growth and reductions in subsidies set out in the
March 16 annual budget “seem optimistic,” the ADB also said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is facing one of
the most challenging periods since taking office in 2004.
Allegations of graft against officials, inflation and policy
reversals have hindered Singh’s economic agenda.  Among the setbacks was the suspension in December of plans
to open India’s retail industry to foreign companies such as
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Trade organizations have also said that
companies around the world are re-evaluating investments in
India because of uncertainty over the nation’s tax laws.  Data on planned  capital spending  from the Centre for
Monitoring Indian Economy signal a “sharp” increase in the
number of stalled projects, reflecting “structural bottlenecks
related to fuel and power shortages, delays in environmental
clearance, and other policy hurdles,” the ADB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sunil Jagtiani in  New Delhi  at 
 sjagtiani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  