-- Asia Issues Tsunami Alerts After Quake Near Indonesia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-04-12T02:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/indonesia-hit-by-8-7-magnitude-quake-tsunami-warnings-issued.html
An 8.6-magnitude earthquake off
Sumatra was a painful reminder of the tsunami that ravaged the
coastlines of 12 countries and killed 220,000 people in 2004. It
was also a relief and a test of preparedness.  The temblor, which struck in the late afternoon yesterday
and was followed by aftershocks, triggered widespread tsunami
warnings and panic in countries including  Malaysia , India, Sri
Lanka and Thailand. The warnings started coming down about four
hours later as tsunami waves were limited to 1 meter (3.3 feet).  As night settled on the region, the situation started to
return to normal after no casualties were reported and
structural damage was limited to some buildings and a collapsed
bridge in Aceh Besar, at an estimated loss of 2 billion rupiah
($220,000), Indonesia’s disaster management agency reported.
Attention has now turned to how early warning systems and
evacuation plans put in place after 2004 worked.  “The warning system worked quite well,” Smith
Dharmasaraja, who headed Thailand’s National Disaster Warning
Center set up after the 2004 tsunami, said today by phone.
“Officials know exactly what they are supposed to do.”  Mexico City buildings also shook yesterday during a
magnitude-7 quake that struck the country’s western coast 42
miles (69 kilometers) northwest of  Lazaro Cardenas , in Michoacan
state, at 5:55 p.m. local time, according to the  U.S. Geological
Survey . No damage was reported immediately in Michoacan.  Aftershocks  The  Indian Ocean  quake hit 431 kilometers off the coast of
Aceh, followed by aftershocks, according to the U.S. Geological
Survey. That triggered tsunami warnings by national authorities
and the  Pacific Tsunami Warning Center , which were subsequently
canceled for all areas of the Indian Ocean.  The earthquake prompted people to flee to higher ground,
the airport on the Thai resort island of Phuket to close and
caused a  power failure  in Aceh, one of Indonesia’s poorest
provinces where 170,000 people died or went missing in the
tsunami of 2004. An earthquake measuring above magnitude-7 will
automatically cut power in Aceh, according to a Metro TV report
yesterday.  Indonesia ’s disaster management agency deployed three teams
to coastal areas, had aircraft on standby and sent a search and
rescue agency helicopter to assess the situation, Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, head of the agency’s data and information center, said
in a text-message statement late yesterday.  Four people were reported to have light injuries and most
residents returned to their homes during the night as
electricity was restored, he said.  Early Warning System  After the magnitude-9.1 quake off Sumatra in 2004 and the
resulting tsunami, which hit with little warning and caught
hundreds of thousands by surprise, nations came together to
increase preparedness, speed up the delivery of warnings and
formulate evacuation plans.  Resorts and beaches dotting the western coastlines of
countries including  Thailand , Malaysia and Indonesia all have
evacuation points and signs with emergency instructions for
residents and vacationers.  Thailand’s beach resorts of Phuket and Krabi were among the
worst-hit tourist destinations in 2004, and about half of the
5,395 people confirmed killed by the tsunami in six Thai
provinces were foreigners, according to government data.  “The evacuations in Phuket and most major tourist
destinations were in line with our preparation and training,”
Somsak Kaosuwan, director of the Thai National Disaster Warning
Center, said by phone today. “All foreigners understood the
situation and fully cooperated with the evacuation orders.”  Yesterday’s earthquake also demonstrated how well the
tsunami warning system worked in the region, he said.  Good Test  The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center started doing tsunami
warnings for the Indian Ocean in 2005 because the region didn’t
have its own version. Once the Indian Ocean system gets approved
by other countries and the  United Nations , the U.S. will stop
offering the service from  Hawaii .  “This event certainly generated a tsunami that went right
across the Indian Ocean basin, so yes I would say that it’s the
first time there’s been an event where tsunami signals were sent
all the way to  Africa ,” said Dan Jaksa, co-director of the
Joint  Australia  Tsunami Warning Center at GeoScience Australia.
“It’s certainly a pretty good test, and frankly it looks like
it has worked very well.”  Tsunami waves were detected in the Sabang and Meulaboh
districts in Aceh, the Indonesian Meteorology, Climatology and
Geophysics Agency said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
water level was 6 centimeters (2.36 inch) high in Sabang and 80
centimeters high in Meulaboh, the agency said. Aid groups
including  World Vision  said they had rescue workers on standby.  Horizontal Versus Vertical  The epicenter of yesterday’s quake was 963 kilometers west
of  Kuala Lumpur  and 1,797 kilometers west northwest of Jakarta,
the  USGS  said. Aftershocks included a magnitude-8.2 temblor,
according to the USGS.  “The faulting was horizontal rather than vertical and so
there was no uplift of the sea floor,” which is what causes
tsunamis, Kevin McCue, adjunct professor at the Central
Queensland University and director at the Australian Seismology
Center, said yesterday. “I expect very little damage to Sumatra
and certainly no Indian Ocean-wide tsunami.”  The quake was at a depth of 33 kilometers, compared with a
depth of 30 kilometers when the 2004 tsunami struck. That wave
took about three hours to reach the subcontinent and killed more
than 10,000 in  India , mostly in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands,
as well as the southern state of  Tamil Nadu . It also caused
damage and deaths in the Indian coastal states of Kerala and
 Andhra Pradesh .  Great Seismological Interest  “While it is fortunate that this earthquake caused little
to no human consequence, it is of great seismological
interest,” risk modelers Eqecat Inc. said in a statement. “A
crustal, strike-slip earthquake of this magnitude is very
unusual and indicates a previously unknown fault of considerable
length at this location.”  A magnitude-9.0 earthquake off northern  Japan  in March last
year triggered a tsunami as high as 39 meters high that left
almost 20,000 people dead or missing. That temblor struck at a
depth of 30 kilometers, according to the USGS. In September
2007, an 8.2-magnitude earthquake near Indonesia, located 15
kilometers deep, caused no high waves or damage in  Sri Lanka  and
South India.  Buildings in neighboring  Singapore  shook after yesterday’s
quake, which was initially measured at a magnitude of 8.9.
Tremors were felt as far as  Ho Chi Minh City  and in India.
Malaysia lifted its tsunami alert for coastal regions yesterday
evening after tremors were earlier felt across the country.
Shopping malls closed early in Penang, while about 1,000 people
in villages in Kedah were ordered to evacuate their homes, the
Star newspaper reported today.  ‘Ring of Fire’  Indonesia’s 18,000 islands are prone to temblors because
the nation sits along the Pacific’s “ring of fire” zone of
active volcanoes and tectonic faults.  Yesterday’s quake was about 10 times less energetic than
the one that caused the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, David
Rothery, a volcanologist and planetary scientist at The Open
University in the U.K., said in a statement.  The earthquake magnitude scale is logarithmic, meaning a
magnitude 8.7 earthquake is about 23,000 times stronger than a
5.8 magnitude quake, according to the USGS. This means it would
take 23,000 quakes of magnitude 5.8 to release the same amount
of energy as one 8.7 earthquake.  A magnitude-9 earthquake, or the size that hit Japan last
year, is about three times stronger than an 8.7 quake, according
to the USGS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  