-- Inflation Lurks as Stealth Tax on Top of Form 1040
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-04-11T23:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/inflation-lurks-as-stealth-tax-on-top-of-form-1040.html
Inflation is sometimes referred to
as a hidden tax. Unlike other taxes, it doesn’t require
legislation by Congress or the states. It doesn’t merit a line
item on the 1040 federal income-tax form many Americans will
file this week. And it doesn’t appear on the bottom of sales’
receipts as a percentage markup on the things we buy.  Yet, like a tax, it takes resources out of the economy and
redirects them to less productive uses. It distorts price
signals and leads to a misallocation of capital. It’s a silent
way for the government and central bank to devalue the  currency ,
raise prices, help borrowers and punish savers.  And it’s exactly the wrong prescription for the U.S.  The official push for higher inflation as a cure for a
sluggish U.S. recovery began about two years ago with a  paper  by
International Monetary Fund economists, including Chief
Economist  Olivier Blanchard , titled “Rethinking Macroeconomic
Policy.”  Other notables jumped on board, including Harvard’s  Ken Rogoff  (does he think  this time is different ?) and Greg Mankiw,
an economic adviser to President  George W. Bush . In their view,
higher inflation would accelerate the deleveraging process by
allowing debtors -- including the U.S. government -- to pay back
their loans in devalued dollars. (Score: borrowers 1, savers 0.)  More Is Better?  Princeton University ’s  Paul Krugman , another advocate of
higher inflation, argued in his April 5 New York Times  column 
that 3 percent or 4 percent inflation would “almost surely help
the economy.” It would do this by eroding the real value of
debt and discouraging businesses and consumers from sitting on
cash.  If 3 to 4 percent inflation can do all that, just think
what 6 to 8 percent could do!  And that’s one of the problems with targeting a little more
inflation: You may end up with a lot. The  Federal Reserve ’s
balance sheet is stuffed with $1.5 trillion of  excess reserves ,
or inflation tinder. At some point, banks will find a more
profitable way of exploiting the deposits currently earning 0.25
percent interest at the Fed: making loans, for example, which
increases the  money supply .  What’s more, there’s the issue of credibility.  “It took three decades for people to believe the Fed was
serious about committing to a long-range  inflation goal  of about
2 percent,” says  Jim Glassman , senior U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. If the Fed were to go back on its word,
“never again would you listen to what the central bank said,”
he says. “Investors would demand a higher  risk premium .”  Glassman says all this sounds like something cooked up in
the classroom, which it is. Because the nominal funds rate can’t
go below zero, raising inflation expectations lowers the real
funds rate, which is already negative, and makes borrowing more
enticing. So much for the needed deleveraging.  And what about long-term interest rates, which seem to be
the Fed’s obsession? Nominal long rates would adjust to
incorporate higher  inflation expectations ; the yield curve would
steepen; and the Fed, in a state of panic over rising mortgage
rates, would tee up QE7, or whatever round of quantitative
easing we’re up to by then.  Step back from the “how to” discussion for a moment and
consider the “why.” There is something fundamentally wrong
when government prescribes the same policies that got us into
this mess as the solution. The U.S. lives beyond its means. The
federal government is running a trillion-dollar  deficit  for the
fourth consecutive year, compounding its inability to make good
on promises it has made to future retirees. Consumers  binged  on
credit because  home ownership  was touted as a reliable piggy
bank. All the postmortems on the financial crisis emphasized the
need to save more, consume less.  Cause and Cure  Yet somehow the trip to bountiful now goes through
Debtville and Inflation City? All the incentives are pointed in
that direction. The Fed’s  benchmark rate  has been at 0 to 0.25
percent since December 2008. If Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has
his way -- that is, unless events divert him from his chosen
course -- it will be at zero until late 2014, a total of six
years.  Would anyone involved in financial markets have believed
you if you had told him 25 years ago that the  U.S. economy  would
require near-zero  interest rates  for this long a period?  If we need to save more, both individually and as a nation,
the Fed shouldn’t encourage us to spend, spend, spend. (Score:
borrowers 2, savers 0.) And some economists want to introduce
higher inflation into this toxic mix?  I have started to hear smart people, not conspiracy
theorists, wonder if Bernanke isn’t willing to err on the side
of higher inflation to help the U.S. government defray its  $15.6
trillion debt  burden. That’s not a reputation enhancer.  Bernanke is a student of history, and right now the chapter
on the Great Depression has more dog-eared pages than the one on
1970s stagflation. That’s too bad because there’s enough
historical “evidence Bernanke could use to start exiting before
inflation gets ahead of him,” says  Marvin Goodfriend , a
professor of economics at  Carnegie Mellon University  in
Pittsburgh and a former research director at the Richmond Fed.  It doesn’t sound as if pre-emption has a place in
Bernanke’s toolkit. Perhaps he will prove to have an uncanny
sense of timing, but if history is any guide, the Fed will be
late to normalize interest rates. Which means we can all look
forward to some of that silent inflation tax when we file our
returns next year.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more online from Bloomberg View.  Today's highlights: The View editors on disclosure of the
chemicals used in  hydraulic fracturing ;  Edward Glaeser  on why
 Mitt Romney  must change  gears for the general election;  Ezra
Klein  on the  tax pledges  of Republicans and Democrats;  Amity
Shlaes  on how  labor laws  hurt  job creation ; Gary Shilling on
whether the Federal Reserve will  rescue the economy ; Doug
Skinner on  corporate dividend policies ; and Robert
Bruegmann on why the  anti-freeway movement  hurts cities.     Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View :  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  