-- Lions Gate Loses ‘Hunger Games’ Director in Blow to Sequel
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2012-04-11T20:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/lions-gate-loses-hunger-games-director-in-blow-to-film-sequel.html
The director of  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s “The Hunger Games” dropped out of the
sequel, clouding the future of a film franchise that has amassed
$464 million in ticket sales in its first installment.  Gary Ross, who directed and co-wrote the screenplay for
“The Hunger Games,” was in talks to write and direct
“Catching Fire,” the second of three or four movies planned by
Lions Gate based on the teen-dystopia novels by  Suzanne Collins .
Ross cited time constraints for the decision.  “I simply don’t have the time I need to write and prep the
movie I would have wanted to make because of the fixed and tight
production schedule,” Ross said in a statement released
yesterday by Vancouver-based  Lions Gate .  Ross’s exit leaves Lions Gate with the unexpected task of
replacing the franchise’s creative leader just as it gears up
for the next movie. Ross earned critical praise while delivering
the third-biggest opening weekend of all time, helping to drive
the independent studio’s stock to a 54 percent gain this year.  Lions Gate, run from  Santa Monica ,  California , didn’t
address the time frame for choosing a new director, or say
whether the change will affect the release of “Catching Fire,”
scheduled for Nov. 22, 2013.  “We’re very sorry that Gary Ross has chosen not to direct
Catching Fire,” Lions Gate said. “We were really looking
forward to making the movie with him.  He did an incredible job
on the first film and we are grateful for his work.”  ‘Catching Fire’  Ross dropping out may not delay “Catching Fire” because
there’s enough time before November 2013,  Matthew Harrigan , an
analyst at Wunderlich Securities, said in an e-mail.  A spokeswoman for Lions Gate, Julie Fontaine, declined to
comment beyond the statement. Lions Gate’s Summit Entertainment
on April 9 pushed back the release of “Ender’s Game” by 8
months to Nov. 1, 2013.  Lions Gate added 1.3 percent to $12.78 at the close in  New
York . The shares closed at a record high of $15.68 on March 21,
two days before the release of “The Hunger Games.”  The movie has generated $306.6 million in domestic ticket
sales, leading the box office for three straight weeks,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo. Its $152.5 million
opening weekend trails only the final “Harry Potter” movie in
2011 and the 2008 Batman sequel “The  Dark Knight .”  Outside the U.S. and  Canada , revenue totals $157 million,
according to Box Office Mojo.  The departure of Ross confirms a report by the trade
publication  IndieWire  last week that said he would drop out.
Lions Gate at that time declined to comment.  Ross had agreed to do the sequel, producer Nina Jacobson
said in an interview with Bloomberg News published on April 4.  The principal cast, including  Jennifer Lawrence , Josh
Hutcherson and Liam Hemsworth, have signed to complete the
series of three or four movies, Jacobson said then.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  