-- Lira Gains Most This Month on Policy Tightening, Narrow Deficit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-04-11T14:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/lira-gains-most-this-month-on-policy-tightening-narrow-deficit.html
The lira appreciated the most this
month after the central bank tightened monetary policy by
withdrawing funding at its benchmark lending rate and the
 current-account gap  narrowed more than expected.  The Turkish currency strengthened 0.5 percent to 1.8052 per
dollar at 4:02 p.m. in Istanbul, the most since March 28, paring
this week’s losses to 0.6 percent. The yield on two-year
benchmark debt declined four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 9.44 percent.  The central bank withdrew lending in its one-week repo
auction at 5.75 percent, the lower end of its rates corridor,
for the first time since March 29 after the lira sank to its
lowest level in three weeks yesterday on concern the debt crisis
in  Europe  is worsening and the influx of refugees escaping
violence in  Syria  increased.  “The central bank reacted to the weakness in the lira,”
Daniel Lenz, chief emerging-market strategist at DZ Bank AG, in
 Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments. “The bank usually
installs restrictive measures once dollar-lira moves sharply
upward.”  Turkey ’s current-account deficit narrowed more than
expected from a year earlier, signaling the central bank is
meeting its forecast of a “gradual” improvement in the gap.  The deficit stood at $4.2 billion in March, compared with
$6 billion in the previous month, retreating for the fourth
straight month, the Ankara-based bank said on its  website  today.
The decline was greater than the $4.7-billion median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of nine economists.  Stronger Lira  “The central bank embarked on exchange-rate targeting in
the short term as part of its monetary policy,” Serhan Gok,
head of research at UBS Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments. “I suppose it tries to keep the lira below 2.10
against the basket.”  The lira traded at 2.08 against an equally-weighted euro
and dollar basket today. Central Bank governor Erdem Basci
halted lending at 5.75 percent in the week between March 22 and
March 29.  “I expect the bank will continue to refrain from lending
at 5.75 percent until the Monetary Policy Committee meeting on
April 18 if the lira does not gain above 2.05 against the basket
suddenly,” Murat Yardimci, head of trading at ING Bank AS, said
in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  