-- Iran Crude Carriers Liable Under Japan Shipping-Insurance Rules
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-04-11T11:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/iran-crude-carriers-liable-under-japan-shipping-insurance-rules.html
Tankers using  Japan ’s shipping-
insurance association to purchase coverage for Iranian crude
cargoes will be liable for any costs not recovered through
reinsurance due to sanctions against  Iran .  The Japan Ship Owners’ Mutual P&I Association said in a
 letter  on its website that shippers buying liability insurance
for Iranian crude after European Union sanctions take effect in
July must agree in writing to pay for damages or other charges
that the association’s Europe-based reinsurers are unable cover.  The rules stipulated in the April 10 letter are in response
to last month’s implementation of an EU ban on coverage for
vessels using Iran’s ports. The EU agreed to the ban, which
applies to its 27  member states , in January as part of an effort
to stem  Iran’s nuclear program .  While the ban doesn’t apply directly to Japan’s P&I
Association, the insurer is a member of the  International Group
of P&I Clubs . Its participants reinsure each other for claims in
excess of $8 million, according to the letter. The London-based
club has 13 members, some of whom are regulated by the EU.  “This will impact the member’s ability to make a recovery
from the club, as the club is not able to pay out any claim in
relation to which it can make no recovery from reinsurers,” the
letter said. “Because of this, the member could suffer a
significant shortfall in any claims made.”  The Japanese association’s new rules also require shippers
to notify the association in advance when it embarks on a voyage
that could be affected by sanctions. Association members include
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd.,  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101)  and  Kawasaki Kisen
Kaisha Ltd. (9107)   Seeking Flexibility  Even after Japan’s crude imports from Iran fell 33 percent
in February from a year earlier, the Persian Gulf nation
remained Japan’s fourth-biggest supplier, according to data from
the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.  Yukio Edano, the country’s trade minister, said at a budget
committee meeting last week that officials are seeking some
flexibility from the EU as the July 1 start for sanctions
approaches.  The Obama administration in the U.S. waived separate
sanctions for 180 days on Japan and 10 European Union nations
after they demonstrated cuts in Iranian oil purchases.  “The size of compensation for liability insurance, such as
for an oil spill accident, are too big for Japanese insurers to
go without reinsurance,” he said. “The trade ministry and the
Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  are making efforts to win more
understanding.”  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (9104)  Ltd. and  Nippon Yusen , the world’s
largest owners of supertankers, said they won’t ship Iranian
crude without insurance.  “This is something that makes it very difficult for the
shippers because they more or less run on their own risk,”
Jurgen Sorgenfrei, director of HIS Global Insight’s maritime
transport’s consulting business, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  