-- Clinton Says ‘Still Time’ for a Nuclear Deal With Iran
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-11T21:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/iran-to-offer-new-initiatives-at-nuclear-talks-jalili-says-1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said “there is still time for diplomacy” to resolve
the  Iran  nuclear dispute, as an Iranian official said his nation
plans to offer “new initiatives” at talks with world powers in
Istanbul on April 14.  “Iran’s representatives will participate in the
negotiations with new initiatives,”  Saeed Jalili , secretary of
Iran’s Supreme National Security Council, was quoted as saying
yesterday in Tehran by the official  IRNA  news agency. “We hope
that the P5+1 countries will also enter talks with constructive
approaches.”  Iran and the five permanent members of the  United Nations
Security Council  plus  Germany , the so-called P5+1, are set to
hold their first talks in 15 months. The previous round, also in
Istanbul, ended without agreement.  Clinton, speaking yesterday at a meeting of the Group of
Eight foreign ministers in Washington, said the talks provide an
opportunity for Iran to “address seriously the international
community’s concerns about its nuclear program.”  “It is urgent that the Iranians come to the table to
establish an environment conducive to achieving concrete results
through a sustained process,” she said.  The stakes for this round of talks are high because both
 Israel  and the U.S. have spoken about the potential for military
action as soon as this year to stop what they say are Iran’s
advancing efforts to develop nuclear weapons capabilities.  Iran’s talks with six world powers over its nuclear program
this week aren’t a “last-ditch attempt” to reach a peaceful
settlement, a senior Russian lawmaker said in an interview in
Moscow yesterday.  Russia’s Viewpoint  “That’s the position of the Obama administration, and I
don’t think our position is the same,” said Alexei Pushkov,
head of the lower house of parliament’s foreign affairs
committee. “We believe that talks must continue until you reach
the desired result.”  Russia is seeking to persuade Iran to provide “convincing
proof” that it’s not developing nuclear weapons, he said.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is already grappling with
restrictions imposed by the U.S. and European Union on its
trade, financial and energy sectors. Crude oil for May delivery
rose $1.68 to settle at $102.70 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 3.9 percent this year.  The oil market is going to stay “very volatile” because
of the situation with Iran,  Daniel Yergin , chairman of IHS
Cambridge Energy Research Associates, said at a conference
yesterday in  New York .  ‘Language of Threat’  Failure to reach tangible agreements may lead to tighter
restrictions and the possibility of military strikes by Israel.
Some Israeli leaders say their country’s existence is threatened
by Iran’s nuclear progress.  “The language of threat and the approach of pressuring
Iran have never had results,” Jalili told reporters yesterday.
“What can yield results with Iran is the method of talks and
cooperation.”  World powers have for years called on Iran to suspend its
uranium enrichment activity, a request the  Persian Gulf  rejects,
maintaining that as a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty it is entitled to carry out the work on its territory for
peaceful ends. Enriched uranium can be used to fuel nuclear
reactors or enriched to high concentration fuel a nuclear bomb.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ben Holland at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  