-- Italy Sells 11 Billion Euros of Bills as Crisis Returns
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-04-11T09:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/italy-sells-11-billion-euros-of-bills-as-crisis-returns.html
Italy  sold 11 billion euros ($14.4
billion) of Treasury bills, meeting its target for the auction
as rates rose on one-year debt for the first time since November
amid a return of  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  The Rome-based Treasury auctioned 8 billion euros of 361-
day bills at 2.84 percent, up from 1.405 percent at the last
sale of similar-maturity debt on March 13. Investors bid for
1.52 times the amount offered, up from 1.38 times last month.
Also sold were 3 billion euros of three-month bills at 1.249
percent, compared with 0.492 last month. Italy will auction as
much as 5 billion euros of bonds tomorrow.  Italian  borrowing costs  fell more than 2 percentage points
between Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s appointment in November and
early March as European Central Bank lending and his efforts to
spur the economy shored up demand for the nation’s debt. Spain
has now revived crisis concerns after the government in  Madrid 
dropped its deficit goal, contributing to four weeks of declines
for Italian bonds.  “After three months that were calmer than expected, the
euro crisis is back,”  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London , said in an e-mailed note before the
auction. While current 10-year yields are still “affordable”
for Italy and Spain, “if fear feeds on fear, as has often been
the case in previous waves of crisis, things could potentially
get worse,” he said.  Surging Yields  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond was down 17 basis points
to 5.51 percent at 11:30 a.m. in  Rome , pushing the difference
with similar-maturity German debt to 373 basis points. Spanish
bonds have fared worse, with 10-year rates climbing 95 basis
points to 5.85 percent since Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told
European Union allies on March 2 that the country couldn’t meet
its deficit commitment for this year.  The euro stayed higher after Italy’s sale, trading up 0.2
percent at $1.3112 at 11:30 a.m. Rome time.  Today’s auction showed “solid” demand, even as it “was
affected by a reigniting of the debt crisis” and “was marked
by a conspicuous increase in rates,” the  Bank of Italy  said in
an e-mailed statement from Rome.  ECB Support  The ECB, which started buying Italian and Spanish bonds
last August, has lent more than 1 trillion euros in three-year
loans to euro-area banks since December. That support prompted
purchases of more than 250 billion euros of Spanish and Italian
 government securities  between the third quarter of 2011 and the
first quarter of this year, according to calculations by Credit
Agricole SA. That’s more than the 216 billion euros of debt sold
by the two nations during the same period.  Monti sent Parliament a plan last week to revamp Italy’s
labor market, his fourth major legislative effort to make Italy
more competitive. The bill was greeted on April 4 by a 9 basis
point increase in the 10-year bond yield as  Spain ’s debt slumped
on fresh concern the nation may need a bailout.  Discontent among Italians has been rising as Monti’s
efforts to balance the budget have brought higher taxes and
record gasoline prices that this month reached almost 2 euros a
liter, or about $10.50 a gallon. His push to give companies more
freedom to fire workers has proved a hard sell with  joblessness 
at a decade high of 9.3 percent and the economy in its fourth
recession since 2001.  While “Europe is going through a difficult time again,
luckily, Italy is prepared more than it was few months ago,”
Development Minister  Corrado Passera  told reporters at an event
in Rome today. “It’s clear that we need to speed up everything
that can support growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  