-- Italy Shipbuilder Fincantieri Said to Be STX OSV Bidder
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-04-11T11:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/italian-shipbuilder-fincantieri-said-to-bid-for-stx-osv-stake.html
Fincantieri SpA, the Italian state-
controlled shipbuilder, is among final bidders for a stake in
 STX OSV Holdings Ltd. (SOH) , the world’s biggest maker of offshore
support vessels, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  An investment fund also made an offer, one person said,
declining to identify the bidder.  South Korea ’s STX Group, which
is seeking to sell its 51 percent stake in Singapore-listed STX
OSV, may conclude a deal next month, the person said, asking not
to be identified because the process is confidential.  STX Group’s stake is worth S$1.02 billion ($809 million)
based on yesterday’s  closing price , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Singapore’s takeover guidelines require any buyer
of more than 30 percent of a publicly traded company to make an
offer for the rest of the stock. STX OSV, based in Alesund,
 Norway , has a market value of S$2 billion.  The company may draw bids as energy exploration in new
offshore fields bolsters demand for vessels used to move and
supply rigs. Deep-water explorers are projected to spend a
record $232 billion on new equipment in the next five years,
according to Canterbury, U.K.-based researcher  Douglas-Westwood .  STX OSV is “definitely well positioned in terms of what
they do and long-term industry demand trends,” said Vincent Fernando, an analyst at Religare Capital Markets (Singapore) Pte.
“Deep water is clearly the future for the oil and gas offshore
investment.”  Fincantieri, which builds  cruise ships , ferries and luxury
yachts, is owned by Fintecna SpA, a company controlled by
Italy’s finance ministry. A spokeswoman at Fincantieri declined
to comment on the company’s interest in STX OSV.  Och-Ziff Stake  The  offshore-vessel builder  fell 1.5 percent to S$1.67 in
 Singapore  trading. It’s jumped 44 percent this year. Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group owns 20 percent of STX OSV, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  STX Group, also parent of the world’s fourth-largest
shipbuilder, said in October it plans to raise more than 1.3
trillion won ($1.1 billion) early this year by selling overseas
assets and bonds to repay  maturing debt . In January, the company
said it hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Standard Chartered Plc to
arrange the sale of its STX OSV stake.  STX OSV won orders worth 11.1 billion kroner ($1.9 billion)
last year, including 6.03 billion kroner in the fourth quarter.
Its order book stood at 16.7 billion kroner at the end of
December with deliveries stretching into 2016.  The vessel-builder has yards in  Europe ,  Asia  and  Brazil . It
is building a second facility in the South American nation as
Petroleo Brasileiro SA drills new wells off the country’s
coastline.  The company was bought by STX Group through the takeover of
Aker Yards ASA, completed in February 2009. It sold a stake in
an initial public offering in November 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net 
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  