-- Mitek Systems to Fight USAA Lawsuit: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   J .   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-04-11T21:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/mitek-systems-to-fight-usaa-lawsuit-los-angeles-mover.html
Mitek Systems Inc. (MITK)  rose for the
first time in nine trading sessions after hiring a  law firm  to
defend itself and calling “dishonest” an allegation by
customer USAA that it misappropriated check-imaging technology.  Mitek Systems, which had lost half of its value through
yesterday since the March 29 lawsuit by USAA, rose 5.3 percent
to $6.34 at the close in  New York . Volume was more than triple
the daily average of the past three months.  USAA, which provides insurance, banking and retirement
services to the U.S. military and their families, filed suit on
March 29, saying that it invented the technology to permit
customers to use their mobile phones to deposit checks. Mitek
“misappropriated” the information while working under
contract, San Antonio-based USAA said.  In an interview this week, Mitek Chief Executive Officer
James DeBello told Bloomberg News the company has the resources
to fight the lawsuit.  “Mitek invented this technology,” DeBello said in the
interview published yesterday, saying the company has the
patents to prove its case. “As an innovator of this technology
and in the market the longest, we have created the gold
standard.”  Mitek Systems said today it hired  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &
Rosati , a  Palo Alto , California-based law firm specializing in
technology clients.  “Evidence will ultimately show that Mitek’s engineers
independently developed its Mobile Deposit software and related
patents based on Mitek’s own ideas,” the San Diego-based
company said in a statement today.  USAA objects to being called dishonest and is confident
that the truth surrounding its technology will be revealed in a
court of law, a spokesman, Paul Berry, said in an interview.  “Everything we do here is based on our core values
including honesty and integrity,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter J. Brennan in  Los Angeles  at 
 pbrennan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  