-- LivePerson Sees Growth as Companies Hunt Data: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-04-11T23:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/liveperson-sees-growth-as-companies-hunt-data-israel-overnight.html
LivePerson Inc. (LPSN) , a maker of
software that can track and communicate with consumers surfing
websites, will boost revenue growth as companies seek out more
data on their customers, the chief executive officer said.  The technology company, which bases 50 percent of staff in
Ra’anana,  Israel , will probably report a 22.3 percent increase
in revenue this year, from 21 percent growth in 2011, as it
sells more software designed to help companies convert their
online interactions with customers into sales, CEO Robert Locascio said in an interview at LivePerson’s New York
headquarters yesterday.  “Data is worth a lot of money,” said Locascio, whose
frustration with  customer service  on a computer company’s
website more than a decade ago inspired him to found LivePerson.
“There’s a real opportunity to increase uses of data
intelligence and data analysis. It enables the marketer to go
after more customers.”  LivePerson, whose U.S.-traded shares had the best start of
the year since 2007, is benefiting from rising demand from
customers including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Bank of America Corp.  to boost
online revenue after e-commerce in the U.S. surged to a record
$51.4 billion at the end of last year. The  Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the biggest Israeli companies traded in New York
climbed 1.1 percent yesterday to 87.64.  Shares of LivePerson, which acquired Israeli competitor
HumanClick Ltd. in 2001, gained 3.7 percent to $15.98 in New
York after the company’s  Tel Aviv stock  fell 1.8 percent to
58.46 shekels, or the equivalent of $15.56.  Chat Windows  LivePerson offers products that monitor shoppers’ behavior
and website traffic and can alert companies when a potential
customer is leaving their website, Locascio said. The software
automatically opens a chat window or sends coupons in order to
convince the customer to make a purchase, he said.  Shoppers exhibit behavioral patterns when they’re online,
Locascio, 43, said. “We thought it would be very good to get
another level of awareness,” he said.  The company will probably  report  sales of $163 million this
year, up from $133 million in 2011, according to the median of
10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  LivePerson’s U.S. stock  gained  33 percent in the first
quarter, the most since the first three months of 2007. The
stock reached a record-high $17.32 on March 26, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The shares advance has pushed valuations to 37.2 estimated
earnings, more than double the average multiple for companies
listed on the Nasdaq Composite Index.  Internet Knowledge  Online sales  rose to 4.8 percent of all sales in the fourth
quarter of 2011 in the U.S. from 4.4 percent in the same period
of 2010, according to the Commerce Department.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which intends to raise $5 billion in the
biggest initial public offering by an  Internet company , almost
doubled revenue last year as advertisers looked to tap the
website’s 845 million worldwide members.  “All the information that you need to know about your
customer and about your products is now located on the Internet
and social networks,” Brian Schwartz, an analyst at ThinkEquity
Partners LLC in  San Francisco  who recommends buying shares of
LivePerson, said by phone. “They have the unique availability
to see what behaviors are on their websites.”  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup firms per capita
than the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  