-- Liz Claiborne Takeover Seen With Allure of Kate Spade: Real M&A
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-04-11T20:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/liz-claiborne-takeover-seen-with-allure-of-kate-spade-real-m-a.html
Even after losing more money last
year than any other U.S. clothing retailer,  Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ) 
could still be a bargain in a takeover.  The $1.3 billion owner of the Kate Spade brand will return
to profitability in 2012, reversing five years of  losses  that
topped $2 billion, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. With  revenue  projected to rise 14 percent next year,
New York-based Liz Claiborne still closed yesterday at $12.36 a
share, a 28 percent discount to 2013 sales. That’s cheaper than
94 percent of similar-sized U.S. apparel companies, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Liz Claiborne, which is changing its name to Fifth &
Pacific Cos. next month, may lure buyers from private-equity
firms to  Warnaco Group Inc. (WRC)  or  VF Corp. (VFC) , according to Imperial
Capital LLC, after selling its namesake brand and other units
last year. The remaining lines --  Kate Spade , Juicy Couture and
Lucky Brand, which are higher priced and contemporary -- could
fetch $20 a share in a takeover, said Monness, Crespi, Hardt &
Co. An acquirer could then benefit from splitting the three
brands into separate companies, said Jim Chartier at Monness.  “It’s a completely different company now than six months
ago,” Casey Flavin, an analyst at Hedgeye Risk Management LLC,
an independent equities research firm in  New Haven ,  Connecticut ,
said in a telephone interview. “You are left with three brands
that are very attractive and so are inherently attractive to M&A
because of the discount to their value.”  ‘Executing Our Strategies’  Today, Liz Claiborne rose 5 percent to $12.98, the seventh-
biggest gain among 108 companies in the Standard & Poor’s
 SmallCap Consumer Discretionary Index. (S6COND)   “Our stock has been trading up significantly since we
announced initiatives to focus the portfolio, reduce operating
risk, and pay down debt back in October,” Jane Randel, a
spokeswoman for Liz Claiborne, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We are comfortable that the market can and will continue to
respond to the growth in sales and profits as we make even
further progress in executing our strategies.”  Shares of Liz Claiborne rose 13 percent on March 30, the
biggest gain in four weeks, after the Wall Street Journal
reported the company held talks with private-equity firms about
a possible buyout at $20 a share. While Liz Claiborne isn’t
currently considering a sale, KKR & Co., Permira and Warburg
Pincus LLC remain interested in taking the company private, the
newspaper reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  “There is currently no contemplation of any strategy for
the company other than executing against the operating plan we
have already discussed,” Liz Claiborne said in a statement the
same day in response to the report.  Staging a Turnaround  Liz Claiborne got its start as a single namesake brand in
1976. When Chief Executive Officer Bill McComb joined in
November 2006 from Johnson & Johnson, he inherited a company
that had expanded into more than 40 labels, some of which
targeted the floundering mid-priced department store channel,
Flavin said.  McComb, 49, has been narrowing the company’s focus to Kate
Spade,  Juicy Couture  and Lucky Brand, which all sell higher-
priced goods to younger consumers and are able to sustain retail
stores of their own. Last year the company’s divestitures
included the namesake Liz Claiborne brand to J.C. Penney Co.,
the Mexx business to private equity firm Gores Group LLC and the
Dana Buchman label to Kohl’s Corp., and the proceeds were used
to help reduce debt.  ‘Undervalued Portfolio’  Liz Claiborne reported a net loss of $172 million in 2011,
the only U.S. company in the apparel, footwear and accessories
industry with a market value greater than $1 billion to lose
money last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Analysts on
average project the company will post  net income  of $15.7
million this year, its first annual profit since 2006.  While Liz Claiborne shares had gained  123 percent  in the
last year, the stock price as of yesterday was still 73 percent
less than its peak of $46.64 in February 2007. The company was
trading yesterday at 0.72 times  projected sales  of $1.7 billion
in 2013, based on analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s less expensive than 16 of the 17 other companies in the
industry greater than $1 billion, the data show. The group has
an average price-to-sales ratio of 1.49.  “This is still an undervalued portfolio,” Hedgeye’s
Flavin said. “Kate Spade has continued to stay very strong and
you are starting to see an inflection point at both Juicy
Couture and Lucky Brand. Those brands are at an early stage of
turnaround.”  Juicy Couture  Designer Deborah Lloyd, who helped rejuvenate  Burberry
Group Plc (BRBY) , has turned the Kate Spade brand around with more-
sophisticated handbags, costume jewelry and apparel such as
bright, printed dresses. Fourth-quarter sales at Kate Spade,
which now has 50 full-priced stores, soared 73 percent to $110
million from a year earlier.  Juicy Couture , which posted a 15 percent drop in sales to
$161 million last quarter, was showing encouraging sales trends
in the first few months of this year, McComb said Feb. 29. Known
for its velour sweatsuits, Juicy Couture operates 78 stores.  The 179-store  Lucky Brand  business posted a 23 percent gain
to $137 million in sales in the most recent quarter. A
revitalization of the denim-based business has been spearheaded
by David DeMattei, who was hired away from Williams-Sonoma Inc.  Liz Claiborne’s product lines could lure strategic bidders
such as VF or Warnaco, said Mary Ross Gilbert, an analyst at
Imperial in  Los Angeles . New York-based Warnaco, which has
controlled the license to sell Calvin Klein jeans since the
1990s, said last month that it wants to add “another  power
brand  or brands” to its portfolio.  VF as Buyer  “They could have interest in any one of these brands,”
Gilbert said in a phone interview. Kate Spade and Juicy Couture
could attract VF and possibly Warnaco because of the “huge
opportunities for  growth globally , not only within the core
business as it stands today, but the prospects of having
subcategory brands and continued category expansion.”  VF could also benefit from adding each of Liz Claiborne’s
three premium brands to its apparel lines, which include the
Ella Moss and  Wrangler  labels, said Monness’s Chartier, who is
based in  New York .  “They have a denim business that Lucky could fit in and
they’re looking to expand their offering of high-end brands,
where Juicy and Kate would fit,” he said in a phone interview.  Wendi Kopsick, a spokeswoman for Warnaco, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation. Cindy Knoebel, a spokeswoman for
Greensboro, North Carolina-based VF, said the company doesn’t
comment on specific acquisition opportunities.  Blood, Sweat  “Having said that, we have also stated that we remain
interested in pursuing additional acquisitions, but primarily in
the outdoor and action sports category,” she said in an e-mail.  While the company’s valuation and its brands may attract
buyers, Liz Claiborne may not be a willing seller right now,
said Corinna Freedman, an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in
New York.  “I don’t think that Bill McComb, who’s put in blood, sweat
and tears over the last five to six years, would be willing to
walk away after finally getting the company in the position
where he wants it to be,” Freedman said in a phone interview.
“Now, since they’ve whittled the company down to these three
brands, it’s a totally new ballgame.”  Still, an acquirer may be willing to pay more than $20 a
share for Liz Claiborne, according to Imperial’s Gilbert and
Hedgeye’s Flavin, a 62 percent premium to yesterday’s closing
 price . Chartier at Monness said a takeout price of $20 is
“definitely reasonable.”  ‘Tremendous Growth’  Private-equity firms could bid as much as $21 a share,
Gilbert estimates, using a sum-of-the-parts analysis.  “What private equity sees is an opportunity to capture the
tremendous growth opportunity for themselves,” Gilbert said.
“The stock trades at a big discount to its implied value. They
would take it private, let the company realize their growth
strategy, and then bring it to market later.”  Each of Liz Claiborne’s labels functions independently and
has its own brand-level executives, which could entice a
private-equity firm looking to buy the whole company and then
sell the individual  brands , said Chartier. Kate Spade is worth
$2 billion, Juicy Couture $350 million and  Lucky Brand  $250
million, Flavin estimated.  “They’re all standalone businesses,” Chartier said.
“Private equity could buy the company and then sell off parts
of the acquisition whenever they see fit. So they’d pay for Kate
Spade, but you’re getting a big opportunity to do something with
Lucky and Juicy and turn those businesses around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in  Washington  at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 