-- Japanese Investors Shun Spain as Crisis Resurfaces
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-04-11T08:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/japanese-investors-shun-spain-as-crisis-resurfaces.html
Japan ’s biggest investors, with
$368 billion under management, say it’s too early to buy bonds
from Europe’s most indebted nations as rising Spanish yields
spark concern the region’s fiscal crisis has further to run.  Kokusai Asset Management Co., which runs Asia’s largest
mutual fund, Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of
Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank, and Diam Co., part of the
nation’s second-biggest life insurer, are all shunning Spanish
debt. Japanese investors sold a net $43.8 billion of euro-
denominated bonds in the 12 months ended Feb. 29, according to
figures from the Ministry of Finance in Tokyo.  “I’m not planning to add Spanish or Italian bonds anytime
soon,” said Masataka Horii, who runs the $21.2 billion  Kokusai
Global Sovereign Open Fund (1131197C)  in Tokyo. “The European crisis is
moving toward a resolution, but that doesn’t mean the issue is
fully solved. It’s not time yet to increase euros.”  The rate on 10-year Spanish bonds rose almost 1 percentage
point in the past month, reaching 5.92 percent at 8:26 a.m.
 London  time today. Yields on similar-maturity Italian debt
advanced 69 basis points to 5.61 percent in the period.  Spanish borrowing costs, which reached euro-era highs in
November, are surging anew as bank buying funded by European
Central Bank loans runs out of steam.  Too Risky  “I won’t invest,” said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $68 billion as the head of fixed
income at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co. in  Tokyo . He’s
avoiding the debt of Spain,  Portugal ,  Italy  and Ireland.
“They’re very risky. The economic situation is very bad in the
euro area and will get worse. I am focusing on French bonds and
German bonds. They will be good investments.”  Ten-year  German yields  will fall to 1.5 percent by the end
of the year, he said. The record low of 1.636 percent was set on
Sept. 23.  Japanese investors cut their holdings of euro-denominated
debt last year by the equivalent of $54.3 billion, the largest
amount based on records going back to 2005, Finance Ministry
figures show.  Horii’s fund had 9.6 percent of its assets in euro-
denominated government debt, concentrated in  Germany , the
Netherlands and  Finland , as of Feb. 29, according to the Kokusai
website. Its euro holdings dropped from almost 30 percent a year
earlier, the figures show. The fund sold all its Spanish,
Italian and Belgian sovereign investments in 2011, according to
the website. Kokusai’s total assets under management are
equivalent to $46 billion.  Restructuring Worries  Mitsubishi UFJ is underweight to neutral on  Spain  and Italy,
and doesn’t hold anything in Ireland or Portugal, said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $73 billion in
Tokyo as the company’s chief fund investor.  “Everybody is worried about Spain,” he said. “Our
positions are quite limited. Spain could be downgraded one to
two notches this year. There’s a 30 percent chance that Spain
will become like  Greece ,” requiring bondholders to take a loss
on their investments, he said.  Spanish  government bonds  have lost 2.2 percent this month,
adding to a drop of 2 percent in March, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Italian bonds slid 2.9 percent in April,
while U.S. Treasuries made a 1.2 percent gain and German bonds
advanced 0.9 percent, according to the indexes.  Greece’s government this year carried out the biggest
sovereign debt restructuring in history to seal a 130 billion-
euro ($170 billion) rescue package. Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  is stepping up efforts to reassure investors he
can bring the nation’s deficit under control and avoid a bailout,
after announcing on March 2 that the nation would miss its 2012
budget-deficit goal. He met this week with his health and
education ministers to discuss cuts of more than 10 billion
euros, the Spanish government said in a statement.  Deficit Woes  “We’re worried about the Spanish economic situation, the
government deficit,” said Hajime Nagata, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $120.4 billion at Diam in Tokyo.  Spanish 10-year yields need to rise to 6.5 percent before
Diam will add bonds beyond the percentage in the index the
company uses to gauge performance, Nagata said. Diam owned fewer
bonds than suggested by its benchmark, a trade it planned to
unwind once the  difference  between Spanish and German 10-year
bonds surpassed 4 percentage points, Nagata said.  Spain’s 10-year bonds yielded 4.33 percentage points more
than German bunds at yesterday’s close, the most since Nov. 25.
The Italian-German yield spread climbed to 4.04 percentage
points and the Portuguese spread was 10.68 percentage points.  Shunning Euros  “I’m underweight the euro,” said Kei Katayama, who buys
bonds outside of Japan at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which
oversees the equivalent of $61 billion from Tokyo, including
 Asia ’s second-largest mutual fund. “European sovereign risks
remain. They have separate budgets, separate laws and separate
governments. This is a fundamental problem.”  The euro weakened by 6.4 percent in the past 12 months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar gained
3.8 percent during the same period and the yen strengthened 7.5
percent, the indexes show.  “Outside Europe, there are investors who would be prepared
to get involved, but only once they are confident liquidity has
returned,” said Mark Schofield, head of interest-rate strategy
at Citigroup Inc. in London. “It’s going to be a while before
we get a big uptick in demand from outside  Europe  and it’s going
to take more support from the European administration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  