-- Japan Currency Chief Warns Against Delay Over Finances
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-04-11T02:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/japan-s-currency-chief-warns-against-delay-in-tackling-finances.html
Japan ’s top currency official
warned against delays in efforts to improve the nation’s
finances as Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda grapples with the
world’s biggest public debt burden.  Advanced economies such as Japan “cannot postpone fiscal
consolidation efforts forever,” Takehiko Nakao, 56, vice
finance minister for international affairs, said in an interview
in his office in Tokyo yesterday.  Noda faces opposition in parliament and within the ruling
 Democratic Party  of Japan as he seeks to double the nation’s
sales tax by 2015 to boost revenue, highlighting the risk that
policy initiatives will stall. Japan must quickly overhaul the
tax and social security systems to prevent government borrowing
costs from spiraling in the next decade,  Yasuhiro Sato , chairman
of the Japanese Bankers Association, said last month.  Nakao took the role made famous by  Eisuke Sakakibara , the
official who became known as Mr. Yen, in August last year. He
declined to comment yesterday on the yen’s level or the
currency’s rebound since mid-March against the dollar.  Last year, he oversaw interventions that helped to pull the
yen back from a post-World War II high of 75.35 against the
dollar that was cutting sales and profits for exporters. Easing
by the  Bank of Japan  has also helped to curb gains, with the yen
at 80.68 as of 9:59 a.m. in Tokyo today.  Nakao saw signs of strength in the  U.S. economy  and said
that  China  has scope for fiscal and monetary expansion if
needed, with Premier Wen Jiabao’s government aided by “very
large” increases in  tax revenue . A Chinese trade report
yesterday showing weaker-than-forecast imports fueled concern
that a slowdown in Asia’s biggest economy may deepen.  Japan’s Recovery  In Japan,  government spending  on earthquake reconstruction,
the fading of disruptions to supply chains from flooding in
Thailand and the yen weakening a “little bit” have aided a
recovery from the disaster in March last year, Nakao said. Last
year’s “very speedy appreciation” of the currency was “not
very helpful,” he said, adding that it was difficult to
conclude that the gains had reflected economic fundamentals.  The upper house of the Diet last week rejected the
government’s candidate for a vacancy on the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s
policy board, underscoring the risk that political gridlock
limits policy changes. The Cabinet needed to draft the first
stopgap funding bill in 14 years to keep the government running
after parliament failed to adopt Noda’s 2012 budget.  The nation’s borrowings will exceed 1,000 trillion yen
($12.4 trillion) for the first time in this fiscal year, the
Finance Ministry projects. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development predicts Japan’s public debt will
reach 219 percent of gross domestic product.  Currency Reserves  Separately, Nakao indicated limits on how the nation’s $1.2
trillion of currency reserves will be used after portions went
into supporting rescue efforts for  Europe  and the so-called
Chiang Mai Initiative, a pool of funds used to shield Asian
economies from shocks.  “We are not thinking of using our reserves like a
sovereign wealth fund,” he said, adding that the public and
parliament would need to reach a consensus on setting up any
such operation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  