-- Japan Machinery Orders Unexpectedly Rise
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-04-11T03:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/japan-machinery-orders-unexpectedly-rise.html
Japan ’s machinery orders exceeded
all economists’ estimates in February, signaling gains in
 capital spending  that may help to sustain a recovery in the
world’s third-biggest economy.  Bookings (JNMOCHNG)  increased 4.8 percent, the most since November,
after rising 3.4 percent the previous month, a Cabinet Office
report showed in  Tokyo  today. The median estimate of 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 0.8 percent
decline.  Earthquake reconstruction may help the economy maintain
momentum after a contraction in three of the past four years and
as manufacturers forecast a strengthening yen that will limit
exporters’ profits. The  Bank of Japan  yesterday held off from
adding stimulus even as some lawmakers urge more aggressive
easing to end deflation and spur growth.  “Today’s report points to a gradual recovery in capital
spending,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS
Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “Japan’s economy should have
returned to growth in the first quarter and the expansion may
continue this quarter.”  The yen traded at 80.78 per dollar as of 12:31 p.m. in
Tokyo. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 1 percent to 9,442.46
with  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  falling after announcing record
losses.  The government raised its evaluation of machinery orders
today, describing them as “showing signs of gradually
increasing.” Demand from chemical makers surged 53 percent
because of a large-lot order, and bookings from shipbuilders
also increased, the report showed.  Stronger Yen  The quarterly Tankan index of corporate sentiment released
April 2 showed that executives expect the yen to strengthen to
an average of 78.14 per dollar this fiscal year. The yen
weakened around 4 percent since the central bank boosted its
asset purchase program by 10 trillion yen ($123 billion) on
February 14, although it strengthened since reaching a low on
March 16.  “Domestic demand is providing a boost to growth in the
first half, which will be joined by stronger export growth in
the second half as the global recovery gains traction,” Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said
before the report.  Capital spending rose 7.6 percent in the fourth quarter.
 Kyocera Corp. (6971) , an electronic equipment maker, announced on April
10 that it would build a 25 billion yen solar plant in the
southern prefecture of Kagoshima in cooperation with  IHI Corp (7013) 
and  Mizuho Corporate Bank. (8411)   Today’s figure excludes shipping and electrical power
generation orders, which can be volatile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  