-- Jefferson County, Creditors, Begin Fight Over Bonds
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-04-12T05:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/jefferson-county-creditors-open-fight-on-size-of-bond-payments.html
Alabama (STOAL1) ’s bankrupt Jefferson County
has the right to cut payments to bondholders so it can meet
operating expenses for water, sewer and other public services,
the county’s lawyer said.  In a three-day hearing that began yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Birmingham, the county and its creditors are
debating the definition of “necessary operating expenses.” The
phrase is used in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and governs how to
split revenue between bondholders and public agencies that
borrow money to build assets like water-treatment plants.  “One of the biggest problems is overhanging debt,” said
 David Stern , Jefferson County’s lawyer. “There is no way in
which the receiver’s bankruptcy expenses are covered and ours
are not. If we don’t solve the ‘sewer debt nightmare’, as John
Young described it, this system will not operate, it will not be
compliant. It will not have enough money to do what it needs to
do.”  John Young  is the former receiver for the sewer system,
whose refinancing led to the county’s bankruptcy.  For decades, municipal bond lawyers, analysts and  ratings
agencies  assumed that the definition was narrow and required
cash from water bills or similar payments, to be turned over to
bondholders after deducting specific expenses spelled out in
bond contracts, said Matt Fabian, a managing director at
Municipal Market Advisors in Concord,  Massachusetts .  Enormous Significance  “This is potentially of enormous significance to the
market,” Fabian said.  The trustee for Jefferson County’s sewer bondholders is
asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett to force the
county to turn over all sewer revenue except for the money
needed to pay expenses listed in the bond contract, known as an
indenture.  The county argues that under the  bankruptcy code , it has
the power to withhold money for items opposed by the trustee,
including “project expenditures” to keep the sewer system up
to date with changing laws or industry standards.  “Many participants in the municipal  bond market  will be
monitoring developments in Birmingham,” bankruptcy attorney
 Bruce Bennett , co-chairman of Business Solutions & Governance at
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in  Los Angeles , said in an e-mail. “There
is no authority directly interpreting ‘necessary operating
expenses’ as those terms are used in Bankruptcy Code section
928(b).”  Biggest Bankruptcy  Bennett was the lead lawyer for Orange County,  California ,
when it filed for bankruptcy in the 1990s. Orange County was the
biggest municipal bankruptcy in the U.S. until Jefferson County
filed last year.  Attorneys for the trustees and the county also questioned
Young, who was asked about his capital improvement plan for the
aging system. Young described the system in his report as being
in “very poor” condition. Young had a five-year plan designed
to provide a “viable, efficient” system with a cost of $178
million.  Young said in court that he’s been a consultant to the
trustees and hasn’t been paid for invoices he submitted for
January, February and March.  In November, Jefferson County sought court protection after
Young, county and state officials, and bondholders failed to
implement a tentative agreement to cut sewer debt by about $1
billion, increase rates and win assistance from the  Alabama 
Legislature.  Bank of New York  Jefferson County’s bankruptcy was opposed by  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. , the trustee for more than $3 billion in sewer
debt, and creditors  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which owns more than
$1 billion of the sewer warrants, Bank of America Corp. and
Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009, JPMorgan agreed to a $722 million
settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission over
payments its bankers allegedly made to people tied to county
politicians to win business.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Edwards in Birmingham at 
 kathedw@charter.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  