-- J&J Ordered to Pay $1.1 Billion Penalty Over Risperdal
-- B y   E r i c   F r a n c i s ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-12T19:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/jnj-told-to-pay-1-1-billion-penalty-in-arkansas-risperdal-trial.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  must pay more
than $1.1 billion in fines, a judge ruled after an  Arkansas  jury
found the company’s officials misled doctors and patients about
the risks of the antipsychotic drug Risperdal.  Judge  Tim Fox  in  Little Rock , Arkansas, yesterday found J&J
and its Janssen unit committed more than 238,000 violations of
the state’s Medicaid fraud laws by illegally marketing Risperdal
over an almost four-year period starting in 2002. Fox found each
violation carried a $5,000 fine, pushing the total to more than
$1.1 billion.  The penalty is the largest of the three handed down so far
against  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J in state cases
alleging the  second-biggest  maker of health products hid
Risperdal’s risks and tricked Medicaid regulators into paying
more than they should have for the medicine.  “I think this ups the ante quite a bit on the other
states’ cases targeting J&J’s Risperdal marketing,”  Carl Tobias , who teaches product-liability law at the University of
Richmond law school, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“I think the judge was sending a message -- either settle these
cases or litigate them at your peril.”  “Three losses in a row means the company needs to become
more realistic about its exposure and come up with an exit
strategy in the form a settlement,” Tobias had said earlier.  A state jury concluded yesterday that J&J’s Risperdal
marketing violated both Medicare fraud laws and Arkansas’s
deceptive trade practices statutes. Fox ordered the drugmaker to
pay $11.4 million in penalties on the trade practices
violations. The state had sought more than $1.25 billion in
penalties in the case.  J&J Appeal  “We are disappointed with the judge’s decision on
penalties,”  Teresa Mueller , a spokeswoman for J&J’s Janssen
unit, said in an e-mailed statement. “If our motion for a new
trial is denied, we will appeal.”  The penalty amounts to 11 percent of J&J’s $9.7 billion in
net income for 2011 and 1.7 percent of its $65.03 billion in
revenue last year.  J&J fell 18 cents to $63.95 at 2:50 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 2.5 percent
this year. The drugmaker’s 4.95 percent bond that matures in
2033, fell almost 1 percent yesterday, after the penalties were
announced, to 114 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Risperdal’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. The drug
generated $3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s
 revenue , according to company filings. Sales of the drug fell to
$527 million in 2010, according to earnings reports.  Deceptive Marketing  Along with contending that J&J and Janssen defrauded the
Medicaid program by failing to properly outline the
antipsychotic medicine’s risks, Arkansas officials alleged J&J
officials deceptively marketed the drug as safer and better than
competing medicines.  The state also argued the companies marketed the drug for
“unapproved uses, including various symptoms in children and
the elderly” after being warned by federal authorities to halt
such sales.  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations that the company marketed the
drug for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  filing  last year.  Justice Department Demand  The U.S.  Justice Department  is demanding that J&J pay about
$1.8 billion to resolve the civil claims by federal regulators
and some state attorneys general, people familiar with the
settlement talks said this month.  Janssen’s Mueller said in an e-mail yesterday that J&J has
reserved monies for state and federal Risperdal litigation. The
drugmaker hasn’t specified how much it set aside in filings with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  J&J was sued by a total of 11 state attorneys general, who
contend the drugmaker misled them about Risperdal’s safety and
effectiveness to boost sales. The drugmaker has now been ordered
by judges to pay more than $1.6 billion in fines and penalties
over the marketing of the drug.  ‘Miserable Failure’  Makers of competing antipsychotic drugs who also faced
state suits over the marketing of their medications settled
those claims for less than what J&J faces over Risperdal, said
Steven Sheller, a Philadelphia-based lawyer representing former
Risperdal users.  “They all settled cases before they got out of hand,”
Sheller said. “J&J’s strategy is a miserable failure, and it’s
only going to get worse.”  J&J will likely settle with states only if they can agree
what the cases are worth after appellate courts rule on them,
said  Alexandra Lahav , a University of Connecticut School of Law
professor.  “What J&J cares about what they will ultimately pay, not
the momentary excitement of the verdict,” Lahav said. “That
depends on the appellate court.”  Drugmakers still question the legal sufficiency of the
attorneys generals’ claims that drug marketing can trigger
violations of fraud or consumer-protection laws, said  Tarek
Ismail , a Chicago lawyer who has represented pharmaceutical
companies such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  in product-liability cases.  ‘Legally Sufficient’  “A lot of manufacturers believe these claims are not
legally sufficient because the vast majority of patients got
treatment exactly as intended, without adverse effects, and
without any specific proof that the physicians were influenced
by any allegedly improper conduct,” Ismail said in a telephone
interview.  In the Arkansas case, the state’s lawyers asked jurors to
find J&J’s Risperdal marketing campaign violated the state’s
deceptive-trade practices law by making false and deceptive
statements about the drug in the letter to doctors.  They also argued J&J and Janssen executives made false
statements about the drug’s diabetes risks and other side
effects in its warning label.  The state said it also would seek fines over the misleading
statements in the so-called “Dear Doctor” marketing letter the
company sent to Arkansas doctors in 2003. Arkansas’s lawyers
argued that J&J salespeople used information from the letter to
deceive doctors in more 19,000 sales calls.  ‘Big Win’  Arkansas Attorney General Dustin McDaniel yesterday called
the more than $1.1 billion in penalties “a big win for
Arkansas.”  “These two companies put profits before people, and they
are rightfully being held responsible for their actions,”
McDaniel said in an e-mailed statement.  In addition to the Medicaid fraud fines, Fox found J&J
officials violated the trade-practices law more than 4,500 times
as a result of the illegal Risperdal marketing and awarded
$5,000 per violation. He denied the state’s bid to receive the
$10,000 maximum penalty under the law.  Aaron Sadler, a spokesman for McDaniel, said it’s unclear
how much of the more than $1.1 billion in penalties will go
toward reimbursing the state’s Medicaid program for monies spent
on Risperdal prescriptions.  “We would envision the lion’s share will go to Medicaid,”
he said in an e-mailed statement.  Amy Webb , a spokeswoman for the Arkansas Department of
Human Services, said in a telephone interview that the state is
facing a shortfall of almost $400 million in 2014 in Medicaid
expenditures.  Other States  J&J and Janssen faces suits from at least seven other
states seeking reimbursement for Medicaid or other public funds
paid for Risperdal prescriptions.  In June 2010, a judge threw out  Pennsylvania ’s suit over
the Risperdal marketing campaign in the middle of a trial. An
appeal of that ruling is set to be heard next month.  Four months later, jurors in  Louisiana  ordered the
drugmaker to pay almost $258 million to state officials for
making misleading claims about the drug’s safety. J&J has
appealed.  In June 2011 a South Carolina judge ordered J&J to pay $327
million in penalties for deceptively marketing the medicine. The
company has appealed that ruling. J&J ended the most recent
trial in  Texas  with a $158 million settlement in January.  The case is State of Arkansas v. Ortho-McNeil-Janssen
Pharmaceuticals Inc., CV07-15345, Pulaski County Circuit Court
(Little Rock) Arkansas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Francis in state court in Little Rock, Arkansas, at
 eric.francis@yahoo.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  