-- JPMorgan Cassino Settlement Shows Derivatives Failed Taxpayers
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2012-04-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/jpmorgan-cassino-settlement-shows-derivatives-failed-taxpayers.html
For the 33,000 residents of
Cassino, the Italian town’s attempt to cut its borrowing costs
using derivatives was a losing bet the moment it was struck. The
Wall Street bank that created the deal reaped an instant profit.  Cassino, flattened during World War II, signed a contract
with  Bear Stearns Cos. (BSC)  in 2003 to swap the fixed rates it was
paying on 22.5 million euros ($29.5 million) of debt for a
variable rate, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News
last month under a court ruling. After the cost of the swap
spiraled, the town sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which bought Bear
Stearns in 2008, and the bank paid to end the contract, leaving
Cassino with a 577,000-euro loss, more than half of what it pays
each year to provide free nursery care.  The documents give the most detailed account of how opaque
derivatives fashioned by securities firms are costing Italian
taxpayers more than $1.2 billion, according to estimates by the
country’s central bank. Firms such as JPMorgan and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  sold swaps to governments from  Greece  to Jefferson County,
 Alabama , that offered the promise of cost savings while being
stacked in banks’ favor. Cassino is now cutting nursery-care
funding and has raised charges for garbage collection.  “The deal wasn’t likely to make Cassino better off,” said
Satyajit Das, author of “Extreme Money: The Masters of the
Universe and the Cult of Risk” and a former  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
banker who reviewed details of the swap’s terms. “The city took
on a complex cocktail of risks.”  Initial Profit  The contract generated an initial profit for the bank of
about 800,000 euros, according to a review of transaction
documents by Bloomberg LP’s BVAL derivatives-valuation unit. In
a separate analysis,  Cambridge Systems Associates Ltd. , a
financial consulting firm based in Cambridge, U.K., estimated
the profit at 690,000 euros.  The reviews were based on documents provided by Cassino as
a record of the final contract with Bear Stearns in compliance
with a ruling by a regional administrative court in Latina,
Italy, that the papers be made available to the public under
freedom of information laws.  The interest rate Cassino paid never dropped below 4.95
percent, even when market rates fell to less than that,
according to the contract.  “We lost money, and if there are ways to recover the
losses we will pursue them,” said Enzo Salera, Cassino’s
finance director.  Police Probe  Cassino stopped payments on the swap in 2008 and sued the
bank as  Italy ’s financial police began to probe the transaction.
The following year, New York-based JPMorgan paid the city
386,000 euros in compensation, more than three times the town’s
mark-to-market gain on the swap at the time, to end the contract
and the legal fight, the documents show.  “JPMorgan Chase Bank’s involvement with this matter arose
from its subsequent acquisition of Bear Stearns in March 2008,”
a spokeswoman for the bank in Milan wrote in an e-mail.
“Neither party had made any admission of liability and the
underlying transaction has been terminated as part of the
settlement. Both parties considered the outcome to be mutually
advantageous.”  The settlement, details of which the city refused to
disclose for more than two years citing a confidentiality
agreement with the bank, may provide a template for other
municipalities trying to recoup losses from bets on derivatives.  ‘Bad Practice’  “The threat that the settlement arrangements by public
entities may one day become public is a deterrent to bad
practice and a further control of how public money is spent,”
said Dario Loiacono, a Milan-based securities lawyer who has
represented both banks and municipalities in swaps cases.
“However, there is an equally important interest of favoring
settlements by preserving the confidentiality of agreements and
attorney-client privilege.”  Cities from Milan to Pforzheim in  Germany  also are seeking
redress from banks that sold them derivatives that soured.  Bankers from Bear Stearns met with city officials in May
2003, the documents show. A month later, the bank’s Nicola
Bonito Oliva and Alberto Guazzi wrote to Mayor Bruno Scittarelli
detailing the proposed terms of the swap, according to the
documents. The city didn’t seek competing bids from other firms,
papers filed by the municipality show.  The contract agreed to swap Cassino’s fixed-rate payment on
mortgages with Italy’s state-owned lender for a variable rate
tied to the 12-month U.S.-dollar  London  interbank offered rate,
or  Libor (US0012M) .  ‘Extremely Risky’  It was an “extremely risky” deal given that dollar Libor
was at a record low, the police said in testimony to the Italian
Senate in June 2009. Dollar Libor climbed to an almost six-year
high of 5.76 percent in June 2006 from about 1.19 percent at the
time the contract was signed. By the time the city settled,
rates were still higher than when Cassino agreed to the swap.  The town also bet that the cost of borrowing against dollar
rates would be lower than the cost of using euro rates as the
benchmark. In the two years before the deal was signed, dollar
Libor remained  consistently  lower than Euribor, a trend that
reversed in 2004, when dollar Libor started rising over a flat
Euribor, costing Cassino. Euribor, or the euro interbank offered
rate, is the rate at which European banks say they see each
other lending in euros.  Scittarelli resigned as mayor in July 2010, and the city
was put under direct central government control until a
replacement administration was elected last year. He declined to
comment when reached by telephone, as did Bonito Oliva, the
former Bear Stearns banker who now works at S2R Ltd., a London-
based renewable-energy firm. Guazzi, who now works at Banca del
Ceresio SA, a private bank in Lugano,  Switzerland , didn’t return
calls or respond to an e-mail.  Cassino’s Losses  Cassino, 80 miles southeast of  Rome , gained in the first
year of the swap, according to BVAL and Cambridge Systems. Then,
as interest rates rose, Cassino started to owe the bank money,
beginning with the half-yearly payment due in December 2004. The
payments peaked at more than 500,000 euros in 2006. Over the
life of the swap, the city paid about 960,000 euros to the bank,
BVAL and Cambridge Systems said.  Even when rates fell in June 2008 amid the financial crisis
and Cassino started making money on the derivative, its gains
were limited by a clause that meant its  interest rate  never
could fall below 4.95 percent.  Meanwhile, the mark-to-market loss for Cassino of as much
as 800,000 euros the day the deal was struck would have
translated into a gross profit for the bank. From that, the firm
would have to meet the costs of hedging the transaction and set
aside funds to cover counterparty credit risk, the possibility
that Cassino might default on the agreement.  Bear Stearns also paid a fee to “third parties for their
services” on the contract, the terms dated Aug. 5, 2003, show.
The documents don’t identify the recipients.  Swaps Ban  As the contract drained Cassino’s coffers, town managers
stopped payments in 2008 and sued the bank. Italy’s finance
police estimated in 2009 that Cassino had paid as much as 2
million euros on the swap. An official at the federal auditor
for the Lazio region said he couldn’t comment on the difference
in the estimated losses because the probe is continuing.  Italy banned local governments from signing derivatives in
mid-2008 as lawmakers reviewed existing rules. Concern that many
municipalities misused swaps led legislators to hold a wider
inquiry in 2009 into their use.  The Senate committee proposed barring towns that aren’t
provincial capitals and have fewer than 100,000 residents from
using derivatives. Banks that act as counterparties to swaps
also would be prevented from advising towns on the suitability
of transactions. The legislation is pending.  Milan, Pforzheim  In September 2009, when JPMorgan agreed to cancel the deal,
the bet was in Cassino’s favor by about 100,000 euros, BVAL data
show. Cassino had sought 990,000 euros in compensation,
according to the documents. As part of the settlement, the town
dropped its claims in a Milan court for damages, and JPMorgan
agreed to abandon a separate suit at London’s High Court seeking
validation of the contracts.  Other cities also are seeking redress for derivatives.
JPMorgan, UBS AG,  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  and  Depfa Bank Plc (DEP)  agreed last
month to unwind interest-rate swaps with the city of Milan’s
government in a 455 million-euro transaction. The banks, on
trial for fraud, agreed to close the swaps at a gain for the
city. In Germany, the city of Pforzheim is seeking compensation
for losses of more than 56 million euros from JPMorgan.  Greek Swap  Alabama’s Jefferson County filed for the biggest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history in November after it defaulted on
debt backed by sewer revenue. The financial crisis had pushed up
the cost of its bonds, and swaps tied to the securities didn’t
shield it from rising expenses. Greece’s losses on a 2001 swap
with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  almost doubled to 5.1 billion
euros by 2005. The country is now in the process of the biggest
sovereign-debt restructuring in history.  “Transparency allows market forces to come in and act,”
said Christopher “Kit” Taylor, a former executive director of
the U.S. Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. “Banks would
come in and pitch a better deal if there’s poor pricing -- and
it avoids the Greek problem. Had the Greek swap been known, it
would have stopped other lenders giving it money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Melissa Pozsgay at +33-1-5365-5056 or
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  