-- Kenya Shilling Drops Most This Month on Post-East Dollar Demand
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-04-11T14:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/kenya-shilling-drops-most-this-month-on-post-east-dollar-demand.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened the most
this month on increased dollar demand from businesses after the
Easter holiday break.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.4 percent, the most in a closing basis since March
30, to 83.35 per dollar, and was trading 0.1 percent weaker at
83.15 as of 4:18 p.m., in Nairobi.  “The weakening of the shilling is due to increased dollar
demand as businesses resume after the Easter break,” John Muli
a dealer at Nairobi-based Africa Banking Corp., said in a phone
interview today.  “The money market liquidity improved” during the week
ended April 4, supported by government payments and foreign-
exchange purchases by the central bank from the  interbank
market , the Central Bank of Kenya said in its weekly bulletin on
April 5. The bank’s monetary policy committee retained the
central  bank rate  at 18 percent on April 4 to ensure that
inflation continues to decline toward the government target
while maintaining exchange-rate stability.  The bank accepted 5 billion shillings ($60 million) for
seven-day  repurchase agreements  at a weighted average rate of
15.529 percent, Godfrey Putunoi, a bank official, said by phone
today from the capital.  The bank has removed a total of 19.6 billion shillings from
the market since April 5, after the monetary policy committee
indicated it would intervene to curb volatility.  The  inflation rate  declined for a fourth month to 15.61
percent in March from 16.69 percent in February, the Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics said last month.  Tanzania, Uganda  Tanzania’s shilling strengthened on increased dollar
inflows from the  mining industry  for payment of taxes. The
currency of the second-biggest economy in  East Africa  gained as
much as 1 percent to 1,573.50 per dollar and last traded 0.1
percent higher at 1,588.  “There have been significant inflows from the mining
sector due to tax commitments for the first quarter of the
year,” Eric Chijoriga, a trader with National Bank of Commerce
Ltd., ABSA Group’s Tanzanian unit, said today by phone from  Dar
es Salaam , the commercial Capital.  The Ugandan shilling weakened the most in more than a month
on increased dollar demand by oil importers. The currency of the
third-biggest economy in East Africa depreciated 1.4 percent,
the most since March 7, to 2,510 per dollar.  “The shilling lost ground on the back of dollar demand by
oil importers who were active players in the market today,”
Faisal Bukenya, the head of  currency trading  at  Barclays Bank  of
Uganda Ltd., said by phone from Kampala.  -- Editors: Peter Branton, Linda Shen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  