-- Koh Makes Billion as Fragrance Sheds Love Hotel Image
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2012-04-11T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/koh-becomes-billionaire-as-fragrance-sheds-love-hotel-image.html
Koh Wee Meng, who develops property
and runs a budget hotel chain in Singapore, has joined the ranks
of the world’s billionaires as a surge in shares of  Fragrance
Group Ltd. (FRAG)  boosted his fortune to $1.1 billion.  Koh and his wife, Lim Wan Looi, own an 84.2 percent  stake 
in Fragrance worth almost $1 billion, which has almost doubled
in the last 12 months. The rest of his net worth is derived from
stakes in other public holdings and  dividend income .  “I just continue to do my business,” Koh, 49, said in an
interview after the company’s March 28 annual shareholders
meeting, while five dozen attendees nibbled on fried rice
noodles and egg sandwiches at Fragrance’s headquarters in an
eastern suburb of Singapore. He said that he hadn’t valued his
assets recently, and that his fortune can be easily calculated
from his public holdings.  Fragrance shares reached a record 48.5  Singapore  cents on
March 22 after the company said it will spin off its hotels
business and may pay shareholders a special dividend. Koh is
riding gains in tourism as visitors arrive in  record numbers ,
lured by Singapore’s two casinos, which opened in 2010, and more
budget airlines flights to the city-state.  Fragrance, which derives 83 percent of its revenue building
and selling homes, reported record sales of S$308.9 million
($245 million) last year as Singapore property prices  rose  10
straight quarters to a record.  Hotel Upgrade  The company, which owns 22 of the 23 hotels that it
manages, set up the “premium class” Parc Sovereign Hotel last
year on the fringe of Singapore’s “Little India” district,
according to its annual report. Parc Sovereign, which targets
the mid-tier hotel market, charges about three times more for
its rooms than Fragrance’s cheapest budget hotel.  “He’s trying to change the image a little bit on the hotel
side,” said  Philip Smith , 72, who owns 300,000 Fragrance
shares. His stock has  gained  700 percent since he bought it
shortly after the company’s IPO in 2005 and is “one of my
better investments,” said Smith, who was trained as a chartered
accountant and previously held positions as chief financial
officer and finance director at various companies.  Six of Fragrance’s namesake budget hotels, where guests can
rent rooms by the hour, are located in Geylang, an area east of
Singapore’s city center known for its love hotels, brothels,
karaoke bars and street food.  Red-Light District  While a group of tourists huddled into an elevator at the
 Fragrance Hotel-Emerald  in Geylang at around midnight on April
2, the lobbies at the company’s other hotels in the red-light
district were empty save for a receptionist at the front desk.
Tattooed prostitutes lingered near the Fragrance Hotel-Sunflower
and Fragrance Hotel-Sapphire on the same dimly lit street, and
the Fragrance Hotel-Crystal several blocks away.  Koh said in the interview Fragrance offers accommodations
for budget-conscious travelers, not lovers’ lodges. The
billionaire was drawn to the lower cost of land in Geylang,
where he had built apartments and is developing an industrial
building. Fragrance also owns hotels on the periphery of
Singapore’s central business district and shopping belts.  Still,  Global Premium Hotels Ltd. (GPHL) , the hospitality business
that Fragrance is planning to spin off by selling shares, said
in its  prospectus  that the company faces “risks associated with
illegal activities being carried out” in its hotels, including
the use of its rooms by prostitutes and for drug abuse. The
company said it is taking measures to comply with hotel
licensing rules.  Tight Squeeze  While Fragrance has a reputation for love hotels, it is
“also very good in property,” said Eric Ong, 58, a financial
services consultant who has invested in the stock for more than
two years. “In a way it balances it off,” he said.  The company has benefited from building and selling small,
affordable apartments that are gaining popularity in Singapore,
said Nicholas Mak, an  executive director  at SLP International
Property Consultants in the city-state. It attracted strong
demand for its “Parc Rosewood” condominium complex in a
northern suburb where it managed to “squeeze in” 689 units,
more than the 390 units originally estimated by the government
could be built on the site. Fragrance reduced the size of the
apartments, Mak said.  Koh is now seeking his first industrial project, Mak said.
Fragrance said this week it made the highest bid of S$43.4
million for an industrial site in eastern Singapore.  Real Estate  Koh started building his fortune buying, renovating and
flipping houses for a profit in the mid-1980s. He took over his
family’s property business in 1993 and started developing
residential and commercial projects, mainly targeting residents
of Singapore’s public housing who were seeking to own better
homes.  Koh expanded into hotels in 1996 when he saw demand for
accommodation among cost-conscious travelers, according to
Fragrance’s  IPO prospectus .  “He’s quite humble,” said Tan See Peng, 82, a retired
government auditor who has owned Fragrance shares since its IPO
and attended almost every annual meeting. “Although we give him
embarrassing questions, he tries to answer.”  Tan, who asked the billionaire whether Fragrance would
offer a special dividend to shareholders with its S$120 million
“war chest,” said he is happy with Koh’s performance. His
holding has doubled to 180,000 shares after a one-for-one bonus
issue last year.  Fragrance, which announced on March 8 its plan to separate
its hotels into a different company and to list it on the
Singapore stock exchange, expects to raise S$420.5 million from
the restructuring, which it will use to develop properties and
repay debt.  Shareholder Value  The planned listing is set to “unlock value for
shareholders and increase Fragrance Group’s overall financial
capacity and flexibility to strengthen the growth of its
property business,” Maybank Kim Eng Research said in a report
on March 8. As a separate company, the hotel business will also
have “additional financial capacity and direct access to
 capital markets ,” said the unit of  Malaysia ’s largest lender
 Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)   Global Premium Hotels said in its prospectus that it is
seeking to profit from leisure and business travelers who will
likely opt for cheaper accommodation as  China ’s growth slowdown
threatens the global economic recovery. It plans to increase the
number of hotels operating under the “Fragrance” and “Parc
Sovereign” brands, and expand overseas, according to the
prospectus. Fragrance’s hotel division reported a 21 percent
increase in  sales  to S$52.1 million last year.  Shares Rally  Koh also owns shares in  Aspial Corp. (ASP) , a Singapore-based
jewelry and property company. Shares of Aspial, run by his
brother, Koh Wee Seng, tripled in the last 12 months as revenue
rose to a record S$420 million in 2011.  Other holdings of Fragrance’s executive chairman include
Singapore-based property companies  Roxy-Pacific Holdings Ltd. (ROXY) 
and  Goodland Group Ltd. (GOOD)  as well as curry-puff maker  Old Chang
Kee Ltd. (OCK)  Roxy-Pacific, which owns the Grand Mercure Roxy Hotel,
rose to a record on April 5.  Koh, who owns a Rolls-Royce, a brand that accounted for 0.1
percent of newly registered cars in Singapore last year, said he
has few pastimes other than being with his family.  “I work almost six days a week and my time off is only on
Sunday,” he said, before being whisked away by his 47-year-old
wife, a company executive director, to another meeting.  Smith, who has been attending Fragrance’s annual meetings
since 2005, said he admires Koh.  “I asked him why he’s holding his meetings at 9 o’clock in
the morning. He said: ‘So I can get back to work’,” Smith said.
“He seems to be very dedicated to the business, he drives the
businesses and he’s delivered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  