-- NBC Airing NHL Playoffs Boosts Wagers as Penguins Favored to Win
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/nhl-playoffs-on-nbc-increases-betting-as-penguins-favored-to-win.html
The first Stanley Cup playoffs
under the  National Hockey League ’s 10-year television contract
with NBC has Nevada bookmakers expecting a 20 percent increase
in betting.  The  New York Rangers  are second-favorite to win the title
with 9-2 odds, their best chance since New York’s most-recent
Stanley Cup championship in 1994. The  Pittsburgh Penguins , led
by All-Star forward  Sidney Crosby , are the favorites at 4-1 to
take the trophy in June.  The NHL’s $2 billion contract with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC,
signed last year, will allow every game of the postseason to be
televised nationally in the U.S. for the first time in league
history, Commissioner Gary Bettman said this week. The increased
exposure will benefit hockey fans as well as sports books,
according to RJ Bell, founder of the handicapping information
website Pregame.com.  “Betting handle is directly correlated to the general
interest level in the games, and one of the strongest drivers of
interest is television coverage,” Bell said in an e-mail.  The Nevada Gaming Control Board doesn’t require sports
books to report the amount wagered on hockey.  The playoffs open tonight with the  Philadelphia Flyers  at
the Penguins, the  Detroit Red Wings  at the  Nashville Predators 
and the  Los Angeles Kings  at the  Vancouver Canucks . Every
postseason game will be shown nationally in the U.S. on NBC, NBC
Sports Network, CNBC or NHL Network.  “There will be no gaps for fans trying to guess or pick up
a series midstream,” NBC Sports Group Chairman Mark Lazarus
said this week during a discussion with reporters at the
league’s New York office. “We think that the number of people
who will have seen NHL hockey this year will be the most ever
throughout a season.”  Rangers Opener  The Rangers, who had an Eastern Conference-high 109 points
during the regular season, will open tomorrow against the
eighth-seeded  Ottawa Senators , a team that beat them in three of
four games this season. The Rangers need to be more consistent
offensively if they expect to play into June, NBC analyst Pierre McGuire, a former NHL coach, scout and assistant general
manager, said this week in a conference call with reporters.  “They play playoff-style hockey, shot blocking, aggressive
forecheck, clearing their crease,” McGuire said. “The only
fear I have, will they have enough sustained offense for a long
run? They just don’t have a lot of balanced offense.”  The fourth-seeded Penguins emerged as the favorite to win
the  Stanley Cup  when Crosby, the league’s Most Valuable Player
in 2007, returned last month after missing 59 games during the
past two seasons because of concussions.  Scoring Edge  The most recent No. 4 seed to win the Stanley Cup was the
Penguins in 2009, and a team with a seeding that high hasn’t
entered the postseason as the favorite in at least 13 seasons,
according to oddsmaker Andrew Patterson of the  Las Vegas Sports
Consultants Inc . Pittsburgh has outscored opponents by 61 goals
this season, compared with the Rangers’ plus-39 differential, a
statistic that Patterson said oddsmakers find more telling than
a team’s overall record.  “The odds are not so much reflective based on the seeding
because of the high potential for upsets,”  Jeff Sherman ,
assistant manager of the  Las Vegas Hotel & Casino ’s sport book,
said in a telephone interview. “Home ice doesn’t really mean
that much in hockey -- teams go and win the first game on the
road and it switches just like that.”  The Canucks, the top seed in the Western Conference, are
listed at 5-1, according to Sherman, the third favorite after
losing in the finals last year to the  Boston Bruins . The Bruins
are fourth, with 8-1 odds to become the first team since the  Red
Wings  in 1997 and 1998 to win back-to-back titles.  ‘Most Important Promise’  Televising every playoff game to a national audience was
“perhaps the most important promise” of the new TV deal,
according to Bettman. NBC Sports Network and the main network
channel have had about a 40 percent increase in NHL advertising
and media revenue this season, up to around $100 million, Seth Winter, NBC’s executive vice president for sales and marketing,
said in an interview.  “The success of the NHL as an advertising platform
exceeded our own expectations,” Winter said. “We were
virtually sold out of the first quarter of the regular season in
January, which is unprecedented.”  Eight different teams have won the past eight Stanley Cup
titles. Rangers forward  Brad Richards  said this week in a
conference call with reporters that the team’s work ethic sets
it apart from other clubs.  “We probably don’t have as much talent as some of the top
teams throughout the lineup, but we make up for it,” Richards
said. “It’s a team-first, defensive-minded, grind-it-out type
of style, but it’s worked. Everybody has bought into it.”  
Source: Las Vegas Hotel & Casino  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  