-- Nixon Visits China Again in Paris; Musical Revolution
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-04-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/nixon-visits-china-again-in-paris-musical-revolution-review.html
An opera sparks a revolution? Nah.  Yet that’s what happened on Aug. 25, 1830, in Brussels.
After a performance of “La Muette de Portici” (The Mute Girl
of Portici), the excited audience stormed out of the Theatre de
la Monnaie and put up barricades.  Six weeks later,  Belgium  gained independence from Holland.  Daniel-Francois-Esprit Auber’s opera seems to have lost
nothing of its incendiary potential. For the present revival,
the  La Monnaie/De Munt  preferred to mount a coproduction with
the  Opera Comique  in Paris, where it has just opened.  A staging in Brussels, said Director Peter de Caluwe last
August -- amid lengthy negotiations to form a national
government -- might raise the question “as to whether Belgium
should remain a united country or not. I want to keep the opera
out of the political debate.”  De Caluwe recently indicated that he saw no reason why the
production shouldn’t travel to Brussels, though he stopped short
of inviting it to his theater.  That a revolt by Neapolitan fishermen in 1647, the opera’s
subject, can still inflame nowadays is remarkable. Even more
surprising was Auber’s decision to entrust Fenella, the title
role, to a dancer, not a singer. In the 19th century, the most
celebrated ballerinas battled to get the part.  Desperate Girl  Elena Borgogni is an actress and jazz singer, not a dancer.
Her frantic movements probably would have surprised the
composer. Yet they aren’t out of place for a desperate girl who
has been seduced by the Spanish viceroy’s son and, in the
finale, hurls herself from the balcony of the castle while
Vesuvius erupts.  Masaniello, her brother and the leader of the rebellion, is
sung by the young U.S. tenor Michael Spyres. He has an appealing
voice, and his French diction is impeccable. For his top notes,
however, he too often resorts to falsetto.  The rest of the cast varies between decent and amateurish.
The worst element is the La Monnaie/De Munt orchestra. Conducted
by Patrick Davin, it sounds rough and misses the graceful charm
of Auber’s music.  The production, directed by Emma Dante, falls short of what
you would expect of a “Grand Opera,” a genre renowned for
sensational stage effects. The skimpy sets and cheap costumes
are a pale reflection of the splendor Auber’s neglected
masterpiece merits.  Rating: **.  “La Muette de Portici,” which is supported by  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
is in repertory at the Opera Comique through April 15.
Information:  http://www.opera-comique.com .  Nixon’s Visit  It just so happens that another opera with a political
theme is on offer in Paris.  The Theatre du Chatelet has revived  John Adams ’s “Nixon in
China,” one of the few contemporary stage works that made it
into the repertory. Last year, it was given the ultimate
accolade with a production at the  Metropolitan Opera .  After the 1987 premiere in Houston, the New York Times
critic joked: “Mr. Adams has done for the arpeggio what
McDonald’s did for the hamburger.” He was referring to the
repetitive, unashamedly tonal sewing-machine rhythms, the
trademark of the minimalist school.  What Donal Henahan didn’t say was that the score also has
lyrical outbursts of almost Straussian voluptuousness.  The Chatelet’s revival features a Chinese director and an
Indian set designer.  Mutual Hostility  Chen Shi-Zheng was eight years old in February 1972 when
President Nixon visited China, ending decades of mutual
hostility. Chen’s mother perished in the “Great Proletarian
Cultural Revolution” and his father spent several years in a
re-education camp.  For many Chinese intellectuals, Chen says in the program,
the benevolent portrayal of  Mao Zedong  as a wise old man is
revolting.  Despite such misgivings, he doesn’t treat Mao as a monster.
Only when “counterrevolutionary elements” are pilloried by the
proletariat, at the end of Act II, do you get a glimpse of the
misery Mao and his fanatical wife inflicted on their people.  Chen’s staging is too bland, though. It resembles an
oratorio rather than an opera.  Shilpa Gupta, the set designer, is a sculptor and a video
artist; this is her first work on an opera stage. She, too,
prefers a minimalist approach, probably dictated by the short
run of the production.  Cocktail Party  In the first scene, Nixon and his wife step out of a big
wall -- symbolizing the divide between the two societies -- not
Air Force One. The state banquet at the end of Act I has been
reduced to a cocktail party. The only piece of furniture is a
chandelier composed of TV screens, emblem of the media circus
surrounding the event.  The singers are fine. Mr. and Mrs. Mao are played by
Koreans, the stentorian Alfred Kim and Sumi Jo, who easily
manages her role’s high tessitura. Franco Pomponi is a solid
President, June Anderson is an endearingly confused First Lady.  Alexander Briger conducts the  Orchestre de Chambre de
Paris , an ensemble of about 40 musicians.  Rating: ***.  “Nixon in  China ” is in repertory through April 18 at the
Theatre du Chatelet.  Information:  http://www.chatelet-theatre.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights: Jason Harper on  Jeep ,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology , Farah Nayeri’s London  weekend .  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 