-- Nokia Sales Slump Puts Pressure on Elop to Consider Split
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-12T15:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/nokia-sales-slump-puts-pressure-on-elop-to-consider-split.html
Less than two months ago,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop stood up at the mobile-
phone industry’s annual jamboree to declare that the company had
turned the corner as sales of its new smartphone blossomed.  The prediction proved premature. Yesterday, the Finnish
company reported a surprise operating loss at its handset unit
for the first three months and forecast no improvement this
quarter. While sales of the Lumia model it developed with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  topped estimates, competition ate into margins
and sales of lower-priced devices plunged in  emerging markets .  As Nokia’s cash pile dwindles and a junk credit rating
looms, Elop will have to consider more radical steps such as
selling its low-end phone business, whose revenue slumped by a
third last quarter, said Adnaan Ahmad, an analyst at Berenberg
Bank in London. Nokia makes about 70 percent of its handset
sales outside Europe and  North America , where competition from
Chinese companies including  ZTE Corp. (000063)  is intensifying.  “Why not try to sell its mobile-phone business and hence
just remain a smart devices company?” said Ahmad, who has been
covering the telecommunications industry for more than a decade
and is  ranked fourth  based on the total return of his Nokia
rating over the past year according to Bloomberg data. He
advises selling the shares with a price estimate of 3.20 euros.  Shares Slide  The stock fell 7.2 percent to 3.04 euros in Helsinki,
cutting the company’s value to 11.4 billion euros ($15 billion).
Yesterday, the company dropped 14.5 percent, the steepest fall
since May 2011. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia has lost almost 70
billion euros of market capitalization since  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  started
shipping the iPhone in 2007.  Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse are among banks that cut
their price estimates, while Grupo Santander and Societe
Generale analysts lowered their ratings.  Elop, 48, shifted to Microsoft’s Windows Phone system 14
months ago, after determining Nokia’s Symbian and Meego couldn’t
keep up with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system and the iPhone. Nokia
reported an operating loss of about 3 percent of sales at the
devices and services division last quarter, citing weak sales in
 India , the  Middle East ,  Africa  and  China .  Samsung Electronics Co.,  Asia ’s largest electronics maker,
probably overtook Nokia as the top handset seller for the first
time, helped by the popularity of the Galaxy smartphones,
according to analyst estimates. The South Korean company may
have shipped about 92 million mobile phones, including basic
types, in the first quarter, according to the median of five
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Like Motorola  Nokia’s low-end handset sales declined to 2.3 billion euros
from 3.4 billion euros in the year-earlier quarter, while
shipments dropped to 71 million units from 84.3 million a year
earlier, the company said yesterday.  “They may sell their low end business to a Chinese maker,
they may sell some IP assets -- we know there’s a market for
that, we know Microsoft is interested in that kind of thing,”
said Horace Dediu, a former Nokia analyst who now runs the
Asymco industry-research website. “Then they would essentially
become a Motorola, which is a smartphone-only company that ended
up getting acquired.”  Motorola Mobility (MMI) , which has pared down its low-end phone
lines in favor of Android, sold its handset business last year
to Google for $12.5 billion.  Asset Sales?  Sony Ericsson, the mobile-phone venture  Sony Corp. (6758)  bought
out from its Swedish partner Ericsson AB in February and renamed
Sony Mobile Communications, is also exiting cheaper feature
phones to focus on making smartphones.  A potential sale of Nokia’s smartphone business to Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft wouldn’t make sense as the U.S.
partner already has access to the hardware through their
partnership, said  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies
International in London. Nokia may instead focus on offloading a
part of its patent portfolio to generate cash and buy time for
its reorganization, he said.  Frank Shaw , a Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment on
the possibility of mergers involving Nokia, citing company
policy on not commenting on rumors and speculation.  Speaking on a conference call yesterday, Elop, a former
Microsoft executive who took the helm at Nokia in September
2010, said the Finnish company may prioritize certain devices
and markets at the expense of others.  Running Out of Time  “When we talk about what those structural changes might
be, we have to make decisions about, are we concentrating on
certain markets, are we emphasizing certain product
opportunities over others, do we sell off certain non-core
assets along the way?” Elop said.  Since taking over, Elop has announced more than 10,000 job
cuts and shut production in  Europe  to move more manufacturing to
Asia. He also tried to sell a stake in the phone-equipment
venture Nokia Siemens Networks before talks collapsed last year.  Nokia may seek to accelerate a sale of assets within Nokia
Siemens, according to a person familiar with the company, who
asked not to be identified because the deliberations aren’t
public. Another sale target may be the Navteq Corp. map unit
Nokia took over in 2008 for about $7.3 billion, the person said.  “We have absolutely changed the clockspeed of Nokia. The
pace at which we are accomplishing this, you’re going to see
this continue,” Elop said on Feb. 28 at the Mobile World
Congress in Barcelona, comments he reiterated yesterday. “The
next waves of devices, the next software, all of that will
continue at an accelerating pace.”  Job Cuts  To make that happen, the manufacturer may also need to cut
more jobs, said  Edward Snyder , an analyst at Charter Equity
Research in San Francisco. Nokia employed about 130,000 people
at the end of 2011.  “That looks like a boilerplate statement to prepare
employees and the government for big layoffs,” said Snyder.
“The smartphone business is sucking the most wind, but they
can’t get rid of that, it’s their future.”  Nokia doesn’t have much time left and needs radical
measures to win back market share and investors’ trust, Simpson
at Jefferies said. Nokia would benefit from moving its
headquarters out of  Finland  to a lower-cost country, he said.  “There’s something very stale that suggests their
relevance in the medium term will be gone unless something
really serious happens,” Simpson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  