-- Nokia Cuts Forecast on Handset Competition; Shares Drop
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-11T15:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/nokia-slashes-forecast-on-smartphone-competition-shares-slide.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  reported an operating
loss for its mobile-phone division and forecast earnings won’t
recover this quarter as emerging market handsets sales slumped
and margins on smartphones shrank.  Nokia fell 14.5 percent in Helsinki, wiping 2.1 billion 
euros ($2.8 billion) off its market value, after saying its 
devices and services unit probably had a first-quarter operating
loss of about 3 percent of sales. The figure for the current
period will be  “similar to or below” the first quarter. Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia plans to release detailed earnings April 19.  Fourteen months after deciding its Symbian system couldn’t
keep up with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 's
iPhone, and linking up with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone, 
Nokia is still struggling to convince investors of its 
turnaround strategy. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop said 
today he's reviewing options including asset sales, vowing to 
take “significant structural actions if and when necessary.”  “It’s a disaster,” said  Thomas Langer , an analyst with
WestLB Equity Markets in Dusseldorf who advises investors sell
the stock. “It looks like a lost year 2012 and there is
increasing uncertainty about 2013 and the company’s future.”  Margin Forecasts  Nokia fell 55.4 cents to 3.27 euros at the close of 
trading in Helsinki, the steepest decline since May 2011. The 
stock declined as much as 19 percent after the release. The 
company has a market value of 12.2 billion euros.  Apple added 0.5 percent to $631.81 at 11:42 a.m. in  New
York , valuing the Cupertino, California-based company at about
$589 billion.  Credit-default swaps on Nokia soared 62 basis points today
to a record 435, according to CMA at 4 p.m. in  London . The
contracts rose every day since April 2, when they cost 350 basis
points. An increase signals deterioration in perceptions of
 credit quality .  Nokia’s handset margins, adjusted for some items, declined
from more than 20 percent in 2007, when Apple Inc. introduced
the iPhone, to 4.9 percent in the final quarter of 2011. Along
with  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of the BlackBerry
smartphone, Nokia has seen its market pared by competition from
Apple’s expansion and from devices running Android software.  Nokia last month agreed with unions to cut 1,000 positions
at its only factory in  Finland , adding to more than 10,000 jobs
reductions Elop has announced since Nokia linked up with
Microsoft in February last year.  Past Products  The first-quarter operating loss of about 3 percent of
sales for the devices and services business is based on the non-
IFRS accounting standard, Nokia said. The company had predicted
“around breakeven” with a range of 2 percentage points in
either direction.  Nokia’s smartphone revenues for the first quarter were 1.7
billion euros on 12 million units, a decline of about 50 percent
by both measures. The company sold “more than 2 million”
handsets from its new Lumia Windows Phone line in the first
quarter for an average price of about 220 euros, it said.  “The problem is their past products, the Symbian
products,” said Robert Jakobsen, an analyst at  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) .
“I assume it is the high end of the Symbian phones that are not
selling well. On the other hand, there is increasing momentum on
Lumia, and that is the future.”  The company’s low-end mobile-phone sales declined to 2.3
billion euros on 71 million units from 3.4 billion euros and
84.3 million units a year earlier. Nokia cited  India , the  Middle
East , Africa and  China  as regions and countries suffering
“competitive industry dynamics.”  ‘Structural Changes’  The Finnish company is shrinking the number of main handset
assembly plants to five from nine at the beginning of 2011, and
building a new factory in Vietnam for low-end phones.  Nokia’s net cash and other liquid assets stood at 4.9
billion euros at the end of the first quarter. On a conference
call, Elop said he wouldn’t rule out structural changes to
restore the company’s “long-term health.”  “When we talk about what those structural changes might
be, we have to make decisions about, are we concentrating on
certain markets, are we emphasizing certain product
opportunities over others, do we sell off certain non-core
assets along the way,” Elop said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  