-- Nokia’s Grand U.S. Re-Entry Marred by Data Fault With Lumia
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-11T20:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/nokia-credit-to-lumia-customers-for-data-fault-makes-phone-free.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s biggest U.S. release in
years started with a glitch that led the company to give
customers a $100 credit on their phone bills, effectively
reducing the price of its high-end Lumia 900 smartphone to zero.  The company acknowledged a flaw in the data software and
announced the credit “as a gesture of goodwill” in a  statement 
on its website published by Chris Weber, senior vice president
for Nokia Americas, and  Jo Harlow , smartphones chief. The
problem was a “memory management issue” not related to the
phone hardware or network, they said.  The Lumia release is Nokia’s biggest U.S. marketing blitz
in years after the Espoo, Finland-based manufacturer closed its
U.S. flagship stores and nearly disappeared from carrier shelves
following the rise of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android. AT&T Inc. began selling the Lumia 900, Nokia’s first
phone for fourth-generation networks, on April 8. The handset
running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Windows Phone software was priced at
$99.99 on a two-year contract.  “Given the significance of the relaunch for Nokia in  North
America , this is very bad news,” said Mats Nystroem, a
Stockholm-based analyst at SEB Enskilda. “It’s not infrequent
for handset makers to have problems like this, but it’s not what
they need.”  Nokia cut the profit-margin forecast today for its overall
handset division down 14.5 percent to 3.27 euros at the close of
trading in Helsinki. The stock is down 13 percent this year.  Software Fix  Nokia will give people who bought Lumia 900 handsets
through  AT&T. (T)  a $100 credit on their phone bills to make up for
data connection problems.  “We’re working on this with some urgency and we certainly
apologize for the inconvenience this has caused,”  Doug Dawson ,
a spokesman, said in an interview. “We’ve corrected the issue
in the handsets we’re shipping from factories now.”  A software fix will be available April 16 and customers
will be able to update the phone themselves or swap it for a new
one, Nokia said. The credit applies to handsets purchased
through April 21. Dawson declined to say how many handsets were
affected.  It’s not the first time Nokia handsets have interacted
poorly with AT&T networks. Nokia temporarily withdrew its 5800
Symbian smartphone from two U.S. stores in March 2009 after
customers reported problems with an AT&T 3G network. Six months
later it temporarily halted sales of the Mural flip phone with
AT&T on 3G connectivity problems.  Contactless Payments  Nokia today announced it will start shipping a version of
its low-end Lumia 610 phone equipped with the NFC short-range
wireless technology on  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange network in the
third quarter. The handset will be able to make contactless
payments using Mastercard Paypass and Visa Paywave readers,
Nokia said in a statement.  The first-quarter operating margin for the devices and
services business was probably minus 3 percent based on the non-
IFRS accounting standard, Nokia said in a statement today. The
company had predicted “around breakeven” with a range of 2
percentage points in either direction. Second-quarter figures
will be “similar to or below” those for the first quarter, it
said today.  Each Nokia Lumia 900  costs  the company about $217 in parts
and manufacturing expenses, according to an IHS iSuppli teardown
analysis released today. Without subsidies, the retail price of
the Lumia 900 at AT&T is $449.99. For comparison, the Apple
iPhone 4S, which retails for $649 without a contract,  costs 
Apple $196 in parts and manufacturing, according to IHS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  