-- North Korea Names Kim Jong Un Party Chief Ahead of Launch
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-04-12T02:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/north-korea-names-kim-jong-un-party-chief-ahead-of-launch.html
Kim Jong Un was named head of North
 Korea ’s sole political party, solidifying his status ahead of a
planned missile launch as soon as today that could halt a U.S.
food deal and raise regional tensions.  Kim, who is believed to be younger than 30, was named first
secretary of the Workers’ Party of Korea, the state-run Korean
Central News Agency said yesterday. It was his first government
post since becoming head of the country after the December death
of his father  Kim Jong Il , who was named “eternal general
secretary.”  “The official power transfer process is finally taking
place after months of mourning Kim Jong Il’s death,” said Koh Yu Hwan, professor of North Korean Studies at  Dongguk University 
in Seoul.  The party meeting took place as the totalitarian state
prepared to put a satellite in orbit atop a long-range rocket as
soon as today, as part of celebrations marking the April 15
centennial of Kim’s grandfather, state founder  Kim Il Sung .
North Korea disputes U.S. contentions that the launch would
break a February agreement to halt long-range missile and
nuclear tests in return for American food assistance.  Kim Jong Un was also named chairman of the party’s Central
Military Commission and as a member of the Presidium of the
Political Bureau of the its Central Committee, KCNA said in a
separate dispatch today.  Multiple Violations  A launch would violate “multiple UN Security Council
resolutions,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  “We all share a strong interest in stability on the Korean
Peninsula, and we will be discussing how best to achieve that,”
Clinton said yesterday at the opening of a Group of 8 foreign
ministers meeting in Washington.  Kim’s regime has begun fueling the rocket that will be
fired sometime between today and April 16, Yonhap News cited
space agency official Paek Chang Ho as telling a group of
foreign journalists in the capital of Pyongyang yesterday. The
launch is on schedule, Paek was quoted as saying.  A South Korean intelligence report released this week said
the North appears to be preparing for a third underground
nuclear weapons test to follow the rocket launch.  “Recent history suggests that additional provocations will
follow,” Clinton said April 10 in an address at the U.S. Naval
Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland .  The  United Nations  imposed sanctions against  North Korea 
following atomic bomb tests in 2006 and 2009.  Nuclear Warning  Should the rocket launch fail, “that is an even stronger
reason for them to potentially want to do a nuclear test,”
Bruce Bennett, a senior defense analyst at the  Rand  Corp., told
reporters yesterday by phone from Seoul.  While the U.S. says a launch would violate the Feb. 29
agreement with the U.S. banning uranium-enrichment and missile-
technology activities, North Korea has maintained the deal
doesn’t apply to rockets sending satellites into orbit.  “The agreement seems basically to have turned out to be a
fiasco,” Andrew Scobell, a political scientist with RAND, said
from the Washington area on the call with reporters. Both sides
now “have some egg on their face.”  U.S. officials, including  Jay Carney , President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman, have said a launch would void the accord’s
provision calling for delivery of 240,000 metric tons of food
aid to North Korea.  The action would show the “propensity by the North Korean
regime to spend and waste money on military programs while their
own people starve,” Carney told reporters in  Washington 
yesterday.  `Blatant Disregard'  “This kind of blatant disregard for their commitments
makes it impossible for the  United States  to provide the
nutritional assistance that it had hoped to provide for the
North Korean people,” he said.  Kim’s latest titles came the same day South Koreans went to
the polls to elect a new National Assembly. President Lee Myung Bak’s ruling party retained control of parliament.  Lee’s New Frontier Party won 152 of the 300 seats in the
National Assembly. The main opposition Democratic United
Party secured 127 and the smaller United Progress Party took 13,
the election commission said on its website.  While economic growth has slowed since Lee took office in
2008, the South Korean economy dwarfs that of its northern
neighbor, with which it is technically at war since the 1950-53
conflict ended without a peace treaty.  The North’s economy contracted 0.5 percent to 30 trillion
won ($26.2 billion) in 2010, compared with  South Korea ’s 1,173
trillion won, according to the South’s central bank. North Korea
had a food shortfall of as much as 700,000 metric tons of food
last year, according to the UN, and is dependent on aid from
 China , its only ally.  The Chinese government has expressed caution over the
planned rocket launch without calling on Kim to halt it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  