-- North Korea Defies U.S. in Readying Launch as Soon as Tomorrow
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-11T05:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/north-korea-defies-u-s-in-readying-launch-as-soon-as-tomorrow.html
North Korea  moved ahead with plans
to fire a long-range rocket as soon as tomorrow in defiance of
warnings from the U.S. that doing so would destabilize the
region and scuttle a deal for American food assistance.  North Korea has begun fueling the rocket that will put a
satellite in orbit sometime between April 12 and 16, Yonhap News
cited space agency official Paek Chang Ho as telling a group of
foreign journalists in the capital of Pyongyang. The launch, set
to mark the 100th anniversary of the birth of state founder Kim Il Sung, is on schedule, Paek was quoted as saying.  The totalitarian regime maintains the event doesn’t violate
a February deal to end long-range missile and nuclear tests in
return for 240,000 tons of U.S. food. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton yesterday reiterated calls for North Korea to halt the
launch plans, which have roiled markets.  “We share a strong interest in stability on the Korean
peninsula,” Clinton told reporters after meeting in  Washington 
with Japanese Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  yesterday.
“Strength and security will not come from more provocations but
from North Korea living up to its commitments and obligations.”  Concern that the event is a cover for a missile test drew
warnings from Gemba, who said the launch “would obviously be a
violation of United Nations resolutions.”  China  and South Korea
also have expressed concerns with the plans, which come less
than four months after Kim Jong Un succeeded his father  Kim Jong Il  as leader.  Market Impact  A South Korean intelligence report that warned the regime
is preparing to test an atomic device to follow on the heels of
its rocket launch contributed to declines in the benchmark Kospi
stock index this week.  While markets are closed in  South Korea  today for National
Assembly elections, three-month non-deliverable forwards on the
won declined 0.2 percent to 1,151.30 per dollar as of 1:30 p.m.
in  Hong Kong , according to data compiled Bloomberg. They touched
1,155.83, the weakest level since Jan. 17.  Debate also has centered on the prospect that North Korea
may follow any launch with a nuclear test. Activity at North
Korea’s Punggye-ri atomic testing site is consistent with
preparations for previous detonations in 2006 and 2009,
according to the intelligence report obtained April 9 by
Bloomberg News.  Speaking to the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland ,
after meeting with Gemba, Clinton yesterday said “recent
history strongly suggests that additional provocations may
follow.”  ‘Timing is Impeccable’  Analysts said the totalitarian state may be seeking to sway
the outcome of today’s parliamentary elections in South Korea
across the demilitarized zone.  “The timing is impeccable,” said Park Young Ho, senior
research fellow and director at the Korea Institute for National
Unification. “Kim Jong Un is taking advantage of the domestic
North Korean celebrations of  Kim Il Sung  to aggressively
influence South Korean elections.”  Polls indicated South Korea President  Lee Myung Bak ’s party
may lose control of the National Assembly to an opposition
coalition that has pledged to improve ties with its northern
neighbor. Opposition lawmakers accused the government of using
the intelligence report to influence the elections.  North Korea’s ruling Workers’ Party meets today and may
appoint Kim Jong Un the new party chief in one of the final
steps marking his succession after the Dec. 17 death of his
father, Kim Jong Il.  ‘Serious Violations’  The Obama administration has said firing the rocket would
breach the February food deal, which included a North Korean
pledge to halt  uranium enrichment  at its facility in Yongbyon.  “It would be impossible to imagine” the U.S. would follow
through on the food aid if North Korea proceeds with the launch,
President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday.
The rocket “would represent clear and serious violations” of
UN resolutions, he told reporters traveling with Obama in
 Florida .  North Korea’s government says it is putting a “peaceful”
satellite into orbit and that it doesn’t violate the deal. Ryu
Kum Chol, a North Korean space official, dismissed as
“nonsense” assertions that the satellite launch is aimed at
developing missile technology, the AP said. Ryu said the
communications satellite is fitted with a camera to monitor
weather conditions.  Bargaining Chip  Kim’s government may be using the prospect of a follow-up
nuclear test as a bargaining chip to keep the food-aid deal from
falling apart, analysts including Koh Yu Hwan said.  “The likelihood of a third nuclear test depends on whether
the U.S. decides to keep the Feb. 29 food-aid deal following the
missile launch,” said Koh, a professor of North Korean Studies
at  Dongguk University  in  Seoul . “With the nuclear preparations,
North Korea is waving its nuclear card at the U.S. and telling
them to make a choice.”  The North Korean rocket is expected to fly south over the
 Yellow Sea  toward the  Philippines , South Korea’s transportation
ministry said in a March 20 statement on its website. The first
stage of the fuselage is expected to fall 180 kilometers (112
miles) away from the South’s western coast and the second stage
near the Philippines’ northeastern-most island, the ministry
said.  Following the 2009 test, the UN Security Council passed a
 resolution  condemning the move and strengthening sanctions that
include letting cargo suspected of containing weapons be
inspected. It also ordered the regime to admit International
Atomic Energy Agency inspectors, something North Korea agreed to
in February.  In November 2010, North Korea showed its Yongbyon facility
to visiting U.S. scientists, including  Stanford University ’s
Siegfried S. Hecker, who said he saw more than 1,000 centrifuges.
While North Korea claims its nuclear facility is intended to
generate electricity, it can be easily converted to produce
highly enriched uranium for bombs, Hecker wrote in a  report  on
the university’s website after his North Korea trip.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  