-- North Dakota Asks Judge to Toss ‘Shore Zone’ Mineral Rights Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/north-dakota-asks-judge-to-toss-shore-zone-mineral-rights-suit.html
North Dakota  asked a state court
judge to dismiss a lawsuit by landowners claiming they’re being
cheated out of millions of dollars in proceeds from leases to
lands containing valuable minerals.  State Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem asked Judge David W.
Nelson in Williston to dismiss the case in an April 9 filing,
arguing that some of the claims, pressed by owners of property
abutting the state’s navigable waterways, are stale while others
aren’t yet ripe for adjudication.  “This claim is premature,” Stenehjem said in court
papers. “Plaintiffs first need to show they own the shore
zone,” the land between the ordinary high watermark and low
watermark. The case should also be dismissed because there are
already two pending cases over who holds that title, he said.  The owners filed their initial complaint on March 12. In a
revised version filed March 28, they said they seek group status
on behalf of all people who own mineral interests in land below
the “ordinary high watermark” of the state’s navigable waters,
including the Missouri and Yellowstone rivers.  In two sub-classes, they said they sought damages for
people who own lands for which defendants have issued leases for
extraction and production of minerals and oil, and for those who
have leased their lands without being paid because the state has
claimed absolute title.  Charles Neff, an attorney for the landowners, didn’t
immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment
yesterday on the state’s filing.  The case is Reep v.  State of North Dakota , 53-2012-
CV-00213, District Court of North Dakota, Northwest  Judicial
Circuit (Williston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  