-- Obama Enlists Millionaires in Buffett Rule Campaign
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-04-11T19:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/obama-to-enlist-millionaires-in-buffett-rule-campaign.html
President  Barack Obama  is
intensifying his campaign for higher taxes on top U.S. earners
by casting the issue against Republican opposition as one of
fairness and support for the middle class.  Obama enlisted what the administration described as a group
of four millionaires and their assistants, all of whom support
the so-called Buffett rule to set a minimum tax on people who
earn at least $1 million annually.  The president met with Abigail Disney, president of the
Daphne Foundation,  Whitney Tilson , managing director of T2
Partners LLC, Frank Jernigan, a retired software engineer from
Google Inc. and Lawrence Benenson, partner at Benenson Capital
Co., according to an administration official. They were
accompanied by their assistants at the event.  Obama said the millionaires on the stage with him at the
Eisenhower Executive Office Building are “rightly proud of
their success.” They had agreed to take part in the event
because “they haven’t been asked to do their fair share” and
“they believe there is something deeply wrong and irresponsible
about that.”  The proposal, which faces Republican opposition in a test
vote in the Senate on April 16, is named after billionaire
investor  Warren Buffett , who says he pays a lower tax rate than
his secretary, largely because of the preferential treatment
given to  capital gains  and dividends.  Agreement on Taxes  “They agree with Warren,” Obama said of the group.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said at a briefing
afterward that the administration didn’t ask for an assessment
of the participants’ tax status before the event.  Tilson, 45, said in an interview at the White House that he
and his assistant Kelli Alires, 47, were “a little shocked”
after they calculated their comparable federal tax rates for
2010.  While his adjusted gross income was 39 times that of
Alires, Tilson said, he paid a rate of 24.6 percent while Alires
paid a rate of 33.4 percent. “It struck both of us as unfair
and ridiculous,” he said.  “I would agree with that,” Alires said.  Higher Taxes  Tilson estimated the Buffett rule would increase his
federal tax obligation by 40 percent. He declined to disclose
dollar amounts. He said he supports it as what he sees as a
necessary component to a long-term deal to reduce deficits and
balance the federal budget, along with spending cuts.  Tilson is an Obama donor, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based group that tracks
campaign finance. He and Disney, granddaughter of Roy O. Disney,
co-founder of the Walt Disney Co., each have given Obama at
least $5,000 over the past year, according to the center’s data.  Benenson, 44, said in a telephone interview that while he
paid a lower  tax rate  than his assistant, Carmen Peterson, he
wasn’t sure what the rate was. “I’m just standing up for what I
believe in,” Benenson said.  All are affiliated with a group called Patriotic
Millionaires for Fiscal Strength, which in 2010 began urging
Obama and congressional leaders to allow Bush-era tax cuts to
expire on those earning annual incomes of $1 million or more.  Tilson said he was tapped about a week ago by that group to
participate in today’s event at the White House.  Election Theme  Tax fairness will be a central theme in the election, Obama
campaign manager  Jim Messina  told reporters on April 9.  He said former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, Obama’s
likely opponent in November, has been a beneficiary of the
current tax system and his proposals are based on protecting
special tax rates for Wall Street investors and looking out for
“people just like him.”  Romney, co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, earned $21.6
million in 2010 and paid 13.9 percent of that in income taxes,
according to tax returns he released in January.  Romney’s campaign organization fired back during a
conference call today for reporters with the candidate’s
advisers and supporters.  Andrew Puzder, the chief executive officer of  CKE
Restaurants Inc. (CKR) , said the economic recovery is “stagnant” and
that the Buffett rule would do little to help the federal
deficit.  ‘Politically Motivated’  “It doesn’t make sense,” said Puzder, a Romney supporter
whose company operates the Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s food chains.
“It’s not a plan. It’s obviously politically motivated.”  Today was the second consecutive day Obama promoted the tax
proposal and he said he would “keep on making this case across
the country.” He spent yesterday in  Florida , a swing state
central to his re-election strategy, talking about the Buffett
rule and portraying Republicans as poised to undo a health-care
law and other measures he said have helped students, senior
citizens and the middle class.  Buffett, chairman and chief executive officer of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , has said that the preferential tax rates on
investment income should be increased. The proposal would boost
tax rates paid by households with incomes between $1 million and
$2 million, phased up to a 30 percent minimum rate for those
making more than $2 million a year. Taxpayers would be able to
deduct charitable gifts.  Tax Revenue  The tax would do little to close the deficit, which the
administration project will be $1.1 trillion this year. The new
rate would increase U.S. tax revenue by $47 billion over the
next decade, assuming that income tax cuts enacted in 2001 and
2003 are allowed to expire at the end of the year as scheduled.  According to a White House report released yesterday,
22,000 households made more than $1 million in 2009 and paid
less than 15 percent in income taxes.  The report cited an Internal Revenue Service study on the
400 U.S. taxpayers with the highest incomes in 2008, at $110
million or higher. Those people paid an average tax rate of 18.1
percent, excluding payroll taxes, down from 29.9 percent in
1995. Families in the middle 20 percent of the  income
distribution  paid 16 percent in federal taxes in 2010, according
to the report.  Under current law, ordinary income, including profits from
small businesses, is taxed at rates up to 35 percent. Capital
gains and dividends are taxed at no more than 15 percent.  The proposal isn’t designed with the average high-earning
household in mind,  Jason Furman , deputy director of Obama’s
National Economic Council, said. Instead, he said, the goal is
to raise taxes for the relatively few taxpayers who can use
multiple tax breaks to lower their rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  