-- Obama Is Right on Labor’s Past, Wrong on Jobs
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-04-11T23:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/obama-is-right-on-labor-s-past-wrong-on-jobs.html
New jobs and old cases. Those are
the two challenges irking President  Barack Obama  as he prepares
his re-election campaign.  Four years after the financial crisis, new jobs still
aren’t materializing sufficiently. What’s more, the  Supreme
Court  recently signaled it might find Obama’s principal
achievement, health-care legislation, unconstitutional.  In his desire to demonstrate that today’s court is out of
line, Obama raced a full century back for jurisprudential
evidence. “We have not seen a court overturn a law that was
passed by Congress on an economic issue, like health care, that
I think most people would clearly consider commerce, a law like
that has not been overturned since Lochner,” he said, referring
to a  1905 case .  Critics promptly leaped all over him for highlighting what
they deemed the wrong jurisprudence: Obama meant  Schechter
Poultry Corp. v. United States , a New Deal case, some said.
Others wrote whole articles about how he probably should have
mentioned  West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish , or  Wickard v.
Filburn .  But Obama was wise to think of Lochner. You can even say
that the president’s second problem -- jobs -- started with
Lochner.  Lochner was once a man, rather than a case. Joseph Lochner
was a Bavarian immigrant who spent eight years learning the
baker’s trade before opening his own bakery in Utica,  New York ,
in the 1890s. Lochner’s business grew “by neatness and the
excellence of its products,”  as the Utica Herald reported .  Baker’s Rules  But in the 1890s, the state of New York passed a Bakeshop
Act, limiting hours to 10 a day and 60 a week. The master baker
regarded this law as an intrusion that inhibited his efforts at
commerce. Lochner therefore intentionally kept a more junior
baker, Aman Schmitter, at work for more than 60 hours; Schmitter
stayed longer to learn cake baking. Lochner was not ashamed but
rather proud of his decisions. He believed business could best
succeed when worker and employer  decided the rules .  Lochner lost in Oneida County. The court there sentenced
him to pay a $50 fine or spend 50 days in jail. But the baker
won in the U.S. Supreme Court. New York State did not have the
right to interfere in private contracts,  the court said . One of
those who prepared the case for Lochner’s side was a leader of a
bakers’ union, Henry Weismann, who had helped write the Bakeshop
Act in the first place; Weismann now regretted his participation
in the Progressive legislation,  telling the New York Times , “at
the time when I gave my energies toward passing it I did not
recognize the injustice it would work.”  Lochner, the case law, prevailed for decades, without
discernible damage to its industry or the  U.S. economy . The
market in fact did much to solve a problem that the authors of
the Bakeshop Act had assumed only legislation could address.
Even without big laws, by 1919  only 3 percent of bakers  were
working more than 10 hours a day.  What employers and employees for their part liked about the
culture of Lochner was the freedom. The flexibility employers
enjoyed made it easier for them to fire, but also to rehire. In
the recessions of the early part of the century, or the teens,
or even the 1920s, unemployment often soared: In 1908, it hit
7.4 percent; in 1921, 11.3 percent. But often, though not
always, jobs came back fast. The 11.3 percent unemployment of
the recession of 1921 dropped to 4.3 percent in 1923.  Yet the Lochner era did end, when in 1937 the court ruled
against a business that refused to pay the minimum wage in a
case called West Coast Hotel. Other broader regulations of the
workplace were also winning approval from the  Supreme Court .  1930s Regulation  In Wickard v. Filburn, the court said even wheat consumed
by a farmer on his own farm could be regulated; in  National
Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp. , it found
a heavy-handed labor law, the  Wagner Act , constitutional.
Federal lawmakers have since felt confident writing other
regulations, right down to Obamacare.  None of these laws sounds bad. But the cumulative effect of
such laws is to inhibit the freedom of the employer enough that
he or she hesitates to rehire. A survey of small employers
conducted this January by the  Wells Fargo/Gallup Small Business
Index  found that 48 percent of companies were hesitating to
rehire because of the potential cost of health care;  46 percent 
checked the box that said “worried about new government
regulations.” These “worried” people are the Joseph Lochners and
West Coast Hotels of 2012.  There’s something precious about hassling Obama over
constitutional legal arcana. A basic law here warrants more
attention than Lochner and Obamacare put together, at least if
we want to get down to acceptable levels of unemployment. That
law is one the Supreme Court can’t alter: the law of the market.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on disclosure of the
chemicals used in  hydraulic fracturing ;  Edward Glaeser  on why
 Mitt Romney  must  change gears  for the general election;  Ezra
Klein  on the  tax pledges  of Republicans and Democrats;  Caroline
Baum  on  promoting inflation  as the wrong way to cope with debt;
Gary Shilling on whether the  Federal Reserve  will  rescue the
economy ; Doug Skinner on  corporate dividend policies ; and Robert
Bruegmann on why the  anti-freeway movement  hurts cities.  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  