-- Oil Extends Gain as Distillate, Gasoline Inventories Drop
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-04-11T19:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/oil-rises-from-eight-week-low-as-ecb-signals-spanish-aid.html
Oil rose after the U.S. Energy
Department said that fuel stockpiles declined and as a European
Central Bank official signaled the lender may act to stem the
spread of the region’s debt crisis.  Futures climbed 1.7 percent after the department reported
that  gasoline inventories  fell 4.28 million barrels last week.
Supplies of  distillate fuel , a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, dropped 4 million barrels. Oil also gained after
Benoit Coeure, a member of the ECB executive board, suggested
the bank may restart bond purchases for  Spain .  “The drawdown in gasoline and distillate was the big
surprise today,” said Chris Dillman, an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “The product supply
numbers are sending the entire market higher.”  Crude oil for May delivery rose $1.68 to settle at $102.70
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are up 3.9
percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement increased 30 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $120.18 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
contract traded at a $17.48  premium  to New York futures, the
least since March 21.  Gasoline inventories dropped to 217.6 million barrels, the
lowest level since December. A decline of 1.38 million barrels
was the median estimate of analysts in the Bloomberg survey. The
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday that
supplies rose 1.18 million barrels to 223 million, or 5.38
million more than the DOE total.  ‘Huge Disconnect’  “There’s a huge disconnect between the DOE and API data,”
said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in
New York. “We have two sets of data ostensibly measuring the
same thing, which are radically different. The API had gasoline
supplies rising 1.2 million barrels while the DOE showed a 4
million-barrel drop.”  Distillate fuel inventories dropped to 131.9 million
barrels, the lowest level since December 2008, according to the
department. Stockpiles were forecast to fall 250,000 barrels.
The API showed distillate inventories at 134.7 million.  Crude  supplies  rose 2.79 million barrels to 365.2 million,
the highest level since June, the report showed. Stockpiles were
forecast to increase 2 million. The API showed crude inventories
at 365.9 million.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its survey.  Equities, Euro  Equities rose and the euro advanced against the dollar amid
speculation that an ECB bond-purchase program may cut Spain’s
borrowing costs. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s three-month-old
government is struggling to convince investors it can reduce the
 budget deficit .  “Oil is getting some support from a weaker greenback amid
some ECB reassurances,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at
VTB Capital in  London . “We also have a general rebound across
the board along with equities after losses yesterday, though it
seems this may be short-lived.”  The euro strengthened as much as 0.6 percent versus the
dollar. A rising euro increases the appeal of dollar-denominated
raw materials as an investment. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 0.7 percent.  U.S. Economy  The  Federal Reserve  said the economy of the U.S., the
world’s biggest crude-consuming country, maintained its
expansion in all 12 of its regions as manufacturing, hiring and
retail sales showed signs of strength last month.  “The economy continued to expand at a modest to moderate
pace from mid-February through late March,” the Fed said today
in its Beige Book business survey, published two weeks before
the  Federal Open Market Committee  meets to set monetary policy.  Oil has fallen 7.1 percent since reaching a 2012 high of
$110.55 in intraday trading on March 1 as tension grew between
Western nations and  Iran  over the country’s nuclear program.  “The market is still in a down trend and should soon be
below $100,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh
Trading Group in  New York . “There is no fundamental reason to
be a buyer of crude at these levels.  There is still $4 to $5
built into the price because of the Iranian tension.”  Iran and the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council plus  Germany  are set to hold their first
negotiations in 15 months beginning April 14 in Istanbul. Saeed Jalili, secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council,
said his nation plans to offer “new initiatives” at the talks.
The last round ended without agreement.  There is still time for conduct diplomacy with Iran,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said, speaking at a meeting
of Group of Eight foreign ministers in  Washington  today.  ‘Uncharted Waters’  “We’re moving into uncharted waters with Iran,”  Daniel Yergin , chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates,
said at a New York Times conference on energy in New York. The
oil market is going to stay “very volatile” because of the
Iranian tension, he said.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 552,883
contracts as of 3:10 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 639,126
contracts yesterday, 1.1 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  