-- Oil Traders Defy Naimi Pledge, Betting on Higher Prices
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-04-11T14:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/oil-traders-defy-naimi-pledge-betting-on-higher-prices.html
Oil traders are paying scant
attention to assurances from  Saudi Arabia  that it can raise
production enough to cap crude’s advance, after the commodity
climbed to the highest level for any quarter since 2008.  Futures have slipped less than 4 percent since March 20,
when Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said Saudi Arabia could boost
output by 25 percent immediately if needed. Brent for delivery
in July, when the European Union’s ban against Iran comes into
force, is at about $119 a barrel, almost 20 percent above al-
Naimi’s $100 target. The six most widely held options are bets
on rising prices, with the most popular being $140 in June, data
from London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange show.  The  bull market  in oil underlines how OPEC output at the
highest level in three years and promises of extra production
are failing to ease concern that political disputes from Iran to
Sudan may disrupt shipments at a time when global economic
growth is struggling to gain momentum. Crude plunged 16 percent
in late July 2008, from a record $147.50, after Saudi Arabia
unilaterally added 500,000 barrels a day to the market and
pledged to develop a further 2.5 million barrels a day of
capacity from new fields.  “Announcing production capacity and putting oil on the
market are not the same thing,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head
of commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London.
“OPEC is pumping well in excess of its oil quota, but you do
not yet see the impact through a rise of crude inventories in
consuming countries.”  Second-Highest Quarter  Crude averaged $118.45 a barrel last quarter, the most
since the three months ending June 2008 when the quarterly
average jumped to a record $122.79. Brent, used to price more
than half of the world’s oil, gained 13 percent this year
through April 9 when it closed at $122.67. Oil was little
changed today. Al-Naimi told  CNN  on Jan. 16 that he hoped prices
could stabilize near $100.  The six most commonly held Brent options on April 9 were
contracts to buy, known as calls. Open interest was highest for
calls to buy June Brent futures at $140 a barrel, at 21,025
lots, followed by $150 June calls, ICE data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Fuel inventories in industrialized nations are 69 million
barrels less than the five-year average and supplies in emerging
nations provide even less of a cushion, the  International Energy
Agency  said in its March 14 monthly report. As many as 1 million
barrels a day of exports from  Iran , the second-biggest member in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, may be lost
as embargoes enforced by the U.S. and the EU hinder consumers
from buying its oil, the IEA said.  OPEC Production  Global inventories are below average even as U.S.
stockpiles rose by 10 percent this year. OPEC’s 12 members
 produced  31.22 million barrels of crude a day last month, the
most since October 2008, according to a March 30 Bloomberg
survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts. Saudi Arabia
pumped 9.71 million barrels, the survey showed.  South Sudan, which took control of about three-quarters of
the former unified country’s output of 490,000 barrels a day
when it gained independence in July, halted production in
January after the two countries failed to reach an agreement on
the transit fees that landlocked South  Sudan  should pay Sudan,
its northern neighbor, to transport oil through a pipeline.  Western nations are weighing using strategic reserves as
rising prices threaten to crimp the global recovery.  France 
remains “open” to the possibility of a stockpile release,
French Industry Minister Eric Besson said today at an energy
conference in Paris organized by Les Echos.  No Shortage  There is no shortage of oil in the market and “the
situation is completely different today to 2008,” al-Naimi told
reporters at a March 20 briefing in Doha. The world’s biggest
 crude producer  is “willing and ready” to put more oil on the
market if there is a buyer, the minister said.  “More oil from the Saudis will make prices come down,”
said  Leo Drollas , chief economist at the Centre for Global
Energy Studies in  London . “Worries about what might happen in
the Gulf are adding froth to the price, but the fundamental
problem is that stocks are low.”  Oil growth will remain “stunted” by the economic slowdown
and higher prices, the IEA said. Premier Wen Jiabao cut this
year’s growth target for  China  to 7.5 percent last month from an
8 percent goal in place since 2005, while the European
Commission said the 17-nation euro economy will shrink 0.3
percent this year. Only a couple of participants in the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s meeting last month called for additional
economic stimulus in the world’s biggest oil consumer.  Concern for Demand  “If there is no further monetary easing, money for free
won’t be there, so that is a big concern for demand,” said
 Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt . “Despite the return of Libyan oil and continuing
flows from Iran, Saudi has left production near the highest
level. There is no physical shortage, prices will come down if
there is less concern about Iran and more liquidity.”  Saudi Arabia may be attempting to bring oil down by pricing
its own crude more attractively to entice buyers, JBC Energy
GmbH said in an April 5 report. State-run Saudi Arabian Oil Co.
cut premiums used in determining its official prices for all
grades of crude sold to customers in  Asia  and  Europe  for
shipment in May, the company said April 4.  The amount of OPEC crude in transit will increase to 506.36
million barrels through to the third week in April, the most
since December 2000, as Saudi Arabia boosts exports, Halifax,
England-based tanker-tracker Oil Movements said April 5.  Obama’s View  The market is oversupplied by about 2 million barrels a day
and more crude is forecast from Libya and Iraq this year, al-
Naimi said March 20. Ten days later, following a meeting in
Riyadh between U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Saudi
Arabia’s King Abdullah, U.S. President  Barack Obama  said that
world fuel supplies are sufficient to proceed with sanctions
isolating banks that settle oil-related transactions with Iran.  In addition to the embargo that may halve  Iranian (OPCRIRAN)  exports
of more than 2 million barrels a day, non-OPEC nations will sell
less oil than originally expected this year because of reduced
supply from South Sudan and  Syria , the IEA said. That leaves the
market more reliant on OPEC’s spare capacity of 2.75 million a
day, the agency said in its monthly report. That figure excludes
Iraq, Nigeria, Libya and Venezuela.  “The futures market doesn’t believe Naimi or Obama, who
say supplies are adequate,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at
VTB Capital in London, said April 5. “The upside to prices is
capped because of talk of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve
release and low demand, but no one is selling because they don’t
know what will happen with the Iran embargo or whether there
will be more supply disruptions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  