-- Oil Trades Near Eight-Week Low on Rising U.S. Inventories
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-11T09:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/oil-trades-near-eight-week-low-on-rising-u-s-inventories.html
Oil traded near its lowest price in
almost two months in New York after an industry report showed
stockpiles rose for a third week in the U.S., the world’s
biggest consumer of crude.  Futures swung between gains and losses after dropping
yesterday for a second day. U.S. inventories increased by  6.6
million barrels  last week, according to the  American Petroleum
Institute . An Energy Department report today may show they rose
by 2 million to the highest level for this time of year since
1990, according to a Bloomberg survey. The U.S. cut its price
forecast for domestic and imported grades used by its refiners
because of rising output in  Canada  and  North Dakota .  “The fact there is a surplus in the U.S. is borne out by
yesterday’s API inventory data,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . He predicts crude will
average $104 a barrel this quarter.  Oil for May delivery was at $101.39 a barrel, up 37 cents,
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
9:49 a.m. in  London . It fell earlier as much as 0.2 percent and
gained 0.6 percent. The contract yesterday declined 1.4 percent,
to $101.02, the lowest close since Feb. 14.  Brent oil for May settlement fell 27 cents to $119.61 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West
Texas Intermediate was at $18.24. The spread yesterday was
$18.86 after shrinking 6.7 percent, the most since Feb. 20.  OPEC’s Basket  OPEC’s basket of crude dropped below $120 a barrel for the
first time since February, according to data from the producer
group. The basket, a weighted average price of the main crude
grades produced by Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, was at $119.38 a barrel yesterday, data on its
website showed today. That was the least since Feb. 21, when the
price was $119.19.  Oil in  New York  may be halting this week’s decline as a
technical indicator shows futures have fallen too quickly and
that further losses may not be sustainable, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. On the daily chart, stochastic
oscillators are below 30, and today’s reading is the lowest
since June last year. Investors tend to buy when prices are
considered oversold.  U.S. crude stockpiles are forecast to climb to 364.4
million barrels in the seven days ended April 6, according to
the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Gasoline supplies are projected to decline by  1.38 million
barrels , while the API data showed a gain of 1.18 million
barrels. Inventories of distillates, a category that includes
diesel and heating oil, may drop 250,000 barrels, compared with
a decline of 476,000 barrels in the API report.  Stockpile Data  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
U.S. government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  U.S. gasoline demand declined 0.8 percent last week from
the prior seven days and consumption slipped below year-earlier
levels for the 32nd consecutive week, MasterCard Inc. said in
its SpendingPulse report yesterday. Drivers bought 8.8 million
barrels a day of the fuel in the seven days ended April 6, down
from 8.87 million the prior week, the report showed.  The average cost of crude used by U.S. refiners will be
$112.19 a barrel in 2012, down 2.1 percent from last month’s
projection of $114.58, the Energy Department said yesterday in
its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook. Rising North American
production is the primary reason for the revision, said  Tancred Lidderdale , an economist with the department’s Energy
Information Administration, who helped write the report.  Iran Talks  Oil has climbed 2.4 percent this year amid speculation that
a dispute between  Iran  and Western nations over the Persian Gulf
state’s nuclear program will disrupt supplies from the  Middle
East . The U.S. and its European allies will press Iran for
action to curb its nuclear research when talks resume this week
after a 15-month hiatus. Negotiations between Iran and the five
permanent United Nations Security Council members plus  Germany 
will start April 14 in Istanbul.  The Islamic republic has threatened to close the  Strait of
Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of the world’s crude, in
response to a U.S. and European embargo.  Concern that the euro-region debt crisis will spread,
curbing economic growth, also weighed on  oil prices  yesterday.  Spanish bonds tumbled and the yield on 10-year government
debt climbed to the highest since Dec. 12. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos declined to rule out a rescue for the country, and
Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said the
nation’s lenders may need more capital if the economy weakens
more than expected. Italian bonds also fell.  “People are starting to question the global recovery,”
said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a
commodity markets newsletter in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  