-- Honeywell Taps Shale Boom With Plastic-Production System
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-11T20:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/honeywell-taps-shale-boom-with-plastic-production-system.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  is
tapping into a shale-drilling boom by selling customers such as
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  a technology to convert propane found alongside
natural gas into a raw material for plastics.  Propylene, used in products from plastic milk jugs to auto
parts, is in short supply, and a total of 14 million metric tons
of new annual capacity is needed by 2016 as oil refineries
produce less of the chemical, said Rajeev Gautam, chief
executive officer of Honeywell’s  UOP  unit. The gap will be
filled by turning propane into propylene, he said.  “That market has really taken off,” Gautam said in an
April 5 telephone interview. “This thing is booming here in the
U.S. as well as in China.”  The UOP unit accounted for 5.4 percent of sales last year
at  Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell, whose diverse
industrial products include automation controls, turbo engines
and fibers. The unit has won 10 projects to sell its Oleflex
technology for propylene plants in the last 18 months, including
a Dow Chemical program to convert shale gas-derived propane. UOP
cashes in through licensing of technology, providing service and
supplying chemical catalysts.  Record natural-gas production in the U.S. and  oil prices 
exceeding $100 a barrel are helping to make UOP a “jewel of an
asset” for Honeywell,  Deane Dray , an analyst with Citigroup
Inc. in New York, said in an April 9 telephone interview.  ‘Whole Arsenal’  “There is a whole arsenal of proprietary technology within
UOP,” said Dray, who recommends buying shares of Honeywell.
“They are well positioned to benefit from both oil and gas.”  Honeywell rose 0.9 percent to $57.08 at the  New York  close.
The shares have gained 5 percent this year, compared with an 8.8
percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Honeywell’s Performance Materials & Technologies business
generated 2011 sales of $5.66 billion, of which about 35 percent
came from UOP, according to a company presentation in New York
on March 7. Performance Materials reported segment profit for
the year of $1.04 billion, or 18 percent of sales.  UOP was once a 50-50 joint venture with Dow Chemical’s
Union Carbide unit. Honeywell bought full control in 2005 for
about $825 million.  UOP also is benefiting from the production of heavier crude
oils as higher-valued light oil becomes scarcer. The unit has
technology that boosts the refining output of heavy crude by
about 6 percent, Gautam said. The company has also developed
technology to produce plastics raw materials from coal, and sold
the first license for that process in  China .  “There’s a big boom going on,” Gautam said. “For us, the
opportunities are in all parts of it.”  Gasoline Additive  The technology to make propylene from propane gas has its
roots in the production of a material in methyl tert-butyl
ether, a gasoline additive. Production of MTBE has been
suspended in the U.S. because the substance contaminated
groundwater, Gautam said.  Now the same kind of conversion process will be key to
making up for declining production of propylene during oil
refining as companies dedicate more of the hydrocarbon mixtures
called naphthas to production of fuel instead of petrochemicals.
That’s because some petrochemicals are being made from cheaper
ethane that’s also found along with natural gas in processes
that don’t produce propylene, Gautam said.  Shale-gas production is making propane more plentiful in
the U.S., and countries such as Qatar and the  United Arab
Emirates  have an abundance of propane from oil and natural-gas
production. These producers are shipping the gas to China, where
the most new propylene plants are being built.  Propane currently is priced at about $920 a metric ton in
the  Middle East , and propylene fetches $1,730, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That makes the conversion from propane
profitable, Gautam said.  “It pays back the investment really quick,” he said.
“The potential is big for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  