-- Monti Tackles Italy Corruption as Scandals Taint Parties
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-04-12T11:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/monti-to-tackle-italy-corruption-as-scandals-topple-politicians.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is
shifting his focus from overhauling  Italy ’s economy to tackling
corruption, a problem highlighted by the recent resignation of
one of the country’s best-known political leaders amid a party-
financing scandal.  Monti’s government is readying a package of anti-corruption
measures, including broadening the criminal definition of
corruption to include cases in the private sector and tightening
procedures to prevent failed prosecutions due to the statute of
limitations, said a person with knowledge of the proposals, who
declined to be identified because an official announcement
hasn’t been made yet.  Officials from the nation’s three biggest parties agreed
last night on a joint proposal to make the use of public funding
more transparent. Justice Minister Paola Severino said April 7
the government is “ready to intervene” on party financing
unless Parliament takes action.  The Council of  Europe ’s Group of States Against Corruption,
known as GRECO, called on Italy  yesterday  to amend its criminal
code in areas such as party financing and corruption penalties.
That came after Umberto Bossi resigned as head of the Northern
League April 5, caught up in the biggest wave of corruption
scandals since the “Bribesville” cases in the 1990s led to the
demise of Italy’s dominant political parties.  Fighting fraud “is a priority for the Monti government,”
Democratic Party Deputy Donatella Ferranti said in an interview
yesterday. “It weighs on the economy, on the recovery, but also
on the credibility of our country abroad.”  Attracting Investment  The Democrats, the People of Liberty and the centrist Third
Way are the three main parties in a broad coalition set up when
Monti, 69, took over as unelected prime minister in November.  Under their plan to make the use of public funding more
transparent, a special supervisory commission will be set up to
monitor parties’ balance sheets, which will be also published on
the Internet, and donations above 5,000 euros will have to be
made public, according to an e-mailed statement from the
 Democratic Party .  The plan “is more likely to be a fudge than any serious
reform,”  James Walston , a professor of politics at the American
University in Rome, wrote in an e-mail before the announcement
was made. “None of the parties is willing to give up public
support nor their control over many public resources.”  Monti said March 17 that  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told him
increased efforts to fight corruption would lure more German
investment to Italy. “It’s essential for the government to
attract foreign investment,” he said.  Corruption in Italy amounts to a “hidden tax” of 1,000
euros ($1,310) to 1,500 euros per person each year, Ferranti
said. Italy scored the worst of all euro-area countries except
 Greece  in  Transparency International ’s global corruption ranking
last year. Corruption accounts for 1 percent of the European
Union’s gross domestic product, which would amount to 16 billion
euros for Italy, the European Commission said in a June 6
report. That compares to damages of 90 million euros won by
Italy’s state audit court in corruption rulings last year,
according to a Feb. 16 report.  Berlusconi  While the media has focused mostly on Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s legal battles, including a case with corruption
charges, allegations have been leveled against officials from
all of the country’s main parties this year.  Ten of the 80 legislators in Lombardy’s regional assembly
are being probed, several for alleged kickbacks, including
Speaker Davide Boni. Berlusconi has maintained his innocence of
all charges in cases against him. Boni said March 20 he’s
“totally extraneous” to any alleged wrongdoing.  Bossi’s son Renzo resigned from the regional legislature
April 10 amid a criminal investigation that led to allegations
that Northern League funds were siphoned off to the Bossi
family. Neither  Umberto Bossi  nor Renzo Bossi is under
investigation and both have denied using party funds for
personal expenses.  There are “critical shortcomings in the party funding
system of Italy which must be addressed as a matter of
priority,” GRECO said  yesterday . Italian parties spent 570
million euros from 1994 to 2008 out of 2.25 billion euros of
public financing, the GRECO report said.  Influence Peddling  While Italy signed the Criminal Law Convention on
Corruption in 1999, Parliament hasn’t fully ratified it. GRECO
has recommended that Italy classify private-sector corruption
and influence peddling as crimes, and lengthen the statute of
limitations for corruption offenses.  One of Monti’s first tasks when he took office was to clean
house at state-controlled defense company  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ,
whose chairman and other officials were involved in corruption
probes. Chairman Pier Francesco Guarguaglini quit in December
amid a probe involving a company unit run by his wife.
Guarguaglini and his wife Marina Grossi have repeatedly denied
any wrongdoing. Finmeccanica isn’t under probe.  “Illegality, corruption and graft are widespread and their
size is much larger than what comes to the surface,” Luigi
Giampaolino, chairman of the state audit court,  said  Feb. 16.  Italy came in 69th in the Corruption Perceptions Index
ranking, Berlin-based Transparency International said Dec. 1,
placing the country level with  Ghana  and lower than  Saudi
Arabia . Seventeen percent of Italians said they were asked to
pay a kickback in the previous 12 months, a  Eurobarometer poll 
in 2009 showed, almost double the European average.  The government  plans  to present an amendment on April 17 to
address the GRECO recommendations, the person familiar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  