-- Oracle, Google Prepare for ‘World Series’ of IP Trials
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-11T16:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/oracle-google-prepare-for-trial-in-world-series-of-ip-cases-.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  will ask a jury next
week to find that Google Inc. stole its intellectual property to
make Android software in a trial that a federal judge called the
“ World Series  of IP cases.”  Oracle, the database maker seeking to wring profit from its
$7.4 billion 2010 acquisition of  Sun Microsystems Inc. (JAVA) , is
seeking $1 billion in damages and an injunction to block Android
software that allegedly infringes patents it owns through Sun.
Google, whose Android software is running on more than 150
million devices, denies any infringement and says the Oracle-
owned technology it used isn’t covered by copyright.  “This is the World Series of IP cases,” U.S. District
Judge William Alsup, who will preside over the trial in  San
Francisco , told lawyers for both companies March 28. “Only one
winner comes out of the World Series.”  The eight-week trial is scheduled to begin April 16 with
jury selection. Oracle alleges that Google copied parts of the
Java programming language platform when designing the Android
operating system without taking a license. The arrangement and
structure of 37 application programming interfaces, or APIs --
tools used for building software applications -- Google used are
original expressions that are copyrightable, Oracle’s attorneys
have said.  ‘Art, Not a Science’  “We’re talking about the design of the libraries by
designers who are designing something that is an art, not a
science, and that is creative,” Oracle lawyer  Michael Jacobs 
said in a March 28 court hearing.  More than 97 percent of Android phones active in the past
two weeks contain copied code, Oracle said in an April 5 court
filing. An injunction is needed to stop Google from distributing
infringing products to phone makers, the  Redwood City ,
California-based company said. Alsup would decide after the
trial whether an injunction is warranted if the jury finds
Google infringed.  Settlement talks held April 2 and in September failed to
resolve the lawsuit. Oracle fell 2 cents to $28.33 and Google
rose $7.07 to $633.93 at 12:28 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  Developed by Sun in the mid-1990s, Java lets developers
write programs that work across different operating systems and
on a variety of computers. It formed a key building block of the
Web and is widely used in business applications. The software
also runs on billions of mobile devices.  Google relies on Android, the most popular U.S. smartphone
operating system, to compete with Apple Inc. in the mobile-phone
market and lessen its dependence on traditional Web-search
advertising.  ‘Two Different Ideas’  Google claims the APIs it used are general-purpose methods
of operation that simply describe how to do a task, and aren’t
subject to copyright.  “Having two different ways of organizing something doesn’t
mean those are expression,” said Michael Kwun, a Google
attorney, at the March 28 hearing. It “just means those are two
different ideas.”  He told Alsup that a tiny fraction of the 15 million lines
of code on an Android phone are alleged to have been copied.
Google has removed all allegedly copied material from the most-
recent version of Android, said company spokesman Jim Prosser.  Names Aren’t Protected  The jury will be told at trial that the names of items in
the API packages, such as API files and methods, aren’t
protected, Alsup said in a ruling today. The jury will also be
told that Java is free and open for anyone to use and the Oracle
and Google disagree on whether the APIs are part of the Java
programming language, he said in the ruling.  A finding that APIs are copyrightable would be “fairly
catastrophic” for the U.S. software industry, said Simon
Wardley, a researcher at  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) ’s U.K.-based
Leading Edge Forum, a global research and advisory forum for
corporate IT chiefs. Common functions that programmers use would
become protected, leading to more lawsuits, he said in an e-
mail.  “If you’re looking for a case where the U.S. legal system
might throw the golden goose under a bus, then this one is a
pretty good candidate,” Wardley said.  Percentage of Revenue  Oracle also alleges that Google infringed the two Java
patents in the case that a court-appointed expert estimated are
worth $2.8 million in damages.  If the jury finds Google infringed, future damages for one
patent that expires in December should be 0.5 percent of Android
revenue and future damages on the other patent that expires in
2018 should be 0.015 percent of Android revenue, Google said,
citing the court-appointed expert, in court documents.  The expert’s report isn’t public. Google doesn’t disclose
revenue for the operating system.  Oracle’s expert says total damages through 2011 are $1
billion, according to court filings.  “The reality is that the jury may perceive the court-
appointed expert to be the truly objective expert,” said David
Kleinfeld, an intellectual property and business litigation
partner at Goodwin Procter who isn’t involved in the case.  Google E-Mail  Oracle’s original lawsuit filed in 2010 claimed Google was
infringing seven patents. All but two have been removed from the
case. Google won a ruling last year throwing out Oracle’s $6.1
billion damage estimate. Alsup ruled that damage estimates
should start at $100 million, the figure that Google considered
and rejected in 2006 for a Java license from Sun.  Alsup also ruled that the jury may see an internal Google
e-mail showing that top executives were told in 2010 that the
company should negotiate a license for Java. The e-mail, written
by a Google engineer just days before Oracle’s lawsuit, said co-
founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin  had asked for an
investigation into technical alternatives to Java for Android.  “We’ve been over a bunch of these, and think they all
suck,” the engineer, Tim Lindholm, wrote. “We conclude that we
need to negotiate a license for Java under the terms we need.”  The e-mail is “going to be important” at trial, said Paul Neale, chief executive officer at Lynbrook, New York-based DOAR
Litigation Consulting.  ‘Violating the Trust’  “We see lawyers focusing on the technology and the patents
and complexity when jurors are interested in knowing what the
relationship was between the parties and whether one party is
seen as violating the trust,” said Neale in a phone interview.  Still, convincing a jury that Google is infringing codes of
a programming language that is in the public domain and free for
anyone to use won’t be a simple task, Alsup said.  “I promise you, there are going to be people on the jury
who, when they understand that you have no claim to the Java
programming language, that’s going to be the end of the line for
them,” Alsup told Oracle’s Jacobs at a March 28 hearing.  Today Alsup ruled that the jury will be told that Java is
free and open for anyone to use and the Oracle and Google
disagree on whether the APIs are  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 