-- Morgan Stanley’s Reinhart Sees Fiscal Cliff in 2013: Tom Keene
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-11T17:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/morgan-stanley-s-reinhart-sees-fiscal-cliff-in-2013-tom-keene.html
The  U.S. economy  will probably
expand at a moderate pace this year and next, in part because
fiscal tightening will weigh on growth, according to  Vincent Reinhart , chief U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley.  “We face headwinds,” Reinhart said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.
“The world is a risky place” between the sovereign debt crisis
in  Europe , potentially rising energy prices and “that fiscal
cliff which is an unstoppable force.”  Reinhart predicted in an April 2 report that the U.S.
economy will expand 2 percent this year and next. Bush-era tax
cuts are set to expire at the end of the year, and a  deficit 
reduction law requiring $1 trillion of cutbacks also kicks in if
lawmakers can’t agree on a new plan.  “We have legislated a sudden stop in our fiscal posture,”
Reinhart said. That may subtract about 5 percentage points from
growth next year, he said. “When you do that sort of sudden
stop, you do not help economic activity and you worsen the
deficit.”  U.S. stocks halted the longest slump of the year as  Alcoa
Inc. (AA)  opened the earnings season with an unexpected profit. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.8 percent to 1,369.37 at
11:51 a.m. in  New York , ending a five-day decline. Treasuries
weakened for the first time in six days.  The potential drag from fiscal restraint contributed to the
rationale behind Federal Reserve policy makers cutting their
growth forecasts for this year and 2013 at their January
meeting, according to the minutes of the gathering. At the same
meeting, they also decided to extend their plan to keep  interest
rates  near zero through at least late 2014 instead of mid-2013.  Record Stimulus  If Fed officials see the need to add to their record
monetary stimulus, they will probably first turn to
communications tools to “reassure investors that the intent is
to keep the policy rate low for a very long time,” Reinhart
said. “If they need to after that, they can resort to
quantitative easing.”  The Fed has kept its  benchmark rate  near zero since
December 2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds
of so-called quantitative easing. The central bank is now
pursuing a maturity-extension program announced in September to
replace $400 billion of short-term debt with longer-term
securities. The so-called Operation Twist is scheduled to be
completed in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  