-- Most Emerging Stocks Fall as Consumer, Industrial Shares Retreat
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-11T21:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/most-emerging-stocks-fall-as-consumer-industrial-shares-retreat.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell as
declines in consumer and industrial companies outweighed
speculation that the  European Central Bank  may act to ease
Spain’s debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed at
1,016.21 at the close in  New York , as 379 shares retreated and
261 advanced. Phone company  Oi SA (OIBR4)  tumbled 2.5 percent in Sao
Paulo after Morgan Stanley said lower profit margins may lead it
to cut dividends.  Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA (ELPL4)  dropped the most
in eight months after Brazil’s energy regulator said the company
may have to lower its tariffs this year.  China Shipping
Development Co. (1138)  plunged the most in five months in  Hong Kong 
after reporting a preliminary first-quarter loss.  Emerging-market stocks are retreating for a second month
after reaching a seven-month high on March 2, amid concern that
slowing economies in  China  and the U.S. and renewed worries over
sovereign debt in  Europe  may derail global growth. The MSCI
gauge of emerging markets has lost 2.4 percent this month after
sliding 3.5 percent in March.  “It’s wait and see now for the next three to four months
with sentiment driven by individual events like the French
elections, like what happens with  Spain ,” Simon Quijano-Evans,
chief emerging markets economist at ING Bank NV in  London , said
by phone. “It’s not going to be easy and it’s going to take
some time” to resolve the euro zone debt crisis.  Spain Debt  Emerging-market stocks trimmed earlier losses of as much as
0.4 percent as ECB Executive Board Member Benoit Coeure
triggered speculation the bank will revive its bond purchase
program to lower Spain’s borrowing costs at an event in Paris
today. Spanish “market conditions are not justified,” he said.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy pledged today he’ll press
ahead with measures to overhaul the economy and cut spending.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
rose 1.1 percent to $41.74 in New York. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge
of options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 3.4 percent to 29.28.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  fell 0.7 percent for a third day of losses.
 Eletropaulo (ELPL4)  slumped 4.4 percent to the lowest since Dec. 22, as
Brazil’s energy regulator proposed that it lower tariffs.  Alfa SAB (ALFAA) , Mexico’s largest publicly traded producer of
petrochemicals and processed meats, gained 3.4 percent after
saying preliminary first-quarter sales increased 8.9 percent
from a year earlier.  Earthquake  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland stocks in
Hong Kong lost 0.9 percent. China Shipping shed 7.6 percent.  Thai stocks slumped as northwestern Indonesia was hit by an
earthquake that prompted tsunami warnings across parts of Asia.
The warnings were later canceled. Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  fell 1
percent, while Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  slid 0.5
percent. The quake came shortly before the close of trading in
Jakarta.  South Korean markets were closed for election day. The
 IShares MSCI South Korea Index Fund (EWY) , a U.S. exchange-traded fund
that holds stocks from South Korea, gained 1.3 percent.  South Korea’s ruling party retained control of parliament
in the election.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 359, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  