-- Motorola Mobility Can’t Act in Microsoft Case in Germany
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-04-12T21:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/motorola-mobility-can-t-act-in-microsoft-case-in-germany-1-.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) 
can’t seek to ban  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows products or Xbox
gaming systems from the German market, a U.S. judge presiding
over a contract dispute between the two companies ruled.  Motorola Mobility, which owns patents related to industry
standards for video compression and WiFi, petitioned a German
court to ban Microsoft products that comply with those
standards. Microsoft asked U.S. District Judge James Robart in
Seattle to bar Motorola Mobility taking any further steps in the
German case until after a trial can be held on the contract
dispute between the two companies.  A German court in Mannheim is scheduled to issue a ruling
May 2 that might have allowed Motorola Mobility to exclude
Microsoft from the German market. Robart ruled in a hearing
yesterday in Seattle that Motorola Mobility can’t take any steps
to seek such a ban of Windows or Xbox, according to a statement
from Microsoft.  “Motorola promised to make its patents available to
Microsoft and other companies on fair and reasonable terms,”
Microsoft Deputy General Counsel  David Howard  said in the
statement. The “ruling means Motorola can’t prevent Microsoft
from selling products until the court decides whether Motorola
has lived up to its promise.”  The U.S. court has to decide whether Microsoft is entitled
to a license that is based on terms that are “reasonable and
non-discriminatory,” an obligation that is pledged by
participants in standard-setting boards, Motorola Mobility said
in a statement.  Contract Dispute  If so, then “Microsoft has committed to take a license
under MMI’s patents essential to certain standards,” Motorola
Mobility said. “Our focus from the outset has been to receive
fair value for our intellectual property based on Microsoft’s
use of MMI’s patented technology.”  Microsoft argued that Motorola Mobility failed to abide by
an obligation to license its industry-standard patents on fair
terms. It filed the breach-of-contract lawsuit in  Seattle  after
Motorola Mobility demanded royalties of 2.25 percent of the
retail price of products incorporating the industry standard.  The Redmond, Washington-based company said in a March 30
filing that complying with the Motorola Mobility demand could
force it to pay $4 billion a year based on sales of devices
including the Xbox gaming system and computers that use
Microsoft products, such as the  Windows operating system .  Distribution Center  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, said it was
moving its European logistics center to the Netherlands from
Germany because of the patent fight. The German center is the
central distribution point for software and other Microsoft
products destined for European markets, so a ban in  Germany 
could limit sales through much of the continent.  A court in Mannheim was scheduled to issue a ruling April
17 on whether Motorola Mobility can have Microsoft products
excluded from the German market. The ruling was postponed to May
2, Joachim Bock, the tribunal’s spokesman, said by phone today.  Under German law, if Motorola Mobility wins an order
banning the products and Microsoft appeals, Motorola Mobility
can only enforce such an order if it posts collateral and files
some paperwork. Robart ruled that he could preclude Motorola
Mobility from taking those steps because the offer letters to
Microsoft covered both U.S. and international patents, according
to a transcript of yesterday’s hearing.  Robart, in an order issued today, said his decision remains
in effect until he rules on Microsoft’s request that Motorola
Mobility be found in breach of its obligations. A hearing on
that issue is scheduled for May 7 in Seattle.  Licensing Offer  Motorola Mobility contends that the licensing offer made in
October 2010 was the same one it has presented to every company
over the past decade as a starting point for negotiations.
Microsoft failed to respond with a counteroffer or take actions
allowed under German law to challenge the request for a court
ban, the Libertyville, Illinois-based phone maker said in an
April 6 filing.  The case is part of a broader dispute between the companies
over devices that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android mobile operating
system. Microsoft wants a U.S. trade agency to ban U.S. imports
of Android phones made by Motorola Mobility, while Motorola
Mobility is asking the agency to block imports of the Xbox.  Android Dispute  Microsoft and Motorola Mobility had worked together to
develop smartphones that used Microsoft’s Windows Mobile
operating system. Motorola Mobility said it turned to Android
instead because the Windows Mobile operating system was “slow
to evolve.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , has received
U.S. and European regulatory approval to buy Motorola Mobility
for $12.5 billion. It’s still awaiting approval from Chinese
regulators.  The U.S. case is Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Inc.,
10cv1823, U.S. District Court for the District of  Washington 
(Seattle).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  