-- OTP Falls to 3-Month Low on Hungary Tax Report: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-04-11T15:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/otp-bank-heads-for-three-month-low-on-financial-tax-report.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, fell to the lowest close in almost three months after
the news website Origo reported that Hungary plans to introduce
a financial transaction tax from next year.  The shares dropped 1.9 percent to 3,600 forint by the close
in Budapest, the lowest since Jan. 18. The government may
collect as much 200 billion forint ($880 million) from the tax,
which would apply to bank transfers and payments, Origo said.  “There aren’t too many international precedents for this,
especially in an immature financial culture such as Hungary’s,”
Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, analysts at  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , wrote in a research report.  Since winning power in 2010, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
government has relied on extraordinary taxes on the energy,
banking, retail and telecommunication industries to plug budget
holes. The Cabinet, which is trying to obtain aid from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union, has pledged
to end the levies after this year with the exception of the
financial industry, where they will fall by 50 percent.  Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy wrote in an article in the
weekly newspaper Heti Valasz last week that some type of
financial transaction tax should be introduced.  Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt. , the Hungarian mortgage
lender known as FHB, dropped 1.5 percent to 544 forint, the
lowest since March 7.  “There is also a strong probability that clients will move
their savings to institutions which are exempt from such tax
obligations,”  Akos Kuti , a Budapest-based analyst at broker
Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., and colleagues wrote in a research
report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  