-- Padres Hire Bankers to Find Buyers After Deal to Sell Team Fails
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/padres-hire-bankers-to-find-buyers-after-deal-to-sell-team-fails.html
The  San Diego Padres  hired
investment bankers Allen & Co. and Moag & Co. to help sell the
Major League Baseball team after a deal with Jeff Moorad failed.  “Three years ago, I made the difficult decision to sell
the club, and I didn’t expect to have to make that same decision
again,” owner John Moores said yesterday on the team’s website.  Vice Chairman Moorad, who owns 49 percent of the club,
withdrew his application to purchase the team in March when it
appeared he wouldn’t get approval from baseball owners.  Instead, Moorad concentrated on working out the Padres’
television deal with Fox Entertainment Group Inc., which is said
to be worth $1 billion over 20 years, according to the
 Associated Press .  When Moorad offered to buy the team in 2009, the deal was
valued at $530 million. Moores paid about $80 million for the
Padres. The  Los Angeles Dodgers  were sold last month for $2.3
billion.  “The Dodgers sale and the improved media market are going
to have a lifting effect on the value of the Padres,” Moores
said. “Exactly how it shapes out beats me, but it’s got to be a
plus.”  Moores, 67, hired  Steve Greenberg  of Allen & Co. and John Moag of Moag & Co. to work with prospective buyers. They advised
him that the process could take a number of months.  Moores became chairman of the Padres on Dec. 21, 1994. The
team subsequently won the National League West Division
championship in 1996, 1998, 2005 and 2006.  San Diego  won its
second National League pennant in 1998.  “I have been honored to own the San Diego Padres and have
enjoyed the experience tremendously,” said Moores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  