-- Papademos Says May 6 Vote Crucial for Greek Euro Future
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-04-11T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/papademos-says-may-6-vote-crucial-for-greek-euro-future.html
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  urged Greeks to choose the path that secures their
role in the European Union and its single-currency zone when
they vote in elections May 6.  “I am certain that as a society we will invest in
creativity, and not the opposite,” Papademos said in a
statement to the nation yesterday, televised on state-run NET
TV, after he asked for parliament to be dissolved and elections
held. “That means choosing the path that will ensure our place
in the European Union and the euro.”  Papademos, who was appointed in November to obtain a second
rescue package for Greece, announced yesterday the start of an
electoral race that may jeopardize austerity policies on which
130 billion euros ($170 billion) of bailout funds depend. The
vote will be held almost two years to the day after  Greece 
became the first euro country to call for outside aid at the
start of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The former vice president of the  European Central Bank  is
standing aside for a vote that polls suggest will deny a working
majority to either of the two main party leaders, Antonis Samaras of New Democracy or Pasok’s Evangelos Venizelos, both
parties that supported Papademos’s caretaker government. That
risks a period of political instability, threatening Greece’s
future in the 17-member euro area.  Parliamentary Instability  New Democracy, ahead in the polls, lacks the support to
govern alone, and even teaming up with Pasok may not provide
Samaras, 60, with the parliamentary backing needed to push
through budget measures opposed by most Greeks. Samaras, a
former foreign minister, has said he may demand another election
if he doesn’t get the support he needs.  The economic turmoil is taking its toll on the main
parties, which have alternated in power in Greece for the past
three decades.  More than half of young Greeks are out of work, pensions
and wages are being lowered and  unemployment  was at a record
20.7 percent in the fourth quarter.  Support for  Pasok  and  New Democracy  fell to 14.5 percent
and 19 percent respectively, from 15.5 and 22.5 percent in
March, according to a poll conducted by Public Issue SA for Skai
TV and released yesterday. New, small parties gained in
popularity. Independent Greeks, which is taking voters from  New
Democracy , added 2.5 percentage points to 11 percent. No details
on how many people were surveyed or the margin of error were
available.  As many as eight parties may win seats in the 300-member
legislature as voter support splinters amid a fifth year of
economic contraction.  ‘Significant Challenges’  “Greek policy-making is facing significant challenges
ahead,” Lefteris Farmakis and Dimitris Drakopoulos, economists
at Nomura International Plc, wrote in an April 2 note.
“Political stability is an essential condition for any form of
progress on these fronts.”  The next government will need to outline spending cuts of
about 12 billion euros for 2013 and 2014 and vote on a new
medium-term plan for the 2013-to-2016 period in June, Papademos
said yesterday. That’s on top of the austerity measures his
government announced to secure additional funds from the EU and
International Monetary Fund. They already total 20.6 billion
euros, or 10 percent of gross domestic product this year,
according to the Bank of Greece.  Political Risks  Standard & Poor’s  cited weakening political consensus last
month along with questionable growth prospects and a “still
large” debt burden as it gave a CCC rating, its fourth rank
above default, to Greek securities issued as part of the
country’s debt restructuring.  Political risks contribute to making the nation “accident
prone,” the IMF said in a March 16 report. “Greece has little
if any margin to absorb adverse shocks or program slippages.”  Greece set off Europe’s sovereign debt crisis in October
2009, when then-Prime Minister  George Papandreou  revealed that
the deficit was twice what the previous government had reported,
and four times the limit for states using the euro. Greece
received a bailout of 110 billion euros in May 2010.  Papandreou was forced out in November after calling a snap
referendum on austerity measures to which he had committed days
earlier, prompting German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to say the ballot would be a vote on
Greece’s membership of the euro. Papademos was appointed head of
a caretaker government and the referendum plan was scrapped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  