-- PBOC Plans Payment System in Step Toward Convertibility
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-11T05:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/pboc-plans-payment-system-in-step-toward-convertibility.html
China ’s central bank plans to set
up a cross-border payment system that facilitates greater use of
the yuan in international trade and investment, and paves the
way for increased convertibility of the currency.  The China International Payment System will likely be
operational in one to two years, Li Bo, head of the People’s
Bank of China’s second monetary policy department, said at a
briefing today in Beijing. It will process cross-border yuan
payments used in trade, investment and other purposes, according
to a statement distributed at the briefing.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has promoted wider use of yuan in
international trade and investment to reduce China’s reliance on
the dollar. To this end, the government has allowed exporters to
 settle trade  in yuan with selected trading partners and also
signed currency swaps with countries including Australia,
Mongolia and  Turkey .  “This is infrastructure that is conducive to expanding the
use of the yuan in cross-border trade settlement, to serving the
real economy and to capital account opening,” Li said. The
conditions for yuan convertibility “are increasingly ripe,” he
said, without elaborating.  The new system is designed to make yuan payments safer,
stable and more efficient and will help the government achieve
its goal of gradually making China’s currency convertible under
the capital account, according to the central bank’s statement.
The use of yuan in cross-border trade is conducive to capital
account opening, the PBOC’s Li said.  International trade settled in yuan exceeded 2 trillion
yuan and foreign direct investment settled in yuan reached 110
billion last year, according to the central bank.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  