-- Personal-Computer Shipments Unexpectedly Rise Last Quarter
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-04-11T21:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/pc-shipments-rose-1-9-in-first-quarter-topping-projections.html
The global personal-computer
industry unexpectedly grew in the first quarter, marking a
turnaround after the sluggish European economy and component
supply shortages had dragged down the market last year.  PC shipments climbed 1.9 percent to 89 million units,
compared with predictions for a 1.2 percent drop, according to
Stamford, Connecticut-based  Gartner Inc. (IT)  Another research firm,
IDC, also reported a surprise increase for the quarter.  The growth signaled the PC market is shaking off the
effects of Europe’s debt crisis and a disk-drive shortage
stemming from last year’s flooding in Thailand. Still, a
scarcity of drives made it harder for PC sellers to run
aggressive promotions and attract lower-end shoppers, Gartner
found. Many consumers also are turning more to other types of
devices, such as smartphones and tablets.  “The consumer segment continued to be a drag on market
growth, as PC demand was low,” Mikako Kitagawa, an analyst at
Gartner, said in a statement.  The increase in PC shipments signals the industry may
“pick up significantly” by the end of the year, Loren Loverde,
an analyst at Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC, said in a
separate report.  New Windows  PC makers will benefit from supplies of disk drives
returning to normal and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  releasing a new version
of its Windows operating system, IDC said.  “History has shown that periods of slower growth are
followed by recovery,” Loverde said.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  remained the market leader in the first
quarter, accounting for 17.2 percent of worldwide PC shipments,
Gartner said.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL) , Acer Inc. and
Asustek Computer Inc. rounded out the top five.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
ranked third in the U.S., behind Hewlett-Packard and Dell.  Europe, the Middle East and Africa exceeded projections,
with PC shipments in the region climbing 6.7 percent, while Asia
performed worse than estimated, Gartner said. U.S. shipments
fell 3.5 percent, a smaller drop than forecast.  Last year, the U.S. PC market declined for the first time
in a decade, hurt by sluggish  consumer spending , supply
shortages, and the popularity of smartphones and tablets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  