-- Pemex Can’t Add ConocoPhillips, Shell to Lawsuit Over Stolen Gas
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/pemex-can-t-add-conocophillips-shell-to-stolen-gas-suit-1-.html
Pemex Exploracion Y Produccion (0195730D) 
can’t sue six U.S. energy firms including  ConocoPhillips Co. (COP)  as
part of a lawsuit seeking more than $300 million for Mexican
natural gas condensate allegedly stolen by bandits and sold in
the U.S., a federal judge ruled.  The Mexican state-owned  oil company  said in court papers
that if its production unit was denied permission to add the six
U.S. firms to the existing litigation, Pemex might sue the same
companies in a new suit.  In addition to ConocoPhillips and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
affiliates, Shell Chemical Co. and Shell Trading (U.S.) Co.,
Pemex sought to add  Marathon Petroleum Co. LP (MPC) , Sunoco Partners
Marketing & Terminals LP and FR Midstream Transport LP to
litigation originally filed against  BASF Corp. (BASF)  and Murphy Energy
Corp., among other U.S. gas transportation and processing firms.  The Petroleos Mexicanos’s production unit “has
undisputedly known about the injuries alleged in this action for
years,” and its actions show the company “has purposely
delayed moving to add these defendants,” U.S. District Judge
Simeon Lake in Houston said in a ruling yesterday.  ‘Complex Issues’  “The addition of new defendants would add new and complex
issues to an action that is already protracted and
complicated,” Lake said in denying permission to add the firms.  Pemex will be allowed to add three other U.S. firms, Plains
Marketing LP, RGV Energy Partners LLC and St. James Energy
Operating Inc., to the case. The judge ruled these companies
were already tangentially involved through related parties.  Pemex for two years has accused U.S. companies of
facilitating a black market in natural gas liquids by knowingly
buying the stolen gas condensate from Mexican bandits. The
organized criminal gangs steal the gas from the Burgos Field in
northern  Mexico  and haul it across the border in hijacked tanker
trucks, according to court papers.  “As long as they see a market for stolen Pemex condensate,
they will find a way to steal it,” attorney James Teater said
in 2010 court papers, referring to Mexican bandits who have
eluded Mexican Army helicopters and troops deployed to defend
the oilfields.  Criminal Charges  Five individuals named in Pemex’s original lawsuit have
pleaded guilty to U.S. criminal charges linked to the smuggling
scheme. None of the people convicted were employed by BASF or
Murphy, the largest of the U.S. firms defending the accusations.  Ileana Blanco, Pemex’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
call or e-mail after regular business hours yesterday seeking
comment on the judge’s ruling.  Shane Pochard, Marathon Petroleum’s spokesman, declined to
immediately comment on yesterday’s ruling. Shell Oil spokeswoman
Deena McMullen and ConocoPhillips representative Aftab Ahmed
didn’t immediately respond to calls or e-mails  after regular
business hours yesterday seeking comment.  Representatives for Philadelphia-based Sunoco Partners
Marketing & Terminals and for San Antonio-based FR Midstream
Transport couldn’t immediately be reached for comment yesterday.  The case is Pemex Exploracion Y Produccion, v. BASF Corp.,
4:10-cv-01997, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Romano in New York at 
 mromano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  