-- Pemex Sues ConocoPhillips, Shell in New Stolen Gas Lawsuit
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-04-11T22:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/pemex-sues-conocophillips-shell-in-new-stolen-gas-lawsuit-1-.html
Pemex Exploracion Y Produccion
filed a new lawsuit against six U.S. energy firms, including
 ConocoPhillips Co. (COP) , after a judge refused to add the firms to a
previous case seeking more than $300 million for stolen Mexican
natural gas condensate sold in the U.S.  The Mexican state-owned  oil company  filed the new claims
after regular business hours in Houston federal court yesterday
after its production unit was denied permission to add the six
U.S. firms to the existing litigation.  In addition to ConocoPhillips and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
affiliates, Shell Chemical Co. and Shell Trading (U.S.) Co.,
Pemex sued  Marathon Petroleum Co. (MPC) , Sunoco Partners Marketing &
Terminals LP and FR Midstream Transport LP in the new action.
Pemex had tried to add the companies to litigation pending since
2010 against  BASF Corp. (BAS) , Murphy Energy Corp. and a number of
other U.S. gas transportation and processing firms.  “The condensate at issue in this lawsuit is the sovereign
property of the United Mexican States,” Mark Maney, Pemex’s
lawyer, said in the new lawsuit. “This lawsuit is directed at
some of the individuals and entities who traded in the stolen
condensate within the  United States .”  Stolen Property  Pemex said in the complaint that some buyers didn’t know
they were buying stolen property, while others knew it was.  In either case, “the defendants took possession of
Mexico’s sovereign property without right or title. All
defendants are therefore liable for their individual usurpation
of Mexico’s patrimony,” Maney said in the filing.  Pemex has accused U.S. companies for two years of
facilitating a black market in natural gas liquids by knowingly
buying the stolen condensate from Mexican bandits. The organized
criminal gangs steal the gas from the Burgos Field in northern
 Mexico  and haul it across the border in hijacked tanker trucks,
according to court papers.  “As long as they see a market for stolen Pemex condensate,
they will find a way to steal it,” James Teater, the firm’s
former attorney, said in court papers in 2010, referring to
thieves who have eluded Mexican army helicopters and troops
deployed to defend the oilfields.  Three Companies  U.S. District Judge Simeon Lake yesterday allowed Pemex to
add three other U.S. firms, Plains Marketing LP, RGV Energy
Partners LLC and St. James Energy Operating Inc., to the
original case. Lake said he found these three companies were
already tangentially involved through related parties.  Five individuals named in Pemex’s original lawsuit have
pleaded guilty to U.S. criminal charges linked to the smuggling
scheme. None of the people convicted were employed by BASF or
Murphy, the largest of the U.S. firms defending the accusations.  Shane Pochard, Marathon Petroleum’s spokesman, declined in
an e-mail today to comment on the litigation. Shell Oil
spokeswoman Kayla Macke and Janet Grothe, a ConocoPhillips
spokeswoman, declined to comment, each citing a company policy
against discussing ongoing litigation.  Representatives for Philadelphia-based Sunoco Partners
Marketing & Terminals and for San Antonio-based FR Midstream
Transport, both of which are closely held, couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment.  The case is Pemex Exploracion Y Produccion, v. Murphy
Energy Corp. et al, 4:12-cv-01081, U.S. District Courts,
Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 