-- Peugeot, Renault Face Pressure as France Probes Repair Costs
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-04-11T14:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/peugeot-renault-face-pressure-as-france-probes-repair-costs-1-.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Renault SA (RNO) ,
France’s biggest carmakers, may face pressure to lower fees for
high-margin repair services as the country’s antitrust authority
targets rising costs in the automobile sector.  Car repair and maintenance prices rose 28 percent from 2000
to 2010 in France, even after adjusting for inflation, Autorite
de la Concurrence, France’s main antitrust body, said in a study
released today. This compares with an increase of less than 10
percent since 1998 in  Germany , the regulator said.  “We’re wondering about this French singularity,” Bruno Lasserre, the antitrust authority’s president, said at a press
conference today in Paris. “Is the lobbying from French
carmakers strong on this subject? Yes, definitely. But we have
to take into account the arguments from all stakeholders, be
they consumers, suppliers or the manufacturers.”  Peugeot and Renault, bracing for the fifth straight year of
declining auto demand in  Europe , rely on service revenue to
offset slumping vehicle deliveries. The French carmakers tend to
generate higher profit margins from the repair and maintenance
segment than car sales, according to the study.  “The spare-parts business has always been a source of
decent profitability,” Jens Schattner, an analyst at Macquarie
Group in  Frankfurt . “Anything that threatens that profitability
would be negative for French carmakers.”  The prices of spare parts rose 13 percent from 2000 to 2010
in France, while they fell everywhere else in Europe over the
same period, according to the study. French carmakers control
about 45 percent of the country’s repair market through garages
that belong to a network approved by the manufacturers, the
Autorite de la Concurrence said.  France ’s CCFA automaker association and two other auto
industry trade groups objected to the findings. The statistics
and the implications about competition in the report may be
“erroneous,” they said today in a joint statement.  A liberalization of the sector, which may benefit consumers
and independent suppliers, would imply a change in French law,
Lasserre said. France will hold the first round of presidential
elections on April 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  