-- Philips’ Rusckowski Resigns, DiSanzo New Healthcare CEO
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-04-12T09:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/philips-rusckowski-resigns-disanzo-new-healthcare-ceo.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV, the
world’s biggest lightbulb maker, said the chief of its health
care unit resigned, the latest departure in a management
reshuffle led by Chief Executive Officer Frans  van Houten .  Steve Rusckowski will be replaced by Deborah DiSanzo, who
has worked at Philips for more than a decade, on May 1, the
company said in a statement late yesterday.  Quest Diagnostics
Inc. (DGX) , the biggest U.S. operator of medical labs, said in a
statement that Rusckowski will become its new chief executive.  Rusckowski’s “sudden departure is a setback,” said Sjoerd Ummels, an analyst at ING in Brussels. The 54-year-old executive
was “instrumental in building out Philips’ health-care
business, the key earnings contributor,” Ummels, who has a hold
recommendation on the stock, said in a note to clients.  Van Houten, who has been in charge for a year, has been
shaking up the Amsterdam-based company’s management ranks.
Philips last month appointed Eric Rondolat to oversee its
lighting division, filling a position that had been left for
almost a year without permanent leadership.  Other new managers include Pieter Nota, who became head of
the Consumer Lifestyle unit in September 2010 with the departure
of Andrea Ragnetti, and Chief Financial Officer Ron Wirahadiraksa, who succeeded Pierre-Jean Sivignon. The company
also appointed Jim Andrew as chief strategy officer last year.  Philips shares rose 1.3 percent to 13.93 euros at 11:47
a.m. in Amsterdam trading.  Challenges for DiSanzo  Philips, which competes with  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
 Siemens AG (SIE)  in selling health equipment, is facing declining
demand as hospitals cut back on orders. Van Houten has announced
a company-wide savings plan involving 4,500 job cuts as demand
for consumer electronics and lighting supplies also slows.  DiSanzo joined Philips in 2001 and became CEO of Healthcare
Informatics and Patient Monitoring in June 2008, Philips said.
Two years ago, she took over as CEO of the company’s Patient
Care and Clinical Informatics unit.  “She has done a really good job in making the Philips
monitoring systems and clinical diagnostics business a clear
global leader,” said Martin Prozesky, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in  London .  In her new role, DiSanzo will face slower growth in the
U.S. health-care market, political challenges in  Europe  and a
need to expand in  emerging markets , according to Prozesky.  “They need to continue to execute well in what will
continue to be a pretty tough environment,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  