-- Philippines Says It’s Locked in Standoff With Chinese Ships
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-04-11T06:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/philippines-says-it-s-locked-in-standoff-with-chinese-ships-1-.html
The Philippines’ biggest warship,
obtained from the U.S. last year, is locked in a standoff with
Chinese vessels over fishing in the  South China Sea , increasing
tensions in disputed waters rich in oil and gas deposits.  Philippine personnel attempting to arrest Chinese fishermen
aboard eight boats on the Scarborough Shoal were blocked by two
marine surveillance ships, the foreign affairs department in
Manila said in an  e-mailed statement  today. The Chinese embassy
responded with a communique calling on the Philippines to cease
“illegal” activities and to leave the area.  The latest incident comes as the Philippines tries to build
support among Southeast Asian nations for a common position on
territorial disputes in the South  China  Sea. China claims most
of the waters as its own and used patrol boats last year to
disrupt hydrocarbon survey activities, chasing away a ship
working for  Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  off the Philippines and slicing
cables of a survey vessel doing work for  Vietnam .  “It’s the law of physics: two competing parties cannot
occupy the same space at the same time,” said Carlyle Thayer, a
politics professor at the Australian Defense Force Academy in
Canberra. “The danger now that this has been publicized is
growing nationalism in the Philippines that leads to greater
resolve for the Philippines to take action.”  ‘Integral Part’  The Chinese fishermen were first spotted in the area on
April 8, according to the Philippine statement, which referred
to the waters as “an integral part of Philippine territory.”
The Philippines is seeking a diplomatic resolution while “we’re
examining all our options,” Philippine Foreign Affairs
Secretary Albert del Rosario told reporters today.  The Philippine ship on April 10 blocked the entrance to a
lagoon where 12 fishing boats sought shelter in rough weather,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Chinese embassy in
 Manila .  “Two Chinese Marine Surveillance ships are in this area
fulfilling the duties of safeguarding Chinese national maritime
rights and interests,” embassy spokesman Hua Zhang said in the
statement. Hua called on the Philippines to “stop immediately
their illegal activities and leave this area.”  Defense Treaty  Both sides said they had lodged diplomatic protests.  The U.S. has a mutual defense treaty with the Philippines
and has boosted military relations with Vietnam in recent years.
Both countries reject China’s  map  of the South China Sea as a
basis for joint development of oil and gas resources and have
pushed ahead with exploration work, leading to more
confrontations as China expands the use of marine surveillance
vessels.  The South China Sea contains oil reserves that may total as
much as 213 billion barrels, according to Chinese studies cited
in 2008 by the U.S. Energy Information Agency. The  Philippines 
said in January it’s ready to host a summit to help resolve
territorial disputes in the South China Sea.  Gregorio del Pilar  Originally launched in 1967 as a U.S. Coast Guard Hamilton
class cutter, the ship was sent to the Philippines last year and
renamed the BRP Gregorio del Pilar. The vessel “is deemed as an
icon of the restoration of the capability upgrade of the armed
forces,” according to a Philippine army  statement .  The Philippines spent $1.5 billion on defense in 2010,
compared with China’s $114 billion, according to data compiled
by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.  The Scarborough Shoal is within the Philippines’ 200
nautical miles exclusive economic zone and continental shelf,
today’s statement from the country’s foreign ministry said.  Other nations have also clashed with Chinese fishing boats
in recent months. A South Korean Coast Guard officer died in
December after being stabbed by a Chinese sailor during an
operation to seize an illegal fishing boat in the  Yellow Sea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  