-- Planned Parenthood Groups Sue Texas Over Health Program Ban
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-11T19:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/planned-parenthood-groups-sue-texas-over-health-program-ban.html
Texas  Planned Parenthood
organizations sued the state over a rule barring them from
participating in the government-funded women’s health program
because they advocate for access to abortions.  The rule, which prohibits the Texas Health and Human
Services Commission from contracting with entities affiliated
with abortion providers and will exclude the operators of 49
health centers from the program after April 30, is
unconstitutional, the Planned Parenthood groups said in a
complaint filed today in federal court in Austin, Texas. They
seek a court order voiding the rule.  The dispute pitting Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican,
against President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, over a state ban on
aid to abortion providers or their affiliates is expected to
force out the nonprofit  Planned Parenthood  organization, which
cares for almost half of the program’s 130,000 participants.  “Given the difficulties of continuing to seek care either
at plaintiffs’ health centers or alternative providers, many of
plaintiffs’ patients will simply go without this preventive care
altogether, resulting in them being at increased risk of
undiagnosed cancer and STIs, unplanned pregnancies, and
abortion,” the Planned Parenthood group said in the complaint.  Replace Federal Funds  Perry pledged last month to replace almost $30 million in
federal funds for the women’s health program that the Obama
administration cut off because of the state ban. Obama has said
Texas can’t block federally approved organizations such as
Planned Parenthood from participating in programs underwritten
by Medicaid, which pays for  health services  for the poor.  Perry blamed the Obama administration’s “pro-abortion
agenda” for the funding cutoff, in a letter last month to
Obama. “The federal government should not be in the business of
protecting abortion providers at the expense of the health of
Texas women,” Perry said in the March 8 document.  “The state of Texas is under no obligation to provide
taxpayer dollars to Planned Parenthood, which accounts for less
than 2 percent of the more than 2,500 WHP providers statewide,”
Catherine Frazier, a spokeswoman for Perry said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Texas law has been very clear from Day One of
this program that abortion providers and their affiliates, like
Planned Parenthood, are not qualified providers.”  The case is Planned Parenthood v. Suehs, 12-00322, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  