-- Poland to Amend Renewables Bill Amid Wind-Farm Investor Concern
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-04-11T14:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/poland-to-amend-renewables-bill-amid-wind-farm-investor-concern.html
Poland , which boosted wind-power
capacity 37 percent last year, will amend a proposed renewable-
energy law after investors said a December draft would hamper
development of new ventures and erode wind-project finances.  The December plans, aimed at saving the government as much
as 1 billion zloty ($313 million), would reduce support for
onshore wind farms, boost subsidies for costlier technologies
and scrap an obligation for utilities to buy fixed-rate power
from renewable sources.  “We are going to restore the obligation to buy energy from
renewable sources at a guaranteed price, based on a formula set
by the market regulator,” said Janusz Pilitowski, director of
the Economy Ministry’s renewables department. The government
also plans to keep subsidies for current and planned wind farms
unchanged for 15 years after commissioning, he said today at a
conference in Warsaw, adding that the level of subsidy for new
projects remains undecided.  Poland, which relies on coal for about 90 percent of its
electricity generation, is seeking to spur development of
alternative energy while shoring up funds to bolster economic
expansion. The nation’s growth is slowing from last year’s 4.3
percent, the fastest annual increase in three years, as demand
for its exports from the euro area wanes.  May Draft  The Economy Ministry received opinions on the December
legislation proposals from almost 100 organizations and plans to
present a new draft law in May.  The  Polish Wind Energy Association , representing investors
in Poland such as  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, EON AG and  Vestas Wind Systems
A/S (VWS) , said the earlier plan may have halted wind-farm
construction because developers would have been unable to gauge
their economic viability. The group welcomed the new proposals.  “It’s not a revolution but definitely a large step in the
right direction,” said Christoph Sowa, the group’s deputy
president. “The crucial element is the restoration of the
obligation to buy renewable output at a set price as it
guarantees revenues.”  Poland’s wind-energy capacity in the  Baltic Sea  could reach
10,000 megawatts, generating 30 terawatt-hours a year, or almost
20 percent of annual consumption, according to the Polish
Offshore Wind Energy Society. The Transport, Construction and
Maritime  Economy Ministry  said in February it had 47
applications to build Baltic wind projects after extending the
validity of permits to attract investors.  Poland has more than 2,000 megawatts of installed wind
capacity, grid operator PSE Operator SA said in February. Wind
farms generated 2.8 terawatt-hours of electricity last year, or
1.8 percent of the nation’s consumption, grid data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  