-- Prepaid Card Use Up 18% as Consumers Drop Debit: Study
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-04-11T14:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/prepaid-card-use-up-18-as-consumers-drop-debit-study.html
Prepaid card use rose by about 18
percent in 2011 as consumers dropped traditional banking
products such as checking accounts with higher fees, according
to a study released today.  About 13 percent of U.S. adults had prepaid cards in 2011
compared with 11 percent in 2010, according to the study by
Pleasanton, California-based Javelin Strategy & Research, a
market-research firm.  “People used to think of them as cards for people who
didn’t have a lot of money, whereas today they’re becoming much
more common for a variety of uses and a variety of
demographics,” said Beth Robertson, director of payments
research for Javelin.  Regulations that have increased the cost of checking and
debit products may be partly driving the shift, in addition to
consumers choosing prepaid as a budgeting tool, Robertson said.  About 88 percent of consumers had a checking account in
2011, down from 92 percent in 2010, the study found. Consumers
with credit cards fell to 67 percent from 74 percent, and those
with  debit cards  dropped to 66 percent from 78 percent.  At the same time, those who hold credit and debit cards are
using them more. Consumers spent about 5.7 percent more on their
credit cards in March than they did the year before, according
to a report from payment processor First Data Corp. Spending on
debit transactions in which consumers enter their personal
identification numbers was up 14.6 percent and rose 8.4 percent
for those in which buyers sign for a purchase.  Higher Spending   Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s biggest payments
networks, reported higher spending for 2011, compared with the
previous year. U.S. credit- and debit-card purchases climbed 9.5
percent to $2.04 trillion at Visa, based in  San Francisco , and
11 percent to $901 billion at Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard, the companies’ data show. New York-based  American
Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases,
said spending surged 13 percent last year to $542.8 billion.  “Overall spending is continuing to grow, despite the fact
that fewer consumers have those cards in their wallets,”
Robertson said.  Consumers pay about 21 percent more in fees for basic
checking accounts than they did six years ago, and an average
consumer may pay about $7.72 a month in a combination of monthly
and automated teller machine fees, according to a related
Javelin study released in February.  Cost of Regulation  The fees have increased as regulation stemming from the
Dodd-Frank Act has curbed other revenue sources. The financial
overhaul limited the fees the biggest banks may charge merchants
on debit transactions. Together with rules that require banks to
obtain consumers’ consent for overdraft protection, that has
cost the industry about $12.2 billion annually, according to
Javelin.  Some banks may offer prepaid cards to consumers who get
rejected when applying for a checking account, Robertson said.
 BB&T Corp. (BBT)  and U.S. Bancorp offer prepaid cards directly to
consumers. About 24 percent of prepaid owners have been offered
cards by a bank, according to the study.  “Banks have become a little more sensitive to revenue
around the checking account, and so have tightened risk
parameters for people’s qualifications to open a checking
account,” she said.  Routine Fees  BB&T may charge a $10 monthly fee for its prepaid cards
that’s reduced to $5 for users who add at least $1,000 to their
cards in a month. U.S. Bancorp may charge nothing for cash
deposits made at its branches and may charge a $3 monthly fee
and $1 to check a card’s balance at a non- U.S. Bancorp (USB)  ATM.  “When you tally up the total of fees for routine financial
transactions you can easily pay more than you would with a low-
cost or free checking account,” which consumers may be able to
find with  credit unions  or community banks, said Greg McBride,
senior financial analyst for Bankrate.com, a unit of North  Palm
Beach , Florida-based  Bankrate Inc. (RATE)   Prepaid cardholders on average said they pay about $1.96 to
add money to their cards, the study found.  Green Dot Corp. (GDOT) , which provides prepaid cards to consumers
online and through stores, may charge as much as a $4.95
activation fee for cards purchased through a store, plus $5.95 a
month unless cardholders meet certain transaction or other
requirements.  Javelin surveyed more than 3,000 U.S. adults online in
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 