-- Profit Drop at U.S. Banks Imperils Rally
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-11T20:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/profit-drop-at-u-s-banks-imperils-rally.html
The six largest U.S. lenders,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Wells Fargo & Co., may post
an 11 percent drop in first-quarter profit, threatening a rally
that pushed bank stocks 19 percent higher this year.  The  banks  will post $15.3 billion in net income when
adjusted for one-time items, down from $17.3 billion in last
year’s first quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts. Trading revenue at the biggest lenders is projected to
fall 23 percent to $18.3 billion, according to Morgan Stanley
analysts, who didn’t include their firm or Wells Fargo.  “You can’t expect bank stocks to go straight to the
moon,” said  Peter Kovalski , a  money manager  at Alpine Woods
Capital Investors LLC in Purchase,  New York , which manages about
$5 billion. “You have to expect fundamentals to catch up, and
there are some headwinds facing the industry. There is a little
too much optimism going into this quarter.”  U.S. lenders, struggling to expand in commercial banking
years after the housing collapse, haven’t matched last year’s
overall results, even as bond and equity markets strengthened.
Making matters worse, loan balances increased less than the
economy, bucking a trend in previous recoveries, said Brian Foran, a New York-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  ‘Complete Reversal’  Loans at the top 25 domestically chartered commercial banks
rose 0.4 percent in the quarter through March 28, slowing from 1
percent growth in the previous three months, according to the
 Federal Reserve . Loans fell to  $4.04 trillion  from a peak of
$4.24 trillion in the fourth quarter of 2008, according to the
Fed. The  U.S. economy  expanded 2 percent in the first quarter,
according to estimates from 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There will be times in this cycle, like this quarter,
when GDP growth and loan growth don’t necessarily track each
other,” Foran said in an interview. “It’s a complete reversal
of the fourth quarter, when  capital markets  were weak and loan
growth was strong.”  The results may disappoint investors who piled into banking
stocks on a bet the industry was inexpensive and set to benefit
from a strengthening economy, he said.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 companies climbed 26 percent in
the first quarter, led by  Bank of America Corp. ’s 72 percent
gain and Regions Financial Corp.’s 53 percent. Financial
services topped all sectors in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   Over the past five trading days ending yesterday, the KBW
Index fell 6.4 percent. That may mean fewer investors sell
shares if first-quarter results disappoint, Kovalski said.  The gauge rose 2.1 percent today in New York trading, led
by Bank of America, up 3.8 percent, and KeyCorp, with a gain of
3.4 percent. JPMorgan rose 2.4 percent.  Book Values  Still, lenders are cheaper than they were last year, as
measured by the ratios of their stock prices to earnings
estimates over the next 12 months and to book values. The price-
to-earnings ratio for the KBW Index was 10.8 as of yesterday,
down from 13.7 on April 11, 2011. The ratio of price to tangible
book value, a measure of what investors are willing to pay for a
company’s equity after removing intangible items such as
goodwill, stood at 1.22 compared with 1.53 a year earlier.  Investors will get a first look at results when JPMorgan
and  Wells Fargo (WFC)  kick off earnings, about an hour apart, on April
13.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is set to announce results April 16, followed
by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America and Morgan Stanley.  JPMorgan, the largest and most profitable U.S. lender, may
say net income fell  19 percent , adjusting for one-time items,
from the same period a year earlier to $4.53 billion, according
to the average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Earnings per share will fall to $1.18, the analysts estimate.
Revenue at the New York-based bank is projected to fall 4.1
percent to $24.2 billion.  Wells, BofA  Profit at San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, the most
valuable  U.S. bank  and biggest home lender, is estimated to
climb 7.8 percent to $3.85 billion, analysts estimate. Revenue
probably was little changed at about $20.4 billion.  Bank of America , second by assets to JPMorgan and based in
Charlotte,  North Carolina , may post $1.73 billion in adjusted
earnings, about 1 percent less than the year-earlier period,
according to the Bloomberg survey. Citigroup may report a 7
percent gain in adjusted profit to $3.21 billion. Goldman
Sachs’s net income is projected to fall 29 percent to $1.81
billion. Citigroup and Goldman Sachs are based in New York.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment, as did Wells Fargo’s  Mary Eshet , Bank of America’s
 Jerry Dubrowski , Goldman Sachs’s  Michael DuVally  and Citigroup’s
Shannon Bell.  Trading Revenue  For those banks with the largest capital-markets
operations, the bond markets provided one bright spot.  Underwriters sold more than $628 billion in U.S. corporate
debt in the first quarter, increasing from less than $561
billion in the prior year’s first three months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan ranked first, selling $79.7
billion, and Citigroup came in second with $62.2 billion. Wells
Fargo was 10th, with $25.5 billion in sales. Wells Fargo, whose
12-month stock performance has outpaced its largest peers,
depends the least on capital markets for profit.  While trading probably fell short of last year, analysts
estimate it jumped from the fourth quarter. Revenue in the
fixed-income, currencies and commodities-trading divisions at
Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs probably
totaled $14.3 billion in the first quarter,  Betsy Graseck , a
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  analyst, estimated in an April 3 report. That
would be an 18 percent decline from the $17.5 billion generated
a year earlier and more than double the fourth quarter, when it
slumped to $6.9 billion, Graseck wrote.  ‘More Defensive’  Equity-trading revenue may have fallen 34 percent to $4
billion and fees from underwriting equities may have dropped 18
percent to $1.15 billion over the prior year, according to the
estimates. Revenue from mergers and acquisitions advice may have
declined 30 percent.  Trading got a lift from rising asset prices with those
banks bringing the largest inventories into the quarter likely
doing the best, according to Charles Peabody, an analyst at
Portales Partners LLC in New York. U.S. investment-grade and
high-yield corporate debt rose 3 percent in the first quarter,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index data.  “We’ve gotten more defensive in the last several weeks,”
Peabody said in a phone interview. “Fee income will be pretty
strong given fixed-income results and asset appreciation. By
contrast, we think top-line and the basic banking business will
be disappointing.”  Peabody said bank stocks could fall 20 percent to 30
percent from their recent highs.  Net Interest Margins  Central bankers aren’t helping. Fed officials affirmed
their projection, first announced in January, that subdued
inflation and economic slack probably will warrant low rates
through late 2014, according to minutes of the March policy
meeting released this month. That cuts into  net interest
margins , the difference between what banks earn on loans and
what they pay for funds. At the four largest U.S. banks by
assets, margins dropped to 2.99 percent in the fourth quarter
from 3.17 percent a year earlier.  “It will be a while until the industry gets back to its
optimal returns,” said Kovalski of Alpine Woods Capital
Advisors. “We had a lot of underweighted portfolios quickly
increasing their allocation to the sector. Now the question is
will they hold it there, or will they get antsy that the group
isn’t generating the quick turnaround that was expected?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  