-- Putin Rejects Constitutional Limits on Right to Fourth Term
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-04-11T12:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/putin-rejects-constitutional-limits-on-right-to-fourth-term-1-.html
Vladimir Putin  won’t accept new
constitutional limits that would prevent him from extending his
rule as Russia’s president until 2024 as he returns to the
Kremlin after four years as premier.  Speaking today at the lower house of parliament, Putin said
he supported a proposal to impose a two-term presidential limit.
The measure, which would replace the current ban on three
consecutive terms, wouldn’t apply to him, Putin said.  “As far as removing from the constitution two consecutive
terms and making it just two terms -- I think it makes sense,”
Putin said in Moscow in his last appearance before the State
Duma as head of government. “I am being quite honest with you,
and not only because I am less concerned by it” because “the
law wouldn’t be retroactive.”  Putin, 59, who hasn’t ruled out a fourth presidential term
from 2018, will be inaugurated on May 7 as president after
winning re-election last month. He can legally serve two more
consecutive six-year terms, which would give him 24 years in
power, the longest for any Russian leader since  Josef Stalin .  The president-elect, who faced unprecedented protests
against his rule after allegations of fraud in December
parliamentary elections, called on his opponents to rally round
and cooperate with his government.  Emotions, Battles  “The country went through a tense period of parliamentary
and presidential elections and of course today we still feel the
aftershocks of heightened emotions, political battles,” Putin
said. “But the logic of mature democracy is that when elections
are over, another much more important phase of joint work
starts. We need to look to the future.”  Defying the appeal, lawmakers from the Just Russia
opposition party walked out of the Duma during Putin’s speech in
protest over his comments about a disputed mayoral vote in
Astrakhan. Putin said election outcomes should be contested in
courts and may be overturned if voter fraud affect the final
tally. Just Russia leaders in the Volga city of Astrakhan have
been on hunger strike for almost a month after Putin’s United
Russia party candidate Mikhail Stolyarov won the March 4 ballot
with 60 percent.  Police earlier detained about 10 opposition activists who
protested outside the parliament building holding white ribbons,
which have become a symbol of Putin’s opponents.  Opposition parties claim that the ruling party inflated its
share of the vote in the Dec. 4 parliamentary elections from 30
to around 50 percent. Putin, who persuaded his protege, outgoing
President  Dmitry Medvedev , to step aside and back his Kremlin
return, won the presidency last month with almost 64 percent.
Medvedev, 46, is set to replace Putin as premier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  