-- Transocean Fighting Subpoenas in CSB Probe of Deepwater Horizon
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-04-11T22:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/transocean-fighting-subpoenas-in-csb-probe-of-deepwater-horizon.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  asked a U.S. judge
to block the U.S. Chemical Safety Board’s investigation of the
fatal explosion of the Deepwater Horizon on claims the agency
lacks authority to probe offshore rig disasters.  The world’s largest offshore drilling company has been
fighting agency subpoenas for more than a year. The CSB seeks
information related to the 2010 explosion that killed 11 workers
and sparked the  BP Plc (BP/)   oil spill  in the  Gulf of Mexico , the
worst offshore spill in U.S. history.  “The CSB lacks jurisdiction to investigate the Macondo
incident,’’ Steven Roberts, one of Transocean’s lawyers, said in
a court filing yesterday, referring to the BP well that blew out
off the coast of  Louisiana . Transocean contends the CSB only has
investigative authority on shore and can’t probe either marine
oil spills or disasters involving facilities floating outside of
U.S. territorial waters.  Transocean’s lawyer David Baay told U.S. District Judge Lee
Rosenthal in a hearing in Houston federal court today that the
agency can’t “unilaterally expand’’ its authority to the outer
continental shelf without Congressional authorization. He said
CSB would’ve investigated earlier fatal hazardous-substance
releases in non-territorial waters if the agency believed it had
authority there.  “Have there been similar releases of this magnitude?’’
Rosenthal asked Baay.  Unique Magnitude  “The magnitude here may be unique but there have certainly
been ambient releases before’’ in outer continental shelf
waters, Baay replied. The Deepwater Horizon blast occurred
“where they’ve never conducted an investigation before.’’  Rosenthal asked CSB’s lawyer why the agency had skipped
investigating earlier offshore disasters. “So you are saying,
‘We had the authority but we didn’t use it because there was
never a release of sufficient magnitude and with these
consequences to justify it?’’’ she said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Adam Goldman, CSB’s attorney,
confirmed that was the agency’s position.  Transocean Deepwater Drilling didn’t fully comply with “38
of 39 specific demands’’ in five subpoenas CSB issued between
November 2010 and April 2011, Donald Holmstrom, the agency’s
lead investigator for the Deepwater Horizon, said in court
filings. Among other “critical’’ information, CSB said, the
Vernier, Switzerland-based driller has refused to turn over
contact information for rig witnesses or safety studies on
Transocean’s policy of requiring crews to work 21 consecutive
days of 12-hour shifts while offshore.  Began Investigation  The CSB began investigating the April 20, 2010, blowout in
June of that year, at the request of several representatives of
the  U.S. Congress . A year later, Transocean’s lawyers told the
agency it should leave any investigation to the Environmental
Protection Agency or the U.S. Coast Guard, which has authority
over marine spills.  CSB counters that it is investigating the deadly explosion,
not the oil spill that followed.  “The reason we’re here has nothing to do with the oil
spill,’’ Goldman, CSB’s lawyer, told Rosenthal. “The reason
we’re here has to do with the loss of 11 lives’’ in an explosive
release of hazardous substances.  CSB and Transocean also disagree on whether the Deepwater
Horizon, as a floating drilling rig, should be considered a
vessel or a stationary installation. Transocean said the rig is
a vessel, which would place it outside of CSB’s investigative
reach. The agency said it considers it a stationary installation
because the rig was attached to the sea floor by several miles
of drill pipe and seabed-based equipment at the time of the
blast.  Statutory Responsibility  BP, which has acknowledged statutory responsibility for the
oil spill, sued Transocean and other contractors on the Macondo
project over actions BP claims helped cause the blast. Both
London-based BP and Transocean face potentially billions of
dollars in fines for alleged violations of U.S. pollution laws
in the incident.  The New Orleans judge in charge of hundreds of consolidated
oil-spill damage lawsuits postponed a trial, originally set to
begin in February, over which companies share fault for the
Deepwater Horizon explosion. That trial may be rescheduled after
a hearing next month over details of BP’s out-of-court
settlement with victims of the spill.  The case is U.S. v. Transocean Deepwater Drilling Inc.,
4:11-cv-3638, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston federal court at laurel@calkins.us.com.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 