-- Travelzoo Advances on Report of Possible Sale: New York Mover
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-04-11T20:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/travelzoo-advances-on-report-of-possible-sale-new-york-mover.html
Travelzoo Inc. (TZOO)  surged the most in
almost six years after Reuters said the company has sought an
adviser and plans to sell itself.  The shares rose 28 percent to $27.06 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since April 18, 2006. An acquirer would
get more than 20 million subscribers and a niche player in the
high-end Internet deals business, an area  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  has been
trying to enter, said Dan Kurnos, an analyst at Benchmark Co.
Reuters, citing three people it didn’t identify, reported today
that the company plans to seek a buyer.  The New York-based Internet media company has more than 24
million subscribers, who receive information about deals for
travel, entertainment and other products and services, according
to a February regulatory filing. A buyer could take advantage of
Travelzoo’s $13.2 million in free  cash flow  and an
“attractive” valuation compared with peers, Kurnos said.  “It wouldn’t cost them a lot to leverage local deals in a
profitable way,” Kurnos said in an interview. He has a hold
rating on Travelzoo.  A Travelzoo spokeswoman, Lisa Moore, declined to comment.  Travelzoo trades at 14.7 times trailing 12-month earnings,
while similar companies  trade  at an average of 26.9 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Buyers who may be interested in Travelzoo’s customer base
include  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the leading Web-search provider;  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , the largest online retailer; and LivingSocial.com, the
main competitor to Groupon, because they’re all companies that
have been trying to increase profit from Internet deals, Kurnos
said.  Amazon owns a 31 percent stake in LivingSocial. The book
value of the investment was $208 million as of Dec. 31,
according to a regulatory filing.  Google and Amazon didn’t immediately respond to telephone
messages from Bloomberg seeking comment this morning. Those
companies and Travelzoo declined to comment to Reuters,
according to the  report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  