-- Regulation Needed for Gas Fracking Technology, Chu Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-04-11T22:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/regulation-needed-for-gas-fracking-technology-chu-says.html
Government must have a role in
overseeing new technologies for developing oil and natural gas
to prevent damage to natural resources, U.S. Energy Secretary
Steven Chu said.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, for gas has transformed
domestic energy production in the past four years, Chu said
today at a conference in  New York . While most drillers operate
responsibly, some may seek to skirt rules and risk damaging the
environment, he said.  “The technology for recovering oil and gas through
hydraulic fracturing has really raced ahead,” Chu said.
“That’s something I believe that can be developed very
responsibly. There has to be a regulatory role because there may
be some people who want to cut corners.”  In fracking, millions of gallons of chemically treated
water are injected underground to break up rock and free trapped
gas. Supply increases have helped push gas prices to 10-year
lows.  Drillers risk causing serious environmental damage from
fracking unless they commit to the best engineering practices, a
 task force  named by Chu concluded last year.  President  Barack Obama  backed drilling for natural gas in
shale rock in his Jan. 24 State of the Union address and called
for an “all-out” U.S. effort to develop cleaner energy sources
that will help boost the economy. Fracking could create more
than 600,000 jobs by the end of the decade, Obama said.  EPA Rules  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has proposed rules
on the disposal of drilling wastewater and on emissions from oil
and gas wells. Fumes from wells include methane, the main
component of natural gas, which worsens  climate change , and
volatile organic compounds, which contribute to ground-level
ozone.  The emissions rule would require all new and any modified
wells to use equipment to capture fumes that escape in the
production and processing of natural gas. The agency said it
will issue a final rule by April 17.  The  American Petroleum Institute , a  Washington  group that
represents oil and gas companies, says drillers will be forced
to postpone new wells to comply with the emissions rule.  “Energy production from shale-rock formations is already
tightly regulated,” Simon Lomax, research director for
industry-funded Energy in Depth in Washington, said. “You
cannot get oil or gas out of shale without meeting the
requirements of state and federal environmental laws, and the
myriad regulations issued under them.”  Wyoming Wells  Gas well emissions prompted Wyoming officials to ask the
EPA to designate part of the state an ozone non-attainment area,
a label used for urban regions such as  Los Angeles , which would
force mandatory steps to reduce pollution. The EPA is expected
to make a determination in May.  “Air pollution is a significant problem here,” Mark Brownstein, chief counsel to the  Environmental Defense Fund ,
said at the conference, sponsored by The New York Times. “There
are tangible things we can do right now to make natural gas a
better option in terms of fighting global warming.”  Separately, the U.S. Interior Department is drafting rules
to update well-design standards and require disclosure of the
chemicals used in fracking on federal lands. Steven Mueller,
chief executive officer for  Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN) , a natural-
gas producer, said the proposal, while on “the right track,”
needs improvement.  “There’s some things they’re asking for, reporting, that’s
almost impossible,” Mueller said in an interview. “They’re
asking for real-time reporting of what you’re doing in the
field. There’s some things I don’t think they thought all the
way through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  