-- RIM Plans Middle Eastern Retail Push With Dubai Store
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-11T20:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/rim-plans-middle-eastern-retail-push-with-dubai-store.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , seeking to
offset plunging U.S. sales, is preparing to open stores across
the  Middle East  where local demand for its BlackBerry phones has
held up better.  The company is in the final stages of negotiating a lease
on a flagship store of up to 1,500 square feet (140 square
meters) in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates city-state known for
its glitzy malls, said Sandeep Saihgal, managing director of
RIM’s Middle East business. Stores with local partner Axiom
Telecom are planned across the region, he said.  “We’re getting the first one up and running and then we’ll
be looking at other cities across the Middle East -- Saudi
Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar,” Saihgal said in an interview yesterday
at RIM’s headquarters in Waterloo, Ontario, where he was
visiting from his base in Dubai.  While Americans are dumping their BlackBerrys for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone or Android devices, RIM is counting on first-time
smartphone buyers across the Middle East,  Africa  and  Asia  to
choose a BlackBerry. Helped by features like the free instant-
messaging BlackBerry Messenger program, shipments in the Middle
East and Africa more than doubled to 2.29 million units in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, outselling the iPhone by a
margin of 4-to-1, IDC data show.  Africa Next?  RIM’s push into retail mimics the strategy of Apple, which
is relying on its own stores around the world in addition to
partners to sell its products. In February, RIM said it is
planning about 4,000 outlets across Indonesia, including
dedicated BlackBerry stores, store-in-stores and kiosks, a
“proving ground” for an expansion across southeast Asia.  The Middle East expansion will probably be followed by
Africa, with RIM planning flagship stores in markets including
Nairobi, Kenya, and Lagos,  Nigeria ,  Patrick Spence , RIM’s global
head of sales, said in the interview with Saihgal.  To cater to local tastes, RIM plans to customize the look
of its Middle Eastern stores with Axiom, which bills itself as
the Middle East’s largest mobile-phone distributor.  “The Middle East is different from Indonesia and what we
need to do is a little bit different in terms of the experience
we want to deliver,” Spence said. “We’re being very focused in
terms of the countries and cities we’re doing it in, based on
where the brand is and what we think we need to do.”  RIM  rose  0.9 percent to $13.05 at the close in  New York .
The stock has tumbled 76 percent over the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  