-- Superbug Rise Spurs Rule for Animal Antibiotics
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-11T22:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/rise-of-superbugs-spurs-u-s-call-for-less-drugs-use-in-animals.html
Farmers will need prescriptions to
get antibiotics for their livestock and the drugs should only be
given when medically necessary to avoid overuse that can foster
resistance, U.S. regulators  said  today.  The  Food and Drug Administration  also suggested in three
papers released today that drugmakers change their labels to
remove production uses of antibiotics, including for weight gain
and accelerated growth. Even though farmers will need
prescriptions for the antibiotics, they aren’t bound by the new
guidelines to restrict nonmedical uses of the drugs.  Foodborne outbreaks from pathogens that are resistant to
antibiotics have sickened 19,897 people and killed 26 from 1973
to 2009, according to the  Center for Science in the Public
Interest , a Washington-based consumer advocacy group. The agency
said it has asked drugmakers to phase in the label changes
removing the use of antibiotics for growth promotion and
including veterinary consultation on the medicines.  “The new strategy will ensure farmers and veterinarians
can care for animals while ensuring the medicines people need
remain safe and effective,” FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg 
said in a statement.  A draft document the agency released today outlines ways
that veterinarians can authorize the use of certain animal drugs
in feed for health reasons. Prescriptions already are required
for some antibiotics used mostly in injected forms and not in
 animal feed , said  Siobhan DeLancey , an FDA spokeswoman.  Label Change Guidelines  Another draft guides drugmakers in voluntarily removing the
production uses of antibiotics from their FDA-approved labels
and adding veterinary consultation. The agency has a commitment
from companies to voluntarily change their labels,  Michael
Taylor , deputy commissioner for foods at the FDA, said on a
telephone call with reporters.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , based in New York,
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , based in Indianapolis and  Merck & Co. (MRK) , based in
 Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , have animal health units, though
Pfizer has indicated it will sell its division.  Drugmakers should be able to implement label changes within
three years of FDA finishing the guidance released today. The
agency said it plans to release a final document about the end
of this year.  Bacteria can mutate in ways that make them resistant to
treatments and pass those traits to offspring or other microbes.
A pathogen with multiple immunities takes more time and more
powerful drugs to control.  Voluntary Approach  A voluntary approach will lead to faster results and prove
more effective, Taylor said in February. Another option,
rescinding approval for drugs used in livestock, is a laborious
and time-consuming process, he said.  The  American Meat Institute , the Washington-based trade
association for packers and processors of meat and poultry, said
in a statement it is reviewing the guidance and will work with
the FDA.  “The goal of giving veterinarians greater oversight of
antibiotic use in food animals is commendable, but cattlemen are
concerned with the feasibility of implementing the veterinary
feed directives given practical hurdles,” said Tom Talbot,
chairman of the  National Cattlemen’s Beef Association ’s cattle
health and well-being committee, in a statement.  The  National Pork Producers Council , which represents 43
state associations, has said producers are voluntarily
curtailing drug use and taking other steps to prevent disease.
Requiring veterinary approval for animal antibiotic use will
disproportionately affect small producers because they have
limited access to the services, the council said today in a
statement. The FDA acknowledged the potential hurdle and said it
is interested in hearing comments on how to overcome it.  Consumer Response  Consumer groups say allowing the industry to police itself
will fail. Advocacy groups have filed lawsuits and petitioned
U.S. agencies to establish firm mandates to curb antibiotic use
in agriculture.  “Industry is not required to do anything,” Avinash Kar,
an attorney for the  Natural Resources Defense Council , wrote
today on the New York-based environmental group’s blog. “This
is an ineffective response to the real and sobering threat of
rising antibiotic resistance, which threatens human health.”  Laura Rogers, director of the  Pew Campaign on Human Health
and Industrial Farming , called the FDA’s move today “the most
sweeping action the agency has undertaken in this area,” and
said the voluntary nature requires that if the new guidelines
don’t bring down antibiotic use, the agency should do more.  A lawsuit the National Resources Defense Council brought in
federal district court in  New York  last May seeks to limit
certain antibiotics in the food of animals that aren’t ill,
known as subtherapeutic use.  A strain of potentially deadly antibiotic resistant
bacterium known as MSRA, or staph, has jumped from food to
humans, according to a Feb. 21 study led by the Translational
Genomics Research Institute, a Phoenix,  Arizona  based nonprofit
that does research on genetic components of diseases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  