-- Roches Urges Illumina Talks Starting at $51-a-Share Bid
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-04-11T22:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/roches-urges-illumina-talks-starting-at-51-a-share-bid.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  indicated it is
willing to raise a $51-a-share bid for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , calling
its current offer a “more than reasonable starting point for
negotiations” in a letter to Illumina shareholders.  Investors in the genome-sequencing company “should have
the right to choose between Roche’s $51 all-cash offer, plus any
increase to that offer that negotiations between Roche and
Illumina may produce, and an uncertain future amid increasing
headwinds for Illumina and the broader sequencing sector,”
Roche Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan wrote yesterday.  “That kind of says you could get $51 and then some,”  Les Funtleyder , a  fund manager  who helps oversee $100 million at
Miller Tabak & Co., including Illumina shares, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s at least a signal that Roche would
be willing to increase its offer.”  The Swiss drugmaker said last week it is willing to study
“additional value” in its proposal to San Diego-based Illumina
after a proxy-advisory firm recommended the target company’s
shareholders reject the $6.7 billion offer. Roche raised its bid
on March 29, from an initial offer of $44.50 in January.
Illumina rejected both as inadequate and refused to negotiate.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer medicines, has
proposed board nominees for Illumina, which has its annual
meeting scheduled for April 18. Illumina rose less than 1
percent yesterday to close at $52.57 in New York trading.  Spokesmen for Illumina declined to comment on Roche’s
letter.  Future Prospects  Roche said in its letter that Illumina’s future as an
independent company is “far from certain,” disputing a
comparison Illumina cited recently between itself and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most valuable company and the maker of the
iPhone and iPad.  “Apple’s revolutionary products were huge and
instantaneous commercial successes, appealing to a seemingly
endless consumer base around the world,” Schwan said in the
letter. “Illumina’s products on the other hand, although
‘revered by genomics researchers around the world,’ serve a much
smaller and highly regulated market.”  Roche cited its size, industry knowledge and sales force as
the reasons the Basel, Switzerland-based company would be able
to increase Illumina’s business.  “It’s interesting that Apple’s become the benchmark by
which to measure technological progress now,” Funtleyder said.
“Illumina may not be Apple, but it is currently the market
leader in genomics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  