-- Romania's in Advanced Talks With World Bank, Dragoi Says
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-04-11T16:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/romania-s-in-advanced-talks-with-world-bank-dragoi-says.html
Romania  is in “advanced talks”
with the  World Bank  for a 1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion) loan to
shield the nation against the sovereign debt crisis, Finance
Minister Bogdan Dragoi said.  The Washington-based lender’s board of directors will
probably meet in early June to discuss the precautionary loan,
which Romania doesn’t plan to use, Dragoi said in an interview
in Bucharest today. A pre-condition for the loan is the overhaul
of the country’s tax agency, he said.  “We don’t plan to draw on the funds, we’ll keep the loan
as a buffer amid the economic crisis considering the latest news
from  Spain  and  Italy ,” Dragoi said. “It’s good to have it
there, on top of the four-month financing buffer and the other
loans.”  Europe ’s debt woes have returned to the fore with Spanish
and Italian bond yields rising after Spain announced on March 2
that it wouldn’t meet a European Union-approved deficit target.
The World Bank credit would be Romania’s third backstop against
the crisis after 5 billion euros were secured last year in deals
with the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU. Romania hasn’t
drawn any funds so far.  The new loan will probably have a maturity of three years,
Francois Rantrua, the World Bank’s country manager, said in a
Jan. 26 interview.  Dragoi also said the ministry hasn’t yet decided whether to
roll over 700 million euros in euro-denominated bonds due on May
8. “We’re very flexible, considering we’ve already issued
dollar bonds twice this year,” he said.  Romania’s economy probably expanded on an annual basis in
the three months through March, even after disruptions from cold
weather, Dragoi said. The nation is due to report gross domestic
product data for the period on May 15. The minister declined to
comment on quarterly economic figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  