-- Rosengren Says U.S. Money Funds Threaten Financial Stability
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-04-11T16:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/rosengren-says-u-s-money-funds-pose-risk-to-financial-stability.html
Money-market funds  in the U.S. may
be taking excessive risks that pose a threat to financial
stability by holding European debt whose value could decline if
the region’s crisis worsened, said Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Boston President  Eric Rosengren .  “A significant source of the credit risk in many prime
money market funds over the past year has been the large
exposure to European banks,” Rosengren said at Stone Mountain,
 Georgia , today. In evaluating “risk from unexpected problems in
 Europe , money-market funds remain an important potential
transmission channel to the  United States ,” he said.  Rosengren presented the most detailed public argument yet
by a Fed official on the need for new money fund rules.
Regulators and executives of the $2.6 trillion industry have
debated how to make the funds safer since Reserve Primary Fund’s
collapse in 2008, which triggered industrywide investor
withdrawals that contributed to a freeze in global credit
markets.  Rosengren endorsed proposals by staff at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to reduce risk by requiring
firms to maintain capital buffers or to redeem shares at the
market value of underlying assets rather than at a fixed price
of $1.  “The status quo is not acceptable,” he said. “Funds need
to be structured so that neither sponsor support nor government
support is likely or necessary, even during times of stress.”  Lehman Brothers Collapse  Rosengren’s comments echoed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who
called this week for additional steps to curb “shadow banking”
operating beyond standard oversight.  “Additional steps to increase the resiliency of money
market funds are important for the overall stability of our
financial system and warrant serious consideration,” Bernanke
said.  Following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in 2008, Bernanke flooded the financial system with liquidity by
opening facilities that provided credit to money market funds,
primary dealers, commercial paper markets and banks.  The 2008 run on money funds abated only after the  U.S.
Treasury  guaranteed their shareholders against losses for a year
and the Fed began buying fund holdings at face value to help
them make redemptions.  The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul prohibits the Treasury
from repeating such a bailout, and government officials,
including SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , have vowed to avoid
putting taxpayer money at risk again in defending the product.  Breaking the Buck  Money fund executives have argued that the industry’s woes
were limited to the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, which
fell below its $1 share price, or “broke the buck,” in
September 2008 because it held about 3 percent of its assets in
debt issued by  Lehman Brothers .  In 2010 the SEC introduced liquidity minimums, average
maturity limits and new disclosure requirements. Schapiro has
since said additional steps are necessary to strengthen the
product. Rosengren agreed with that assessment in today’s
comments.  “The assumption of significant credit risk is not
appropriate for intermediaries that have no capital and
implicitly promise a fixed net asset value,” he said. “Without
additional reforms, this structural problem could trigger or
amplify future financial stability problems.”  Rosengren gave figures on the number of money funds that
required bailouts from their parent companies during and since
the financial crisis. At least 47 funds have received direct
support via cash contributions or through an outright purchase
of distressed securities at above-market prices, he said.  Risk Level  Rosengren also presented data on the risk level of money
fund holdings, as measured by the price of credit-default swaps,
which represent insurance for debt buyers against default.  Twenty-three percent of holdings in prime money funds as of
Sept. 30 had an issuer, sponsor or liquidity provider with a CDS
quote of between 200 basis points and 300 basis points, compared
with 30 basis points for U.S. government securities, he said.  “This highlights that credit markets are assigning a
significant chance that some money market fund investments that
current regulation deem permissible could in fact default,” he
said.  Rosengren’s speech comes after the fund industry has made
increasingly public protests over the SEC’s plans, supported by
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and some members of Congress.  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the third largest U.S. money-fund
provider, has threatened to sue should the SEC proceed with
either of its plans.  Rosengren, who was formerly a bank regulator at the Boston
Fed, said some funds have taken on excessive credit risks that
are not understood by investors and “absent some changes, still
pose some risks to financial stability.”  The Boston Fed president didn’t comment on the  U.S. economy 
or monetary policy in his prepared remarks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  