-- Brazil's All-In Bet on Amazon Dams Jeopardizes Economic Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/rousseff-roils-amazon-as-brazil-hydropower-makes-people-homeless.html
Jose Carlos Arara puts a tarnished
38-caliber revolver into his waistband. It’s a sweltering, mid-
November morning in the Brazilian Amazon rain forest, and the
31-year-old Indian chief walks through the jungle to check on
his tribe’s yuca crop.  Assassins are hunting Arara, police say, because he opposes
plans to build the world’s third-largest hydroelectric dam
across the Xingu River, 2,300 kilometers north of Sao Paulo. The
Xingu flows halfway across the country from  Brazil ’s western
grain belt to the heart of the Amazon, and the 116 members of
his tribe, the Araras, depend on the river for fishing,
transport and drinking water.  Two armed policemen escort Arara whenever he leaves the
25,000-hectare (62,000-acre) Xingu Big Bend Arara Indian
Reservation, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its May
issue. The bodyguards don’t protect Arara inside the
reservation, so he carries a gun.  “This dam has made it impossible to live a normal life,” he
says. The dam -- called Belo Monte, which means Beautiful Hill
in Portuguese -- will divert the Xingu, depriving the tribe of
the waterway it needs to survive, Arara says. “So much
sacrifice,” he says. “And for what?”  Dilma Rousseff , a Workers’ Party member who won Brazil’s
presidency in 2010, says that the country needs more electricity
and that the best way to get it is by damming rivers in the
Amazon. Brazil’s gross domestic product grew 51 percent from
2002 to 2011.  Massive Buildup  And the country needs to increase generation by 55 percent
by 2020 to keep up with demand, according to the government’s
Energy Research Agency.  Rousseff has been working on a massive buildup of power
plants since her predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , named
her energy minister in 2003. Now, Brazil is spending 167.4
billion reais ($93 billion) to build 20 hydroelectric plants in
the Amazon, with  power lines  to faraway cities.  The projects would flood swaths of  rain forest  107 times
the size of  Manhattan . The  country has plans  to build about 20
more dams in the Amazon.  “We are seeing the realization of a project of critical
importance -- I would say strategic importance -- for Brazil:
the return of investment in hydroelectric plants,” Rousseff said
in July at Santo Antonio, a 2.5-kilometer-long (1.6-mile-long)
dam rising above the Madeira River in the western Amazon. “A
work of this size is what will guarantee energy for our country
to continue to grow.”  World Cup  Big dams -- especially Belo Monte -- are at the center of a
debate over Brazil’s quest to become a developed nation.
Rousseff, following policy pushed by Lula, says the government’s
role is to lead and bankroll economic development.  Brazil is financing 1.6 trillion reais for constructing
dams and improving roads, railways, ports, oil rigs and
refineries, as well as building stadiums for the 2014  World Cup 
and  August 2016 Summer Olympics  in Rio de Janeiro.  “Brazil grew in the past, sure, but in a very unequal way,”
Rousseff said at Santo Antonio. “We want a different kind of
development, and this project is the fruit of that. It creates
jobs and redistributes income.”  That policy pits the government against the communities
that stand in the way of the dams -- and against those who want
to protect the world’s largest rain forest from further damage.
The conflict is inflamed because companies that were Rousseff’s
biggest campaign contributors are doing the construction.  High Stakes  At stake is the health of Brazil’s economy -- one that
investors worldwide have increased bets on since the start of
Lula’s first term in 2003. The government is borrowing to
finance all of the work, and  federal debt  soared 29 percent to
2.24 trillion reais from the end of 2008 to the end of 2011.  The  annual deficit  jumped 89 percent from 2008 to 2011, to
108 billion reais.  Until now, Brazil could afford the spending. But Brazil’s
economic surge is abating; the government reported in March that
GDP grew 2.7 percent in 2011 -- the second-lowest rate since
2003. Brazilian government local currency bonds yielded an
average 10 percent as of March 12, five times more than the
average cost of  U.S. debt , which pays 2 percent to bondholders.  With the economy starting to slow as mega-spending on dams
accelerates, Brazil’s decade-long boom may turn into a crawl.  “There are the major issues of how you fund it and the
economic consequences,” says Ricardo Hausmann, director of the
Center for International Development at  Harvard University  and a
former chief economist at the  Inter-American Development Bank .
“It may lead to significant distortions in the economy.”  17-Story Concrete Wall  A visit to the Jirau hydroelectric plant site two hours up
the Madeira from Santo Antonio shows the scale of Rousseff’s
undertaking. On a mid-December morning, thousands of people work
in 95-degree-Fahrenheit (35-degree-Celsius) heat in a trench
carved across the river bed.  Flanked by berms of earth that keep the river out, they’re
building a 17-story wall of concrete that will house dozens of
electricity turbines big enough to drive a freight train
through. Excavators as high as a three-story house fill dump
trucks with boulders, near a crew of welders suspended beneath
steel reinforcement bars 46 meters high.  Brazil is pouring money into big dams because they can
generate electricity more cheaply and pollute less than plants
fueled by natural gas or coal, says Mauricio Tolmasquim,
president of Brazil’s Energy Research Agency.  “What matters is not the high cost of building
hydroelectric plants, but that over the long run they’re cheaper
than other forms of generation,” he says.  Sapping Funds  Scores of economists, engineers and biologists in Brazil
disagree with that view. Dams such as Belo Monte, which will
cost 25.8 billion reais, sap funds from needed repairs of
crumbling roads and overcrowded railways and ports that slow the
movement of Brazil’s people and goods, says Felipe Salto, an
economist at Tendencias Consultoria Integrada in  Sao Paulo .  “Are these energy projects the best way to invest in
infrastructure in the 21st century?” asks Salto, who specializes
in public finance. “How should development be promoted in a
sustainable way? This government hasn’t really answered these
questions.”  The mega-dam construction will do more harm than good to
Brazil, according to a September 2009 report by an independent
team of 40 economists, anthropologists, engineers and
biologists. It will damage the environment, force thousands of
people off their land and require increasing taxpayer subsidies,
the report concluded.  Overhauling Existing Plants  Brazil could slash demand for electricity by overhauling
existing power plants and distribution grids and building solar,
sugar cane and wind plants, says Pedro Bara, an energy
specialist for World Wildlife Fund Inc.’s office in Sao Paulo.
Sugar cane-based  power plants  alone would generate as much
electricity as three Belo Montes, he says.  Tolmasquim says the country is already taking those steps,
but it also needs the dams.  Belo Monte is being built by  a group  of state-controlled
power companies, with below-market-rate loans funded by the
Treasury. Taxpayers will have to pay down the debt for decades,
says Celio Bermann, a University of Sao Paulo engineering
professor and specialist in hydroelectric plants who worked on
the 2009 report.  “There are so many reasons why these dams just don’t make
sense,” says Bermann, who says he and the other experts did
their research for no compensation as a public service.  Sebastiao dos Santos has already paid a large price for the
Belo Monte project: the loss of his home. Santos, 66, a farmer
who lives along the Xingu, watched as giant earthmovers
destroyed his land to make way for the dam’s access road.  Evicting Families  The owners of Belo Monte are evicting 5,000 families who
live in the path of construction. Santos refuses to leave. One
hot November evening, he leads his donkey past the pile of
rubble that was once his home, walking deep into the jungle to
the small tent where he sleeps. He vows to hold out.  “It doesn’t matter what I do anyway,” he says. “There is
nothing that will stop this thing because there’s too much money
in it.”  The construction companies ruining Santos’ farm helped
finance Rousseff’s campaign. Five companies -- Grupo Andrade
Gutierrez SA, Camargo Correa SA, Queiroz Galvao SA, Grupo OAS
and Odebrecht SA -- gave 45 million reais to the Workers’ Party
for Rousseff’s 2010 campaign, or a third of all contributions,
Brazilian  election records  show.  Shortly after Rousseff’s election, on Feb. 18, 2011, Belo
Monte’s owners signed a contract hiring the companies.  ‘A Huge Profit’  The five companies and five smaller contractors will reap a
total of 25.8 billion reais during seven years of construction.
The builders aren’t interested in whether Belo Monte makes
economic sense, Bermann says.  “All they care about is making back the money they put into
the campaign at a huge profit,” Bermann says.  Gioconda Bretas, a spokeswoman for the Planning Ministry,
says the Belo Monte contracts were bid competitively and
transparently. No company has been accused of wrongdoing.  Andrade Gutierrez and  Odebrecht , both based in Sao Paulo,
said in statements that all of the campaign contributions were
legal and that the companies did nothing improper. Camargo
Correa, OAS and Queiroz Galvao declined to comment.  Jose Santos and his family say that regardless of which
firms received the contracts, Belo Monte will wipe their farm
and home right off the map.  After he checks the smooth, tan cacao fruit hanging from
the green-and-white branches of his thin trees, Santos, 45, a
wiry man with thickly calloused hands, walks down a broad ravine
and looks up at a ridge above his orchard.  ‘My Life’s Work’  “That’s how high the water will be, way up there,” Santos
says. “All of this -- my land, my house, my life’s work -- will
be taken by the water.”  Reservoirs behind the 20 new dams in the Amazon will flood
a total of 6,376 square kilometers (2,462 square miles) of land,
according to government data. The lakes will cover trees and
underbrush with water, and as these decompose, they’ll produce
methane, a gas that spurs global warming at 25 times the rate of
carbon dioxide, according to the 2009 report on Belo Monte.  Belo Monte will destroy sections of the most biologically
diverse rain forest on Earth, drying up breeding ground for rare
tropical fish and turtles and flooding habitat for the
endangered white-cheeked spider monkey, according to Berkeley,
California-based  International Rivers .  ‘Huge Scale’  “We’re talking about devastation and human rights
violations on a huge scale in an extremely fragile ecosystem,”
says Zachary Hurwitz, the nongovernmental organization’s policy
coordinator.  The Samuel Dam reservoir, in the Brazilian Amazon near
 Bolivia , shows how hydroelectric plants effectively produce
methane factories. Iremar Ferreira, who runs a nonprofit group
protesting construction of the Jirau and Santo Antonio dams,
walks along the stagnant, mosquito-infested reservoir behind the
dam, surveying the damage.  Rotting tree trunks stick out of the water all the way to
the horizon, two decades after the dam was built.  “This is the nightmare that awaits us,” he says. “So much
destruction for so little gain.”  Back on the banks of the Xingu River, Arara walks to a
bluff and points to three women from his tribe washing clothes
on flat rocks along the river bank. Children splash in the water
under an intense sun. Two men paddle dugout canoes toward a cove
where they fish for piranha with weighted nets.  Led Demonstrations  Once Belo Monte is finished, most of the river water will
be diverted into the dam’s power turbines. Arara, a stocky man
with an eloquence and charisma that belie his fourth-grade
education, led demonstrations that spurred the federal
government in 2008 to set aside protected land for his tribe.  In 2011, police told Arara that his efforts could cost him
his life. They said paid assassins they couldn’t identify were
seeking to find him when he left his reservation.  “Some people want me dead, and around here, that’s no
joke,” Arara says.  A few kilometers away from Arara’s reservation, bulldozers
are knocking down the 20-meter-high jungle canopy to clear a
main access route for trucks, workers and equipment to build
Belo Monte. Engineers plan a 7,100-meter-long dam that will hold
back a reservoir covering jungle, farms and villages.  The dam will channel the Xingu into a man-made canal
stretching 20 kilometers through what once were cattle ranches,
farms and homes, leading to another dam. The project will flood
503 square kilometers.  Big Bend  When Belo Monte is completed in 2019, it will be capable of
 generating 11,233 megawatts of energy , enough to light 18
million homes. It will generate only a third of capacity on
average because of swings in river levels.  Hundreds of people  are spread along the 100-kilometer
stretch of the Xingu that will be diverted, known as Big Bend,
including the Arara and Juruna Indian tribes.  “How will we live?” Arara asks. “Everything we are about
depends on this river.”  Some Amazon residents are losing their homes not to
bulldozers or flooding but to another rising phenomenon: land
grabbing. Because so much land will be destroyed by the dams,
the tracts that remain, where displaced people will have to
move, are rising in value.  Alenucia dos Santos lost her small wooden shack in June
2010 when a tattoo-covered man with a menacing stare visited her
home late one night. He threatened to slash her to death with a
machete if she didn’t give up her farm, according to federal
prosecutors.  Moved to Slum  Four months later, the man said he’d shoot her, so Santos
abandoned her home, moving to a slum reeking of sewage.  “They are criminals,” says Santos, 58, walking through the
jungle to visit her former land, protected by a friend with a
rifle. “I am terrified because anyone can kill you out here.
I’ve lost what took me a lifetime to build.” (The three Santos
families losing their homes are unrelated.)  Erwin Krautler , a Roman Catholic bishop in Altamira, the
city closest to Belo Monte, says others, including himself, have
received death threats because of the dam. The bishop says he’s
in danger for challenging the construction. Two armed bodyguards
now shadow him wherever he goes, as they did one Sunday in late
November, after celebrating Mass.  ‘Worst Dreams’  “Never in my worst dreams did I think Belo Monte would be
approved because it’s so, so destructive,” says Krautler, 72,
sitting near the altar in the Altamira Cathedral. His bodyguards
watch the church door, handguns bulging under their T-shirts.
“What rules here is money. The government is just steamrolling
over people to get it done.”  Brazilian officials say they hear the complaints and are
trying to lessen environmental and community damage. Engineers
designed Belo Monte, Jirau and Santo Antonio to use the smallest
reservoirs possible to decrease flooding, the owners of the dams
say.  Belo Monte’s owner, Norte Energia SA, a consortium
controlled by state-owned power utilities, says it will pay a
total of 3.2 billion reais to compensate people who lose homes
and businesses.  That won’t be nearly enough to allow farmers to remain in
the area, Krautler says. The cost of living has soared so much
that families won’t be able to buy land or homes nearby, he
says.  Heavy Lifters  On the western edge of the Amazon jungle, logging crews are
gutting the rain forest in an attempt to diminish pollution,
says Edson dos Santos, Santo Antonio’s engineering coordinator.
Behind the Santo Antonio Dam, workers use heavy lifters to move
giant logs from felled Brazilian walnut trees onto a truck.  “The plan is to remove as much of the jungle as possible to
prevent methane from being generated,” Santos says. “We are
going out of our way to lessen the impact.”  Santos walks by the base of the  Santo Antonio Dam , inside a
massive pit along the riverbed. Half the dam is finished, and
river water roars though steel gates. He looks at the concrete
rising above him, where 20,000 men and women work, often at
night under spotlights, to finish the dam ahead of schedule.  “Look at this: It’s a marvelous project,” Santos says.
“They’re giving us everything it takes to get it done fast.”  Two hours away, Alessandro Valente directs a crew of 15 men
working on the wall of concrete reinforcing bars at the Jirau
dam.  ‘Something Brazil Needs’  “I know this is something Brazil needs, and no expense is
being spared,” Valente says.  The rush to build means the dams cost far more than
original estimates. Santo Antonio will cost 16 billion reais, 68
percent more than initial cost projections, according to the
dam’s owners.  The  companies  building the Jirau Dam,  France ’s  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA
and Brazilian state company  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) ,
boosted construction cost estimates to 12 billion reais, from
8.7 billion reais, after the government ordered more turbines
added. Belo Monte’s owners have boosted cost estimates by 36
percent in three years, and the construction is just starting.  Brazilian taxpayers can only wait to see if Rousseff’s all-
in bet on Amazon dams helps or hurts the nation. Arara, Krautler
and thousands of others have already felt the damage. That’s why
Arara risks his life to fight Belo Monte.  “The stakes are very high,” he says. “When the dam is
built, the river will be gone, and so will our livelihood.”  What’s not clear is whether their loss will be an overall
gain for Brazil’s economy -- or the start of a downward spiral
of dislocation, debt and environmental devastation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Smith  in Santiago at 
 Mssmith@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  