-- Rutgers Names Thomas Jefferson’s Barchi as New President
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-04-11T15:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/rutgers-names-thomas-jefferson-s-barchi-as-new-president-2-.html
Rutgers University , New Jersey’s
largest state institution of higher learning, named  Thomas
Jefferson  University’s Robert Barchi as its next president.  Barchi will succeed Richard McCormick, who announced in May
he would step down after almost 10 years as president, Rutgers
said today in a webcast. Barchi takes over on Sept. 1.  He previously served as provost of the  University of
Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia before becoming president of Thomas
Jefferson, also in Philadelphia, in 2004. A neurologist, he
received a Ph.D. and medical degree from the University of
Pennsylvania. Rutgers is one of the top research universities in
the U.S. and more people need to be aware of that, Barchi said
in remarks that were webcast after his election.  “We have dozens of programs in the top 25 nationally,”
Barchi said to the board of governors. “We have some programs
that are the best in the world. Why don’t I hear that? It’s time
for Rutgers to assume the position of leadership to which it is
rightfully entitled.”  As president, Barchi will oversee the merger of Rutgers’s
Camden campus into Rowan University, in Glassboro, under a plan
from  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie . The new president will
draw on his experience running  Thomas Jefferson , a health
sciences university, to add medical and dental schools to
Rutgers. He’ll also inherit an athletics program that spent more
money on sports than any other public university in the six
biggest football conferences in the 2009-2010 fiscal year.  Rutgers has more than 58,000 students on three campuses. It
was founded in 1766 as Queen’s College and renamed in 1825 after
Revolutionary War hero Henry Rutgers. Graduates include
economist  Milton Friedman , singer Paul Robeson and Massachusetts
Senate candidate  Elizabeth Warren , who went to the law school.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  