-- RWE, SSE to Fight Fluor Claim Over U.K. Offshore Wind Project
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-11T14:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/rwe-sse-to-fight-fluor-claim-over-u-k-offshore-wind-project.html
RWE AG (RWE)  and  SSE Plc (SSE)  are preparing a
counterclaim to one made by  Fluor Corp. (FLR)  relating to wind-turbine
foundations on a North Sea offshore wind farm.  Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Ltd., the joint venture
between RWE and SSE, has “now formalized its counterclaim
against Fluor for an amount potentially in excess to what Fluor
is claiming,” Paul Coffey, chief operating officer at RWE
Innogy GmbH, said in a conference call with analysts. Fluor’s
claim is “in the order of 300 million pounds ($477 million).”  RWE and SSE are involved in a contractual dispute with
Irving, Texas-based Fluor over the structures that support
offshore turbines at the Greater Gabbard park. Fluor is
principal contractor on the project in the  North Sea . Fluor’s
claim relates to time and costs incurred from additional testing
and repairs it undertook on some foundations at the project,
according to SSE.  SSE and RWE’s Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds venture deemed
the foundations supporting 52 of the 140 turbines to be
defective, SSE said in a  March 30  statement. They “do not meet
the standards required by the contract,” and Greater Gabbard
Offshore Winds started a “formal contractual claim” against
Fluor, SSE said.  SSE declined to comment beyond the statements when
contacted by phone. A Fluor said he couldn’t immediately
comment.  “We’ve installed monitoring equipment on the structures
that we believe are defective to ensure they’re only run to the
extent it’s safe to do so,” Coffey said in the call yesterday.
All 140 foundations and 140 turbines are installed, with more
than 125 generating power including some on defective
structures, he said.  Increased Costs  Fluor said in a  Feb. 22  statement that its 2011 results
included a charge of $60 million from the 500-megawatt Greater
Gabbard project, while 2010 was impacted by charges totaling
$343 million from the facility. The project “experienced a
number of issues which substantially increased the estimated
cost to complete the project,” according to the statement.  Those included bankruptcy of major subcontractor Subocean
Group Ltd., weather-related delays and low turbine and cable
installation rates Fluor said in February 2011.  Arbitration, a form of dispute resolution, for the Fluor
claim will be heard in June or July and the counterclaim from
Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds will be heard next year at this
time, Coffey said. “Both elements of the on-going dispute are
the subject of a formal arbitration process,” SSE said in its
March statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  