-- RWE May Invest in Photovoltaic Plants on Lower Costs
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-04-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/rwe-may-invest-in-photovoltaic-plants-on-lower-costs.html
EON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s
biggest utilities, are stepping up investments in solar energy
as falling prices for the technology and the country’s nuclear
exit make them chase fresh revenue streams.  EON plans to add 70 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity a
year from 2013, compared with a total of 51 megawatts it has
built since 2008, Christian Drepper, a spokesman, said by phone
yesterday. RWE, which previously has withheld support for
photovoltaics, may boost investments in the technology after a
decline in the cost of panels.  Solar prices have since dropped “dramatically, more than
we have expected,” Hans Buenting, chief financial officer of
RWE’s renewable energy unit Innogy, said on a conference call
with analysts on April 10. “We are looking at more promising
countries in  Europe  rather than in Germany for first projects.”  The decisions show Germany’s utilities backing away from
nuclear power after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  decided to close
the country’s atomic plants following the atomic accident in
Japan 13 months ago. Both RWE and EON previously opposed solar
power in Germany and lobbied against government support for the
technology.  Merkel’s target is to expand the share of renewables to at
least 35 percent of Germany’s power mix by the end of this
decade from about 20 percent now.  Investment Plans  Dusseldorf-based EON, the country’s largest generator of
atomic power, plans to invest 7 billion euros ($9.2 billion) in
clean-energy generation in the next five years. RWE, Europe’s
biggest emitter of carbon dioxide blamed for damaging the
Earth’s atmosphere, is spending about 5 billion euros on
renewables, mainly offshore wind farms in the U.K. and Germany,
in the next four years.  Solar cell prices fell 58 percent to 52 cents a watt last
year as Chinese manufacturers led by Suntech Power Holdings Co.
boosted production, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance
data. Germany supported installations with a feed-in tariff
guaranteeing above market prices for solar power.  Merkel now is cutting solar subsidies, seeking to curb the
pace of installations that made Germany the biggest market for
the technology.  RWE, based in Essen, will explore developments in other
nations, Buenting said April 10. The company is “discussing” a
pilot project in the Desertec initiative, which seeks to build
renewable energy plants in north  Africa  and the  Middle East ,
said Buenting, who takes over as CEO of Innogy in July.  Outside Germany  If RWE considers better solar sites than Germany and the
U.K. such as southern Spain, the south of  Italy  or  Morocco ,
where the Desertec initiative is active, “then costs come down
where they are comparable or below offshore wind already now,”
Buenting said. RWE would most likely take “only shares” in any
Desertec projects, he also said.  EON is looking to  France  and Italy to develop more
photovoltaic capacity and may also build plants in the U.S.,
possibly at one of its wind farm sites there, Drepper said. EON
aims to reduce construction costs of photovoltaic plants 35
percent by 2015, he said.  While the plunge in module prices has strengthened
photovoltaics compared to solar-thermal, of which EON has about
100 megawatts in its portfolio, “this won’t stop us from
developing both technologies,” he said.  RWE owns a stake in the Andasol 3 solar thermal power plant
in  Spain . Photovoltaic plants use panels that generate
electricity directly from the sun while solar thermal plants use
mirrors to focus sunlight and power steam turbines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  