-- S. Korea Ruling Party Wins Majority Ahead of North Launch
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2012-04-12T05:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/s-korea-ruling-party-wins-majority-ahead-of-north-rocket-launch.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s party retained control of parliament in an upset win that
boosts its chances of retaining the presidency in December
elections.  Lee’s New Frontier Party won 152 of the 300 seats in the
National Assembly while the main opposition Democratic United
Party secured 127 and its partner took 13, results showed. Exit
polls published after voting ended yesterday indicated the
coalition would gain as many as 173 seats, in a race that took
place ahead of a planned North Korean rocket launch.  The victory may give new NFP chief Park Geun Hye momentum
for the presidential race. While Lee’s popularity has plummeted
since his term began in 2008 amid slowing growth and rising
inflation, opposition pledges to raise taxes, boost welfare
spending and revisit a U.S. trade deal failed to resonate.  “It’s a bit of an unexpected result, given that people are
grumbling about the economy,” said Lee Seung Woo, a strategist
at Daewoo Securities in  Seoul . “But the results show people
made choices independent of daily life. The perception is that
there will be no major changes in policies.”  The vote took place as North Korea prepared to fire a long-
range rocket in defiance of international condemnation,
threatening a U.S. food aid deal and roiling markets. The
totalitarian state yesterday named leader Kim Jong Un head of
the ruling Workers’ Party, further consolidating his power since
the death of his father  Kim Jong Il  in December.  The benchmark  Kospi index  fell, declining 0.7 percent at
2:41 p.m. in Seoul.  EG Corp. (037370) , an iron oxide producer whose
biggest shareholder is Park’s younger brother, surged by the
daily limit of 15 percent. The won was little changed.  Successful Revamp  Park, daughter of former President Park Chung Hee, took
over as ruling party chief after it lost the Seoul mayoral race
in October and the previous head resigned over an Internet
hacking scandal. She renamed the party and softened its hard-
line stance on  North Korea , while pledging to restructure the
social welfare system and boost employment.  “The NFP has disappointed the people in many ways over the
past four years and we believe that you’ve really given us our
last chance,” she said today in an e-mailed statement. “We
promise new politics.”  Park successfully distanced the party from the Lee
administration’s problems, boosting her chances of becoming the
next president, said Park Won Ho, a professor of political
science at Seoul National University.  Other possible candidates to replace Lee after his single
five-year term ends are Moon Jae In of the DUP, who served as
former President Roh Moo Hyun’s chief of staff, and independent
Ahn Cheol Soo, founder and chief executive of software developer
Ahnlab Co.  Economic Issues  The NFP’s majority was reduced as it struggled to overcome
a series of scandals. Before yesterday’s vote, the party held
162 parliament seats, while the DUP had 80 and the United
Progressive Party held seven.  The top campaign issue was the economy. Opposition
politicians charged that Lee failed to deliver on a campaign
pledge to increase annual  growth  by 7 percent and per capita
income to $40,000. Economic growth has slowed to an average 3.2
percent from 4.3 percent during predecessor Roh’s administration
while inflation has risen. The benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI)  has fallen
about 6 percent in the past year.  North Korea has begun fueling the rocket to put a satellite
in orbit sometime between April 12 and 16, Yonhap News cited
space agency official Paek Chang Ho as telling a group of
foreign journalists yesterday in the capital of Pyongyang. The
launch, set to mark the 100th anniversary of the birth of state
founder  Kim Il Sung , is on schedule, Paek was quoted as saying.  Nuclear Warning  A South Korean intelligence report this week warned that
Kim’s regime is preparing to detonate an atomic weapon. While
the DUP accused the government of leaking the report to
influence the elections, analysts including Park Young Ho said
North Korean provocations weren’t a factor.  “South Koreans separate the North Korean issue from their
domestic political decisions because they feel the North will
never change no matter what kind of government is in power,”
said Park, who is senior research fellow and director at the
state-run Korea Institute for National Unification. “North
Koreans have threatened and attacked under both liberal and
conservative governments and South Koreans don’t think their
voting orientation will have any influence over the North.”  Turnout for the election was smaller than expected at 54.3
percent. The National Election Commission had predicted a
participation rate of 56.9 percent supported by greater interest
from younger voters, a demographic that would have helped the
opposition. 