-- SatCon, First Solar Lead Photovoltaic Stocks Up After Rout
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-04-11T20:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/satcon-first-solar-lead-photovoltaic-stocks-higher-after-rout.html
SatCon Technology Corp. (SATC)  led
photovoltaic manufacturers including  First Solar (FSLR)  Inc. higher
today on speculation that first-quarter equipment orders may
have been stronger than expected.  SatCon rose 60 percent to 48 cents a share in New York, the
highest since March 1, and First Solar climbed 5.2 percent to
$22.50 a share after earlier gaining as much as 12 percent.  SatCon, a Boston-based maker of energy converters for
renewable projects, said orders during the first quarter rose 27
percent to about $45 million. Revenue for the quarter was
between $22 million to $25 million, matching the low-end of
their guidance, SatCon said today in a statement. That provided
a book-to-bill ratio, or orders received over units shipped, of
about two during the quarter.  “Satcon said their book-to-bill was strong in the first
quarter, dramatically better than what we’ve seen over the last
few quarters,” said Adam Krop, an analyst at Ardour Capital
Partners in New York. “Some people might be looking at that and
saying that first quarter demand or volume may be a bit stronger
than what was expected.”  Rough Weeks  A recent drop in solar shares because of concerns about
declining incentives in Europe likely contributed to the buying
today, analysts said. The  Bloomberg Global Leaders (BLGS)  Solar index
of 37 manufacturers, which recently fell for eight consecutive
days from March 23 to April 5, rose 2.6 percent to 37.72, led by
First Solar,  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  and  Suntech Power
Power Holdings Co. (STP)   “On Monday, First Solar closed just above $20, which is a
psychologically important floor because this was its IPO price
from 2006,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at  Raymond James  in
Houston, said today in an email. “It looks like the floor has
held, which is a positive for the stock from a technical
standpoint.”  “Solar stocks across the board are up today after several
very rough weeks,” Molchanov said.  MEMC, which makes polysilicon wafers and builds solar
plants, increased 12 percent to a two-week high of $3.74.
Suntech, the world’s largest maker of polysilicon panels, rose
7.9 percent to $2.73.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  