-- Serbian Opposition, Ruling Party in Close Race Before May 6 Vote
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-04-11T13:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/serbian-opposition-ruling-party-in-close-race-before-may-6-vote.html
The opposition Serbian Progressive
Party is ahead of the ruling Democrats before May 6 elections in
one poll and tied in a separate survey, indicating a tight race
to lead the newest European Union candidate.  The Progressives had 29.7 percent support, while the
Democrats garnered 25.1 percent in a poll of 1,400 respondents
by Partner Consulting conducted April 5-8 with a margin of error
of 2-4 percent. Zagreb-based  Ipsos Puls  put the Progressives and
the Democrats at 27.1 percent each. The Socialist Party of
former strongman  Slobodan Milosevic  would get about 13 percent,
according to both polls.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s Cabinet, which took office
in July 2008, has weathered global economic and debt crises, a
32 percent drop in the dinar, rising unemployment and a 16
percentage-point increase in public debt to gain EU candidacy
status. Still, the Socialists are the only party to have shown
gains in the Partner Consulting poll, suggesting voter
frustration over the status quo.  The Socialists will be an “unavoidable factor in forming
any new ruling coalition,” said Miroslav Sutic, the head of
Partner Consulting, today in Belgrade.  The Partner Consulting survey also shows that President
 Boris Tadic , who linked presidential elections with the
parliamentary ballot to help the Democrats regain office, may
also struggle to be reelected as Progressive Party head  Tomislav
Nikolic  leads the incumbent 30 percent to 26.5  percent, Sutic
said.  Economic, Corruption Concerns  Job prospects, higher wages, a fight against corruption and
organized crime, are more important to voters than  Serbia ’s
future EU membership, respondents in both polls indicated. In
Serbia, the largest former Yugoslav republic, only 1.7 million
of 7.2 million people have formal employment.  According to both surveys, four other parties would pass
the 5 percent threshold to enter Parliament.  They are the Turnabout Movement led by Cedomir Jovanovic,
the Serbian Radical Party of Vojislav Seselj, who is standing
trial at the Hague-based war crimes tribunal, the  Democratic
Party  of Serbia of former Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and
the United Regions of Serbia led by former deputy prime minister
 Mladjan Dinkic .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  