-- Sinovel Agrees to Supply $1 Billion Agaoglu Wind Farm in Turkey
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-11T11:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/sinovel-agrees-to-supply-1-billion-agaoglu-wind-farm-in-turkey.html
Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)  agreed to
supply equipment to a $1 billion Turkish wind farm developed by
Agaoglu Group as  China ’s biggest wind-turbine maker boosts
orders overseas.  Sinovel will supply parts including wind-turbine towers and
generators for the 600-megawatt project, according to a
 statement  from Agaoglu, an Istanbul-based company with interests
in construction, tourism and energy. Terms were not disclosed.  Chinese companies including Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co. plan to expand abroad to combat a slowing home
market after a tighter government approval process for new
projects raised competition. Goldwind, China’s second-largest
turbine-maker, bought two wind farms in  Montana  this year and
will supply projects in  Chile . Sinovel signed a pact to work
with  Greece ’s Public Power Corp. on wind last year.  Sinovel, based in Beijing, “looked positively” on an
invitation to base part of the production in  Turkey , according
to the statement published on the company’s website yesterday.
The project’s investment value is $1 billion, the company said.  Turkey, which seeks to generate 30 percent of its power
from renewable sources by 2023, needs to develop clean energy at
a faster pace, Agaoglu Chairman Ali Agaoglu said in the
statement.  The nation, which is seeking to curb emissions while
reducing dependence on energy imports, installed 470 megawatts
of wind power last year, according to European Wind Energy
Association  data . It had 1,799 megawatts of wind in total at the
end of 2011, according to the Brussels-based industry group.  Agaoglu Group targets power capacity of at least 1,000
megawatts by 2015 and holds licenses for as much as 700
megawatts of wind, Agaoglu said early March.  The company was in the “final stages” of talks with eight
energy and private-equity investors to sell 147 megawatts of
wind plants, he said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  