-- Kelley Drye, SNR Denton, Shearman, Kirkland: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-04-11T12:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/snr-denton-shearman-ropes-gray-kirkland-business-of-law.html
Kelley Drye & Warren LLP (1223L) , the  New
York  law firm, settled an age-discrimination suit brought by the
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.  The law firm entered into a consent decree on April 3 with
the EEOC to resolve the agency’s 2010 lawsuit, according to a
judgment filed yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan . The EEOC
enforces U.S. anti-bias laws.  The agency claimed that the firm, which has 350 lawyers and
other professionals in offices in the U.S., discriminates
against attorneys who continue to work there after they turn 70.
The agency also said the firm retaliated against a lawyer,
Eugene D’Ablemont, who complained to the EEOC.  Kelley Drye, while denying allegations of bias, agreed not
to terminate any employee or to maintain “any formal or
informal policy or practice requiring involuntary retirement of
a partner” because of age, according to the consent decree. The
firm agreed to pay D’Ablemont more than $570,000, according to
court records.  James Kirk, managing partner of Kelley Drye, said in a
statement that the firm changed its retirement policies “long
ago” and that it settled because “continuing the case would
have far exceeded the cost of settlement.”  “We were surprised that this case was continued by the
EEOC for the benefit of a single partner,” Kirk said in the
statement. “The firm has not discriminated or done anything
wrong.”  Jeffrey Burstein, an EEOC attorney, said in an interview
that the agency is “very happy” with the accord. “They
changed their policy a while ago, after the litigation started,
but it wasn’t until recently that we reached a settlement,” he
said.  D’Ablemont didn’t immediately return a message left at his
office after business hours. U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael Dolinger in Manhattan yesterday signed the accord.  The case is EEOC v. Kelley Drye, 10-cv-655, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Deal Lawyers  Shearman & Sterling, Ropes & Gray on Corning-Becton Deal  Corning Inc. (GLW) , a maker of glass for flat-panel televisions,
agreed to buy the majority of  Becton, Dickinson & Co. (BDX) ’s
Discovery Labware unit for $730 million to expand its life
sciences business.  Shearman & Sterling (1441L)  represented Corning and
 Ropes & Gray (1183L)  represented Becton, Dickinson.  The Shearman & Sterling team included New York partners
Clare O’Brien, David Connolly, Laurence Bambino, Samuel Waxman,
John Cannon and Jessica Delbaum and  London  partner Iain Scoon;
counsel  Ethan Harris  in  Washington  and Simon Letherman and Sam
Whitaker in London.  The Shearman associates on the deal include, in New York,
Vittorio Cottafavi, Tammara Fort, Meghan Moore, Cody Wright and
Tim Franklin.  On the Ropes & Gray team were Boston partners Mark Bellomy,
Eric Elfman, Renata Jasiul Ferrari, David McIntosh and Marko
Zatylny, along with Washington partner Michael McFalls.  Deidre Johnson, counsel in Ropes & Gray’s Boston office,
worked on the deal as did Boston associates Caitlin Barrett,
Richard Conklin, J. Joshua Gallitano, James Howard, Daniel
Levin, Christopher Powell, Jennifer Rikoski and Aaron Schohn.
Michael Laufert, an associate in the firm’s Washington office,
also worked on the deal.  With the purchase, Corning will add products such as tubes,
pipettes and flasks used in laboratories, according to a
statement from the Corning, New York-based company yesterday.
The company plans to complete the deal this year.  Winston & Strawn, Kirkland & Ellis on Danaher-X-Rite Deal  Danaher Corp. (DHR) , the maker of products from Craftsman tools
to bar-code equipment, agreed to buy X-Rite Inc. for $625
million to add color-measurement technology for customers in
graphic arts and retail.  Kirkland & Ellis (2L)  represented Danaher. The lawyers on the
deal were partners Daniel Wolf and Joshua Zachariah, both in the
New York office.  Lawyers from  Winston & Strawn (1129L)  in  Chicago  represented X-
Rite. They include partners Bruce Toth, Brian Schafer and Erik
Lundgren, along with associates Sarah Hesse, Christina Trotta,
and Courtney Tygesson.  Danaher will pay $5.55 a share for X-Rite, a premium of
about 24 percent to the Grand Rapids, Michigan-based company’s
average closing price over 20 trading days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The deal’s total valuation includes net
debt, according to a statement announcing the purchase.  Moves  Dewey Loses Two More Partners in London to DLA Piper, Reed Smith  Two more  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP (1151L)  partners in London left the
embattled  law firm  for  Reed Smith LLP (1157L)  and  DLA Piper LLP (1191L) , Dewey
confirmed yesterday.  Nicholas Rock, co-head of Dewey’s environmental litigation
practice group, handed in his notice last week to join  Reed
Smith . Partner Prakash Paran left for DLA Piper, bringing the
total partner departures from the firm’s London office to four
this year, Dewey spokesman Duncan Miller said in a phone
interview.  Since January, 49 partners have left New York-based Dewey
amid complaints about compensation and a continuing
restructuring process. The largest departure was a group of 12
insurance and regulatory lawyers who left for  Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP (1179L)  last month.  Some departures have been at the firm’s insistence and
others are the result of partners “who didn’t feel they fit in
with the new structure,” Dewey said in a statement last week.
The firm, which reorganized its chairman’s office to include the
heads of its most-profitable practice groups, said in the
statement that it expects additional departures.  For more, click here.  Former Commerce Department Official Joins SNR Denton  John R. Fernandez, the former head of the U.S. Commerce
Department’s Economic Development Administration, has joined  SNR
Denton (1159L)  in the firm’s Washington office. He is a partner and has
been named the firm’s innovation strategy director, a new
position.  He joined the firm in March and, according to a statement
by the firm, Fernandez had worked in the Commerce Department
since his appointment by President  Barack Obama  in 2009. He had
also previously been mayor of Bloomington,  Indiana .  Fernandez will direct innovation initiatives to broaden
services offered to clients.  He said in a phone interview yesterday that “the firm has
tremendous assets, lawyers and business acumen.” In his new
position, he hopes to “improve how we deliver services and help
our clients innovate as well. That’s why it was so attractive an
opportunity.”  Because of government ethics laws, he is precluded from
working with the current administration or the Commerce
Department, typically for two years, Fernandez said. The policy
shouldn’t limit his work, he said in an e-mail, because his
“primary role is to help develop and drive SNR Denton’s
innovation strategies” He added in the e-mail that because of
his new focus, “these ethical restrictions will not be as
relevant to my primary role.”  Garland Stephens Returns to Houston office of Weil Gotshal  Garland T. Stephens has rejoined  Weil, Gotshal & Manges (1127L)  LLP
as a partner in the firms patent litigation practice in Houston.  According to the firm’s announcement, Stephens represents
clients across the electronics and computer industries.  He was most recently a partner at Fish & Richardson, where
he was managing principal in the Houston office. Prior to his
term at Fish & Richardson, Mr. Stephens was a partner at Weil
from 2002 to 2008.  In the statement, Stephens said that he looks “forward to
working with my colleagues to build on the firm’s substantial
patent litigation capabilities.”  Former Federal Prosecutor Joins McGuireWoods’ Chicago office  Christina Egan, former deputy chief assistant U.S. attorney
in Chicago, has joined  McGuireWoods (1148L)  as a partner in its
Government, Regulatory and Criminal Investigations Department.
According to the firm’s announcement, Egan will focus her
practice on representing companies and individuals in matters
dealing with criminal and civil investigations.  Egan for the past 10 years was an assistant U.S. attorney
for the Northern District of  Illinois . For the past four years,
Egan was a deputy chief assistant U.S. attorney in Chicago,
supervising a team of attorneys on numerous cases, including
racketeering, major cartel gang investigations and prosecutions,
according to the firm’s statement.  News  Nike Suit Ends With Reebok Ordered to Recall Tebow Jerseys  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s  Reebok International (RBK)  must recall New York Jets
jerseys and T-shirts with quarterback  Tim Tebow ’s name on them,
a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan on Monday
signed an order closing a suit filed by Nike Inc. and ordering
that  Reebok  offer to buy back jerseys in retail stores and
recall any jerseys under its control.  Paul Sarkozi and Alan Tenebaum, partners with Tannenbaum
Helpern Syracuse & Hirschtritt in New York represent Nike.
Nathaniel Kolodny, a partner with Stillman & Friedman in New
York, represents Reebok. Sarkozi declined to comment and Kolodny
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Reebok’s licensing agreement with the  National Football
League  ended March 31, and Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike this
month became the official supplier of licensed NFL apparel. Nike
sued March 27 to block Reebok from selling the jerseys, which
were sold after Tebow’s trade to the Jets.  Castel’s order was issued with the agreement of both sides.
Court papers referred to a settlement agreement that wasn’t
immediately available. Castel had issued orders blocking Reebok
from selling the jerseys as the case progressed.  Nike spokeswoman Mary Remuzzi and Reebok spokesman Daniel
Sarro, both said by e-mail that they were pleased to have
reached “a mutually agreeable resolution.”  The case is  Nike Inc. (NKE)  v. Reebok International Ltd., 12-
cv-2275, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 