-- Solars Drive Biggest Jump in a Month on Easing: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-11T22:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/solars-drive-biggest-jump-in-a-month-on-easing-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
rallied the most in a month, led by solar companies, on
speculation evidence showing the economy continues to slow will
prompt more monetary easing.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. added 1.8 percent to 101.22 yesterday
in New York, the biggest advance since March 13.           Solar
company  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  was the biggest gainer on the
gauge as Satcon Technology Corp., a maker inverters that connect
renewable energy to electricity grids, said bookings surged 130
percent in the first quarter from the last three months of 2011.
Casino operator  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  erased its
biggest discount to its  Hong Kong  stock in a month as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. upgraded the shares to buy.  Official data due tomorrow will show  China’s economy 
expanded 8.4 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace
since 2009, according to the median of 41 economists’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Policy makers have cut the amount banks
must keep in reserves twice since November to free up cash for
lending, in a bid to insulate the world’s second-largest economy
from the effects of a global slowdown. Interest rates have been
kept at the highest level since 2008 since July.  “My expectations remain that  China  will do some easing and
we see a soft landing scenario in its economy,” Greg Lesko, who
manages $700 million at Deltec Asset Management in New York,
said by phone yesterday. “Chinese stocks will go higher this
year from current levels. It will mainly depend on China’s
domestic policy.”  China ETF Recovers  The Bloomberg gauge of Chinese shares traded in the U.S.
has increased 12 percent  this year  after losing 17 percent in
2011. Credit Agricole CIB strategist Dariusz Kowalczyk predicted
that Chinese policy makers will cut banks’ reserve ratios by a
total of 2 percentage points in the second and third quarters of
this year in a client note yesterday.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rebounded from a three-month
low, rising 1.2 percent to $36.17. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  advanced for the first time in six days, gaining 0.7
percent to 1,368.71, after Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, reported an unexpected first-quarter profit.  Fushi Copperweld Inc. (FSIN) , a Chinese maker of copper-clad metal
wire, gained 2 percent to $6.22 in New York yesterday, climbing
for a second day.  Fushi Denies Muddy  Short seller research firm  Muddy Waters  LLC said the
company presents “a high risk of fraud” in an online posting
on April 10. Fushi was prepared for its U.S. listing by Chief
Capital Ltd., a Hong Kong-based investment bank that runs a
“fraud school,” said Muddy Waters, citing an article in a
Chinese newspaper.  Beijing-based Fushi “categorically denies all” claims
made by Muddy Waters, the company said in a statement yesterday.
Fushi will report first-quarter results on May 3 and “is
committed” to providing information to investors to rebut “any
false claims that attempt to undermine confidence” in the
company, according to the statement.  Suntech Power, the world’s largest solar-panel maker,
surged 7.9 percent to $2.73 in its biggest one-day gain in three
weeks.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the second-largest manufacturer of solar
wafers, climbed 4.3 percent to $3.37 after falling over the
previous eight days.  Boston-based Satcon said yesterday that bookings for the
first quarter were approximately $45 million, an increase of
about 130 percent from the fourth quarter of 2011 and 27 percent
from the year-ago quarter, according to a company statement.  ‘Dramatically Better’  “Satcon said their book-to-bill was strong in the first
quarter, dramatically better than what we’ve seen over the last
few quarters,” said Adam Krop, an analyst at Ardour Capital
Partners LLC. “Some people might be looking at that and saying
that first-quarter demand or volume may be a bit stronger than
what was expected.”  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , China’s third-largest maker of solar
panels based in Changzhou in the eastern Jiangsu province,
jumped 6.1 percent to $6.75, rallying the most since March 20.
 Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the six-largest silicon-based
solar module producer based in Baoding in the northern  Hebei
province , added 4.8 percent to $3.49, the highest level since
April 2.  Italian Subsidies  Italy will bring its renewable energy incentives in line
with Europe Union levels, the nation’s Industry Ministry said
yesterday, a sign that it may follow  Germany , Spain and the U.K.
in reducing subsidies. Two draft bills revising incentives for
all renewable technologies are being examined by Italian
regulators and the Council of Regions, the ministry said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  The rally in solar stocks was partly because “they were
oversold in past few days,” said Aaron Chew, a New York-based
solar analyst at Maxim Group LLC. “Italy’s final decision on
solar subsidies may turn out to be better than investors had
thought. Some people had even expected that the government may
kill the incentive program.”  American depositary receipts of Melco Crown -- which
operates in Macau, the only city in China where casinos are
legal -- soared 4.9 percent to $13.67 in New York, the biggest
daily jump in a month. Melco’s  Hong Kong stock  fell 1.1 percent
yesterday to HK$35.25, the equivalent of $4.62. The ADRs traded
at a 0.4 percent premium over Melco’s Hong Kong shares, from a
5.4 percent discount on April 10, the biggest in a month.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased the 12-month price
target for Melco’s ADRs to $17.10 from $12.70 and raised the
stock to buy from neutral, according to a report dated April 11.  Internet Rally  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.1 percent yesterday
to 2,308.93 and the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong slid 0.9 percent to 10,503.83, the
lowest level since Jan. 16.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , a Beijing-based real-name social-network
operator, surged 6.6 percent to $6.17 yesterday, the highest
close since Jan. 30.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , which provides a Twitter-like
service in China, climbed 2.2 percent to $61.33, the biggest
one-day advance in two weeks.  Youku Inc., the biggest online video operator in China,
gained 5 percent to $22.56, the steepest increase in a month.
 Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) , the second largest, jumped 5.8 percent to
$30.97. Youku plans to acquire Tudou in a stock swap deal, the
companies said in a joint statement on March 13. The purchase is
currently worth about $895 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Facebook ‘Positive’  Facebook Inc.’s planned $5 billion initial public offering
is a “positive” for Chinese Internet stocks, particularly
companies that have social networks, according to Gabriel Wallach, who manages $2.5 billion in emerging-market equities,
including Chinese stocks, at BNP Paribas Investment Partners in
Boston.  Bo Xilai, the former top official in the Chinese
municipality of Chongqing, was suspended from his Communist
Party posts after an investigation led to his wife being
arrested on suspicion of murdering a U.K. citizen, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported on April 10.  A commentary on the front page of the People’s Daily
newspaper, the party’s mouthpiece, urged cadres yesterday to
“firmly support the correct decision” to investigate Bo.  The case of Bo, who was fired on March 15 after Chongqing’s
police chief spent a night in a U.S. consulate in February, “is
not an investable theme yet. I don’t hope it will become one,”
Deltec’s Lesko said. “Somehow that’ll impact the smooth
transition of power in China, that’s what I am worried about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  