-- Sony, Sharp Shares Plunge on Record Annual Losses: Tokyo
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-04-11T00:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/sony-sharp-shares-plunge-on-record-annual-losses-tokyo.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Sharp Corp. (6753) , Japan’s
biggest makers of liquid-crystal-display televisions, fell in
 Tokyo  trading after announcing record losses amid declining
global TV shipments and the strong yen.  Sony dropped 5.9 percent, the most on an intraday basis
since Nov. 4, to 1,492 yen as of 9:07 a.m. The company had a
loss of 520 billion yen ($6.4 billion) for the year ended March
31, it said yesterday after the close of trading in Tokyo. Sharp
slid 2.8 percent to 515 yen after reporting a  380 billion yen 
full-year loss.  The two companies were hammered by rivals  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and natural disasters that disrupted
their output in  Japan  and Thailand, while Japan’s currency
reached a postwar high, prompting government intervention.
Sony’s new president,  Kazuo Hirai , may have to raise equity and
cut jobs while Sharp has turned to Taiwan’s  Foxconn Technology
Group (FOXCGZ)  for a $1.6 billion infusion.  “Investors have kept hoping for their revival and have
been repeatedly let down,” Einosuke Yoshino, a  fund manager  at
Commons Asset Management in Tokyo, said today by phone. “They
make slow decisions and have weak leadership. I no longer
believe them.”  Tax Charge  Sony took a 300 billion-yen charge to write down the value
of deferred tax assets as  the company  no longer expects to be as
profitable as it had once forecast. The company may raise
 financing  with equity, Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato said
yesterday in Tokyo. Sony hasn’t made any specific plans to do
so, he said.  “Sony had said they weren’t likely to book further tax-
asset charges a year ago, when they took a similar charge,”
 Masahiko Ishino , an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities, wrote in a report yesterday. Ishino lowered his
share-price estimate on Sony to 1,450 yen from 1,500 yen while
reiterating his neutral rating on the stock.  Sony’s loss is the worst since the company was founded,
according to Mami Imada, a spokeswoman. Including the
announcement of the 520 billion-yen loss,  Sony lost  a combined
919.32 billion yen in the past four years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  