-- South Africa’s PIC Defends Nedbank CEO Amid Race Criticism
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-04-11T14:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/south-africa-s-pic-defends-nedbank-ceo-amid-race-criticism-2-.html
South Africa ’s Public Investment
Corp., which oversees $125 billion of government pension funds,
defended  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Brown 
after the government attacked the lender for failing to have a
black or female CEO.  Brown has “made a positive contribution to the group” and
has the confidence of the PIC, the Pretoria-based  fund manager 
said in an e-mailed response to questions today. The fund owns 7
percent of Nedbank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The PIC defended Brown after the government criticized
Nedbank Chairman Reuel Khoza on April 9 for not doing enough to
transform the leadership of the bank. Khoza, who is black, had
challenged the country’s political leadership in the lender’s
 annual report . Gwede Mantashe, secretary-general of the ruling
 African National Congress , dismissed Khoza’s criticism on April
3, saying Nedbank should focus on business, not politics.  “The PIC still has confidence in Mike Brown to transform
the business further,” Deon Botha, corporate governance
specialist at PIC, said by e-mail. The PIC hasn’t come under
government pressure to sell its stake, Botha said, adding that
the lender’s shares have outperformed competitors.  Nedbank, which is controlled by  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , is the
best-performing of South Africa’s four largest banks this year
after the stock climbed almost 15 percent. In 2011, the lender
advanced more than 11 percent.  Black Empowerment  South Africa is pushing companies to train and promote
black employees to compensate for discrimination during
apartheid, which ended in 1994. Nedbank ranks on the same level
as its competitors in finding black investors, promoting black
staff and buying services from black suppliers, the PIC said.  “The bank is as strong as what it was before the
chairman’s statement,” Rene van Wyk, South Africa’s Registrar
of Banks, said today. The debate around Khoza’s report won’t
“have a long-term effect as Nedbank has always had a good
relationship with government,” the regulator said.  Jimmy Manyi, the government spokesman who distributed the
April 9 statement, declined to comment today. Tabby Tsengiwe, a
Nedbank spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail or
a telephone message left at her office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  