-- South Africa’s Gordhan Prefers FDI Over Temporary Flows
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-04-11T12:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/south-africa-prefers-fdi-over-short-term-flows-gordhan-says.html
South Africa is seeking to boost
foreign direct investment to reduce the country’s reliance on
short-term portfolio inflows, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
said.  “The one lesson of the post 2008 crisis is that we don’t
want short-term capital that then creates its own volatility and
uncertainty,” Gordhan said in a speech at Sun City, in North
West province, today.  South Africa relies on portfolio inflows to fund its
 current account  deficit, which the National Treasury estimates
will widen to 4.3 percent of gross domestic product this year,
from 3.6 percent in the final quarter of 2011.  Direct investment by foreigners, including takeovers and
building of plants, jumped to 42.1 billion rand ($5.3 billion)
last year from 9 billion rand a year earlier, the central bank
said in its quarterly bulletin on March 19. Most of the new
investment came from the U.K. and  China  and flowed into mining,
financial services and telecommunications.  South Africa ’s government plans to “considerably reduce”
the time it takes to open a business in the country to help
attract investment, Trade Minister  Rob Davies  said at the same
conference.  Domestic growth prospects will depend on what happens in
the global economy, Gordhan said.  “The recent uncertainties around Spain and the European
context sets us back a little bit,” he said. “The U.S. is
showing a small but significant improvement. There are small
setbacks. The trend line is still an improving one.”  The government is “cautiously optimistic” that economic
growth will be higher than the 2.7 percent expansion forecast in
February, Gordhan said on April 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  