-- South Africa Manufacturing Growth Climbs on Low Rates
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-04-11T13:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/south-africa-manufacturing-growth-climbs-on-low-rates.html
South African  manufacturing  growth
accelerated more than expected in February as wage settlements
in excess of  inflation  spurred  consumer spending  and
strengthened growth in Africa’s largest economy.  Factory output rose 4.1 percent from a year earlier, faster
than the revised 2.3 percent expansion in January, Pretoria-
based Statistics South Africa said on its website today. The
 median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of five economists was 2.7
percent. Output rose a seasonally adjusted 2.8 percent in the
month.  “There has been a clear improvement in activity levels
during the past few months,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at
Stanlib Asset Management in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “Hopefully, this improvement is supported by an
ongoing expansion of South African business activity into
southern Africa, increased infrastructural investment activity
and a steady improvement in world economic conditions.”  The central bank has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at
5.5 percent since November 2010, the lowest level in more than
30 years, to help bolster the economy’s recovery. Wage
settlements negotiated on an industry wide basis averaged 7.7
percent last year, compared with an average inflation rate of 5
percent, according to Andrew Levy Employment Publications.  “The domestic economic outlook appears slightly more
favorable against the backdrop of a more positive global
outlook,”  Gill Marcus , the governor of the central bank, said
on March 29. “The recovery in the manufacturing sector is
expected to continue.”  South Africa’s  Purchasing Managers Index (SAPMI)  has remained above
50 for the past three months, indicating an expansion in factory
output, according to Kagiso Tiso Holdings. The index reached a
two-year high of 57.9 in February, before declining to 55.1 last
month.  “Trading conditions are likely to remain relatively tough
for much of 2012,”  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , the country’s fourth-
largest bank, said in e-mailed comments. “Weak demand in  Europe 
and slower growth in key emerging markets will hurt export
sales, containing growth in output and earnings.”  The rand depreciated 18 percent against the dollar in 2011,
the most of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Since
then, the currency has gained 1.3 percent.  The rand traded 0.1 percent stronger at 7.9851 a dollar at
3:25 p.m. in Johannesburg, reversing a 0.8 percent decline in
earlier trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  