-- Spain Yields Trouble Guindos as Rajoy Rallies Party
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-04-12T18:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/spain-yields-trouble-guindos-as-rajoy-rallies-party-behind-cuts.html
Spain  won’t be rescued and it’s
“not possible” to do so, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said as
lawmakers approved a bill to tighten the government’s grip on
regions that flout budget rules.  “Spain is not going to be rescued,” Rajoy told reporters
in Warsaw today after meeting Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk.
“It’s not possible to rescue Spain, there’s no intention to,
it’s not necessary and therefore it’s not going to be rescued.”  Spanish 10-year bonds initially erased early gains and
declined after the remarks, with the yield rising as high as
5.84 percent. Borrowing costs topped 6 percent this week,
nearing the 7 percent level that prompted  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  to seek European bailouts, with the extra yield
compared with German bunds holding above 400 basis points.  Rajoy is trying to convince investors and European partners
he can reorder the nation’s finances as the surge in funding
costs prompted French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to cite Spain’s
previous Socialist government as an example of poor economic
management in his election campaign this week. As part of
Rajoy’s efforts to control the deficit, Parliament passed a bill
today to allow his government to intervene in regions that
overspend.  Bailout Threat  Rajoy and his Cabinet ministers, in power since Dec. 21,
have referred to the threat of a bailout in the past two weeks
as they try to persuade Spaniards to accept the deepest
austerity measures in at least three decades. Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos said yesterday that the government must “put
the house in order” as the “alternative is much worse.”  Regions are crucial to the government’s efforts to rein in
the  deficit  as they control health and education and hire about
half of all public workers. All but one region missed their
 budget  goal last year, pushing the national shortfall to 8.5
percent of gross domestic product and topping the 6 percent
target.  The law passed today sets out a road map for regions that
fail to cut spending, which starts by requiring them to present
a plan to reorder their finances and ends with a team of
officials visiting the region to impose measures nine months
later. The bill was passed with 192 votes out of the 350 total,
as the opposition Socialists voted against, and now goes to the
Senate for final approval.  Health and Education  Rajoy said the central government will sit down with
officials from the regions next week to discuss changes to
health and education, and the measures will be put into law this
month. The government also plans to slim down the public
administration and make sure that key services are offered by
only one branch of government.  “The biggest excess produced by the creation of regions in
1978 was to replicate a mini-state in each of the 17 regions,”
Antonio Beteta, Spain’s deputy minister for public
administration and a former state budget chief, told a
conference in Madrid today.  While the ruling  People’s Party  has a parliamentary
majority and controls 11 of the 17 regions, Catalonia, the
biggest region, is run by a nationalist party that seeks more
autonomy from Spain. The third-biggest, Andalusia, is set to
remain in the hands of the Socialists after the PP failed to win
a majority there in elections on March 25.  Andalusia, run by the Socialists for more than three
decades, is an example of a “lack of transparency,” which
“leads to doubts,” Beteta said.  “When we’ll know the real figures for Andalusia, we’ll be
able to form an opinion, till then all we have is fear because
we don’t have them,” he said.  The government is stepping up pressure on regions to
provide more information on their finances, and Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro said yesterday that regions will have to
publish spending and revenue figures each month in a format
that’s comparable with national accounting data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  