-- Spain’s Debt Struggle Opens Door to Sarkozy Campaign Message
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-11T12:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/spain-s-debt-struggle-opens-door-to-sarkozy-campaign-messaging.html
Spain’s struggle to fend off
concern that it may be the next debt-crisis domino to fall has
proven opportune for French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s re-
election bid.  One of Sarkozy’s main campaign themes is that he has
protected  France  from the penalties investors have imposed on
 Europe ’s periphery. Spain’s rising bond yields and missed
deficit targets, requiring ever-deeper austerity measures and
threatening to reignite the regionwide crisis, have given
traction to the French leader’s message.  “Do you want to be in the same situation as Spain or
Greece?” Sarkozy said today on France Info radio, the same
rhetorical question he’d asked the night before in a Canal-Plus
television appearance. “If I hadn’t done pension reform, if I
hadn’t decided to only replace one of every two retiring state
workers, can you doubt that we’d be in the same situation.”  While Sarkozy trails Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande 
in polls for the decisive May 6 vote, the gap has narrowed in
recent weeks, and Sarkozy is more highly rated than Hollande for
being able to handle international crises. So far, the French
presidential campaign has focused on  job creation  and purchasing
power, deemed to be Hollande’s strengths.  “It certainly reinforces Sarkozy’s rhetoric that he is the
only leader capable of protecting France in times of crisis,”
 Antonio Barroso , an analyst at Eurasia Group, said in an e-mail
interview.  Rajoy’s Retort  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  declined to respond
directly, while saying other European Union leaders should be
“careful with their comments.”  “We are not against anyone, we don’t talk about other
countries,” Rajoy told members of his  People’s Party  today in
 Madrid . “To all countries of the EU and euro zone, we wish them
the best. What is good for Spain is good for the euro zone. And
what is good for the euro zone is good for Spain.”  Hollande would beat Sarkozy by 53 percent to 47 percent in
the second round, an Ifop-Fiducial poll said April 10. That
compares to 54-46 percent a week earlier and 58-42 at the start
of February. The survey of 1,869 people gave no margin of error.  France’s 10 presidential candidates compete in the April 22
first round. The top two -- almost certainly Sarkozy and
Hollande -- face off May 6.  Sarkozy’s Standing  Sarkozy’s approval rating is now at 42 percent, up 6 points
in a month and its highest in two years, according to Ifop poll
April 3 that questioned 1,004 people and gave no margin of
error.  An Ipsos poll April 9 put Sarkozy’s approval at 40 percent,
the highest since 2009. That poll questioned 955 people.  Hollande was rated better than Sarkozy at creating jobs,
boosting growth and purchasing power, and improving education,
according to a BVA poll March 26. They were equal at cutting the
debt, and Sarkozy was rated higher on European issues and
foreign policy. The BVA poll questioned 890 people.  Since that poll, the euro crisis has returned to the French
evening news shows with Rajoy saying Spain’s future is at stake
in its battle to tame surging bond yields.  Spain’s  10-year borrowing costs  have jumped more than one
percentage point since March 2, close to levels that prompted
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek European bailouts, after
Rajoy said Spain will miss its 2012 budget-deficit target.  Crisis ‘Not Over’  “The euro crisis is not over,” Jacques Attali, a former
French presidential adviser and ex-head of the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, said in an interview on France 2
television yesterday. “European issues will impose themselves
in this campaign.”  The reignited euro crisis comes after Sarkozy failed to
make much headway from last month’s murders of seven people in
Toulouse by a self-declared jihadist. The March 26 BVA poll
showed that only 17 percent of the French said the Toulouse
killings had any impact on their voting intention.  “The French remain above all preoccupied by economic and
social questions, and not by security issues,” Carine Marce,
associate director at TNS-Sofres, said in a note yesterday.  Spain ’s travails have allowed Sarkozy to claim calamity for
France should Hollande be elected and put in place his plans to
hire 60,000 new teachers and create government funded jobs for
youths. Hollande has committed to balancing the budget by 2017,
a year later than Sarkozy would.  “If we return to spending without control, we will find
ourselves in the same situation as Spain,” Sarkozy said on
France Info.  Bond Spreads  While France this year lost its AAA credit rating at
 Standard & Poor’s , its 10-year borrowing costs compared to
 Germany ’s have declined so far this year, while Spain’s have
climbed almost 100 basis points. Ten-year French notes yield
about 3 percent about half the level of Spain’s 5.9 percent.  During an April 7 campaign visit in a Paris suburb,
Hollande said it was “bad manners” and “a poor example of
European solidarity” for Sarkozy to criticize Spain so openly.  He said Sarkozy shouldn’t be giving lessons. “When there’s
been a 30 percent increase in the debt, the best attitude for
the person responsible would be to be quiet,” Hollande said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  