-- Springleaf Sells Subprime Securities Seeking Cash to Repay Debt
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-04-11T19:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/springleaf-sells-subprime-securities-seeking-cash-to-repay-debt.html
Springleaf Finance Corp. (AGC1) , the
subprime lender mostly owned by  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) ,
sold securities backed by older mortgages as it seeks to raise
cash to repay  maturing debt  and avert a default, according to a
person familiar with the offering.  The company priced a $260.2 million, top-rated portion of
the securitization at a yield of 2.59 percent, said the person,
who declined to be identified without authorization. The
Evansville, Indiana-based lender offered $371 million of notes
in the sale.  Fortress purchased 80 percent of Springleaf, then known as
American General Finance Inc., from  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  in 2010 for $125 million, taking $17 billion of debt off
the U.S. controlled insurer’s balance sheet.  Gordon Runte, a spokesman for New York-based Fortress,
declined to immediately comment today.  Standard & Poor’s cut Springleaf’s  credit rating  to CCC
from B in February, saying the lender’s ability to securitize
assets may prove a key to its chances of surviving without a
restructuring. The company, whose unsecured bonds tumbled a day
before the downgrade as it said it hired Alvarez & Marsal Inc.
and Houlihan Lokey for financial advice, is facing about $2
billion of debt maturities this year.  The lender “will have difficulty meeting its unsecured
debt maturities in 2012 without securitizing a large amount of
assets, significantly scaling back its originations, or
conducting a distressed debt exchange,” New York-based S&P said
in a Feb. 3 statement.  Exited Real Estate  Springleaf exited real-estate lending at the start of this
year to focus on other consumer financing and its insurance
operations, it said last month in a Securities and Exchange
Commission  filing . It fired about 130 employees at its
headquarters on Feb. 15 as a result of the move, branch closings
and retreats from businesses in 14 states and southern  Florida ,
according to the filing. It also eliminated about 560 workers at
other offices this year.  The lender received $272.7 million on Feb. 10 from the
sales of junior portions of previous securitizations it had
initially retained, according to the filing.  The mortgages backing the securities sold today have
balances of about $473 million and were on average 76 months
old, according to the person. Borrowers’ credit current scores
average 650, with updated loan-to-values of 91.5 percent.  Springleaf’s $3 billion of 6.9 percent notes due December
2017 rose 0.8 cent to 77.75 cents on the dollar as of 12:06 p.m.
in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt fell to
73.3 cents on Feb. 6, from as high as 79 cents in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  