-- State Help Needed for New Nuclear Units, Exelon Chief Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-04-11T20:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/state-help-needed-for-nuclear-units-exelon-chief-says-correct-.html
U.S. utilities will need government
help to build nuclear reactors as other forms of electric power
become less expensive, a top executive of  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the
nation’s largest commercial producer of atomic energy, said.  State support may include letting companies recover costs
from customers during construction, providing loan guarantees or
agreeing to buy power from the plant, Mayo Shattuck III,
executive chairman of Chicago-based Exelon, said today at a
conference in Washington.  Building reactors may require “the sovereign support of
that state, which really means it’s on the backs of the
ratepayers, not the backs of the shareholders,” Shattuck said
at an event hosted by the Center for Strategic and International
Studies.  The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  on March 30 awarded  Scana
Corp. (SCG)  a permit to build two reactors at a plant near Columbia,
 South Carolina , and on Feb. 9 approved  Southern Co. (SO) ’s plan for
two units at its Vogtle plant near Augusta,  Georgia . Southern
expects its project to cost $14 billion. Scana will cover 55
percent of the estimated $10.2 billion for the South Carolina
reactors. The plants, being financed partly by customers, may be
among the last in the U.S. this decade.  Gas Glut  A glut of natural gas created by advances in drilling
techniques has lowered electricity prices, discouraging
investment in other forms of generation, including nuclear. Gas
prices at a 10-year low means developing nuclear power isn’t
feasible in states with deregulated energy markets. Generating
companies can’t win investors or recapture capital costs as gas
drives wholesale electricity prices lower.  Natural gas fell 4.7 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $1.984 per
million British thermal units today on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest settlement price since January 2002.  Economic conditions raise “very serious questions” about
the possibility of building new reactors without government
support, Shattuck said.  “Even the existing fleet is feeling a little bit of the
pressure in this kind of environment,” he said. The U.S. has
104 commercial operating reactors.  Exelon operates in states where electricity prices are
determined by traders, rather than being set by regulators. The
company, which currently has no plans to build more nuclear
reactors, can’t recover costs during the construction phase
because of this regulatory structure. The company operates 13
nuclear  power plants , with 22 reactors.  Unforeseen Events  It’s “naive” to assume gas will remain the preferred low-
cost option for generating power because circumstances,
including a price on  carbon emissions , environmental concerns
about natural-gas drilling or a terrorist attack on a gas plant,
would raise costs, Shattuck said.  Unforeseen events “could easily occur in the next few
years that will change the game again,” he said. “The
generation footprint of 50 to 60 years from now has to have some
nuclear” energy, he said.  Exelon merged last month with  Constellation Energy Group
Inc. (CEG) , a utility led by Shattuck. John Rowe, Exelon’s former
chief executive officer, promoted natural gas as an alternative
to clean-energy subsidies for nuclear reactors, and wind and
solar energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  