-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2012-04-11T18:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the Beige Book.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland  prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before April 2.  Boston: “Economic activity continues to expand at a
moderate pace in the First District. Most contacted retailers,
manufacturers, and consulting and advertising firms report
higher revenues in recent months than a year earlier. Commercial
real estate markets are mostly unchanged, while residential
contacts across the region cite rising sales and declining
prices. Retailers express concern about what rising energy costs
may do to consumers’ willingness to spend, while manufacturing
contacts acknowledge the increasing costs, but say they are not
a problem.”  New York: “Growth in the Second District’s economy has
picked up somewhat since the last report. Labor market
conditions have been stable to slightly stronger in recent
weeks, and a sizable number of contacts say they plan to add
workers in the months ahead. While consumer prices generally
remain steady, business contacts in a number of industries
indicate rising cost pressures. Manufacturers report steady
improvement in business conditions. Most retailers and auto
dealers describe sales as steady but strong in February and the
first few weeks of March. Tourism activity has been mixed but
generally strong since the last report, with bookings for the
months ahead described as robust.”  Philadelphia: “Overall, business activity in the Third
District has continued to show slow, steady improvement since
the previous  Beige Book . Overall sentiment improved, and the
unseasonably mild weather undoubtedly contributed to this. Since
the last Beige Book, manufacturing activity has grown further,
and many manufacturing industries have contributed to this
growth; however, the pace has slowed slightly. Retail sales
continued to grow modestly. Motor vehicle dealers experienced
unseasonably strong sales growth in February, but sales were
less robust in March. Third District banks have reported slight
growth in demand and continued strong credit quality since the
last Beige Book.”  Cleveland: “The economy in the Fourth District grew at a
modest pace since our last report. Manufacturers reported a
small increase in production, while activity in residential and
nonresidential construction picked up slightly. Many retailers
and auto dealers characterized February sales as good. Energy
production was stable except for shale gas, where activity
expanded. Freight transport volume trended higher at a moderate
rate. And the demand for business and consumer credit improved
slightly. Hiring remains at a low level and was mainly limited
to the manufacturing and freight transport sectors.”  Richmond: “Business conditions have improved in the Fifth
District economy since our last report. Manufacturing activity
continued to advance, although somewhat more slowly than at the
beginning of the year. While trade activity increased, imports
improved somewhat more slowly than exports. Retail sales
activity rose sharply, as shopper traffic increased and big-
ticket sales strengthened. Realtors noted an increase in sales
of existing homes, and contractors reported an uptick in new
 home construction .”  Atlanta: “Reports from Sixth District business contacts
indicated that the pace of economic activity expanded at a
moderate pace in late February through March. Expectations
remained generally positive across most sectors, although
contacts expressed concern regarding the impact of higher energy
prices on the outlook. Retailers mostly indicated sales were
growing at a modest pace and auto sales remained strong. Leisure
and hospitality businesses reported robust activity in all
segments except cruise lines. Homebuilders and brokers
experienced improvements in sales of new and existing homes
while multifamily construction remained strong.”  Chicago: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
continued to expand at a moderate pace in late February and
March. Growth in consumer spending picked up, and business
spending continued to increase. The pace of growth in
manufacturing production was little changed and construction
activity increased. Credit conditions improved slightly. Energy
prices increased, but with limited pass-through to downstream
prices, and wage increases remained moderate. Soybean and cattle
prices rose, while corn, wheat, milk, and hog prices
decreased.”  St. Louis : “The economy of the Eighth District continued
to grow at a modest pace since our previous survey. Residential
real estate market conditions have improved moderately.
Similarly, commercial real estate market conditions also have
improved. However, recent reports of plans from firms in the
manufacturing and services sectors were more mixed. Overall
lending at a sample of small and medium-sized District banks was
essentially unchanged during the three-month period from mid-
December to mid-March.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy grew at a solid
pace since the last report. Strength was noted in consumer
spending, professional services, construction, manufacturing,
energy and mining, and agriculture. Residential real estate had
an unexpectedly large increase in sales activity. Warm weather
slowed winter tourism activity. Hiring activity outpaced layoffs
since the last report. Wage increases were moderate, and price
increases were generally subdued.”  Kansas City : “The Tenth District economy expanded at a
faster pace in late February and March.  Consumer spending 
improved, residential real estate activity rose solidly, and
commercial real estate activity edged higher. Growth in the
 energy industry  eased slightly but remained solid. Manufacturing
firms reported further increases in activity, and agricultural
conditions improved from the previous survey. Transportation
activity picked up slightly, and high-tech service firms said
sales growth was mostly solid. Bankers noted steady loan demand,
better loan quality, and rising deposits.  Prices rose slightly,
but wage pressures were contained outside of a few skilled
positions.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate
pace over the past six weeks. Overall manufacturing activity
continued to expand. Demand for business services rose slightly,
and transportation services activity remained positive overall.
The housing sector continued to improve modestly, and
nonresidential leasing activity remained solid. Respondents said
retail sales grew at a modest pace and auto sales strengthened.
Financial firms noted a modest pickup in loan demand. Energy
activity continued to be strong, although gas-directed drilling
activity weakened. Drought conditions improved. Employment
levels were steady to slightly higher. Prices were unchanged or
somewhat higher, according to contacts. Outlooks across
industries remain positive, but more respondents noted concern
about higher energy costs.”  San Francisco : “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
continued to expand at a moderate pace during the reporting
period of late February through the end of March.  Despite
higher energy prices, overall price pressures for final goods
and services remained modest, as did wage gains.  Sales of
retail items and demand for business and consumer services rose
further. District manufacturing activity increased on net.
Demand was robust for agricultural producers but remained uneven
for providers of energy resources. Activity in District housing
markets strengthened modestly but remained lackluster on
balance, and demand for nonresidential real estate was largely
unchanged. Contacts from financial institutions reported small
increases in overall loan demand and slight improvements in
 credit quality  and availability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  