-- Swiss Court Rejects Disclosure of Credit Suisse Client Data
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-04-11T15:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/swiss-court-rejects-disclosure-of-credit-suisse-client-s-data.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  can’t
disclose a client’s account data to U.S. tax authorities because
a request for assistance last year addressed only tax evasion,
which isn’t covered by a 1996 treaty, a Swiss court ruled.  The “search criteria” for the identification of bank
clients “are formulated in terms encompassing above all mere
tax evasion, for which administrative assistance cannot be
granted,” the  Federal Administrative Court  said in a April 5
ruling published today.  The court’s decision follows an appeal by a Credit Suisse
client. That came after Switzerland’s second-biggest bank last
November told some customers that the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service had sent a request on Sept. 26, via the Swiss Federal
Tax Administration, for the names of Americans with accounts
owned through a “domiciliary company.”  Switzerland  and the U.S. are holding talks to resolve an
investigation involving 11 Swiss financial firms, including
Credit Suisse, after the  Department of Justice  indicted Wegelin
& Co. on Feb. 2 for allegedly helping customers hide money from
the IRS. Switzerland, the world’s biggest center for offshore
wealth, is trying to shed its image as a haven for undeclared
assets following a crackdown on tax evasion by U.S. authorities.  “The IRS and the Swiss administration tried to stretch the
Swiss legal framework as far as possible,” said Franco Taisch,
a professor of business law at the University of Lucerne.
“However, the Swiss judiciary has set the boundaries.”  Assistance Rules  Marc Dosch , a spokesman for Zurich-based Credit Suisse,
declined to comment on the judgment or its possible impact.  The Credit Suisse request came under Switzerland’s 1996 tax
agreement with the U.S. Under that accord, “administrative
assistance shall not be granted for presumed  tax evasion , even
if high amounts are at stake,” the administrative court said.  “The U.S. will have to explain the search criteria to
identify the account holders in more detail,” the Swiss State
Secretariat for International Financial Matters said in an e-
mailed statement. “The negotiations to resolve the dispute on
untaxed assets by U.S. account holders in Swiss banks will be
continued.”  While “some clients” appealed the decision to deliver the
data, details on another 150 have already been handed over to
the U.S., the state secretariat said.  “It’s definitely not an isolated case,” said Peter V. Kunz, head of the business law department at the University of
Bern. “It will have a general impact on the U.S. requests for
administrative assistance.”  International Standards  Sindy Schmiegel Werner, a spokeswoman for the  Swiss Bankers
Association , declined to comment on the ruling, adding that
“the judiciary in Switzerland is independent.”  Switzerland, ranked at the top of a financial secrecy index
by the London-based Tax Justice Network, agreed in 2009 to meet
international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  While the 1996 double-taxation treaty only covers cases of
 tax fraud  and severe tax evasion, a new accord agreed on in
September 2009 was extended to tax evasion. Once in force, the
new agreement will cover cases starting in September 2009.
Credit Suisse in November told its clients that the U.S.
requested data for certain accounts held between 2002 and 2010.  Resolution Costs  In 2009, prosecutors charged UBS AG, the largest Swiss
bank, with aiding tax evasion by U.S. clients. UBS avoided
prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax
evasion, and giving the U.S. Internal Revenue Service data on
more than 250 accounts. It later turned over data on another
4,450 accounts.  The cost to Credit Suisse of resolving the probe “could
be” higher than the 295 million Swiss-franc ($322 million)
provision that Switzerland’s second-biggest bank set aside for
U.S. tax matters in the third quarter, Chief Executive Officer
 Brady Dougan  said on Feb. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Verschuur in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  