-- Switzerland’s Banking Secrecy Is ‘History,’ Raymond Baer Says
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-04-11T12:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/switzerland-s-banking-secrecy-is-history-raymond-baer-says.html
Swiss banks should help clients
declare their assets to foreign tax authorities and abandon
rules that keep their wealth secret,  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) ’s
outgoing Chairman Raymond Baer said.  “ Switzerland ’s good reputation as a reliable business
partner would be damaged if clients did not get a standardized
procedure for regularizing the past,” Baer, 52, said today in a
 speech  to shareholders of the Swiss  money manager  that marked
the end of his nine-year chairmanship. “Banking secrecy, as we
know it, is history.”  Switzerland has signed tax accords with the U.K. and
 Germany  that, if ratified by parliaments, will impose a levy on
wealth held by Britons and Germans in the past and a new
withholding tax on future income. The Alpine nation is also
holding talks with the U.S. to resolve a Department of Justice
investigation of 11 Swiss financial firms including  Julius Baer 
and Credit Suisse Group AG.  Switzerland is trying to shed its image as an offshore tax
haven reliant on secrecy laws dating to 1934, after national
fiscal authorities and intergovernmental organizations began
cracking down on people who bank money outside their country of
residence.  The industry and politicians should work “intensively” on
the country’s so-called  white-money strategy  and base it on
global standards, Raymond Baer said. A withholding tax model is
preferable to occasional demands for the free exchange of
information between different jurisdictions, he said.  U.S. Settlement  Daniel J. Sauter will replace Baer as chairman, the company
reiterated today. Baer, who has spent most of his career with
the family bank that was established in 1890, will head a
special committee overseeing cooperation with the U.S.
authorities, the firm said March 19.  Boris Collardi , the bank’s chief executive officer, said
Feb. 6 he expects Julius Baer to pay a fine and hand over client
data to the U.S. as part of a final settlement.  The Department of Justice indicted  St. Gallen , Switzerland-
based Wegelin & Co. on Feb. 2 for allegedly helping customers
hide money from the  Internal Revenue Service . Collardi said four
days later that he doesn’t expect his company to be indicted.  Julius Baer has provided support for two employees charged
in October with helping more than 180 U.S. clients hide at least
$600 million in assets from the IRS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  