-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace over the
past six weeks. Overall manufacturing activity continued to
expand. Demand for business services rose slightly, and
transportation services activity remained positive overall. The
housing sector continued to improve modestly, and nonresidential
leasing activity remained solid. Respondents said retail sales
grew at a modest pace and auto sales strengthened. Financial
firms noted a modest pickup in loan demand. Energy activity
continued to be strong, although gas-directed drilling activity
weakened. Drought conditions improved. Employment levels were
steady to slightly higher. Prices were unchanged or somewhat
higher, according to contacts. Outlooks across industries remain
positive, but more respondents noted concern about higher energy
costs.  Prices  Responding firms said prices held steady or increased, and
several noted concerns regarding rising fuel costs. Food
producers reported increases in selling prices to offset high
input costs, and airlines noted higher fares. Intermodal
transportation firms said they had increased prices in response
to higher fuel costs, and parcel shipping firms noted plans to
increase surcharges to offset rising fuel costs. Retailers and
automobile dealers said higher  gas prices  had not significantly
affected sales. Agricultural commodity prices declined since the
last report.  The price of WTI averaged $105.95 per barrel during the
reporting period. Natural gas prices fell from $2.50 per
thousand cubic feet to below $2.20. Gasoline prices rose by 34
cents per gallon over the past six weeks, and the price of
diesel rose by 20 cents. Prices of petrochemicals and plastics
also increased since the last report.  Labor Market  Most responding firms said employment levels held steady since
the last report, although several noted slight increases.
Staffing firms said demand softened slightly in March, but
direct hires were still strong. Staffing contacts also noted
shortages of skilled workers in IT and accounting. There were
scattered reports of small employment increases in the high-tech
manufacturing, transportation manufacturing, metals, auto sales
and airline industries. Accounting firms noted a pickup in
temporary workers due to the tax season. Wage pressures remained
minimal, although slight salary increases were noted by some
legal, auto and high-tech manufacturing firms.  Manufacturing  Overall demand for construction related products increased since
the last report, although a few respondents’ outlooks have
become slightly more guarded. A cement producer and a lumber
firm noted improving demand in the residential sector, while a
fabricated metals producer said private projects related to oil
and gas, manufacturing and highway construction were driving the
pickup in demand. Primary metals firms noted that commercial
construction projects including hospitals, schools and
government buildings were a factor behind improving demand,
along with solid sales to truck and trailer manufacturers.  Respondents in high-tech manufacturing reported that orders
continued to grow at a modest pace since the last report.
According to contacts, key demand drivers continue to be mobile
applications, cloud computing and automobiles. One contact noted
that demand for DRAM memory remains weak relative to supply,
while demand for  flash memory  and logic devices is generally
good. Most respondents expect demand to continue to grow at a
modest pace over the next three to six months.  Aviation equipment manufacturers said demand weakened during the
reporting period. Contacts were less optimistic in their
outlooks for the year, citing high energy prices and the
bankruptcy of several service and maintenance companies that
serve the  airline industry . Food producers said sales activity
increased over the past six weeks, and near-term outlooks were
positive. Reports from paper manufacturers were mixed but
overall suggested steady to slower growth in demand. Contacts
expect moderate growth for the year.  Petrochemicals producers said planned maintenance outages have
tightened capacity, constrained production and raised the price
of ethylene. Capacity was reduced by closures during the
recession, and new modern plants will not be on line for several
years. The pass-through of higher ethylene prices has weakened
export demand for petrochemical products including polyethylene.
Gulf Coast refiners noted steady margins overall since the last
report.  Retail Sales  Retail sales grew modestly over the comparable period a year ago
and performed in line with expectations. According to some
national retailers, the Eleventh District’s strength relative to
the nation declined as warm weather in the north and east
prompted strong spring clothing sales in those regions. Contacts
noted that consumer demand appears healthier, and most expect
moderate sales growth for the year. Inventories are being
managed closely.  Automobile sales showed strength in late February which
continued through the first half of March. Contacts noted that
customer concern over gas prices remains muted at this point,
but they have seen more interest in smaller vehicles recently.
The outlook for sales remains optimistic.  Services  Demand for staffing services softened slightly at the end of
March, following solid activity earlier in the year. Still,
orders for direct hires remained strong and shortages of skilled
accounting and IT professionals were reported. Outlooks were
positive as contacts expect demand to bounce back in the second
quarter. Legal firms reported a slight pickup in demand for
their services. Contacts said mergers and acquisitions and
transactional service activity had surpassed expectations, and
there is continued strength in demand for intellectual property,
energy and some real-estate related legal services. Accounting
firms reported a modest increase in overall activity and
characterize this year’s tax and audit season as unusually good.  Reports from transportation service firms were mixed. Intermodal
firms reported an increase in cargo volumes buoyed by shipments
of oil field supplies. Small parcel shipments increased, while
air cargo volumes and railroad shipments declined during the
reporting period. Airlines reported solid passenger demand over
the past six weeks. Domestic  air travel  increased, while
international air travel demand was flat. Contacts said
customers remained price sensitive and were purchasing
restricted discount fares. Airline contacts expect passenger
demand to remain stable or improve in the near-term.  Construction and Real Estate  Housing demand continued to pick up over the past six weeks.
Tight new home inventories led to a modest rise in construction
activity. Sales activity rose and inventories fell in the
existing home market. Some contacts expect lower inventories to
impact prices positively in 2012. Apartment leasing activity
remained robust since the last report.  Office and industrial leasing activity continued to improve.
Contacts noted that the energy and high tech sectors were
driving much of the demand for space. Sales of nonresidential
investment properties were unchanged over the past six weeks.
Respondents noted some trepidation among investors, even though
capital is widely available. The one exception was apartment
properties, which remain popular among investors according to
contacts.  Financial Services  Financial firms reported a modest uptick in loan demand.
National banks reported strength in middle-market lending and
large corporate lending activity. Regional banks also noted
improved sentiments, and several banks suggested energy-related
activity remains robust. Outlooks are generally less
pessimistic, and some outright optimistic, with an overall theme
that “loan demand is slightly stronger.” The most optimistic
contacts were large bank lenders or regional banks that
expressed strength in renewed corporate lending. Loan pricing
remains competitive. Outstanding loan quality continues to
improve, and contacts continue to note fewer problem loans.  Energy  Contacts at energy-related service firms said demand and
backlogs from oil-producing areas remained very strong over the
past six weeks. Many respondents, however, were concerned about
weaker than expected demand for gas-directed drilling and a
related decline in demand for fracturing services and horizontal
drilling services. While respondents said overall demand in
 Texas  is still very strong, several noted that crews were being
shifted from dry gas-producing basins such as the Barnett shale
to oil-producing basins such as Permian and Eagle Ford. While
such disruptions were expected to be temporary, some contacts
had lowered expectations for 2012.  Agriculture  Rainfall continued to ease drought conditions in many parts of
the District. West Texas did not receive much moisture, however,
and the severity of drought there worsened over the reporting
period. Prospects for 2012 crops are improved due to better soil
moisture, and producers will have more flexibility with what to
plant. 