-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Economic activity continues to expand at a moderate pace in the
First District. Most contacted retailers, manufacturers, and
consulting and advertising firms report higher revenues in
recent months than a year earlier. Commercial real estate
markets are mostly unchanged, while residential contacts across
the region cite rising sales and declining prices. Except for a
consulting firm unable to meet very strong demand growth without
aggressive hiring, responding firms are hiring modestly or not
at all; a few mentioned small layoffs. Retailers express concern
about what rising energy costs may do to consumers’ willingness
to spend, while manufacturing contacts acknowledge the
increasing costs, but say they are not a problem.  Retail and Tourism  Most First District retail contacts characterize year-to-date
2012 performance as strong, attributing this strength to mild
winter weather and improving consumer sentiment. For February,
year-over-year comparable-store sales increases ranged from low
to high single digits, with the exception of one retailer citing
a 23 percent rise. Furniture continues to sell well in the First
District, as does apparel and other household items. Paper-based
products are expected to see 3 percent to 4 percent price
increases. While respondents are optimistic that performance
will continue to be good, they remain cautious, noting that
gasoline price increases might damp consumer sentiment.  The travel and tourism sector in the First District continues to
expect a strong 2012, based on 5.6 percent annual growth in
2011, a strong start to 2012, and analyst forecasts predicting
high single-digit to low double-digit increases over 2011. In
January and February, hotel revenues were up nearly 10 percent,
reflecting improved occupancy rates. Higher hotel occupancy has
positive spillover effects for restaurants, retail, and
entertainment venues. Business travel is driving this increase,
as leisure travel is still subject to some consumer caution.
Echoing the retail contacts, tourism contacts say higher  gas
prices  could retard growth in leisure travel, but aggressive
price discounting might provide a counterweight.  Manufacturing and Related Services  None of the 10 First District manufacturing firms contacted this
round saw year-over-year sales declines in recent months, but
performance varied. A semiconductor machinery manufacturer which
generates most of its sales in Asia reports flat sales in the
first two months of 2012, an improvement over declining sales in
the fourth quarter of 2011. By contrast, an information
technology equipment provider cites 18 percent sales growth in
2011 and continued strong growth in the first quarter of 2012.
Geography matters, as firms with large operations in  Europe  saw
slower growth and some outright overseas declines whereas firms
more focused on the U.S. and  Asia  experienced better results. A
contact in the information technology sector argues that the end
of 2011 was strong because customers held back on spending
during the weak spring and summer period but then made sure to
spend that money before the year ended.  All of our contacts report that input costs and, in particular,
energy costs are up. However, none says rising costs are a
problem and all in this round say energy has little noticeable
effect on their costs or revenues. In general, respondents
indicate they are hiring to keep up with demand. Two firms
undertook relatively small layoffs; one did so because of weaker
sales in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the other is offsetting
layoffs at one  New England  plant with increases elsewhere in the
region. Firms continue to report difficulty finding qualified
workers, especially in skilled manufacturing trades and
engineering. One contact, an electrical equipment manufacturer,
is trying to re-orient recruiting to hire young engineers, for
example, and train them in-house, rather than continuing to
search for workers who already have experience with the relevant
technology.  None of the contacted firms has revised its outlook since our
last conversations earlier this year or in the closing months of
2011. Most appear to expect U.S. economic growth around 2
percent in 2012 and company sales growth in the low single
digits. Contacts remain concerned about the European economy and
about political “gridlock” here. A few contacts also expressed
slight concern about prospects for growth in  China .  Selected Business Services  Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District report
increasing revenues in the first quarter of 2012 and most say
that the pace of growth, while not rapid, is sustainable.
Despite the fact that recent growth is generally slower than at
the end of 2011, contacts are relatively upbeat, partly because
the faster growth of late 2011 represented a recovery from a
very weak third quarter, in which several contacts experienced
declining revenues and laid off workers. Revenue results, while
good for marketing and advertising firms, are stronger for
consulting firms, especially economic consulting. A firm that
focuses on marketing and promotional materials saw year-over-
year growth of about 10 percent while another that focuses on
advertising cites stable revenues recently after rapid growth in
the latter half of 2011. Strategy and business consulting
contacts report growth around 5 percent, as clients who had
previously been sitting on large stockpiles of cash are
beginning to spend them to address pent-up need for consulting
services cut during the recession. Clients have reportedly begun
to focus on increasing sales and positioning themselves within
markets rather than solely on cutting costs. Economic consulting
contacts note that demand is extremely strong for high-end
consulting and revenue growth is limited mostly by their own
capacity to respond. Demand for health care consulting is
generally strong, with the exception of pharmaceuticals, but
some business lines have slowed as firms wait until the
uncertainty over health care reform clears up. One consulting
firm has seen rapid growth due to two new large government
contracts, but notes that individual consulting firms’ prospects
are contingent upon the funding status of and uncertainty
surrounding the specific agencies with which they do business.  Contacts report wage increases in the low single digits and
expect this pace to continue. Input costs consist primarily of
salaries in this sector, but other cost growth is generally low.
Firms say they are able to pass on cost increases to clients and
thus see either steady or slightly increasing profit margins.
Responding firms say they changed employment levels very little
in the first quarter of 2012, except for economic consultants
who are hiring to meet demand growth, and a strategic and
management consultant with small layoffs. Aside from economic
consulting, contacts do not plan to expand headcounts in the
near future, requiring more rapid increases in demand to
reinitiate hiring.  Most contacts expect moderate growth for the rest of 2012, with
some anticipating an acceleration either late in the year or in
2013. They note very few downside risks, saying their biggest
concerns are the macro economy in general and uncertainty
surrounding partisanship in  Washington  and the upcoming
election.  Commercial Real Estate  Reports from commercial real estate contacts in the First
District indicate that conditions are largely unchanged since
the last report. Boston’s commercial property market remains
more active than other New England markets, which are ―quiet,‖ a
term one contact used to describe  Portland . Contacts note that
investment demand for prime office and apartment properties
continues to be robust in Boston and expect it to remain so for
the foreseeable future. Office and retail demand elsewhere in
New England is moderate. Contacts in these areas do not foresee
increases in vacancy rates, but note that a dearth of interest
from potential entrants to these markets means they are unlikely
to fall in the near future. Retail sector rents remain flat
across the region and all contacts reported retail sector
vacancy rates somewhere between flat and modestly decreasing.  Construction activity continues at moderate levels in Boston and
low levels elsewhere in the District. One contact perceives an
increased interest in new retail and medical office projects in
Boston for the first time in recent history. Another contact
expects education sector construction activity in the Boston
area to increase later in the year, but notes that large health
care projects continue to be delayed. Market appetites for
multifamily apartment development remain strong in Boston.
According to contacts, favorable terms but strict standards
characterize financing markets for construction projects in
Boston and financing conditions in Boston remain markedly better
than in the region’s smaller markets. Respondents throughout the
region remain cautiously optimistic about the coming months, but
many acknowledge that commercial markets will not begin to pick
up until macroeconomic conditions improve substantially.  Residential Real Estate  Residential real estate in New England shows signs of
strengthening as sales continued to increase in February, except
in  Connecticut  where February sales were close to year-earlier
levels. According to most contacts, activity is improving across
all price segments. Contacts cite low  interest rates , falling
prices, improving economic conditions, and milder weather as
factors contributing to the observed sales increases.
Nonetheless, contacts remain cautious about the prospect of
housing-market recovery because  home prices  continued to decline
across the six states. Most contacts attribute falling prices to
distressed properties; however, they also say the role of
distressed properties in the market is diminishing. In the
Greater Boston area, by contrast, the median sale price of homes
and condos rose in February compared to a year ago. Respondents
say buyer activity in Boston has intensified and they are
concerned that inventory levels will not provide adequate
selection for homebuyers.  Contacts in states with significant levels of inventory remain
cautiously optimistic about the near future; they say sales
growth observed in recent months appears promising, but
declining prices remain a source of concern. Other contacts
maintain a more optimistic outlook for coming months due to
inventory levels coming into balance with buyer activity. Based
on pending sales figures and current market activity, contacts
expect growth in year-over-year sales to continue into spring. 