-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA
Summary  Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated that the
pace of economic activity expanded at a moderate pace in late
February through March. Expectations remained generally positive
across most sectors, although contacts expressed concern
regarding the impact of higher energy prices on the outlook.  Retailers mostly indicated sales were growing at a modest pace
and auto sales remained strong. Leisure and hospitality
businesses reported robust activity in all segments except
cruise lines. Homebuilders and brokers experienced improvements
in sales of new and existing homes while multifamily
construction remained strong. General contractors noted slow
improvements in commercial construction conditions.
Manufacturers and transportation contacts reported positive
production trends, on balance. Loan demand remained relatively
weak according to community bank contacts. The share of firms
reporting they were hiring continued to increase, although many
contacts continued to express a preference for part-time or
temporary contract workers. Most contacts continued to report
having relatively little pricing power. However, the proportion
of firms saying they were successful in their attempts to pass
on price increases rose since the last report.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Most contact reports on  consumer spending  were generally
positive. Sales of home appliances, furniture, and autos were
solid, while apparel was more mixed. Most retailers remained
optimistic that sales would improve over the next three months,
but noted that the impact of higher gasoline prices posed a
downside risk to their sales outlook.  Tourism activity remained strong and contacts were optimistic
about the outlook for leisure and hospitality spending in the
summer. Occupancy rates were up in many areas and  South Florida 
continued to be boosted by visitors from  South America  and
 Canada . Convention activity continued to improve as well.
Similar to retail, tourism contacts expressed concern about
higher fuel costs and the potential impact on domestic travel to
many regional tourist destinations. There continued to be a
modest drop off in bookings on some cruise lines, which was
attributed mostly to the recent disaster off the coast of  Italy .  Real Estate and Construction  The majority of residential broker contacts reported that home
sales exceeded the year earlier level in late February and
March. More than two-thirds of the brokers indicated that sales
met or exceeded their expectations.  Florida  contacts noted
strengthening sales, particularly in South Florida markets. Many
noted that inventory levels across the District continued to
decline on a year-over-year basis and, in spite of this,  home
prices  were flat to slightly down compared with a year ago. The
outlook among brokers for sales growth remained positive, with
most anticipating modest year-over-year gains over the next
several months.  The majority of homebuilder contacts reported that new home
sales and construction rose modestly during late February and
March compared with a year earlier. Similar to brokers, builders
also noted that home price declines abated somewhat and new home
inventories continued to decline on a year-over-year basis.
Contacts observed that multifamily construction remained robust
across much of the District and new projects continued to be
announced. Over the next several months, homebuilders anticipate
sales and construction to be flat to slightly up compared with a
year ago.  Most commercial real estate contacts indicated that conditions
continued to improve slowly in the region. Contractors noted a
slight improvement in demand, but the market remained very
competitive and overall activity remained at low levels.
Commercial real estate brokers continued to report modest
improvements in demand, mostly for class A space in urban
markets. Some reported that businesses have become more willing
to move ahead with lease plans. Rent concessions continued to be
noted with several brokers reporting that rates have begun to
stabilize; however, longer leases were reported which included
generous tenant improvements. The outlook among contacts was a
bit more positive than previously reported, but most contractors
and commercial real estate brokers continued to anticipate that
activity would improve slowly this year.  Manufacturing and Transportation  Manufacturing activity across the Sixth District improved
compared with the last report. Most contacts reported an
increased level of both new orders and production. Several large
auto manufacturers announced plans to hire more workers to meet
increased demand for their products. A major industrial
equipment producer and two medium-sized manufacturers announced
plans to increase their presence in  Georgia . Most manufacturers
also indicated some increase in non-labor input costs.  Transportation contacts continued to report volume growth across
most segments with the exception of air cargo, which is being
hindered by slowing global demand and rising fuel costs. A
railroad contact noted significant volume increases in
automobiles, steel, and forestry products. Domestic coal
shipments slowed because of the effects of warmer weather and
lower natural gas prices. A port contact indicated strong
container volumes and increases in steel imports. The majority
of transportation contacts reported substantial investment
spending in anticipation of future demand.  Banking and Finance  Contacts at community banks indicated liquidity levels remained
high, a result of increasing deposit balances and relatively
soft loan demand. Some contacts acknowledged a slight increase
in demand for C&I and commercial real estate loans in some
metropolitan areas, and a general rise in demand for automobile
loans. In rural areas, however, low property valuations were
said to be hindering overall loan activity. The demand for
mortgages varied widely by market and some community bank
contacts indicated that they have exited the mortgage
origination market altogether. Lending standards at these
institutions have remained largely unchanged. Smaller
institutions noted tough competition from larger banks for
credit customers. Many of these contacts expressed concern that
regulatory compliance costs were affecting profit margins.  Employment and Prices  Overall hiring trends were positive, but growth remained
relatively modest in late February and March. While business
contacts noted some increased optimism about the economic
outlook, most firms continued to approach expansion plans with
considerable caution. Among firms adding to payrolls, many were
utilizing temporary or contract hires in order to contain costs
and retain flexibility. Reports indicated that smaller
businesses were looking to rebuild margins before proceeding to
adjust their payrolls. Several businesses, including trucking
related firms, asserted that they were faced with a lack of
qualified labor. One large manufacturer addressed the issue of
the lack of qualified workers by bringing back retirees on a
contract basis to help train new hires.  Though most contacts continued to report having little pricing
power, more firms recounted successful attempts or plans to pass
on price increases since the last report. Increased
transportation costs, including those resulting from higher
gasoline and other fuel prices, were reportedly passed on to
consumers without much difficulty. According to the firms
surveyed in the Atlanta Fed’s March Business Inflation
Expectations survey, unit costs were expected to rise two
percent for the year ahead, up slightly from February. According
to the businesses surveyed, profit margins, though still below
normal, have begun to improve. Firms expect modest improvement
in margins over the next year.  Natural Resources and Agriculture  Investment in transportation infrastructure for oil and natural
gas continued to increase; however, contacts noted that more
investment is needed to accommodate recent increases in domestic
and Canadian energy production. District refining contacts noted
that the capacity to process the heavier grades of crude oil
that are increasingly available is limited, despite recent
investment in additional refinery capacity. While conditions
improved in parts of the District, much of Georgia and Florida
continued to experience varying degrees of drought. Contacts
also reported that Florida citrus growers continued to fight
greening disease. Prices paid to farmers for poultry and
soybeans were up from the previous reporting period. Contacts
continued to report concerns regarding available labor supplies
in Georgia and  Alabama , attributing this to the tougher
immigration laws. 