-- U.S. Nominee Kim Promises New Leadership for World Bank
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-11T18:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-nominee-kim-promises-new-leadership-for-world-bank.html
Jim Yong Kim, the U.S. nominee to
head the  World Bank , described himself as a good listener with
no ideological approach, whose experience as Dartmouth College
president would help safeguard the lender’s financial model.  “If elected, I would bring new leadership to this great
institution,” Kim told the World Bank’s board of directors in
prepared remarks for his job interview released by the Treasury
Department in Washington. “You would find in me someone who
asks hard questions about the status quo and is not afraid to
challenge existing orthodoxies.”  Kim went on a two-week world tour to seek advice from
officials from Ethiopia from  Mexico  and has already received an
endorsement from countries including Canada and  Japan . The U.S.,
the bank’s largest shareholder, has always picked the head of
the institution in a tradition that is being challenged by rival
candidates  Nigeria ’s Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and
Columbia University professor Jose Antonio Ocampo.  The new president, whose term is expected to start in July,
will take over an institution that has become more of a
technical adviser as the amount private investors pump into
developing economies dwarfs the $57 billion in loans the bank
made last fiscal year.  With his Dartmouth experience, Kim said he is well placed
to help grow the World Bank’s role as a knowledge institution.
As a physician and anthropologist, Kim said he has a “deep-
seated commitment to evidence- and results-based solutions.”  A U.S. national born in  Korea  who has worked “on several
continents,” Kim said he would offer “an effective bridge
between different constituencies and their interests” and help
build consensus within the 187-country World Bank.  -- Editor: Paul Badertscher, Gail DeGeorge  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  