-- Swap Regulators Said to Weigh Dealer Threshold of $8 Billion
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-04-11T19:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-swap-regulators-said-to-weigh-dealer-line-above-3-billion.html
U.S. derivatives regulators are
considering a threshold as high as $8 billion for determining
which banks,  hedge funds  and energy firms are swap dealers under
the Dodd-Frank Act, according to two people briefed on the rule.  The  Securities and Exchange Commission  and  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  are debating when the aggregate gross
notional value of a company’s transactions should require
registration as a swap dealer, according to the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the rulemaking process
isn’t public. The agencies proposed a $100 million threshold in
2010, then this year considered setting a $3 billion rule and
are debating a threshold as high as $8 billion, the people said.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in 2010,
requires the CFTC and SEC to determine when companies are
dealers and should face the highest capital and collateral
requirements. The law was intended to reduce risk and increase
transparency in the $708 trillion global swaps market after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to comment.
David Gary, a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment.  Swap-dealer regulation has been among the more contentious
measures required by Dodd-Frank, prompting hundreds of meetings
and comment letters to the CFTC.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of
America Corp .,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  control 95 percent of cash and derivatives trading
for U.S. bank holding companies as of Dec. 31, according to the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Opposition  A threshold of $3 billion or more could exclude energy
companies and proprietary traders from swap-dealer regulations,
according to Marcus Stanley, policy director for Americans for
Financial Reform, a Washington-based coalition including labor
unions that oppose setting the bar that high.  “They’re trying to push it open enough between the
exemptions and de minimis level where some significant players
can get through,” Stanley said today in a telephone interview.  Shell Energy North America LP and Vitol Inc. are among
energy companies that have told the CFTC the dealer rule is too
broad and would limit their ability to use derivatives to hedge
risks tied to underlying assets such as oil and natural gas.  “The intent of the legislation was to reduce the risk
posed by the largest financial companies and not to complicate
and retard well-functioning markets,” Sam C. Henry, president
and chief executive officer of  IPR-GDF Suez Energy Marketing
North America Inc. (GDFZY) , said in a Feb. 7  letter to the CFTC . “A
swap dealer should be defined as a company with ten billion
dollars or more in gross notional swaps.”  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to an underlying  interest rate , commodity or event, such as the
default of a company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  