-- U.S. Agency Employees Spent Week in Hawaii, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-04-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-agency-employees-spent-week-in-hawaii-lawmaker-says.html
Five U.S. General Services
Administration officials spent about a week in  Hawaii  at
government expense as part of attending a brief ceremony for a
new federal office, a lawmaker said.  An agency employee told investigators the five officials
traveled to Hawaii in 2011 for “a one-hour ribbon cutting
ceremony” to open an office leased for the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , according to an interview excerpt released by
Representative  John Mica . The Florida Republican is chairman of
the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.  Agency Administrator Martha Johnson quit April 2 after the
GSA’s inspector general reported that it spent $823,000 on a
party for employees at a Las Vegas-area resort. The agency
manages federally owned and leased property used by other
government departments.  The trip to Hawaii “was just one of those trips” where
the group “left on a Saturday and returned on a Friday” to
attend “a one-hour ribbon-cutting ceremony on a lease space,”
the unidentified employee said, according to the released
excerpt. The trip lasted a week “give or take a day,” the
employee said.  “They were I’m sure working hard the whole time,” the
unidentified investigator said.  “I doubt it,” the employee replied, according to the
excerpt of the August 2011 interview. The employee spoke of
hearing “stories” of officials “going snorkeling in the
morning.”  Hawaii Trip Plans  The employee said a group of officials were planning
another trip of about 10 days to Hawaii in October 2011 to
attend the opening of a new federal building in Hilo.  Mica said he will hold an April 17 hearing on the trips,
saying in a statement that “the Las Vegas conference was the
tip of the iceberg, and every new example demonstrates the mind-
boggling culture of waste and blatant disregard for the
taxpayers’ money within GSA.”  House Government Reform and Oversight Committee Chairman
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican, plans to hold a hearing
on the GSA issue on April 16. The committee has invited Johnson,
GSA Inspector General Brian D. Miller and three other senior
agency officials to testify.  A spokesman for the agency, Adam Elkington, had no
immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  