-- U.S. to Produce Documents BP Requested on Gulf Spill
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-11T20:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-to-produce-documents-bp-requested-on-gulf-spill.html
The U.S. will produce more than
100 documents requested by  BP Plc (BP/)  over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico
 oil spill , government lawyers said.  BP claimed the government was withholding evidence that
would show the oil spill from the Macondo well in the Gulf of
Mexico was smaller than claimed. BP said last month it had
identified 10,000 documents that relate to estimates of the
April 2010 spill.  The U.S. said today that it is “willing to produce the
100 documents identified by BP” in court papers on the oil flow
and “work with BP to produce the remaining, similar documents”
designated as privileged. Privileged documents don’t have to be
turned over in the pretrial evidence-gathering process. BP
should also turn over its internal documents about the size of
the spill, government lawyers said.  “It would be unfair for BP to seek production of the
 United States ’ internal flow estimates while claiming that BP’s
own flow rate analyses are protected,” they said court papers
filed today in federal court in  New Orleans .  The blowout and  explosion  killed 11 workers and caused the
worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. The accident prompted
hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its partners. BP said March
2 it would pay at least $7.8 billion to resolve private
plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property damage and
injuries.  Pollution Case  A government suit accusing BP of violating pollution laws
is pending. The  Clean Water Act  allows per-barrel-spilled fines
of as much as $1,100 on a finding of strict, or automatic,
liability and as much as $4,300 for gross negligence.  The U.S. estimated in August 2010 that 4.9 million barrels
of oil, plus or minus 10 percent, spilled into the Gulf after
the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater
Horizon” in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 