-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  EIGHTH DISTRICT--ST. LOUIS  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District continued to grow at a modest
pace since our previous survey. Residential real estate market
conditions have improved moderately. Similarly, commercial real
estate market conditions also have improved. However, recent
reports of plans from firms in the manufacturing and services
sectors were more mixed. Overall lending at a sample of small
and medium-sized District banks was essentially unchanged during
the three-month period from mid-December to mid-March.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been mixed
since our previous report. Several manufacturers announced plans
to increase operations and hire workers, while a similar number
of contacts reported plans to close plants and lay off workers
in the near future. Firms in the pipe, bathroom products, all-
terrain vehicle, construction machinery, processed poultry, and
power tool manufacturing industries announced plans to increase
existing operations or open new plants in the District. In
contrast, firms in the oil blending and packaging and fish
farming industries announced plans to close plants and lay off
workers. In addition, a major firm in the printing industry
announced plans to close a plant in the District and lay off a
large number of workers.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s services sector
also have been mixed since our previous survey. Firms in hotel,
business support, distribution, and natural gas distribution
services announced plans to expand operations and hire new
workers. In contrast, contacts in health care, distribution,
freight transportation, casino, and storage services announced
plans to close facilities and lay off workers. General retail
contacts have reported strong sales for the first two months of
the year, and they expect positive sales growth to continue
through 2012. District auto dealers have reported strong demand
in the luxury automobile market while truck sales have been
down.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales increased throughout most of the Eighth District on a
year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2011,
February 2012 year-to-date home sales were up 10 percent in
 Memphis , 24 percent in St. Louis, 19 percent in Louisville, and
14 percent in  Little Rock . Residential construction increased in
the majority of the District over this time period. February
2012 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the
majority of the District metro areas compared with the same
period in 2011. Permits increased 22 percent in Memphis, 63
percent in Louisville, 28 percent in Little Rock, and 25 percent
in St. Louis.  Commercial and industrial real estate conditions improved
moderately throughout most of the District. Contacts in
northeast  Arkansas  continued to report strong commercial real
estate activity in the Jonesboro area. A contact in Little Rock
noted stronger commercial real estate activity for office and
retail space than last year. Contacts in the Louisville
metropolitan area reported improvement in office real estate
activity and expect increases in the demand for industrial
space. However, a contact in central  Kentucky  noted that
commercial real estate activity is very soft. Commercial and
industrial construction activity showed modest improvement in
several parts of the District. A contact in Little Rock reported
that new construction activity has improved because of the mild
winter weather, but it is still at weak levels. Contacts in
central Arkansas reported increased bidding in commercial
construction projects, while a contact in western Kentucky noted
large commercial and industrial construction projects to be
completed in Owensboro.  Banking and Finance  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and medium-sized
District banks were essentially unchanged in the three-month
period from mid-December to mid-March. Real estate lending,
which accounts for 73.7 percent of total loans, decreased 0.4
percent. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.8
percent of total loans, grew 2.2 percent. Loans to individuals,
accounting for 4.7 percent of loans, decreased 1.3 percent. All
other loans decreased 8.8 percent and accounted for 5.8 percent
of total loans. Over this period, total deposits increased 1.9
percent.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Monthly output of commercial red meat in the District for
February 2012 increased 9.9 percent compared with February 2011.
However, monthly output of commercial red meat declined 4.4
percent between January and February 2012. The number of
chickens slaughtered and the total live weight also decreased by
4 to 5 percent between January and February 2012. The District’s
year-to-date coal production for early March was 3.5 percent
lower compared with the same period last year. Similarly, the
District’s coal production for February was 2.4 percent lower
than in February 2011. 