-- U.S. Sues Apple For eBook Pricing as Three Firms Settle
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-04-12T04:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-sues-apple-for-ebook-pricing-as-three-firms-settle.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and two publishers,
Macmillan and Penguin, were sued by the U.S. government over
claims they conspired to fix prices of digital books to
undermine discounter  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s dominance.  Three other publishers named in the government’s antitrust
lawsuit,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster , Lagardère SCA’s Hachette
Book Group and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins, settled their cases
after the government’s complaint was filed yesterday in federal
court in Manhattan.  “We allege that executives at the highest levels of the
companies included in today’s lawsuit -- concerned that e-book
sellers had reduced prices -- worked together to eliminate
competition among stores selling e-books, ultimately increasing
prices for consumers,” Attorney General Eric Holder said
yesterday at a news conference in  Washington .  U.S. antitrust officials have stepped up enforcement
against anticompetitive price-fixing agreements in industries
including health care and auto parts. Regulators have also
increased scrutiny of Apple’s digital publishing, mobile
computing and music retail businesses to make sure the iPad
maker hasn’t thwarted competition on its way to becoming the
world’s most valuable company.  Anti-Consumer  “It’s critical to nip this sort of anti-consumer and anti-
competitive price fixing in the bud and to keep this space
open,” said Mark Cooper, director of research for the Consumer
Federation of America. “There are hundreds of millions of
dollars of savings to be had as the sector grows, and making
deals to set prices among competitors is anathema to American
capitalism.”  Before the pricing agreements, Amazon had dominated the
digital books market by offering titles at $9.99 each. Through
the agreements, the publishers set prices for best-selling books
at $12.99 and $14.99, giving Apple a 30 percent cut.  A group of 15 states and  Puerto Rico , led by  Texas  and
 Connecticut , filed a similar lawsuit in federal court in Austin,
Texas, yesterday against Apple,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin, Simon &
Schuster and Macmillan, which is a unit of Verlagsgruppe Georg
von Holtzbrinck GmbH.  Cost to Consumers  Apple’s digital book-pricing practice may have cost
consumers more than $100 million, Connecticut Attorney General
George Jepsen said at the Washington news conference.
HarperCollins and Hachette have agreed to pay $51 million in
restitution, Michael E. Cole, the chief of Connecticut’s
antitrust department, told journalists. Talks are continuing
with Simon & Schuster, he said.  Separately, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said yesterday the Commission received preliminary settlement
proposals from Apple and four publishers to end its
investigation into the matter.  When Apple came out with the iPad in 2010, it let
publishers set their own prices for e-books as long as it got
its cut and publishers agreed to offer their lowest prices
through Apple. This so-called agency model replaced the
wholesale model by which Amazon, as a retailer, bought e-books
from publishers and then set its own price, as retailers in the
business had traditionally done with paper books.  “This is a big win for Kindle owners, and we look forward
to being allowed to lower prices on more Kindle books,” Amazon
said yesterday in a statement.  Steve Jobs  Plan  The  Justice Department ’s complaint quoted Steve Jobs
telling publishing executives how Apple’s iPad strategy would
work.  “We’ll go to [an] agency model, where you set the price,
and we get our 30 percent, and yes, the customer pays a little
more, but that’s what you want anyway,” Jobs said, according to
the complaint.  A group of chief executive officers of the publishers
mapped out their collective actions during quarterly meetings
“in private dining rooms of upscale  Manhattan  restaurants,”
including at The Chef’s Wine Cellar at Picholine, according to
the complaint, which also cites phone calls and e-mails.  “On January 24, 2010, Hachette signed an e-book
distribution agreement with Apple,” according to the complaint.
“Over the next two days, Simon & Schuster, Macmillan, Penguin,
and HarperCollins all followed suit.” The Apple agency
agreements took effect simultaneously with the iPad’s release on
April 3 of that year.  Settlement Discussions  Apple, Macmillan and Penguin refused to discuss a
settlement with the Justice Department, according to two people
familiar with the matter who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly. The three companies deny colluding to raise prices and
will argue that pricing agreements between Apple and publishers
enhanced competition in the e-book industry, the people said.  “Macmillan did not act illegally,” Macmillan Chief
Executive Officer John Sargent Macmillan said in an open letter
on the publisher’s website. The Justice Department’s terms were
“too onerous” to warrant a settlement and would have “allowed
Amazon to recover the monopoly position” it was gaining before
the switch to the agency model, he wrote.  Penguin Group Chairman John Makinson, in an e-mailed
statement, said the complaint “contains a number of material
misstatements and omissions, which we look forward to having the
opportunity to correct in court.”  Under yesterday’s settlements, the three companies agreed
to cancel contracts with Amazon,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other
electronic booksellers that allowed publishers to set prices,
according to the filing.  Simon & Schuster, Hachette and HarperCollins will hold off
for two years from entering into contracts that would prevent
retailers from discounting books, according to court papers.  Price-Fixing Conspiracy  Hachette said in an e-mailed statement it wasn’t involved
in a price-fixing conspiracy and joined the settlement
“reluctantly,” without admitting liability, to avoid costly
litigation. HarperCollins, denying any antitrust breaches, said
in an e-mailed statement that it settled to end a “potentially
protracted legal battle.”  Richard Parker, an antitrust lawyer with  O’Melveny & Myers
LLP (1227L)  in Washington who represents Apple, declined to comment, as
did Apple spokesman  Tom Neumayr .  Adam Rothberg, a spokesman at Simon & Schuster, declined to
comment on the lawsuit and said the company is in “productive
discussions” with European regulators regarding their e-book
probe.  Sales of e-books rose 117 percent in 2011, generating
$969.9 million in revenue, Publishers Weekly reported Feb. 27,
citing estimates from the Association of American Publishers. By
eliminating printing and shipping costs, digital versions
generate higher profit margins than physical copies.  Apple shares fell 0.4 percent to $626.20 in  New York 
trading yesterday, while Amazon climbed 0.5 percent to $187.97,
bookseller  Barnes & Noble (BKS)  fell 1.6 percent to $11.73, CBS rose
1.1 percent to $31.64 and News Corp. rose 1 percent to $18.85.
U.K.-based Pearson rose 1.2 percent to 1,132 pence in  London 
while Paris-based Lagardere rose 2.1 percent to 21.78 euros.  The suit was filed in Manhattan, where U.S. District Judge
Denise Cote is supervising pretrial proceedings in a group of at
least 27 antitrust suits by private parties against Apple and
the publishers.  The case is U.S. v. Apple, 12-cv-2826, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 