-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco .  TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at
a moderate pace during the reporting period of late February
through the end of March. Despite higher energy prices, overall
price pressures for final goods and services remained modest, as
did wage gains. Sales of retail items and demand for business
and consumer services rose further. District manufacturing
activity increased on net. Demand was robust for agricultural
producers but remained uneven for providers of energy resources.
Activity in District housing markets strengthened modestly but
remained lackluster on balance, and demand for nonresidential
real estate was largely unchanged. Contacts from financial
institutions reported small increases in overall loan demand and
slight improvements in credit quality and availability.  Wages and Prices  Price inflation for most final goods and services remained
subdued during the reporting period, with the notable exception
of gasoline. While contacts noted an increase in the prices of
oil and selected other commodities, resulting cost increases
generally were absorbed in profit margins rather than pass-
through to final prices. Restaurant prices were an exception,
with notable increases reported. Looking ahead, contacts in
general expect prices for their products to hold largely stable
or increase slightly during the second half of the year compared
with the first half.  Upward wage pressures were quite modest overall, held down by
high levels of unemployment and limited demand for new workers.
However, wage gains remained pronounced for highly skilled
workers in information technology fields, and significant gains
were also reported for experienced workers in some segments of
manufacturing. The reports suggested that wage gains are likely
to remain limited going forward, as most contacts plan to engage
in only modest hiring for the foreseeable future.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales continued to improve. Discount chains reported
modest increases in sales, while traditional department stores
noted stronger gains, particularly in the luxury segments of the
market. Demand continued to improve for retailers of home
furnishings and major appliances. By contrast, sales remained
largely flat for grocers. Sales of new automobiles continued to
strengthen, with high gas prices spurring especially strong
growth for fuel-efficient vehicles. Similarly, demand for used
vehicles remained robust.  Demand for business and consumer services strengthened further
on balance. Sales continued to expand at a moderate pace for
providers of technology services, and contacts anticipate growth
will pick up in the second half of the year. Demand has improved
in the radio and television broadcasting industries. By
contrast, demand for professional services was largely flat, as
was demand for health-care services. Sales activity was reported
to be up somewhat for restaurants and other food-service
providers. Activity in the District’s travel and tourism
industry picked up further, with contacts in  Hawaii  and  Southern
California  noting ongoing gains in visitor volumes and hotel
occupancy rates.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity rose a bit on net during the
reporting period of late February through the end of March.
Makers of commercial aircraft and parts saw limited new orders,
but an extensive order backlog kept production rates near
capacity. Manufacturers of semiconductors and other technology
products reported some firming in new orders and indicated that
they expect demand growth to pick up further in coming months.
Capacity utilization rates continued to hold largely stable for
petroleum refiners as weak domestic gasoline demand was offset
by strong foreign demand for distillate products. Production
activity was largely unchanged for metal fabricators, but demand
remained quite depressed for producers of wood products. Food
processors saw solid growth in orders and sales.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Demand for agricultural products and mined metals remained
strong, while extraction activity of natural resources used for
energy production was uneven. Final sales and orders were robust
for a broad range of crop and livestock products, and recent
precipitation has eased concerns in parts of the District about
drought during the upcoming growing season. Contacts noted
increases in the costs of some inputs, such as fertilizer.
Expanding activity in the mining sector continued to be
supported by high prices for a variety of precious metals and
metallic elements used for specialized industrial purposes. Mild
winter weather continued to tamp down demand for natural gas,
prompting additional declines in extraction activity, while
elevated  price levels  and robust foreign demand spurred further
increases in oil extraction.  Real Estate and Construction  District home demand improved slightly but remained weak on
balance, and demand for commercial real estate was largely
unchanged. Sales of new and existing homes continued to improve
modestly in certain areas of the District, although the pace
remained quite lackluster overall. Furthermore, despite
relatively low  interest rates , contacts noted that tight
financing terms more generally held down the pace of sales. With
inventories of available homes still very high, new construction
activity stayed at depressed levels and  home prices  remained
largely flat. Demand for commercial real estate continued to be
weak overall, as reflected in elevated vacancy rates and limited
leasing activity for office and industrial space in many parts
of the District. On the other hand, growth in the technology
sector has led to rapid absorption of commercial space in
certain locales, such as the San Francisco Bay Area and  Seattle .
As a result, increased construction activity for new  office
space  is expected for these areas over the next twelve months.  Financial Institutions  District banking contacts reported that overall loan demand rose
modestly since the prior reporting period, and credit quality
and availability improved slightly. While businesses generally
remained highly cautious about their capital spending plans, the
volume of new commercial and industrial loans edged up as
businesses continued to pursue targeted investments geared
towards increasing productivity. On the consumer side, demand
for credit was largely unchanged. Credit quality improved
slightly, with reports indicating a general decline in loan
delinquencies. Although lending standards have remained
relatively restrictive for most types of business and consumer
loans, contacts reported modest improvement in overall credit
availability. The reports also indicated that competition among
lenders has been creating downward pressure on rates and fees
for well-qualified small and medium-sized businesses. 