-- U.S. Import Prices Jumped 1.3% in March on Fuel, Materials
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-11T12:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-import-prices-jumped-1-3-in-march-on-oil-materials-costs.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. rose more than forecast in March, reflecting higher costs
for fuel and industrial materials such as metals.  The 1.3 percent gain in the  import-price index  was the
biggest since April 2011 and followed a revised 0.1 percent drop
in February that was previously reported as an increase, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . Economists
projected the March gauge would increase 0.8 percent, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices
excluding fuel climbed 0.5 percent, also the most in 11 months.  Even with the jump from a month earlier, import prices over
the last year posted the smallest gain since November 2009,
indicating slower global growth may help temper inflation
pressures.  Federal Reserve  policy makers said last month that
higher fuel prices will prove temporary, allowing them to stick
to plans to keep  interest rates  low at least until late 2014.  “Given what’s been driving import prices, which is the oil
component, you’re likely to see a slight moderation or even
greater moderation going forward,” said Jacob Oubina, a senior
U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in  New York , who
correctly forecast the March figure. “Import prices were
certainly a problem for businesses in the last three months, but
we’ve seen those pressures ease.”  Prices of imported  consumer goods  excluding autos were
unchanged for a second month in March.  Projections for import prices ranged from a decrease of 0.3
percent to an increase of 1.3 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey of 48 economists. February import prices were
initially reported as a 0.4 percent gain.  Stock Futures  Stock-index futures rose after Alcoa Inc., the biggest U.S.
aluminum maker, posted a surprise first-quarter profit. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in June
added 0.8 percent to 1,368.1 at 8:35 a.m. in New York.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 3.4
percent, today’s report showed. They rose 5 percent in the 12
months ended in February.  The cost of imported petroleum and products jumped 4.3
percent in March, the most since April 2011, from the prior
month and was up 9.6 percent from a year earlier.  While crude  oil prices  reached the highest level in almost
a year in mid-March, they have since fallen, signaling future
relief for the country’s imported energy bill. Brent oil for May
delivery has dropped 5 percent through yesterday’s close since
reaching a peak this year of $126.22 a barrel on March 13.  Food Prices  Imported food was 1.8 percent more expensive last month,
today’s report showed. In February, imported food costs dropped
2.8 percent.  Prices for imported automobiles and parts rose 0.3 percent
after no change and were up 3 percent from March 2011. The cost
of imported capital goods rose 0.2 percent.  The price of imported industrial supplies and materials
minus fuel rose 1.7 percent, the biggest gain in a year, led by
metals, paper and building materials.  Fed officials have indicated they see inflation moderating
as the surge in energy costs wanes.  “The recent increase in oil and gasoline prices will push
up inflation temporarily, but the Committee anticipates that
subsequently inflation will run at or below the rate that it
judges most consistent with its dual mandate,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said in the minutes of its March 13 meeting.  Federal Reserve  At the same time, the central bank officials indicated they
will probably hold off on more monetary accommodation unless
prices rise more slowly than their 2 percent target or the
economic expansion falters, according to the minutes. Their
preferred price gauge, tied to  consumer spending  and issued by
the Commerce Department, rose 2.3 percent in the year ended in
February.  Cheaper agriculture and materials may reduce pressure on
companies to raise prices on American consumers facing an 8.2
percent unemployment rate. The Thomson Reuters/Jeffries CRB
 commodity index  was 300.45 yesterday, down 7.8 percent from a
five-month high reached Feb. 24.  “It’s possible that by the end of the year inflation will
be much more benign,” Michael Schlotman, chief financial
officer at Kroger Co. said during a March 21 conference. The
largest U.S. grocery chain, based in Cincinnati, is experiencing
5 percent inflation, a rate that should drop to 2 percent this
year, Schlotman said. “There are some positive signs out there,
but we just don’t see anything at this point that would cause us
to think we’ll go to deflation.”  U.S. Dollar  A pickup in the value of the  U.S. dollar  since the third
quarter of 2011 may also help make imported goods less
expensive. The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
uses to track the currency against that of six major trade
partners including the euro and yen, has increased 8.7 percent
since July 26 through yesterday.  Slower economic growth across the globe will probably help
relieve pressure on commodity prices as cooling economies in the
euro area and tempered growth in  emerging markets  like  China  and
 India  reduces demand.  The cost of imported goods from China was unchanged in
March and were up 2.7 percent over the past 12 months.  Imported goods from  Japan  were also little changed, while
the cost of goods from the European Union climbed 0.9 percent,
the most since May. Goods from  Mexico  rose 1.1 percent.  U.S. export prices increased 0.8 percent in March, today’s
report also showed, after rising 0.4 percent the previous month.
Prices of farm exports climbed 2.7 percent and those of non-farm
goods increased 0.5 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Data on producer prices are
released tomorrow, followed the next day by the consumer-price
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  