-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary  Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to expand at
a moderate pace in late February and March. Growth in consumer
spending picked up, and business spending continued to increase.
The pace of growth in manufacturing production was little
changed and construction activity increased. Credit conditions
improved slightly. Energy prices increased, but with limited
pass-through to downstream prices, and wage increases remained
moderate. Soybean and cattle prices rose, while corn, wheat,
milk, and hog prices decreased.  Consumer spending  Consumer spending increased significantly in late February and
March. Retailers reported unseasonably warm temperatures boosted
retail sales. Because of the earlier-than-normal start to the
spring shopping season, inventories of some lawn & garden, home
improvement, and leisure items ended the reporting period on the
lean side. Several contacts thought that the recent gains in
 consumer spending  might dissipate over the medium-term, pointing
to the temporary nature of the boost from warmer weather and
concerns about the impact of higher gasoline prices on consumer
budgets. Auto sales increased, with contacts noting improved
availability of financing for prospective buyers with below-
prime credit ratings. Dealerships continued to report some
difficulty in stocking popular models because of supply-chain
constraints.  Business spending  Business spending continued to increase in late February and
March. Contacts reported that inventories were generally at
comfortable levels, with the exceptions in auto and consumer
goods noted above.  Capital spending  increased steadily.
Purchases of heavy equipment picked up, led by robust activity
in the energy sector. An exception was the coal mining industry
which a contact noted was being negatively impacted by mild
weather and the cheaper extraction costs for natural gas.
Several manufacturers reported spending for technological
upgrades as well as moving ahead with planned increases in
capacity. Contacts also noted a pick-up in building renovation
and increased spending on marketing and for labor force
training. Labor market conditions continued to improve. Hiring
increased, although it remained selective in many industries.
Manufacturing contacts continued to report difficulty in
attracting job applicants with ideal skill sets, and in some
cases have reduced experience requirements or increased salaries
to fill open positions. A staffing firm reported an increase in
demand for light industrial, office and clerical, and IT and
engineering positions. However, gains in these areas were being
offset by declines in others, so that on net temporary
employment was little changed.  Construction/real estate  Construction activity increased in late February and March.
Demand continued to be strong for multi-family construction,
particularly apartments. That said, a few contacts questioned
whether current apartment building plans would lead to
overbuilding in this segment. Overall, residential real estate
conditions improved slightly. Single-family construction was up
some from its depressed levels, as large homebuilders have seen
a solid increase in sales in the last three months. Realtors
noted some increase in activity in the market for existing
homes, although many buyers are still waiting for prices to come
down further. Foreclosures continued to put downward pressure on
prices. Nonresidential construction also increased. Contacts
noted a pick-up in industrial, healthcare and infrastructure
building activity. Commercial real estate conditions were mixed
by segment. Vacancy rates decreased for office and industrial
properties, but contacts indicated that excess retail space
continues to exist, especially big box stores and strip
center/mall space. Commercial rents were flat, as was the
available sublease space on the market.  Manufacturing  After a strong start to the year, growth in manufacturing
production leveled off in late February and March. With an
increase in quoting activity and deepening order books, contacts
remained cautiously optimistic that growth would pick up again
in the coming quarters. The  auto industry  continued to be a
source of strength. Automakers expected sales to continue to
increase over the year, but voiced concern that it would be
challenging for production to rise much further above what is
already planned given the capacity constraints faced by their
suppliers. Confirming this production limit, several auto
suppliers reported that they have already been asked by their
customers to increase capacity. Capacity utilization in the
 steel industry  was steady, but an industry contact expected to
see some acceleration in production in the near term. Demand for
heavy equipment was boosted by the need to replace ageing
equipment. Exporters continued to benefit from advantageous
terms of trade; and despite some softening in demand from
Western Europe, again reported robust orders from  Asia  and  Latin
America .  Banking/finance  Credit conditions were slightly improved from the prior
reporting period. Volatility and risk premia edged lower and
concerns about European sovereign debt continued to subside.
Several contacts noted an increase in risk appetite, pointing to
higher demand for equities and real estate. Banking contacts
indicated that business loan growth remained moderate, with
their larger corporate clients continuing to cite policy
uncertainty as a reason for caution in borrowing. In contrast,
consumer loan growth picked up, with credit card usage
increasing. Credit availability for households improved,
particularly for auto loans and credit cards, where greater
competition was leading to more favorable terms for borrowers.
However, credit conditions remained tight for homebuilders and
small businesses.  Prices/costs  Cost pressures increased in late February and March. Contacts
noted higher energy prices, particularly for gasoline, although
natural  gas prices  remained at historic lows. Prices for
chemicals, steel, and non-ferrous metals also edged up.
Wholesale prices increased; however, retail contacts indicated
that it had become increasingly difficult to pass on higher
wholesale costs to consumers. Wage pressures increased, but
continued to be moderate. Contacts expected that wage and
benefit increases this year would not exceed inflation. However,
a shortage of skilled manufacturing workers contributed to
upward pressure on wages to attract qualified candidates as well
as improved benefit packages to retain current employees.  Agriculture  Unseasonably warm weather has jumpstarted field work and corn
planting in the District. There were reports of tight supplies
of some agricultural chemicals, as well as some types of corn
seed. Most of the District has sufficient moisture for a strong
start to the corn crop. With spring planting taking place up to
a month early, some corn will be harvested in August; combined
with the potential of a record corn crop, concerns about corn
stocks being low before the traditional harvest time diminished
and corn prices moved lower. Soybean prices have risen in
response to lower-than-expected harvests in  South America . The
increase in soybean prices relative to corn prices, as well as
some acreage being removed from environmental protection
restrictions, resulted in an increase in the number of acres
that famers expect to plant in soybeans. Milk and hog prices
decreased, while cattle prices continued to rise. 