-- U.S. Stocks Halt Five-Day Decline After Alcoa’s Results
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-11T20:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-stock-futures-gain-after-alcoa-posts-surprise-profit.html
U.S. stocks advanced, halting a
five-day decline for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after
 Alcoa (AA)  Inc. reported an unexpected first-quarter profit.  Alcoa, the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  to announce quarterly results, climbed 6.2 percent.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  added at least 2.4
percent to pace gains in financial shares. A measure of 11
 homebuilders  in S&P indexes jumped 4.8 percent as Wells Fargo &
Co. said a survey of sales managers showed 63 percent of the
respondents reported better-than-expected orders.  The  S&P 500  increased 0.7 percent to 1,368.71 at 4 p.m. New
York time, after dropping 4.3 percent over the past five days.
The Dow advanced 89.46 points, or 0.7 percent, to 12,805.39
today. The  Russell 2000 Index (RTY)  of small companies climbed 1.6
percent to 796.59. About 6.4 billion shares changed hands on
U.S. exchanges today, 6.5 percent less than the three-month
average and 23 percent below yesterday’s volume.  “Alcoa helped dampen the dark mood in the market,” said
Frederic Dickson, who helps oversee $28 billion as chief market
strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego , Oregon. “It’s
always nice to see the first company out of the box with an
earnings surprise. It’s time to see how this progresses and
reassess when to put some money back in.”  Almost $800 billion was erased from U.S. equity values in
the five days leading up to the first-quarter earnings season.
The S&P 500 yesterday capped the longest drop since November on
concern about Europe’s debt crisis and the U.S. jobs market. The
decline drove the gauge to about 14 times reported earnings
yesterday, below the average since  1954 (SPX)  of 16.4.  Earnings Season  Today’s gain extended this year’s rally in the S&P 500 to
8.8 percent as investors bought stocks amid better-than-
estimated economic and corporate data. While S&P 500 per-share
profit growth slowed to 0.8 percent during the first three
months of the year from 4.9 percent in the fourth quarter, it
will accelerate to 8.3 percent during all of 2012, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Analysts’ estimates for S&P 500 earnings growth in the
first quarter have declined from  4.1 percent  in January,
Bloomberg data showed. For Lawrence Creatura at Federated
Investors Inc., earnings expectations are still low and profit
surprises may drive the market higher.  “This isn’t a phantom bounce,” Creatura, who helps
oversee $369.7 billion as a Rochester, New York-based fund
manager at Federated, said in a telephone interview. “It seems
reasonable to expect positive  surprises  as we move through the
earnings season. Management teams have done a good job of
keeping expectations contained.”  Alcoa Rallies  Alcoa climbed 6.2 percent to $9.90. The earnings were
“driven by higher-than-expected profitability from every
operating segment,” Brian Yu, an analyst at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in
San Francisco, said in a note. “Good cost control likely played
a major role.” The stock dropped 48 percent in the 12 months
through yesterday, the  biggest decline  in the Dow.  A rally in Alcoa shares following its earnings reports has
been an indicator of gains for the S&P 500, according to Ryan Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer’s Investment
Research in Cincinnati. Since 2005, the gauge has risen an
average  4 percent  in the three-month period that followed a
positive reaction to Alcoa’s earnings, he said.  Financial shares had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 among
10 industries today, rallying 1.6 percent. Bank of America rose
3.8 percent to $8.86. JPMorgan jumped 2.4 percent to $44.01.
Investors will get a first look at banks results when JPMorgan
and Wells Fargo kick off earnings, about an hour apart, on April
13. Citigroup Inc. is set to announce results April 16, followed
by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America and Morgan Stanley.  Bank Earnings  The results may disappoint investors who piled into banking
stocks on a bet the industry was inexpensive and set to benefit
from a strengthening economy. The six largest U.S. lenders may
post an 11 percent drop in first-quarter profit, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 companies
climbed 26 percent in the first three months of the year, led by
 Bank of America ’s 72 percent gain.  “You can’t expect bank stocks to go straight to the
moon,” said Peter Kovalski, a money manager at Alpine Woods
Capital Investors LLC in Purchase, New York, which manages about
$5 billion. “You have to expect fundamentals to catch up, and
there are some headwinds facing the industry.”  On top of earnings data, investors also watched the Federal
Reserve’s Beige Book business survey today, published two weeks
before the Federal Open Market Committee meets to set monetary
policy. The Fed said the economy maintained its expansion in all
12 of its regions as manufacturing, hiring and retail sales
showed signs of strength in the face of higher fuel prices.  Economic Bellwether  The  Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index (CYC)  of companies most-tied to
the economy added 1.2 percent.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , an economic
bellwether as it carries everything from mobile devices to
pharmaceuticals, rose 1.5 percent to $87.91. Homebuilder
 PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  advanced 9.1 percent to $8.39.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  reversed a gain of as much as 1.3 percent,
falling 0.4 percent to $626.20. The U.S. Department of Justice
sued Apple, Macmillan and Pearson Plc’s Penguin in New York
today, claiming the publishers colluded to fix e-Book prices.
Three other publishers,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster, Lagardère
SCA’s Hachette Book Group and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins, also
named in the government’s antitrust lawsuit, settled their
cases, according to court filings.  Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI)  rose 6.9 percent to $23.52. The glass-
bottle maker said first-quarter earnings will rise more than 35
percent from a year earlier on higher prices and lower
costs.  ‘Too Steep’  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  gained 3.2 percent to $7.54. The
life insurer and mortgage guarantor was rated buy in new
coverage by BTIG LLC, which said the stock is trading at “too
steep a discount” to the company’s inherent value.  Titan Machinery Inc. (TITN)  surged 17 percent to $32.05, the
highest since June 2008. The owner of full-service agricultural
and equipment stores forecast annual earnings of at least $2.55
a share, beating the average analyst estimate of $2.06.  U.S. shares of  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  tumbled 16 percent to $4.24. The
Espoo, Finland-based mobile phone maker reported an operating
loss for its mobile-phone division and forecast earnings won’t
recover this quarter as emerging market handsets sales slumped
and margins on smartphones shrank.  VMWare Inc. (VMW)  slumped 2.5 percent to $107.61. The software
maker announced a management shuffle including the departure of
Chief Financial Officer Mark Peek. Earnings have more than
doubled to $723.94 million since 2008, the first full year after
Peek joined. The company is initiating a search to replace him.  Computer Sciences  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  fell 2.8 percent to $27.39. The
technology contractor for governments and companies said
earnings excluding certain costs in the quarter ended March 30
were 19 cents to 21 cents a share. Analysts predicted 97 cents,
the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. stocks will probably see a short-term relief rally
before extending their retreat next week, according to the head
of technical analysis at Credit Suisse Group AG. The S&P 500 may
climb to as much as 1,382, London-based  David Sneddon  wrote
today. The measure will then be poised to drop more than 3
percent next week to the 1,339 low from March 6, he said.  “With a classic bearish  momentum  and on-balance volume
divergence reinforcing the more bearish scenario, we expect
further weakness to extend,” Sneddon wrote in a note dated
yesterday. So-called on-balance volume shows a security’s
momentum by looking at the relationship between price and the
number of transactions taking place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  