-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Overall, business activity in the Third District has continued
to show slow, steady improvement since the previous  Beige Book .
Overall sentiment improved, and the unseasonably mild weather
undoubtedly contributed to this. Since the last Beige Book,
manufacturing activity has grown further, and many manufacturing
industries have contributed to this growth; however, the pace
has slowed slightly. Retail sales continued to grow modestly.
Motor vehicle dealers experienced unseasonably strong sales
growth in February, but sales were less robust in March. Third
District banks have reported slight growth in demand and
continued strong credit quality since the last Beige Book. New
 home construction  continued to improve in Pennsylvania but
slowed in  New Jersey  due to the large inventory of distressed
homes. Little change was seen by commercial real estate contacts
who reported slowly improving markets. Overall, service-sector
firms reported continued growth. Price pressures have remained
contained for most sectors, with little change from the last
Beige Book.  The outlook remains relatively optimistic among most firms,
similar to the sentiment expressed in the last Beige Book.
Manufacturers’ expectations for the next six months have changed
little and remain relatively high. Retailers continue to expect
slow, steady improvement. Auto dealers anticipate continued
strong sales; however, they acknowledge that the robust first
quarter might shave a little off the typical spring seasonal
surge. Banking, real estate, and service-sector firms continue
to plan for slow growth in 2012. In general, business plans
remained cautious; however, there was a noticeable lack of the
litany of risks and uncertainties as expressed by contacts over
the last six months.  Manufacturing  Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have
reported continued growth of new orders and shipments, although
the pace has slowed slightly. Gains were widespread among the
makers of food products, lumber and wood products, fabricated
metals, industrial machinery, and instruments. New apartment
construction, rising auto sales, and Marcellus shale activity
are driving increased demand, according to various contacts. A
lumber firm expects growth but mostly from market share gains.
Manufacturers of food products and of chemicals expressed
concerns about the impact of rising fuel prices on their input
and output prices.  About nine out of 10 Third District manufacturers expect
business conditions to improve or stay the same during the next
six months; firms are evenly divided. Seasonal trends may be
responsible for some of the anticipated improvement, but the
optimism is nearly uniform across all major sectors. The usual
litany of risks and uncertainties to the outlook - typical over
the past six months - was virtually absent from current comments
by manufacturers. However, caution remains; expectations of
 capital spending  and future hiring have changed little since the
last Beige Book.  Retail  Third District retailers reported modest growth rates overall
but expressed greater certainty that mild weather had played a
significant role in year-over-year comparisons. According to one
contact, outlet malls fared better than broad retail but they
should have experienced stronger sales.  Gas prices  pinched.
While mild weather attracted more people, the average purchase
per store dropped from year-ago levels. Overall, retail contacts
see the economy firming but remain very cautious.  Auto sales were robust in February for dealers in New Jersey and
Pennsylvania. For the first two months of the year, year-over-
year sales growth in New Jersey was reported to be higher than
national growth despite a soft January report.  Pennsylvania 
contacts indicated that March sales were strong but not as
robust as in February. The outlook for auto sales remains
strong. However, contacts indicate that the rapid first quarter
pace may somewhat dampen the spring sales season, which
typically peaks in May or June. Modest hiring continues at
select dealers, but caution remains the trend.  Finance  Overall, loan demand has continued to grow slightly in the Third
District since the previous Beige Book; however, activity has
been uneven. Mirroring trends noted by other sectors, community
banks note that the strongest loan demand has been for
inventories and capital equipment to manufacturers and for
investments in higher education, health care, technology
sectors, and multifamily housing. One large bank contact noted
strong demand from middle-market private equity firms, while the
pace of refinancing had diminished. Most contacts reported solid
 credit quality .  Real Estate and Construction  Since the last Beige Book, residential builders have reported
mixed results for sales - and hence for their construction
activity - depending on the extent of distressed sales activity
in their region. Builders reported slower sales in southern New
Jersey - where foreclosure rates are the highest - but continued
apace in Pennsylvania. A Pennsylvania builder was more
encouraged than at any time in the past five years; the company
is doing more hiring for sales and for construction workers. One
contact observed the resumption of heavy flows of specialized
construction trade workers on the roads between Philadelphia
area worksites and their Lancaster area homes; this level of
activity has been absent for five years. Residential brokers
reported strong, weather-aided year-over-year sales growth. The
outlook among builders and brokers remains somewhat more
positive.  Nonresidential real estate activity has continued to slowly
improve since the last Beige Book, with few changes. The
industrial real estate market remains the strongest, followed by
higher education, multifamily residential investment, and
activities related to Marcellus shale. Philadelphia’s Center
City office market is characterized by a continuing trend toward
consolidations and a growing trend toward conversions to
apartments. The overall outlook for nonresidential real estate
remains positive but modest.  Services  Most Third District service-sector firms have reported further
growth since the last Beige Book. Firms’ strongest demand
emanated from higher education and health-care institutions.
Hospital systems reported rising admissions. Staffing firms
reported mixed results, with strong orders from the
manufacturing, health-care, and technology sectors. Demand for
general administration and for clerical workers has been softer;
however, clients were beginning to talk of hiring plans.
Service-sector firms anticipate that growth will steadily
improve in 2012.  Prices and Wages  Price levels have changed little since the previous Beige Book -
remaining generally constrained. Some deals and promotions are
beginning to sap strong auto dealer pricing power. This was
anticipated as Japanese automakers resumed normal production
levels. New federal regulations, including medical certification
requirements for commercial drivers, have exacerbated truck
driver shortages. Favorable pricing power for freight shippers
will push costs along to their customers and end-users. As a
recent study predicts, these high costs could rise even further
if the need arises to truck fuel to nearby markets that are
currently being served by pipeline from refineries that are
being closed. Price pressures have eased somewhat for
manufacturing firms since the last Beige Book. Retailers and
homebuilders continued to report tight margins with high, not
rising, nonlabor factor costs.  House prices  have fallen further;
however, nonresidential rents are stabilizing in some sectors.
Contacts continued to report a lack of wage pressures, other
than for medical benefits. 