-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  The economy in the Fourth District grew at a modest pace since
our last report. Manufacturers reported a small increase in
production, while activity in residential and nonresidential
construction picked up slightly. Many retailers and auto dealers
characterized February sales as good. Energy production was
stable except for shale gas, where activity expanded. Freight
transport volume trended higher at a moderate rate. And the
demand for business and consumer credit improved slightly.  Hiring remains at a low level and was mainly limited to the
manufacturing and freight transport sectors. Staffing-firm
representatives reported that the number of  job openings  has
increased, especially for  information technology  and healthcare
workers. Wage pressures are largely contained. Prices were
largely stable apart from increases in petroleum-based products,
metals, and some building materials.  Manufacturing  Production at District factories showed a small increase during
the past six weeks, and a majority of manufacturers said that
output was above year-ago levels. However, several contacts
reported that the boost in new orders they had seen late last
year is leveling off and they are uncertain about sales to
European customers. Some of our respondents expressed a more
cautious outlook than at the start of 2012, but they are not
expecting a significant weakening. Shipping volume by steel
producers and service centers was trending slightly higher.
Demand is being driven by the auto, energy, and industrial
equipment markets. Steel representatives are cautiously
optimistic about second-quarter shipments, and they expect the
positive growth trend to continue. District auto production
showed a modest rise during February on a month-over-month
basis, while increasing substantially from prior-year levels.
Increases were attributed, in part, to the abatement of supply
chain issues.  Capacity utilization has returned to normal rates for the
majority of our contacts, while inventories were consistent with
demand. Capital budgets remain on track, with many manufacturers
reporting that they plan to increase outlays during the next
several months. Input- cost changes were mainly limited to
rising prices for petroleum-based products and metals. Only a
few producers said that they are considering raising product
prices during the second quarter. Manufacturers continued to
hire, but at a modest pace. We heard reports about difficulties
recruiting professional and high-skilled production workers.
Wage pressures are contained. Several contacts said that they
need to allocate additional monies for pension plans due to low
rates of return.  Construction  Single-family-home construction has improved slightly during the
past couple of months, although overall sales remain at very low
levels. Activity in multi-family construction and remodeling
remains strong. Single-family-home builders are a little more
optimistic in their outlook due to the time of year and low
mortgage interest rates. A few builders reported reducing house
sizes and altering interior specs as a means of holding new-
 home prices  steady. Employment and wages were stable.  Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size
contractors continues to strengthen and is at a higher level
than a year ago. Inquiries were up substantially for most of our
contacts, although backlogs, while growing, are not as strong as
builders would like. Financing projects remains one of the
biggest challenges facing contractors. Construction activity is
broad-based, driven by student housing, senior housing,
healthcare, office, and manufacturing. Our contacts expect that
business will slowly improve as the year progresses, but it will
remain below pre-2008 levels. Looking at building-materials
prices, residential and nonresidential contractors reported
increases for petroleum-based products, drywall, and lumber.
Hiring by nonresidential general contractors was limited.
Several commented that they need to see more robust growth
before expanding their payrolls.  Consumer Spending  Retailers reported that sales were ahead of plan during the past
six weeks and increased by single digits relative to year-ago
levels. Almost all of our contacts cited the unusually warm
weather as a primary factor for the pickup in sales, which was
seen across their product lines. However, several of our
respondents described middle-income households as challenged.
These consumers are trading down, looking for value, and they
remain very sensitive to rising gasoline prices. Most retailers
expect second-quarter sales to increase over prior-year levels,
mainly in the low- to mid-single digits. However, grocers
anticipate little change in sales. Reports on vendor pricing
were mixed. Upward pressure was attributed mainly to rising
transportation and offshore labor costs, with little emphasis on
changes in raw material pricing. There was some reluctance to
pass through rising costs to consumers. Inventories were
characterized as being in good shape.  Capital spending  for the
year remains on track. Outlays will be used largely for
technology enhancements, distribution facilities, store
expansions, and new store construction. Little hiring is
anticipated except at new stores.  Auto dealers described new-vehicle sales during February as
good. Sales received a boost from the unusually warm weather. We
heard one report of a shale gas producer purchasing 75 vehicles
from a dealer. On a year-over-year basis, sales were mainly
higher. However, some dealers reported seeing a lull in
activity, which they attributed to a significant pick up in
vehicle leasing at the beginning of 2011. Inventories are light
on the domestic side, but foreign nameplates are rebuilding
stocks rapidly, as those manufacturers are trying to recapture
market share. The outlook for the remainder of this year was
mixed. Half of our contacts expect the rise in 2011 sales will
be repeated, while others believe that the rate of increase seen
last year is unsustainable. Purchases of used vehicles were
fairly strong. On the financing side,  interest rates  are
competitive, but it remains difficult to arrange financing for
customers with low credit scores. Auto dealers are hiring at a
very slow rate.  Banking  Demand for business credit was described as either steady or
rising, with a majority of bankers telling us that loan pricing
remains competitive. Requests are being driven by commercial
real estate, including multifamily housing, and healthcare.
Consumer credit requests rose slightly during the past six
weeks. Demand was mainly for auto lending (direct and indirect)
and home equity lines of credit. Several community bankers
commented that it is difficult competing against large banks,
 credit unions , and captives, especially for motor vehicle loans.
In the residential mortgage market, demand was described as
steady to very strong. A high percentage of applicants are
looking to refinance. No changes were made to loan application
standards. Delinquencies were generally steady or declined; any
increases were found largely in real estate portfolios. Core
deposits continued to grow. Payrolls were stable, with little
hiring expected.  Energy  Conventional oil and natural gas drilling and production were
flat since our last report, with little change expected in the
upcoming weeks. Our contacts attributed these conditions to low
natural gas prices and regulatory costs. Well-head prices for
oil were up slightly. Leasing activity in  Ohio ’s Utica shale
continues to expand, and energy companies are redeploying
drilling resources from dry gas to the wet gas areas of the
Marcellus shale due to its significantly higher market value.
The outlook for coal production during 2012 is similar to 2011
levels. However, there is a growing likelihood that output will
decline due to the regulatory environment and lessening demand
from electrical  utility companies  and offshore markets. Spot
prices for metallurgical and steam coals continued to decline.
Production equipment and materials prices were fairly steady
except for rising diesel fuel prices and the cost of items tied
to steel. Energy payrolls were stable, though some small oil and
gas companies are considering layoffs because of reduced
revenues.  Transportation  Freight transport volume has been trending higher during the
past few weeks. Industries driving demand include energy and
metals. One executive noted a significant upswing in long-term
leasing of his railroad cars. Volume is expected to continue
growing at a moderate pace for the remainder of the year. Costs
associated with truck maintenance have begun stabilizing after
increasing for two consecutive quarters. The price of  diesel
fuel  continues to rise, although a few of our contacts
characterized it as manageable. Some of the increase was passed
through via surcharges. Capital spending for 2012 remains on
plan. Outlays are allocated for replacement of aging units and
adding capacity, although it remains difficult to recruit
qualified drivers. We heard two reports of additional drivers
being hired to meet potential staffing requirements under the
new hours-of-service rules. Some wage pressure exists due to a
tightening of the driver pool. 