-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview  Business conditions have improved in the Fifth District economy
since our last report. Manufacturing activity continued to
advance, although somewhat more slowly than at the beginning of
the year. While trade activity increased, imports improved
somewhat more slowly than exports. Retail sales activity rose
sharply, as shopper traffic increased and big-ticket sales
strengthened. Services-providing firms also recorded solid
revenue growth in recent weeks, and unseasonably warm weather
bolstered tourism. Bankers reported modest gains in most types
of lending; however, other than refinancing, the amount of
mortgage lending remained relatively weak. Nonetheless, Realtors
noted an increase in sales of existing homes, and contractors
reported an uptick in new  home construction . Commercial real
estate activity also improved moderately across most segments of
the market, although contractors reported fewer government-
related new construction projects. Hiring activity picked up,
especially for temporary workers. Finally, the pace of price
increases rose marginally over the last month, according to our
latest manufacturing and service sector surveys.  Manufacturing  Activity expanded moderately over the last month. However,
shipments, new orders, and employment all grew at a somewhat
slower pace since our last report, with several contacts citing
the increasing cost of petroleum-based products as a major
factor affecting their business. An automotive parts
manufacturer reported that customer orders remained elevated,
but he was concerned that orders and sales could weaken if
recent high fuel prices persist. A contact at a lumber mill
stated that he had seen improvement in both sales and output
prices since the beginning of the year. In contrast, a paper
producer said that his firm was experiencing a significant
decline in business, adding that most of his employees were
currently on a thirty hour workweek. A textile manufacturer said
that synthetic raw material prices were ―soaring,‖ but that it
was difficult to pass these increases through to customers.
According to our recent survey, prices of both raw materials and
finished goods grew at a somewhat quicker pace than a month ago.  Port activity in the District continued to strengthen since the
end of last year, with exports slightly outperforming imports.
Several port authorities reported that roll-on, roll-off stock
was up. Indeed, several officials noted that autos and
automotive parts were key products boosting both imports and
exports. Exports of bulk goods, including coal, wood by-
products, and agricultural goods, continued to be robust. An
executive at a large container carrier noted that downward
pressure on shipping rates persisted due to excess capacity.
Rising fuel costs were cited as causing serious problems for
both land and ocean shippers. However, most port contacts
expected that exports and imports would continue to strengthen.  Retail  Retail sales strengthened markedly since our last report. Gains
were led by rising shopper traffic and an uptick in big-ticket
sales, while inventories flattened. A store manager in  West
Virginia  remarked that unusually warm weather had caused
sporting goods sales to pick up earlier than normal.
Additionally, home improvement sales were up at most of the
merchants polled in our latest survey. A contact at a home
improvement chain noted particular strength in sales of kitchen
remodeling components. Higher gasoline prices led to freight
surcharges, according to several contacts. Sales of both
domestic and foreign cars remained strong, as consumers replaced
aging vehicles and looked for better fuel-efficiency. Consumers
continued to bargain intently, with a North Carolina furniture
retailer commenting that margins were “the tightest they’ve ever
been.” A contact at a  Virginia  food chain remarked that
customers were purchasing more selectively, as retail prices
accelerated. However, a home appliance retailer noted that
consumers absorbed significant price increases.  Services  Revenues expanded at service-providing firms, despite concern
about the rising cost of gasoline. Contacts at construction-
related service firms reported an increased volume of business,
and sales activity picked up at several advertising firms and
travel services. Information technology firms also noted greater
demand, particularly from the healthcare industry. Stronger
demand allowed some trucking firms to raise prices to offset
fuel cost increases. However, a trucking executive indicated
that the shortage of drivers remained a serious concern. A
manager of a restaurant chain in  Maryland  noted that people were
eating out more, but area restaurants still needed to increase
their use of incentives to compete for customers. Finally, a
recent survey indicated that the pace of price change inched up
at services-providing firms.  Finance  Modest improvements in lending activity were widely reported
since our last assessment. Officials at several large banks
reported slow upward movement in commercial lending,
particularly to small businesses that were financing inventory
and new equipment. Several community banks around the District
noted an increase in commercial lending for office and retail
space. A lending officer in Richmond reported further strength
in consumer borrowing, especially to meet home improvement and
auto financing needs. Many bankers stated that mortgage
financing remained weak, with the exception of home refinancing.
However, several bankers from across the Districted noted a
slight pickup in new home loans beyond seasonal norms.
Competitive pressures among banks remained intense, putting
downward pressure on rates. Several bankers reported that they
were offering easier terms to attract new commercial borrowers.
Loan quality and payment timeliness continued to improve,
according to most bank officials.  Real Estate  Residential real estate activity showed promising signs of
recovery since our last report. Several contacts stated that
they were beginning to see a “ray of hope” in the housing
sector, and several builders reported starting construction in
areas that had not seen new building activity for several years.
For example, a source from  Charlotte  said that real estate was
starting to move again in his area, and another North Carolina
contact described multi-family housing activity, particularly
for senior citizens, as being “on fire” in recent months. Lower
inventory of both new and existing homes was reported in
northern and central Virginia, with contacts noting that “days
on market” were down as well. Moreover, a few contacts noted
that housing prices had stabilized and, in some markets, prices
were beginning to trend upward. Some agents attributed the rise
in sales price to greater buyer traffic as a result of
unseasonably warm weather. Several Realtors reported sales of
higher priced homes were faring better than other price
categories. A number of Realtors held a positive outlook for
expected sales.  Commercial real estate leasing and construction activity
improved across most segments of the market since the beginning
of the year. Several commercial Realtors reported solid
increases in inquiries about availability of office and retail
space, but only moderate growth in leasing of those properties.
Still, leasing rates were firming, according to agents, due to
the reduction in the number of attractive properties still on
the market. Most contractors cited moderate increases in private
sector construction projects. Unusually warm weather helped
contractors finish projects ahead of schedule, but some
contractors with weak backlogs sought to spread out work in
order to keep their workforce active. In contrast, government
sector projects declined dramatically, according to several
contractors, although one builder noted an increase in demand
for secondary education facilities. Both contractors and
Realtors reported that access to financing continued to be
limited, and the required paperwork was inhibiting completion of
loans on a timely basis. Prices of construction-related goods,
especially petroleum-based products, cement and drywall
increased in recent months, according to contacts, with most
having only minimal success passing through any cost increases.  Labor Markets  Fifth District labor markets improved moderately in recent
weeks, with several employment agencies citing strong demand for
temporary workers. The increase in overall demand was attributed
to a general strengthening in the economy and also to the
opening of new companies, coupled with a revival in activity at
previously dormant companies. Several employment agencies
indicated that some of their clients remained uncertain about
future demand, however, and preferred hiring temporary workers.
A representative at a North Carolina staffing agency reported
that demand for information technology workers was much higher
than supply and that the gap was worsening. She added that
schools did not have enough graduates to meet the demand in that
sector. District manufacturers increased employment more slowly
than a month ago, according to our latest survey, while wage
gains picked up. Growth in employment and wages in the broad
services sector nearly matched our last report.  Tourism  Unseasonably warm temperatures contributed to strong tourist
activity since our last report. A North Carolina contact from
the outer banks cited exceptional attendance at early spring
events. While beach house rental rates were unchanged in recent
weeks, real estate rental companies were able to remove
incentives that had been included since last autumn. In
 Washington , D.C., the atypical temperatures resulted in cherry
blossoms peaking at the second-earliest date ever. Tourist-
related businesses were busy and restaurants were full. This
year marks the one-hundred year celebration of the gift of the
cherry trees from  Japan , with numerous special events planned,
drawing a significantly higher volume of foreign visitors than
normal. A contact described the crowds as “wall-to-wall
humanity.” 