-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy grew at a solid pace since the last
report. Strength was noted in  consumer spending , professional
services, construction, manufacturing, energy and mining, and
agriculture. Residential real estate had an unexpectedly large
increase in sales activity. Warm weather slowed winter tourism
activity. Hiring activity outpaced layoffs since the last
report. Wage increases were moderate, and price increases were
generally subdued.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending continued to expand moderately. Same-store
sales at a Minnesota-based retailer increased 7 percent in
February compared with a year ago. February sales at a Montana
mall were up about 10 percent over last year; remodeling
activity was strong for new stores and expansions. March sales
were up over 5 percent compared with a year earlier at a  North
Dakota  mall. However, a Minnesota-based hair salon plans to
close some of its stores. A Minnesota auto dealer reported that
mild weather depressed service and vehicle sales during January
and February, but auto sales bounced back in March. In addition,
higher gasoline prices don’t seem to be influencing buying
decisions away from SUVs and light trucks.  Lack of snow and warm temperatures slowed winter tourism in a
number of areas; however, late-season snow perked up activity in
some places. Enough snow fell in northwestern Wisconsin during
February to hold the annual American Birkebeiner cross-country
ski race, bringing thousands of visitors to the area. Western
South Dakota received late-season snow, which enabled a strong
finish for snowmobiling and downhill skiing. A ski resort in
 Montana  reported that visits and revenue were up from a year
ago.  Construction and Real Estate  The continued warm weather aided construction activity. The
value of commercial building permits in the  Sioux Falls , S.D.,
area was up in February from a year earlier. The value and
number of new commercial permits increased in Fargo, N.D.,
during the first two months of 2012 compared with the same
period in 2011. Residential construction increased from a year
ago. The value of residential building permits increased
significantly in the Sioux Falls area in February. The number of
single-family building permits increased in Minnesota in January
2012, compared with January 2011. Several new multifamily
projects were planned for the Minneapolis area.  Commercial real estate market activity increased. A commercial
broker in Minneapolis noted more leasing activity, especially
for class A space. Residential real estate had an unexpectedly
large increase in sales activity. Home sales in February were up
23 percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-
St. Paul area, and the inventory of homes for sale was down 27
percent. However, median sales prices dropped slightly. In the
Sioux Falls area, February home sales were up 5 percent and
inventory was down 7 percent relative to a year ago. A broker
noted that lower-priced homes saw an investor “feeding frenzy,”
with properties selling in a few days with multiple offers.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms increased
slightly since the last report. An accountant noted that this
tax season was busier and that many firms saw an increase in
earnings in 2011 compared with 2010. A bank director from
Montana noted that law firms were experiencing mixed activity
and that firms specializing in petro-chemical and environmental
engineering were seeing increased activity, while mechanical and
structural engineering activity was flat to down.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity expanded. A survey of  purchasing managers 
by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that manufacturing
activity in  Minnesota  and the Dakotas increased in March. A
manufacturer based in northwestern Wisconsin announced plans to
build a production plant. A mill in Minnesota will begin a $170
million conversion from producing pulp for paper mills to
producing cellulose for textiles. A brewery in Minnesota is
expanding its operations. In contrast, a manufacturer of
recreational vehicles in South Dakota has halted production and
may not reopen.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued at strong
levels. Oil and gas exploration activity in North Dakota
increased since the last report, but was flat in Montana. A
Federal Circuit Court judge upheld a permit for construction of
a $10 billion oil refinery in southeastern  South Dakota , which
would be the first new refinery in the  United States  since 1976.
A separate $500 million diesel refinery was in early planning
stages in western North Dakota. Two District ethanol plants are
planning conversions to produce a different biofuel. Ninth
District iron ore mines continued to operate at near capacity. A
mining firm is developing plans in northern Minnesota for a
large underground mine to tap a recently discovered copper
deposit. Meanwhile, a tribe in western Montana moved to block a
copper and silver mine on a wilderness site.  Agriculture  Agricultural conditions remained strong. Cattle ranchers
benefited from both high beef prices and strong export demand as
well as ideal weather for the calving season. Drought conditions
remained in Minnesota, the Dakotas and western  Wisconsin , but
were abated somewhat by recent rain and snowfall. Drier
conditions may actually lead to increased corn plantings in the
eastern Dakotas by making long-flooded fields available.
Unseasonably warm weather has led to reports of early spring
wheat plantings in some areas. Prices received by farmers for
wheat, corn, dry beans, cattle, hogs, eggs and poultry increased
in March from the previous month, while dairy prices fell for
the month and the year.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Hiring activity outpaced layoffs since the last report. The new
production plant in northwestern Wisconsin is expected to hire
300 workers. In Montana, a company that services student loans
could hire about 100 more people this summer. A new wheat straw
pulping and molding factory in North Dakota will create 100
jobs. A major Minnesota-based employer noted that fewer
employees accepted a recent early retirement offer than
expected. In contrast, a telecommunications firm in Minnesota
will eliminate 85 positions as part of a restructuring plan, and
a printer laid-off almost 50 workers.  Wage increases were moderate. In a first quarter business survey
by St. Cloud State University (Minnesota), 65 percent of
respondents left wages unchanged in the past three months.
However, in western North Dakota and eastern Montana, strong
oil-drilling and production activity continued to bid up pay. In
contrast, a Minnesota business that makes in-store advertising
for retailers was cutting compensation for salespeople and some
managers while laying off some staff.  Price increases were generally subdued; however, some exceptions
were noted. More than two-thirds of respondents to the St. Cloud
survey reported that prices at their companies did not change
over the past three months. Late March Minnesota gasoline prices
were up about 25 cents per gallon from mid-February and 20 cents
per gallon from a year ago. Airlines raised airfares during the
past couple of months in response to higher fuel costs. A
Minnesota-based food company noted that input cost increases
were above 10 percent. Amid higher  oil prices , low natural  gas
prices  have spurred energy and transportation companies to
pursue conversion projects. 