-- U.S. Files Antitrust Lawsuit Against Apple, Hachette
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-11T14:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-files-antitrust-lawsuit-against-apple-hachette.html
The U.S. sued  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Hachette
SA, HarperCollins, Macmillan, Penguin and  Simon & Schuster  in
 New York  district court, claiming the publishers colluded to fix
eBook prices.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster, Lagardère SCA’s Hachette Book
Group and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins settled their suits today,
two people familiar with the cases said.  Apple and Macmillan, which have refused to engage in
settlement talks with the  Justice Department , deny they colluded
to raise prices for digital books, according to people familiar
with the matter. They will argue that pricing agreements between
Apple and publishers enhanced competition in the e-book
industry, which was dominated by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   The Justice Department is probing how Cupertino,
California-based Apple changed the way publishers charged for e-
books on the iPad, a person familiar with the matter said last
month. The Justice Department said it would announce an
“unspecified” antitrust settlement today.  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s  Penguin Group (PNGN)  was also preparing to fight the
U.S. Justice Department in court if necessary, two people
familiar with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg News April
5.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department’s
antitrust division, and representatives of Apple, Simon &
Schuster, HarperCollins, Hachette, Penguin and Macmillan, which
is a unit of Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, declined
to comment on prospects for lawsuits or settlements.  Agency Model  Apple, Penguin and Macmillan want to protect the so-called
agency model that lets publishers -- not vendors -- set e-book
prices, said the people on April 5, who declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  The government is seeking a settlement that would let
Amazon and other retailers return to a wholesale model, where
retailers decide what to charge customers, the people said. A
settlement could also void so-called most-favored nation clauses
in Apple’s contracts that require book sellers to provide the
maker of the iPad with the lowest prices they offer competitors,
the people said.  Consumers and competition could be hurt if several
companies sign contracts that refer to prices charged to rivals
even if those firms aren’t dominant, said Fiona Scott-Morton, a
Justice Department economist, in an April 5 speech in
 Washington , signaling the antitrust division’s thinking on the
issue of most-favored-nation clauses.  More Control  Upholding the agency model would give publishers more
control over pricing and limit discounting, helping the industry
avoid sales losses as more consumers buy books online.  Sales of e-books rose 117 percent in 2011, generating
$969.9 million, Publishers Weekly reported Feb. 27, citing
estimates from the Association of American Publishers. By
eliminating printing and shipping costs, digital versions
generate higher profit margins than physical copies.  When Apple came out with the iPad in 2010, it let
publishers set their own prices for e-books as long as it got a
30 percent cut and the publishers agreed to offer their lowest
prices through Apple. This agency model overtook Amazon’s
practice of buying books at a discount from publishers and then
setting its own price for e-reader devices.  The results of a settlement or lawsuit wouldn’t necessarily
kill the agency model or prevent other publishers from
continuing to set their own prices for e-books, one of the
people said.  Random House Inc., based in New York, has agreements with
Apple and Amazon that lets the  book publisher  set prices for e-
books, the essence of the agency model. The company isn’t a part
of the U.S. inquiry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  