-- U.S. Federal Reserve April Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-april-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text
of the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Summary*  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that
the economy continued to expand at a modest to moderate pace
from mid-February through late March. Activity in the Boston,
Atlanta,  Chicago ,  Dallas , and  San Francisco  Districts grew at a
moderate pace, while  Cleveland  and St. Louis cited modest
growth. New York reported that economic growth picked up
somewhat. Philadelphia and Richmond cited improving business
conditions. The economy in Minneapolis grew at a solid pace and
 Kansas City ’s economy expanded at a faster pace.  Manufacturing continued to expand in most Districts, with gains
noted in automotive and high-technology industries.
Manufacturers in many Districts expressed optimism about near-
term growth prospects, but they are somewhat concerned about
rising petroleum prices. Demand for professional business
services showed modest to strong growth and freight volume was
mainly higher. Reports on retail spending were positive, with
the unusually warm weather being credited for boosting sales in
several Districts. While the near-term outlook for household
spending was encouraging, contacts in several Districts
expressed concerns that rising  gas prices  could limit
discretionary spending in the months to come. New-vehicle sales
were reported as strong or strengthening across much of the
 United States . Tourism increased in most reporting Districts.
Residential real estate showed some improvement, with many
contacts citing expansion in the construction of multi-family
housing. Activity in nonresidential real estate increased or
held steady in most Districts. Agricultural conditions were
generally favorable. Mining activity expanded and oil extraction
rose, while natural gas drilling slowed. Banking conditions were
largely stable, with some improvement seen in loan demand.
Several Districts reported increased  credit quality .  Hiring was steady or showed a modest increase across many
Districts. Difficulty finding qualified workers, especially for
high-skilled positions, was frequently reported. Upward pressure
on wages was constrained. Overall price inflation was modest.
However, contacts in many Districts commented on rising
transportation costs due to higher fuel prices.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing continued to expand in most Districts, although
respondents in the Boston and  St. Louis  Districts reported that
manufacturing was mixed and Chicago reported that growth in
manufacturing production leveled off after a strong start to the
year. Contacts in automotive industries reported gains in
Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chicago. The Kansas City, Dallas and San
Francisco Districts reported increased sales for high-technology
manufacturers, with Dallas noting key demand drivers continue to
be mobile applications, cloud computing, and automobiles. The
Philadelphia and Dallas Districts indicated improvement in
demand for manufacturing with ties to residential housing and
construction. Cleveland steel producers and service centers
reported that volume was trending slightly higher, while Chicago
steel producers said that capacity utilization was steady. For
refiners in San Francisco, capacity utilization rates continued
to hold largely stable, as weak domestic gasoline demand was
offset by strong foreign demand for distillate products. In
Dallas, Gulf Coast refiners noted steady margins overall.  Manufacturers in  Boston , Cleveland, and Chicago are expanding
payrolls but finding it difficult to find highly-skilled
workers. Comments from the Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and
Kansas City Districts indicated a rise in  capital spending .
Manufacturers in over half the Districts commented on increasing
input costs, focusing, in particular, on rising petroleum
prices. Contacts in Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Kansas City,
and San Francisco remained optimistic that activity will
increase in the near term. However, several respondents in
Cleveland and Dallas noted that their outlooks have become more
cautious. Manufacturers in Boston and Cleveland expressed
concern about the European economy. Expectations were mixed in
St. Louis.  Nonfinancial Services  Demand for professional business services was characterized as
modest to strong in the Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Kansas
City, and Dallas Districts. St. Louis,  Minneapolis , and San
Francisco reported that demand was mixed. Boston and Richmond
cited rising demand for advertising, marketing, and consulting
services, while accounting services saw a modest pickup in
Minneapolis and Dallas. Growth in technology-related services to
the energy sector was noted in the Minneapolis and Kansas City
Districts. St. Louis and San Francisco reported that activity in
the healthcare sector was flat to down. Both Richmond and San
Francisco noted increased sales for restaurants and food-related
service providers. Freight transportation services were higher
in the Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City Districts. Reports
from Atlanta and Dallas were mixed due to declining air cargo
volumes and railroad shipments. St. Louis reported that plans
have been announced to close certain freight transport and
distribution facilities. Contacts in Cleveland, Richmond, and
Kansas City noted a shortage of qualified truck drivers.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Retail spending continued to improve in almost all Districts.
Contacts in the Boston,  New York , and St. Louis Districts
characterized retail activity as strong. Reports from Chicago
and Richmond indicated a significant strengthening in retail
spending. Sales expanded at a modest or moderate pace in
Philadelphia, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas. Unseasonably
warm weather boosted sales in the Boston, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago Districts. Grocers in Cleveland
and San Francisco reported sales as unchanged. Apparel sales
were strong in Boston and New York. Purchases at home
improvement stores were up in Richmond and Chicago. Reports from
Boston, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City indicate a positive
near-term outlook for retail spending; however, contacts in
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City
expressed concerns that rising gas prices could limit
discretionary spending in the months to come.  Automobile sales were reported as stronger or strengthening
during late February and early March in most Districts. Mild
winter weather boosted sales in Cleveland but depressed motor
vehicle service spending in New York and Minneapolis. Rising gas
prices lead to increased purchases of fuel-efficient vehicles in
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Contacts in Philadelphia
and Kansas City expect continued sales strength. Reports from
Cleveland showed a mixed outlook, with some respondents
expecting solid sales and others seeing the current pace of
sales as unsustainable. Used-vehicle sales were reported as
strong or robust in Cleveland and San Francisco.  Tourism was characterized as strong by respondents in the
Boston, New York, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts. Minneapolis
indicated a slowdown in activity due to a general lack of snow
this winter. Conversely, warm weather boosted tourism in
Richmond. Bookings were strong in New York, and occupancy rates
improved in the Boston, New York, Atlanta, and San Francisco
Districts. In Boston and Kansas City, business travel continues
to be the main driver of tourism activity. Contacts in Boston
and Atlanta expressed concern over high fuel prices as a
possible drag on leisure spending.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate activity improved in most Districts,
though Cleveland and San Francisco noted that activity remained
lackluster or at low levels. The St. Louis and Minneapolis
Districts reported increases in building permits. The
construction of multi-family housing units, including apartments
and senior housing, expanded in many Districts.  Home prices 
continued to decline in Boston, New York, and Minneapolis, but
were largely flat in San Francisco. Contacts in Boston,
Philadelphia, and Kansas City indicated that mild weather had
boosted real estate activity.  Non-residential construction activity improved in the
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and St.
Louis Districts, though many of these contacts characterized the
improvement as slow. Boston, New York, and San Francisco
characterized non-residential real estate activity as unchanged
or steady. The energy and high-tech sectors were driving much of
the demand in the Dallas District. San Francisco noted a rise in
the demand for  office space  from the technology sector.
Cleveland and Chicago saw a boost in healthcare-related
construction. Projects related to the education sector are
showing growth in Boston, Cleveland, Philadelphia, and Richmond.
The outlook of builders is described as positive or slowly
improving in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas
City Districts, and as cautiously optimistic in Boston.  Banking and Finance  For most Districts reporting on financial services, banking
conditions remained stable, with modest improvements in demand
for lending. Loan demand was reported as improved in New York,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas,
and San Francisco, while lending activity was unchanged in St
Louis. The Dallas District reported improved sentiment by
national and regional banks due to improved middle-market and
large corporate lending. Contacts in Cleveland, Richmond, and
San Francisco reported that increased competition among lenders
has been driving more aggressive loan pricing. In general, the
demand for commercial and industrial loans remained steady,
while several Districts reported an increase in commercial real
estate lending activity. The Philadelphia and Cleveland
Districts reported increased lending for multifamily housing and
health care, and contacts in Richmond cited increased lending to
small business to finance inventory and capital expenditures.
Consumer lending has remained stable or risen modestly across a
few Districts. The Cleveland and Richmond Districts reported
increased home equity and auto lending, while bankers in Chicago
noted improved credit availability for auto loans and credit
cards. Several Districts reported that credit standards remain
stable, but Richmond bankers reported that they were offering
easier terms to attract new commercial borrowers. Several
Districts reported increased credit quality, as delinquencies
have continued to decline and few problem loans have been
reported.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Recent rain and snowfall has helped alleviate dry agricultural
conditions from earlier in the year. Nonetheless, the Atlanta,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts have all reported
certain areas where drought conditions continue to persist. Due
to unseasonably warm weather, contacts in several Districts
reported that the planting of some crops is beginning earlier
than normal, including corn in Chicago and wheat in Minneapolis.
San Francisco commented that there has been an increase in
certain input costs, such as fertilizer, while Chicago reported
tight supplies of some agricultural chemicals and corn seed.
Atlanta and Chicago reported an increase in the prices paid to
farmers for soybeans; Chicago noted that the increase was due to
lower-than-expected harvests in  South America . Livestock prices
rose in the Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts,
while orders for livestock were robust in San Francisco.
Farmland values in Kansas City continue to rise and are at
record highs.  Activity in natural resources remained strong. The Kansas City,
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported a shift from
natural gas to oil exploration and production due to low natural
gas prices and growing demand for oil. In the Cleveland
District, leasing activity in the Utica shale is expanding.
Cleveland and St. Louis noted that the production of coal has
slowed over the past few months. The mining sector is expanding
in San Francisco due to high prices for a variety of precious
metals, and iron ore mines in the Minneapolis District continued
to operate near capacity. Contacts in Kansas City reported a
shortage of engineers and experienced technical support for oil
and gas drilling.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Hiring was steady or showed a modest increase in the Boston, New
York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis,
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Industries reporting some
employment growth included manufacturing, freight transport,
professional business services, and  information technology . A
preference for part-time and temporary workers was seen in the
Richmond and Atlanta Districts. Atlanta noted that temporary
workers were being utilized in order to contain costs and retain
flexibility, while some employers in Richmond prefer temporary
workers due to uncertainty about future demand. Some employers
in the Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and
Dallas Districts reported having difficulty finding qualified
workers, especially for certain high-skilled positions. Contacts
in Philadelphia and Cleveland noted that new federal regulations
are exacerbating a truck-driver shortage. New York commented
that employers are planning to step up hiring activity in the
months ahead. Boston, Richmond, and Atlanta said that employers
in their Districts are cautious and need to see more robust
growth before they expand their permanent payrolls further.  Wage pressures were characterized as contained or modest among
reporting Districts. Contacts in Chicago, Dallas, and San
Francisco noted some upward pressure on wages for skilled jobs,
especially in manufacturing and information technology. In the
Minneapolis District, strong oil-drilling and production
activity continued to bid up pay. Transportation contacts in
Cleveland noted some wage pressure due to a tightening of the
driver pool. And medical benefits continue to put pressure on
labor costs in Philadelphia.  Overall price inflation was modest in most Districts. However,
contacts in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas
City, and Dallas Districts cited rising transportation costs due
to higher fuel prices. Minneapolis and Dallas noted that
airlines have raised their fares to offset higher fuel costs.
Richmond reported that rising fuel costs were a serious problem
for both land and ocean shippers, while intermodal
transportation firms in Dallas said that they had increased
prices in response to higher fuel costs. In Atlanta, higher
transportation costs were passed through to consumers without
much difficulty. In contrast, contacts in Cleveland, Chicago,
and San Francisco said it was difficult to pass through higher
costs to consumers. Input costs for manufacturers in Boston,
Cleveland, and Kansas City rose somewhat, but with little pass-
through. Price pressures have eased somewhat for manufacturing
firms in Philadelphia. Higher prices for construction materials
narrowed profit margins for contractors in Kansas City.  * Prepared by the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Cleveland based on
information collected on or before April 2, 2012. This document
summarizes comments received from business and other contacts
outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views
of Federal Reserve officials. 