-- Farmland Rally May Ease as Crop Prices Drop, Economists Say
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-04-11T20:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-farmland-rally-may-ease-as-crop-prices-drop-economists-say.html
The pace of gains in U.S.  farmland 
values may ease as  crop  prices decline and fertilizer and fuel
costs rise, according to economists including Ken Keegan at Farm
Credit Services of America.  Declining profit indicates that farmers, who dominate rural
land purchases, probably won’t bid prices higher, Ken Keegan,
the chief risk officer at Farm Credit Services in Omaha,
 Nebraska , said today at a forum in Washington. Low  interest
rates  and agricultural debt make a plunge from a record rally in
farmland unlikely, he said.  “You have many buyers who feel we have reached a price
point that is difficult for them to justify,” said Keegan,
whose bank owns and manages $21.8 billion in assets in Iowa,
South Dakota, Nebraska and Wyoming. “We’ve reached levels where
you have to be very bullish” on farm profitability to justify
higher land prices, he said.  The average  value  of an acre of U.S. farmland climbed to a
record $2,350 in  2011 , according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . Last year, Midwest  prices  measured by the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Chicago  rose 22 percent, the most since 1976,
while the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City said cropland in
its region jumped 25 percent and ranch land gained 14 percent,
according to reports in February.  Keegan spoke at a monthly forum held by the Farm
Foundation, an Oak Brook, Illinois-based nonprofit that studies
agriculture. Other speakers included Brent Gloy, an agricultural
economist at Purdue University in  West Lafayette , Indiana, and
 Jason Henderson , a Kansas City Fed farm analyst.  Profit Margins  The Fed said in  a report  today that tight supplies for
agricultural chemicals and corn seed exist in the Chicago region
and that input costs are rising in the San Francisco Fed area.
Shrinking profit margins signal that farmers will be reluctant
to pay higher prices for land, Henderson said.  Hedge funds  and
other investors probably won’t outbid growers for property amid
concern that crop prices will decline.  “Nonfarm investors are there and still bidding, but when
it comes down to winning the bid, it’s still farmers,” he said.  Before today, corn futures on the Chicago Board of Trade
dropped 1.8 percent this year, and wheat declined 3.2 percent.
Soybeans climbed 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  