-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  Growth in the Second District’s economy has picked up somewhat
since the last report. Labor market conditions have been stable
to slightly stronger in recent weeks, and a sizable number of
contacts say they plan to add workers in the months ahead. While
consumer prices generally remain steady, business contacts in a
number of industries indicate rising cost pressures.
Manufacturers report steady improvement in business conditions.
Most retailers and auto dealers describe sales as steady but
strong in February and the first few weeks of March. Tourism
activity has been mixed but generally strong since the last
report, with bookings for the months ahead described as robust.
Home sales activity has continued to strengthen since the last
report, though prices have been steady to somewhat lower; rental
markets have continued to improve, and there has been a pickup
in rental multi-family construction. Commercial real estate
markets remained steady in the first quarter of 2012. Finally,
bankers report increased loan demand, no change in credit
standards, and the most widespread declines in delinquency rates
in a number of years.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report that sales were mixed but mostly steady and
strong in February and the first few weeks of March. One major
retail chain reports that sales were above plan and running more
than 5 percent ahead of year earlier in both February and March,
led by strength in spring apparel and accessories. Retail
contacts in upstate New York report that sales in recent weeks
have been strong and running roughly on par with a year earlier,
which was also characterized as a very strong period, with
continued strong demand from Canadian shoppers. However, another
major retailer indicates that same-store sales were below plan
and down considerably from 2011 levels. Retail prices continue
to be mostly stable, but one major chain notes declining costs
for apparel merchandise. Inventories are generally reported to
be at desired levels.  Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales activity
picked up in February and has remained strong in the first few
weeks of March. Sales of new vehicles were up 4-7 percent from a
year earlier in February and remained fairly strong in March.
Inventory stock-outs are no longer a factor holding down sales.
Business generally remains brisk at dealer service departments,
although dealers in the Buffalo area report that unseasonably
mild weather has reduced demand for winter-oriented service.
Wholesale and retail credit conditions remain favorable.  The Conference Board’s latest survey of residents of the Middle
Atlantic states (NY, NJ, PA) shows confidence slipping
moderately in March, though it remains well above its lows of
last October. Tourism activity has been fairly robust since the
last report, and hotel bookings for upcoming months look strong
as well. Albany area hotels report rising occupancy rates in
February.  New York City  hotels report that total revenues per
room were up roughly 6 percent from a year ago in February and
March, with particular strength in the last couple of weeks. All
of the increase reflects higher occupancy rates, as room rates
have leveled off. Moreover, an industry contact notes that
advance bookings are very strong and that room rates are poised
to rise. Attendance at Broadway theaters was fairly robust in
February but has tapered off in March, largely because fewer
shows are running than at this time last year; however, revenues
continue to run ahead of 2011 levels, reflecting a substantial
rise in ticket prices.  Construction and Real Estate  Housing markets across much of the District appear to have
picked up since the last report, while rental markets continue
to firm. Home sales are reported to be on the upswing in
northern  New Jersey , though prices are steady to declining,
largely due to more distressed properties coming to market. One
industry expert notes surprising strength in new multi-family
construction in New Jersey--almost entirely rental units--thus
far in 2012; this segment now accounts for well over 50 percent
of all new homebuilding, which is said to be unprecedented.
Apartment rental markets in both New York City and northern New
Jersey continue to firm, with inventories tight and rents rising
steadily. A major New York City appraisal firm notes that
 Manhattan ’s co-op and condo market has firmed since mid-
February: while prices remain flat, sales have picked up--
especially for studio and 1-bedroom co-ops--and new contract
activity is estimated to be running 7 percent ahead of a year
earlier. Conditions in the outer boroughs have been somewhat
softer. Real estate contacts in western New York State report
continued gradual improvement in home sales activity but note
some downward pressure on prices.  Commercial real estate markets have been mixed but, on balance,
steady since the last report. Office vacancy rates in New York
City and on  Long Island  declined in the first quarter, while
rents have risen moderately. By contrast, office markets have
slackened in northern New Jersey, Westchester and Fairfield
counties, and in Rochester. Most other metro areas in upstate
New York have seen steady to slightly declining vacancy rates.
Industrial markets across the District have been fairly stable.  Other Business Activity  A major New York City employment agency specializing in office
jobs reports that hiring activity has held steady since the last
report. Legal hiring has picked up somewhat but for specific
positions with specialized qualifications, while finance-sector
hiring remains modest. More broadly, though, a sizable number of
manufacturers and a growing number of business contacts in other
sectors say that they plan to step up hiring activity in the
months ahead.  Looking at business conditions more generally, manufacturers
across New York State report continued improvement since the
last report, while a growing proportion of non-manufacturing
contacts report increases in business activity. Business
contacts in both manufacturing and other sectors report that
input costs are rising; however, selling prices are reported to
be holding steady, on balance.  Financial Developments  Small to medium-sized banks in the District report increased
loan demand in all categories, but particularly for commercial
mortgages. Bankers indicate increased demand for refinancing but
to a less widespread degree than in recent months. Credit
standards are reported to be little changed across all loan
categories. Respondents note a decrease in spreads of loan rates
over the cost of funds for all loan categories--particularly for
commercial and industrial loans where well over two in five
bankers report lower spreads, while none report higher spreads.
Respondents also indicate some decline in average deposit rates.
Finally, bankers report decreases in delinquency rates for all
loan categories. Moreover, the reported decreases are more
widespread among our banking contacts than at any time since the
late 1990s. 