-- Unemployment Falls Fast in U.S. If Men Get College Degree
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-04-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/unemployment-falls-fast-in-u-s-if-men-get-college-degrees-jobs.html
After serving time in a  Virginia 
prison following convictions on gun and drug-possession charges,
Sean Collins-Harris decided he would fight the odds against his
ever returning to white-collar work with the only tool he had:
 education .  “I refused to believe that I was going to be confined to a
blue-collar world,” Collins-Harris, 28, says. “If they didn’t
open the door for me, I would open my own. If I had a proper
education, and learned how to be an organizational leader, I
could start my own company; I could do my own thing.”  Today, Collins-Harris has a master’s degree and works for a
property-management company in Virginia Beach. It took a
personal crash that landed him inside St. Brides Correctional
Center in Chesapeake, Virginia, where he says he buffed floors
for 27 cents an hour, for Collins-Harris to understand what so
many young American men don’t.  The U.S. workplace is polarizing between the education
haves and have-nots, says David Autor, professor of economics at
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge. So-called
middle-skill jobs, typically well-paying work that doesn’t
require extensive higher education, are vanishing, dividing the
labor force into high- and low-skill positions. While women are
moving up the knowledge ladder, male educational attainment is
growing at a slower rate.  “It is terrific that women are getting higher levels of
education,” Autor says. “The problem is that males are not.”  Skills Mismatch  Men lagging behind on education raises problems for how
fast the  U.S. economy  can grow because there aren’t enough
highly skilled Americans, creating a mismatch between company
demand and labor-market supply.  Bonnie Dunbar, Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s director of
higher education and science, technology, engineering and math,
says the U.S. doesn’t produce enough engineers to fill the needs
of growing businesses like hers that also must replace retiring
professionals.  “There is a shortfall now,” Dunbar says. “It is a
recruitment challenge. You have these 70,000 engineers
graduating every year, and you have all the companies in the
U.S. competing for them.”  America’s educational lag is what “keeps me up at night,”
 Andrew Liveris , the chief executive officer of Midland,
Michigan-based Dow Chemical Co., told Bloomberg News.  ‘We need Ph.D.s and scientists and chemical engineers,
materials engineers,” he said in a Feb. 28 interview.  Dearth of Educated Workers  Wall Street  also is suffering from a dearth of educated
American men, says Deborah Rivera, founder of The Succession
Group, a New York recruiter whose clients include America’s
biggest banks.  “We see very few American males, or females for that
matter, who are prepared to compete for Wall Street’s growing
quantitative and technology roles that require degrees in math
or engineering from universities such as MIT and Carnegie
Mellon,” Rivera says.  By 2018, some 63 percent of the jobs newly created or
vacated by retiring workers will require at least some college
education, according to a June 2010  report  by  Georgetown
University ’s Center on Education and the Workforce in
 Washington .  Post-secondary education has emerged as an issue in the
presidential campaign. In his January 24 State of the Union
address, President  Barack Obama  said higher education “can’t be
a luxury; it is an economic imperative that every family in
America should be able to afford.”  Obama’s comment drew criticism from then-Republican
contender  Rick Santorum .  “He wants everybody in America to go to college,”
Santorum told supporters in Troy,  Michigan , on Feb. 25. “What a
snob.”  Societal Problems  In his research, Autor says there are costly societal
problems when men fail to move up in education. Their incomes
lag behind, marriage rates fall and they tend to drop out of the
 labor force  altogether. White men who dropped out of high school
were 17 percentage points less likely to be married than those
with some post-high school education in 2008, Autor said in a
study. For black men, the difference was 20 percent.
Incarceration rates also are higher for men who didn’t complete
high school.  “It is deeply alarming,” says Richard Murnane, an
economist and professor at Harvard University’s Graduate School
of Education in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “A lot of women don’t
want to make lifetime commitments to males who are not going to
bring in a good income. It contributes to divorce rates for the
same reason.”  More Educated Women  The share of women who completed  high school  was three
percentage points higher than men in 2010, compared with a three
point lead by men in 1975, according to the National Center for
Education Statistics. The percentage of women who obtained a
bachelor’s degree was eight points higher than men in 2010,
compared with a six-point lead by men in 1975.  Women born in 1988 were 10 points more likely to go to
college then men of the same age,  research  by economists Martha
J. Bailey and Susan M. Dynarksi of the  University of Michigan  in
Ann Arbor shows.  “For young women and men living in the same family, the
sisters are going on to outperform their brothers on average,”
Bailey says. “That is the puzzle.”  Economists don’t understand why men wouldn’t seize the
chance of education when the financial  premium  is so high.  The
median full-year wage for men 25-to-34 years old with a
bachelor’s degree was $51,000 in 2009 compared with just $32,900
for those with a high school diploma, according to data tracked
by education-statistics center.  Gender, Education Divide  The recession that began in December 2007 and ended in June
2009 accentuated both the gender and education divide.  Unemployment rates for men peaked at 11.2 percent in
October 2009 versus a peak of 9 percent for women in November
2010. For men and women with a high school diploma and no
college, the  jobless rate  stood at 8.8 percent in March versus
4.1 percent for workers with a bachelor’s degree and higher.
Male employment is snapping back at a faster pace in the
economic recovery, accounting for 88 percent of the 2.3 million
increase in nonfarm payrolls, according to data from the Bureau
of Labor Statistics.  For Collins-Harris, America’s male problem starts with
broken homes and absent fathers. He says some of the men in the
Norfolk, Virginia, community where he grew up could be seen
selling drugs or gambling.  “The fathers aren’t there in most of the cases,” says
Collins-Harris. “You have all these men being taught to be men
by women.”  Value Education  He says he lived with his mother and grandparents, who
pushed him to value education, and enrolled in Norfolk’s Old
Dominion University. He paid for his tuition working in
department and computer stores. He says he lacked focus and an
idea of what he would do, and selling drugs was a way to make
fast money.  He was found guilty of possession of marijuana with intent
to distribute and possession of a firearm while in possession of
drugs in January 2005, according to documents filed with the
Circuit Court of Norfolk.  While serving a five-year term, Collins-Harris met Toks
Idowu, chief executive officer of LCI Cooper Group, a
Chesapeake, Virginia, defense contractor. With his own money,
Idowu developed Leadership Call, a prison rehabilitation program
that emphasizes self-sufficiency. He encouraged Collins-Harris
to have an action plan and never give up on education as a way
out.  Started Company  Collins-Harris says after he was released in 2009, he
borrowed a lawn mower and a power washer from relatives and
started a company called Applied Pressure. He says he tried to
land call-center and data-entry jobs, finding that his prison
record dimmed his chances. One company told him he would never
get a white-collar job.  Collins-Harris says he vowed to defy what people thought of
a young, black male with a criminal record and “make society a
liar.”  He made money chipping paint off ships, took a test to
complete his bachelor’s degree at Old Dominion and was hired by
the property-management company in 2010. He completed a master’s
degree program in organizational leadership at Regent University
in  Virginia Beach  in 2011.  About a month ago, Idowu encouraged Collins-Harris to talk
to the inmates at St. Brides.  “They listened, they were quiet,” Collins-Harris says.
“They were so inspired to see me come out and go and get a
master’s and start my own business.”  Collins-Harris says there should be more messengers like
him, because “who is telling them?” People “can rob from you,
people can steal from you, but people can never steal what you
know.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 