-- Hungary May Lower Borrowing Costs Early Next Year, Simor Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-04-11T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/hungary-may-lower-borrowing-costs-early-next-year-simor-says.html
Hungary’s central bank may cut the
European Union’s highest benchmark interest rate in early 2013
if the nation’s risk assessment and inflation outlook improve
“significantly,” Governor  Andras Simor  said.  “ Interest rates  may be lowered at the start of next year
alongside a significant decrease in risk premia and an
improvement in inflation processes,” Simor said today in a
speech in Budapest. Rates may need to remain steady for
“several quarters” to reach the bank’s 3 percent inflation
goal, he added.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank left the  two-week deposit rate  at 7
percent for a third month in March and raised its inflation
forecast for this year and next. Policy makers were in “broad
consensus” that the deteriorating outlook for inflation and
increased perceptions of risks warranted “greater caution” in
monetary policy for months to come, according to the minutes of
the March meeting published today.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who’s battling to avert a
recession, asked the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  for
a bailout in November as the forint fell to a record low and the
country’s credit rating was cut to junk. Four months later,
talks have yet to start as Hungary has failed to show that
independent institutions such as the central bank are free of
government influence.  Dependent on IMF  The rate-setting Monetary Council unanimously agreed that
perceptions about the economy were highly dependent on news
about the government’s planned agreement with the EU and the
IMF, according to the minutes.  The forint has weakened 1.1 percent against the euro this
month, extending the currency’s slump to 3.8 percent since
reaching its strongest level in five months on Feb. 21 as
investors question the government’s commitment to an IMF deal.
The currency traded at 297.74 per euro at 4:55 p.m. in Budapest.  Hungary ’s failure to reach a financing agreement with the
international institutions would entail “significant”
financing risks and would hurt the economy, Simor said.  “We continue to believe a scenario without an IMF
agreement may yield significant financing risks and real
economic costs,” Simor said, adding that current financing
costs were “unsustainable” in the long term.  The central bank last month raised its consumer-price
forecast for 2012 to 5.6 percent from a previous estimate of 5
percent and for 2013 to 3 percent, rather than a 2.6 percent
earlier projection.  Hungary may reach its inflation goal in early 2013, Simor
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  