-- VMWare Drops After Saying CFO to Depart
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-04-11T21:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/vmware-drops-after-saying-cfo-to-depart.html
VMware Inc. (VMW)  fell the most in three
months after the software maker announced a management shuffle
including the departure of Chief Financial Officer Mark Peek.  VMware  fell  2.5 percent to $107.61 at the close in New York,
the largest decline since Jan. 13. That trimmed year-to-date
gains for the  Palo Alto , California-based company to 29 percent.  Peek will leave on June 1 to become CFO of Workday Inc., a
Pleasanton, California-based maker of software, where he
currently serves on the board of directors, VMware said today in
a statement. Earnings at VMware have more than doubled to
$723.94 million since 2008, the first full year after Peek
joined. The company is initiating a search to replace him.  “Investors are disappointed to see him leave because he’s
been a key ingredient in the company’s success,”  Daniel Ives ,
an analyst with FBR Capital Markets, said in an interview.  Peek, who helped take VMware public in 2007, will probably
be replaced by an outsider, Ives said.  The move to Workday reflects larger shifts in the $113.8
billion business-applications market. Workday and other
providers of software over the Internet, including
Salesforce.com Inc., have been nabbing customers from bigger,
older business-software makers, such as Oracle Corp. and SAP AG.  Workday, which plans to file for an initial public offering
this year, replaced Oracle and SAP systems at companies
including Flextronics International Ltd., Kimberly-Clark Corp.,
Sun Life Financial Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd. Companies as
varied as Bayer AG, Zynga Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co. have
opted in recent months for Salesforce over Oracle.  COO Eschenbach  In other VMware changes announced today, Carl Eschenbach
was promoted to chief operating officer and co-president, while
Raghu Raghuram was promoted to executive vice president of cloud
infrastructure and management.  Financial results for the first quarter will meet or
slightly exceed the forecast provided in January, VMware said.
The company projected revenue of $1.02 billion to $1.04 billion,
compared with the average estimate of $1.03 billion compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company, which is majority-owned by EMC Corp., is
scheduled to report earnings on April 18.  Workday, which makes software to help companies manage
operations, may raise as much as $500 million in its IPO, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  