-- Web Piracy Bills ‘Dead’ in U.S. From Lobbying, Dodd Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-04-12T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/web-piracy-bills-dead-in-u-s-from-lobbying-dodd-says.html
Hollywood-backed legislation to
fight online piracy, shelved this year after an Internet protest
led by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Wikipedia, is “dead,” said the head of
the trade group for the largest movie studios.  The Stop Online Piracy Act, known as SOPA, is “history,”
 Christopher Dodd , chairman of the Washington-based  Motion
Picture Association  of America, said in an interview for
“Conversations with Judy Woodruff” on Bloomberg Television set
to air this weekend. “It’s gone. In my view, it’s dead.”  The organization representing studios including  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures had built bipartisan
backing for the bill in the House and the Protect IP Act in the
Senate through late last year. The bills would have given
government and copyright holders more tools to crack down on
non-U.S. websites that offer pirated content.  Congress shelved the legislation in January after Google
and Wikipedia led an Internet protest against the bills, saying
the measures would promote online censorship, disrupt the Web’s
architecture and harm their ability to innovate.  “The issue hasn’t gone away,” said Dodd, a Connecticut
Democrat who served three decades in the  U.S. Senate . “In fact,
even those from the technology community, the overwhelming
majority, believe that we must do something about intellectual
property.”  Dodd called the Internet protest a “watershed event” that
globalized an issue that previously didn’t have a large
audience. He said the Stop Online Piracy Act “went further than
it probably should have.”  ‘Constant Conversation’  The anti-piracy bills supported by the studio trade group
would have let the Justice Department seek court orders forcing
Internet-service providers, search engines, payment processors
and online ad networks to block or stop doing business with non-
U.S. sites linked to selling counterfeit goods.  The measures would also have let private copyright holders
seek court orders to require payment services and advertising
companies to cut off such websites.  Asked about a compromise, Dodd said there is a “constant
conversation,” without providing detail.  “Right now we’re in an election year,” he said. “The
Congress has got a lot of other things on their minds other than
copyright and intellectual property. But there’ll be a new
session next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 