-- Wells Fargo Gets Medical Development Restructuring Officer
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-04-11T22:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/wells-fargo-gets-medical-development-restructuring-officer-1-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-
largest U.S. bank by assets, won appointment of a chief
restructuring officer for prison-service provider Medical
Development International Ltd. in a lawsuit seeking re-payment
of $30 million in loans.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock approved the
appointment of Mark C. Healy of Michael Moecker & Associates of
Jacksonville, Florida, in an order made public today in
Wilmington, Delaware.  “The financial condition of defendants has deteriorated
dramatically” and the company isn’t being operated “in the
best interests” of stakeholders, plaintiff’s lawyer  Brian
Rostocki  said in court papers.  A lawyer for Medical Development, Thad Bracegirdle, today
filed a motion asking the judge to dismiss the case or transfer
it to  Florida  for the convenience of defendants in that state.  “We’re pleased to be able to work with Mr. Healy” and
“look forward to his assistance in bringing the company through
this challenging period; we’re confident that someone of his
ability will help create the platform for future success,” Bert
Ralston, a spokesman for Medical Development, said in a phone
interview.  Claims Against Bank  Medical Development, based in Ponte Vedra, Florida, sued
San Francisco-based Wells Fargo on March 21 in state court in
St. Johns County, Florida, seeking at least $15 million in
damages over claims the bank tried to dominate its business.  Wells Fargo “abandoned its traditional role as lender and
took up the role of corporate raider” to divert company assets,
according to the complaint in Florida.  In its suit, filed March 23 in  Delaware , Wells Fargo
initially asked Glasscock to appoint a receiver for the company.  In his order, Glasscock said Healy “shall work in tandem”
with Medical Development Chief Executive Officer Richard Willich
to run the company and will have “complete access” to books
and facilities. Wells Fargo declined to comment on the ruling.  The Delaware case is Wells Fargo Bank v. Medical
Development International Ltd., CA7352, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington). The Florida case is MDI v. Wells Fargo Bank, CA12-
0570, Florida Circuit Court, Seventh Judicial Circuit, St. Johns
County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net 
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  