-- Western Powers Doubt Syria Will Meet Cease-Fire Deadline
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-12T01:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/western-powers-doubt-syria-will-meet-cease-fire-deadline.html
Western diplomats said they have
little to no faith that  Syria  will abide by a United Nations
cease-fire that is supposed to begin this morning. They also
have no solutions to end the turmoil.  Syria said yesterday it would cease all military fighting
by 6 a.m. Damascus time while reserving “the right to respond
proportionately” to any opposition attacks. There can be no
truce if troops and heavy artillery are kept in place, ready to
pound the population at whatever the government judges to be a
provocation, according to a UN Security Council diplomat,
speaking on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized
to comment publicly.  Syria’s commitments “have little if any credibility,”
U.S. Ambassador to the UN  Susan Rice , who holds the  Security
Council  presidency this month, said yesterday in  New York .
“Commitments have been made and made and made and broken and
broken and broken.”  Violence in Syria has raged for more than a year, resulting
in more than 9,000 dead by UN estimates and leaving world
leaders divided on ways to end a conflict that is evolving into
civil war and infecting Syria’s neighbors. Tools such as
sanctions or UN-authorized military intervention have been kept
off the table by Russia, Syria’s closest ally along with Iran.  “We are alarmed for the ongoing violence in Syria, and we
are concerned about the problems facing Special Envoy  Kofi Annan 
as he attempts to bring about a fire and the end to violence,”
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday as she opened
a meeting of the Group of Eight foreign ministers in  Washington .  ‘Unimaginable Consequences’  Annan, the UN special envoy charged with trying to broker a
peace agreement, will brief the Security Council today on
whether the deadline was followed. Yesterday he was in Iran, and
met with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.  Annan told reporters in Tehran that “any error can have
unimaginable consequences” and that Iran’s government had told
him it supports his six-point plan for an end to violence.  The plan had called for Assad’s forces to stop firing heavy
weapons and begin withdrawing from populated areas by April 10.
The armed opposition was then supposed to respond by laying down
its weapons within 48 hours.  So far, there is no evidence of Assad sticking to his
commitments.  Attack on Homs  Government forces used helicopters, tanks, heavy machine
guns and mortars yesterday in Homs in central Syria and carried
out raids in Deir al-Zour, killing two people, while fighting
continued outside Damascus, the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights said in e-mailed statements. The army killed 30 people
yesterday, Al Jazeera television reported, citing activists.
Government forces killed at least 38 people April 10, the U.K.-
based observatory said.  The main Syrian opposition umbrella group, the Syrian
National Council, said that it and the armed Syrian Free Army
remain “committed to respecting” the cease-fire. “There is no
sign on the ground of compliance by the regime,” the group said
in a statement yesterday, citing government use of tanks,
helicopters and heavy artillery.  “On both sides, it will be difficult to adhere to any form
of comprehensive cease-fire across Syria,” said Ayham Kamel,
Washington-based Middle East analyst at Eurasia Group.  “There are significant challenges for Assad being able to
control the military across the country, particularity as some
rebels will continue to attack” he said. “It is unlikely that
we’ll see any form of significant troop withdrawal from key
areas.”  Western Options  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  agreed that more “resolute action” on Syria is needed
by the Security Council to end the government’s brutal
crackdown, the White House said in a statement yesterday.  The two leaders discussed the situation in Syria, as well
as the negotiations with  Iran  over its nuclear program, during a
telephone conversation yesterday, according to the statement.  Western powers this week are weighing their next steps at
the Security Council, which alone has the power to impose
sanctions, authorize a peacekeeping mission or refer a leader to
the  International Criminal Court  for  war crimes  and genocide.  Governments including the U.S., the European Union,  Japan 
and  Canada  already have imposed trade sanctions against Assad’s
family and Syrian officials that include travel bans and asset
freezes in a bid to step up pressure on the government.  ‘Day of Reckoning’  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in Jakarta that
there will be “a day of reckoning for Assad’s crimes” as his
government explores procedures for referral to the court. Syria
has signed though not ratified the 1998 Rome treaty that
established the court, meaning it has some obligations.  Pressure has been mounting on  Russia  to back stronger
action against Syria after Assad failed to meet the earlier
deadline. Russia has wielded its veto power on the Security
Council to protect Syria from efforts by Western powers and
their Arab allies to seek sanctions against Assad’s regime and
call on him to step down.  “The Russians have continuously said they want to avoid
civil war, they want to avoid a regional conflict,” Clinton
said April 10 at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland .
“But their refusal to join with us in some sort of constructive
action is keeping Assad in power, well-armed, able to ignore the
demands of his own people, of his region and the world.”  Syria’s borders with Lebanon and  Turkey  are where
international intervention could take place with the creation of
humanitarian corridors, Asher Kaufman, an associate professor of
history and peace studies at the  University of Notre Dame ’s Kroc
Institute for International Peace, said in an e-mail.  Turkey, whose longest border is with Syria, said it’s
considering a buffer zone following an onslaught of Syrian
refugees and an episode of shooting from the Syrian side. The
rate of Syrians flowing into Turkey has risen to an average of
707 a day in the past nine days, Annan said in an April 10
letter to the Security Council. That compares with an average of
96 a day from Dec. 15 to March 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  