-- What’s Bad for Romney Could Be Good for America
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-04-11T23:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/what-s-bad-for-romney-could-be-good-for-america.html
Rick Santorum ’s withdrawal from the
race seems to make  Mitt Romney  the inevitable Republican
presidential nominee. As the former Massachusetts governor turns
to the general election, I have a modest proposal for him: Don’t
try to win the election. Try to change America instead.  Romney should give up on contorting himself to please
voters, for America and the Republican Party desperately need a
leader who will put truth above popularity, and honestly discuss
the costs of the benefits he promises.  If nominated, he will have our attention for the next seven
months, which is a great gift. If he uses his visibility to tell
voters only what they want to hear, he loses the ability to
shape the nation. He could use the election to promote honest
accounting and a culture of responsibility, which would earn him
a permanent place in the American pantheon whether he wins in
November or not.  He starts as a significant underdog. President  Barack Obama 
has natural political skills, a powerful organization and can
claim to have shepherded the U.S. through calamitous times.
 Intrade.com  gives Romney only a 37 percent chance of winning the
national election. Unless the most recent jobs report portends a
further weakening of the economy, the president will be hard to
beat.  High Road  Big gambles, like going for two-point conversions or
choosing an unknown Alaskan governor as a running mate, are the
right strategy when the status quo means defeat. Romney will
need to shake things up; let’s hope he gambles on traveling the
high road rather than the low, with appeals to anti-China
hysteria and the like. Let’s hope he follows the risky route of
Henry Clay and  Wendell Willkie , who both preferred being right
to being president.  In 1940, Willkie did far more good for the world by losing
well than he could have achieved by dishonorably winning the
White House. Before  Pearl Harbor , there were plenty of America
First isolationists, and Willkie could have brought out his base
by charging President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  with war-mongering.
Yet, while he occasionally waffled, Willkie generally limited
his appeals to isolationism, making it easier for FDR to
continue aiding  England  in its darkest hour, and to challenge
 Japan . Willkie’s electoral sacrifice probably also helped ensure
that America would enter World War II as a more united nation.  Romney can do something similarly noble today, by choosing
an election strategy that puts America’s interests ahead of his
own. Any reform of our political system, and our society, needs
to start with a culture of responsibility -- a broad acceptance
that we need to pay for our pleasures. The Bill of Rights didn’t
promise us  cheap gas  or toll-less highways or the right to every
new medical innovation at no cost.  Republicans want lower taxes; Democrats want more publicly
funded services. Both views can be honorably defended, but it is
hard to respect Republicans who promise lower taxes without
explaining clearly what  spending  will be cut, or Democrats who
want an ever-expanding public sector, paid for with someone
else’s money.  We cannot sensibly decide if we want bigger or smaller
government without first acknowledging that lower  taxes  must
eventually mean fewer public services, or that more public
activity must eventually impose costs on the private sector.  Romney’s campaign website contains the high-sounding phrase
“We have a moral responsibility not to spend more than we take
in.” But while his economic plan clearly spells out the tax
cuts that will let voters take home more cash, it is woefully
lacking in details about who will pay for those lower taxes,
beyond imposing block grants for Medicaid. The  proposal  calls
for capping the federal budget at 20 percent of gross domestic
product, but contains no discussion of how those funding cuts
would materialize.  Ryan Budget  This reticence about spending cuts isn’t limited to Romney.
The  2013 blueprint  presented by Paul Ryan, the Republican
representative from  Wisconsin  who is chairman of the House
Budget Committee, seems so fresh precisely because the U.S. has
a surfeit of politicians, on either side of the aisle, who
promise benefits without costs. Ryan may cut taxes and spending
too much, but at least he has put forward an adult document that
tries to grapple with the debt rather than just passing on
problems to the next generation.  The  Republican Party  lost its credibility on fiscal
discipline decades ago, but Obama’s vast deficits (justifiable
or not) have given his opponents an opportunity to regain the
mantle of responsibility. To recapture that role, Romney needs
to openly acknowledge that  tax cuts  only come from meaningful
reductions in public services, and make the case that the cuts
in services are worth the cuts in taxes.  Once Romney starts to own those service reductions, he will
begin to appear more like a leonine leader and less like just
another ambitious pol. Maybe, he can even start a fiscal-honesty
trend.  Medicare (USBOMDCR)  costs are the biggest budget buster, but
politicians view supporting limitations on public health care as
only slightly less career-threatening than expressing sympathy
for  Iran ’s nuclear ambitions. If Medicare must be an open-ended
entitlement that gives every citizen the right to the publicly
funded purchase of every new medical procedure, then the free
market will ensure enough medical innovation to bankrupt the
nation.  President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  must have been palpitating
in his grave when Republican leaders started referring to modest
attempts at  public cost containment  as “Death Panels.” Ryan
has proposed a brave, but unpopular, plan, to eventually replace
Medicare with a voucher system that would limit costs to
taxpayers.  Romney’s Plan  At first, Romney noted that “the plan put forward by
Congressman  Paul Ryan  makes important strides in the right
direction by keeping the system solvent and introducing market-
based dynamics,” but his campaign then followed up with this:
“As president, Romney’s own plan will differ, but it will share
those objectives.”  If Romney wants to lead, he must risk more by telling more.
But leading through honesty goes beyond the  budget  to the
economy as a whole. I share Romney’s view that private
entrepreneurs are the wellspring of economic innovation, and I
also see much to like in lower taxes and limited regulation. But
these policies are no guarantee of economic prosperity,
especially for lower-middle-income Americans. A candidate who
would lead must ask Americans why they think they are entitled
to good jobs at high wages, when there are better-trained
workers in  China  who are willing to work harder for less money.  If Americans expect to be paid more, they must have more
human capital -- the formal skills and ephemeral talents that
make people productive. If we want our children to be as
prosperous as those of the Pacific Rim, then we must put in the
same hours teaching core math and science skills.  Our basic economic system is better than any state
capitalism alternative, but it cannot ensure that less-skilled
Americans will permanently out-earn better-trained international
competitors. America needs leaders who will force the country to
face its options honestly. Lower taxes mean less public health
care. Too little time doing algebra with your children means
they will be less prosperous than future competitors in the
labor market.  Telling the truth may not get Romney elected, but it should
earn him the lasting gratitude of his nation, and that is
ultimately far more valuable.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on disclosure of the
chemicals used in  hydraulic fracturing ;  Ezra Klein  on the  tax
pledges  of Republicans and Democrats;  Amity Shlaes  on how  labor
laws  hurt  job creation ;  Caroline Baum  on  promoting inflation  as
the wrong way to cope with debt; Gary Shilling on whether the
 Federal Reserve  will  rescue the economy ; Doug Skinner on
 corporate dividend policies ; and Robert Bruegmann on why the
 anti-freeway movement  hurts cities.  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 