-- Wheat Rises as Cold U.S. Weather May Slow Crop Development
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-04-11T18:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/wheat-rises-as-cold-u-s-weather-may-slow-crop-development.html
Wheat rose on speculation that cold
weather in U.S. growing areas may slow development of plants
that have begun to emerge from the ground.  Plant germination for some spring wheat sown early in the
northern Great Plains may be delayed by temperatures that have
dropped below freezing, Telvent DTN Meteorologist Joel Burgio
said in a report today. Frigid weather in Illinois and  Indiana ,
where wheat is emerging after lying dormant during the winter,
may hurt crops, Chicago-based QT Weather said.  “It probably got cold enough that there’s going to be some
talk about damage in the Dakotas,” Mike Zuzolo, the president
of Global Commodity Analytics in Lafayette, Indiana, said in a
telephone interview. The temperature fell to 21 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 6 degrees Celsius) yesterday in  Montana , and
“that’s where the heart and soul of these bullish fundamentals
lie,” he said.  Wheat futures for July delivery climbed 0.2 percent to
close at $6.335 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. The price has dropped 2.9 percent this year on
speculation that production in the U.S., the world’s biggest
exporter, will increase because of favorable weather.  The lowest temperature recorded in the U.S. yesterday was 9
degrees Fahrenheit in Tioga,  North Dakota . About 17 percent of
spring wheat was planted in the state, the biggest U.S. producer
of wheat, as of April 8, U.S. Department of Agriculture  data 
show. About 52 percent was seeded in  South Dakota , according to
the USDA.  “We’re in uncharted territory as far as how rapid we’re
trying to put this wheat in the ground,” Zuzolo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  