-- Why U.S. Companies Continue to Pay Dividends
-- B y   D o u g l a s   J .   S k i n n e r
-- 2012-04-11T23:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/why-u-s-companies-continue-to-pay-dividends.html
Much has been made of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
recent decision to begin paying regular dividends, given the
 company ’s large free  cash flow  (about $1 billion a week) and
cash balance (close to $100 billion).  Yet, according to finance theory, stock-market investors
should be indifferent to whether they receive their returns as
cash dividends or capital gains. In fact, when dividends are tax
disadvantaged, as was the case until 2003 and may be so again
soon, investors should prefer retention and the resulting
capital gains. This led economists -- notably Fischer Black in
1976 -- to describe the payment of dividends as a puzzle.  If dividends were puzzling in 1976, they are even more so
today because companies can now return cash to stockholders
using stock repurchases, which have at least two advantages over
dividends.  First, stock repurchases don’t commit companies to future
distributions. By announcing a dividend, however, managers are
essentially committing their firms to paying a regular dividend
for the foreseeable future.  Second, if President  Barack Obama  has his way and dividends
are returned to their traditional tax-disadvantaged status, the
case in favor of stock repurchases becomes even stronger.  Stock Repurchases  For a while, it did seem that dividends were in retreat and
that stock repurchases would become the dominant form of payout.
The use of stock repurchases has grown tremendously since their
emergence in the early 1980s. It is no longer uncommon for there
to be years when the dollar amount of repurchases exceeds that
of dividends, something that first occurred in the late 1990s.  Meanwhile, dividends seemed to be disappearing. In a  paper 
published in 2001, the economists  Eugene Fama  and Kenneth French
reported that just one-fifth of U.S. nonfinancial firms paid
dividends in 1999, compared with two-thirds in the mid-1970s.  Further, survey evidence suggested that the only reason
managers of the remaining dividend payers continued that
practice was because their companies had done so for many
decades.  Coca-Cola (KO)  Co., for instance, has paid dividends each
year since 1920, making it a difficult habit for its investors
(and managers) to break.  In  recent research , we used data on companies’ payout
policies through the financial crisis to shed new light on the
dividend puzzle. The idea was simple: If dividends are an
inferior payout vehicle, it was reasonable to expect that
managers of companies wishing to end them could use the Great
Recession as a convenient excuse. Given the upheaval in the
financial markets in 2008 and 2009, along with the related
economic downturn, investors would surely understand the need to
dispense with dividends.  We found little evidence that nonfinancial firms cut
dividends during the crisis. While many banks and other
financial firms cut back their payouts, many of them only did so
when forced by regulators. Remarkably, even banks receiving
taxpayer money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program continued
to pay dividends, though the government soon forced them to
stop. This fact alone is testament to the staying power of
dividends.  For many dividend payers it was business as usual during
the crisis: Blue-chip companies such as  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , Coca-Cola,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  continued to increase their payouts, as they had for many
decades.  Concentration of Companies  We also found that the share of dividend payers bottomed
out at 15 percent in 2002, and has increased since then.
Further, as discussed in a  2004 paper  I wrote with  Harry  and
 Linda DeAngelo , there has been a strong increase in the
concentration of dividend payments over the last 30 years: While
the number of firms paying dividends has declined steadily, the
total amount of dividends paid has risen (in real terms,
adjusting for inflation). The paper reported that the top 25
dividend-payers accounted for more than half of all dividend
payments by public nonfinancial firms in 2000.  Also inconsistent with the idea that repurchases are a
substitute for dividends is the fact firms that pay the  largest
dividends  also tend to be the largest repurchasers. Instead of
cutting dividends to make repurchases, the small set of large
blue-chip industrial firms that pay dividends have augmented
their payouts with repurchases. Because repurchases are so
flexible, these companies can use them to pay out excess
earnings in unusually good years, so payout ratios for these
firms (the ratio of payouts to earnings) are often well above 50
percent.  In our  recent paper , we find that the growth of total
payouts -- dividends and repurchases -- has been very strong
over the past decade. From 2001 through 2007, aggregate
dividends paid by nonfinancial firms almost doubled while
repurchases for these firms increased by a factor of five.
Strikingly, aggregate payout ratios increased to about 80
percent in 2006 and 90 percent in 2007, before the crisis caused
companies to radically reduce repurchases.  Is it good for the largest companies, those that contribute
the lion’s share of earnings, to be distributing so much cash?
If firms are distributing the bulk of their earnings to
stockholders, it means that they aren’t investing in the
equipment or undertaking the research that leads to future
improvements in productivity, earnings and  job creation .  But back to the original question. It seems clear from our
recent work that dividends are very resilient, and are unlikely
to disappear. What explains this staying power?  First, some argue that dividends provide important
“signals” about the strength or quality of the firm’s underlying
 earnings stream . (Because investors know that a significant
dividend is a very strong commitment to paying out at least the
current dividend amount on a continuing basis.)  Second, dividends help discipline managers’ tendency to
squander their firms’ cash on wasteful or unproductive projects
or acquisitions. This is particularly a problem in large, mature
companies that generate sizable free cash flow.  Third, it could be that companies are catering to certain
investors, who have a strong preference for dividends over
 capital gains . This not only applies to the traditional “widows
and orphans” who might discipline their spending by limiting
consumption to dividend income, but also to large institutions
such as pension funds that often face institutional and
regulatory restrictions forcing them to invest only in dividend-
paying stocks.  Although we haven’t yet established the reason, the data
are very clear: Dividends, even though they remain a puzzle, are
here to stay.  (Douglas J. Skinner is professor of accounting at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business and a contributor
to  Business Class . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on disclosure of the
chemicals used in  hydraulic fracturing ;  Edward Glaeser  on why
 Mitt Romney  must  change gears  for the general election;  Ezra
Klein  on the  tax pledges  of Republicans and Democrats;  Amity
Shlaes  on how  labor laws  hurt  job creation ;  Caroline Baum  on
 promoting inflation  as the wrong way to cope with debt; Gary
Shilling on whether the  Federal Reserve  will  rescue the economy 
and Robert Bruegmann on why the  anti-freeway movement  hurts
cities.  To contact the writer of this article:
Douglas J. Skinner at  douglas.skinner@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  