-- Wigan Upsets Manchester United as City Cuts Lead to Five Points
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-11T23:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/wigan-upsets-manchester-united-as-city-cuts-lead-to-five-points.html
Wigan upset  Manchester United  1-0
to move out of the Premier League relegation places and cut the
Red Devils’ lead at the top of the standings to five points as
Manchester City won.  Shaun Maloney scored in the 50th minute last night as
Wigan’s first victory against United lifted it two places to
17th in the 20-team league, where the bottom three teams are
demoted to the second-tier Championship.  “We were second to every ball and only had one shot at
goal,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told the British
Broadcasting Corp. after his team’s eight-game winning streak
ended. “It was one of these off nights you get. We have been on
a great run and it has put us in a position where we can win the
league, so we have to get over the disappointment.”  Second-place  Manchester City  beat West Bromwich Albion 4-0
to move to 74 points, Queens Park Rangers also climbed out of
the relegation zone with a 3-0 win against Swansea, and Arsenal
beat 10-man Wolverhampton Wanderers 3-0.  Wigan’s victory, its first in 15 meetings with United,
dropped Bolton into the bottom three. The Latics had lost all of
their previous meetings and scored just once in the past nine.  Victor Moses appeared to give Wigan the lead in the 29th
minute when he headed in a corner kick, until the goal was
disallowed because United goalkeeper David De Gea had been
fouled.  Wigan went ahead five minutes into the second half after
being awarded a corner kick that replays showed should have been
a goal kick for United. Maloney got the ball at the edge of the
area, carried it to the middle and curled a shot past De Gea
inside the right post.  ‘Historic Moment’  United had a penalty appeal rejected later in the half when
 Phil Jones ’s cross hit Maynor Figueroa’s arm. The defending
champion then pressured for the tying score and home goalkeeper
Ali Al Habsi saved a shot from Danny Welbeck to preserve the
lead.  “It’s a historic moment for our fans,” Wigan manager
 Roberto Martinez  told the  BBC . “We showed what we can do. Now
the challenge is to maintain it to the end.”  United’s first defeat since Jan. 4 gave rival Manchester
City new life in the title chase.  Sergio Aguero  scored twice and
 Carlos Tevez  and David Silva got a goal each as City ended a
three-match winless run. City hosts United on April 30.  Aguero opened the scoring in the sixth minute and made it
2-0 nine minutes into the second half. Tevez, starting for the
first time since returning to the team last month following a
dispute with manager  Roberto Mancini , got his first goal since
last May in the 61st minute and Silva closed the scoring three
minutes later.  ‘Not Mind Games’   “United is a fantastic team and I don’t think that they
will drop five points,” Mancini said in a post-match news
conference. “This is not mind games, United have fantastic
experience and we don’t have it.”  QPR’s home victory against Swansea allowed it to join Wigan
in climbing out of the relegation zone.  Joey Barton , Jamie
Mackie and Akos Buzsaky scored as Rangers moved up to 16th place
and matched Wigan with 31 points, two more than Bolton.  “It was a massive win,” Mackie told  Sky Sports . “We
haven’t been great this season against opposition around us, so
we’ve given ourselves a massive chance with five games
remaining.”  Arsenal strengthened its hold on third place with the away
win at Wolves, which remains six points adrift in last place.  Wolves’ Sebastien Bassong was sent off after just seven
minutes for taking down Theo Walcott in the area, with  Robin van Persie  scoring his league-leading 27th goal from the penalty
spot.  Walcott and Yossi Benayoun also scored as Arsenal won for
the ninth time in 10 games to go five points ahead of Tottenham
and Newcastle in the race for third place and the final
automatic Champions League berth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 