-- Will U.S. Avoid a Recession in 2012? (Part 3)
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-04-11T23:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/will-u-s-avoid-a-recession-in-2012-part-3-.html
In the first two installments, I
laid out the reasons why the  U.S. economy , despite current
strong  consumer spending  and the recent euphoria of investors
over stocks, will weaken into a recession as the year
progresses, led by renewed consumer retrenchment.  If my forecast pans out, the  Federal Reserve  and Congress
may be compelled to take further action to bolster the economy.  -- Mixed data: Personal-income growth continues to be
weak. So  job creation  remains central to any increase in real
household after-tax incomes, which declined in February for a
second straight month, gaining just 0.3 percent compared with
February 2011. Consumers are still saddled with high levels of
 personal debt . Housing activity remains weak, and I expect a
further 20 percent decline in house prices.  Then there was last week’s very disappointing jobs report
showing that just 120,000 nonfarm jobs were created in March,
far fewer than the 205,000 or so that had been forecast. The
 unemployment rate  ticked down to  8.2 percent  from 8.3 percent in
February, but only because people dropped out of the  labor
force . In response, equities plunged in the U.S. and elsewhere
as worries were revived about the true strength of the recovery
from the Great Recession.  Gross domestic product has been accelerating in recent
quarters, but not after inventory investment is excluded to
yield final sales. In the fourth quarter of 2011, inventory
growth accounted for 60 percent of the increase in GDP; that
accumulation may not have been desired, suggesting future
production cutbacks. At the same time, industrial production
growth is already sliding. The liquidation of excess inventories
is responsible for a major share of the decline in economic
activity in recessions.  Recall that late last year, retailers, worried about being
stuck with unsold Christmas goods, held early sales, even
opening on Thanksgiving Day. The possibility that inventories
are already larger than desired is also suggested by the recent
decrease in containers coming into the ports of  Los Angeles  and
 Long Beach  -- the principal entry points for Asian imports --
and the decrease in U.S. rail-ton miles.  Finally, the U.S. economy is overdue for a recession. I
believe that it entered the down phase of the long cycle in
2000, and the five to seven years that remain in the age of
deleveraging are part of this period of weak economic growth and
more frequent recessions. History reveals an average business
cycle length of 3.7 years in the down phase. The economy peaked
in the fourth quarter of 2007, meaning the present cycle is long
in the tooth.  -- Fed action: In his March 26 speech to business
economists, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
concentrated on the weak employment picture and said further
reductions in joblessness would require “more rapid expansion
of production and demand from consumers and business, a process
that can be supported by continued accommodative policies.”  Investors read this as suggesting the economy might be weak
enough in future quarters to require another round of
quantitative easing via Fed purchases of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities. They seem to believe that the
negative effect a weak economy would have on corporate profits
and dividends pales in comparison with the impact of the money
received directly by sellers of securities to the Fed.  Stocks took off after Bernanke’s remarks: The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  closed out its best first quarter since 1998;
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  ended the quarter above the
1,400-point mark for the first time in almost four years; and
the Nasdaq Composite Index topped the 3,000 level for the first
time in more than 11 years.  Beyond the money received directly by sellers of securities
to the Fed, investors certainly can’t expect any multiplier
effect from the  member banks’ reserves  created by the central
bank’s policies. The two rounds of quantitative easing helped
pile up those reserves, which now exceed requirements by about
$1.5 trillion. Banks will lend only to the most creditworthy,
and are so loaded with cash they don’t need to borrow much.  Given the recent euphoria, stocks might rally if the
economy strengthens, and the prospect of more quantitative
easing disappears. Can you have it both ways? This reminds me of
the ad published by the National Association of Realtors in the
Wall Street Journal several years ago when  house prices  were
collapsing. In screaming headlines across the top of the page,
it read, “Now Is a Great Time to Buy a House!” and in
identically large print at the bottom, it read, “Now Is a Great
Time to Sell a House!”  -- Congressional action: In addition to a possible QE3 by
the Fed, rising unemployment and increasingly negative economic
data could also spur a push for stimulus in Congress before the
November elections. The payroll-tax cut, along with the Bush-era
income-tax cuts, are set to expire at the end of this year.
Meanwhile,  unemployment benefits  are scheduled to plunge, at a
moment of what I believe will be rising joblessness. This fiscal
drag would knock 3 percent to 4 percent off GDP. Representatives
and senators seeking re-election -- of both parties -- don’t
want to face opponents’ charges that they did nothing as the
economy tanked.  Some renewal of the earlier tax cuts and extension of
unemployment benefits seems almost certain. But with gridlock in
 Washington , how will it play out? Congress and the
administration will no doubt act before the election if the
economy is in bad shape. Otherwise, they could come back for a
so-called lame-duck session in December. Or, as they did this
year, they could act after the new Congress is installed in
January and make the renewed tax cuts retroactive to the
beginning of 2013. Continuing uncertainty over eventual
congressional action will only further depress the confidence
and spending of U.S. consumers and business.  Meanwhile, a number of economic indicators are pointing in
the direction of a faltering economy. The Economic Cycle
Research Institute index remains in recession territory. The
ratio of coincident to lagging economic indicators, often a
better leading indicator than the leading indicator index
itself, is declining. Electricity generation, though influenced
by the warm winter, is falling rapidly.  In Part 4, I will look at the recent hunger for stocks
despite the increasing reasons for caution and recent
volatility.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 2  and  Part 4 
of the series.)  Read more online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on disclosure of the
chemicals used in  hydraulic fracturing ;  Edward Glaeser  on why
 Mitt Romney  must  change gears  for the general election;  Ezra
Klein  on the  tax pledges  of Republicans and Democrats;  Amity
Shlaes  on how  labor laws  hurt  job creation ;  Caroline Baum  on
 promoting inflation  as the wrong way to cope with debt; Doug
Skinner on  corporate dividend policies ; and Robert Bruegmann on
why the  anti-freeway movement  hurts cities.  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 