-- Two Egyptian Parliament Committees Back IMF Loan-Linked Plan
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-04-11T18:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/two-egyptian-parliament-committees-back-imf-loan-linked-plan-1-.html
Two committees in  Egypt ’s
parliament supported economic plans linked to the country’s loan
request from the  International Monetary Fund , an official with
the biggest parliamentary bloc said today.  “We said that we support the government measures related
to signing an agreement with the IMF as long as they don’t hurt
low-income people,” Ashraf Badreldin, a lawmaker with the
Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, said by phone.
This support was given with the understanding the funds are
unlikely to be disbursed to the current interim government of
Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri, who was appointed by the
ruling military council, he said.  “The timeline for implementing an agreement would mean
that Egypt would start getting money after the current
government leaves,” said Badreldin, deputy head of parliament’s
planning and budget committee, which along with the economic
affairs committee has met with an IMF mission that ended its
visit to the country yesterday.  Official Request  Egypt officially requested the $3.2 billion loan from the
fund in January, with talks prolonged by wrangling between the
government and the Islamist-dominated parliament. The IMF has
requested broad political support for a loan-related economic
plan to ensure it’s implemented beyond the transitional period.
The ruling military council says it will hand power to civilians
by the end of June.  The government’s proposed measures include reducing the
 budget deficit  through speeding up the implementation of a
value-added tax and “rationing” fuel subsidies without harming
low-income people, according to a statement by parliament’s
economic committee. They also include “maintaining an effective
and orderly exchange market that reflects demand and supply
forces and contributes to increasing foreign-currency reserves”
and “attracting other sources of external financing,” it said.  “Our understating is that, according to the timeline,
Egypt will not receive this money before the end of June,”
Badreldin said. “We don’t have trust in the existing
government’s ability to manage the money in a way that will
achieve the hoped-for goals.”  Economic Boost  Egypt’s loan request is part of efforts to boost an economy
struggling to recover from a drop in investment and tourism. The
IMF loan could mobilize more support from donors, analysts
including Raza Agha, London-based senior economist at the Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, have said.  The economy contracted in 2011 as political instability
deterred investment and tourism, while net international
reserves are down more than 50 percent since the uprising that
toppled  Hosni Mubarak .  The IMF mission to Egypt said in a statement yesterday that
it made “good progress” in discussions with Egyptian
authorities and will remain in “close contact” in the coming
weeks.  “A financial arrangement to support Egypt’s economic
program will be presented to the IMF Executive Board once this
work is completed, and external financing from bilateral donors
and other international institutions is confirmed,” it said.  “We don’t want it to seem as if we’re standing in the way
of such an agreement as a political position against the current
government,” Badreldin said. The position of the two
parliamentarian committees “provides the government with
support in the procedures toward signing an agreement,” he
said.  Freedom and Justice party officials, including Badreldin,
had earlier said the government failed to answer questions they
raised including how the loan would be spent. Parliament would
still need to approve a loan agreement with the IMF if one is
signed, Badreldin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  