-- Yellen Says Jobs Outlook Warrants Accommodative Policy
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-12T21:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/yellen-says-jobs-outlook-warrants-accommodative-policy.html
Two of the Federal Reserve’s top
policy makers endorsed the central bank’s view that borrowing
costs are likely to stay low through late 2014 as the Fed misses
its goal for full employment and inflation remains in check.  “I consider a highly accommodative policy stance to be
appropriate in present circumstances,” Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday in a speech in New York. “I haven’t seen
any set of information that should suggest to me we should
change that view,” William C. Dudley, president of the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , said today in Syracuse, New York.  Central bankers next meet in two weeks to debate policy for
an economy that Dudley and Yellen said may be sapped by
government spending cuts and the European debt crisis. An
unexpected increase in claims for jobless benefits highlighted
Fed concerns that the labor market is weakening after payroll
growth in March was the slowest in five months.  At the same time, policy makers gave no sign that a third
round of large-scale assets purchases, known as quantitative
easing, is imminent, said  John Ryding , a former Fed researcher
who is chief economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New York.  “The jobs number injects more uncertainty about where the
economy is, but I don’t see any great angst over it, and I don’t
see any rush to put QE3 back on the table,” Ryding said.  Dudley voiced concern that more bond purchases could spark
anxieties about inflation. Yellen said that an expiration of the
Fed’s current program to extend the maturities of the assets on
its balance sheet wouldn’t amount to a tightening of policy.  Jobless Claims  Jobless claims increased 13,000 in the week ended April 7
to 380,000, the highest since Jan. 28, data from the Labor
Department showed today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey called for 355,000 claims.  U.S. stocks rallied as signs the Fed will maintain stimulus
overshadowed the increase in jobless claims. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.4 percent to close at 1,387.57.  Dudley, in a speech to business leaders at the Syracuse
Technology Garden, said recent “upbeat” data on the  U.S.
economy  suggest that “the recovery may be getting better
established.” Still, “it is still too soon to conclude that we
are out of the woods, as underlined by the March labor-market
release.”  Most Pessimistic Estimate  U.S. employers added 120,000 jobs in March, less than the
most pessimistic estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Joblessness fell to 8.2 percent from 8.3 percent as
people stopped looking for work, bolstering Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s view that the declining unemployment rate overstates
gains in the labor market.  “Over the next several years, I anticipate that we will
fall far short in achieving our maximum  employment  objective,”
Yellen said. Still, “considerable uncertainty surrounds the
outlook, and I remain prepared to adjust my policy views in
response to incoming information,” she said.  The end of the so-called Operation Twist program in June
won’t amount to a tightening of monetary policy because the
level of accommodation is dependent on the amount of assets the
Fed holds, she said. The Fed announced in September it would
replace $400 billion of short-term debt with longer-term
securities to reduce borrowing costs.  “If we were to end the maturity-extension program in June
as currently planned and not to announce further actions beyond
that, I would not see that as a tightening,” Yellen said in
response to a question. The Fed is “quite willing and committed
to take whatever actions are necessary” to achieve its goals,
she said.  ‘More Anxiety’  Dudley played down the prospects for a third round of
large-scale asset purchases, saying it might “create more
anxiety on the part of some that it would lead to future
inflation.”  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 3 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter of last year. The pace is forecast to
slow to 2.2 percent for the first quarter of this year and to
average 2.3 percent in 2012, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. The  unemployment rate  is forecast to fall
to 8 percent by the end of this year.  “I see no good reason to doubt that our nation’s high
unemployment rate indicates a substantial degree of slack in the
labor market,” Yellen said in her speech. Growth “will be
sufficient to lower unemployment only gradually from this point
forward, in part because substantial headwinds continue to
restrain the recovery.”  Skills Mismatch  The Fed vice chair rejected arguments that the high level
of unemployment is caused largely by a mismatch between worker
skills and employers’ needs, and that a weak housing market is
discouraging job-seekers from selling their homes and moving in
search of work.  Yellen said she’s concerned that structural unemployment
may rise if “the labor market heals too slowly.” More than 40
percent of the unemployed have been out of work for at least six
months, and they “could become less employable as their skills
deteriorate,” she said.  Yellen, 65, said she’s not concerned that additional asset
purchases would leave the Fed unable to control inflation when
necessary. The Fed has bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds as it sought to reduce long-term borrowing costs and
boost the recovery.  “I feel fully confident that, regardless of the size of
our balance sheet,” the “Fed has the tools, and has thought
through carefully how to use the tools, to exit,” she said.  ‘Long Way to Go’  In a speech in  Los Angeles  today, Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said she sees signs the recovery may be strengthening
while still having a “long way to go.”  “The  Federal Reserve  remains fully committed to doing
everything it can to promote maximum employment in the context
of  price stability ,” Raskin said.  Some policy makers have signaled resistance to further
easing. Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday
that the March jobs report doesn’t alter his view that the
economy is growing moderately, and he would be “reticent” to
support additional purchases of assets by the central bank.  “I am still not convinced that another round in this time
frame would achieve a great deal,” Lockhart said to reporters
in Stone Mountain,  Georgia .  San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said April 4 that
the “probability of needing to do additional stimulus is
lower.”  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard , who doesn’t vote on
policy this year, said the economy will probably grow by 3
percent this year and the unemployment rate may drop to 7.8
percent by year-end.  Speaking in a Bloomberg Radio interview, Bullard said he
“wouldn’t go too far” with last week’s “mediocre” jobs
report.  The Fed said yesterday in its Beige Book report that the
economy expanded “at a modest to moderate pace” from mid-
February through late March as manufacturing, hiring and retail
sales showed signs of strength in the face of higher fuel
prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  