-- Yemeni Army Kills 10 Al-Qaeda Suspects in Fighting in Abyan
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-04-11T13:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/yemeni-army-kills-10-al-qaeda-suspects-in-fighting-in-abyan.html
Yemen’s army killed 10 suspected
al-Qaeda militants today in the third day of clashes in the
southern city of Lawdar in the Abyan province, the  Defense
Ministry  said.  Foreign fighters from  Saudi Arabia , Somalia and  Pakistan 
were among the militants killed, the ministry said on its
website. Emad al-Minshibi, al-Qaeda leader in Lawdar, was among
those killed, it said. At least 28 militants and three armed
civilians backing the government died in the fighting today,
Mohammed Saleem, a resident, said by telephone.  Yemen, bordering Saudi Arabia and Oman at the southern tip
of the Arabian Peninsula, is struggling to recover from protests
that weakened the central government’s authority and reduced oil
production to about half of its 250,000 barrel-a-day capacity.
Abyan province has been the site of some the fiercest battles
between the government and al-Qaeda militants.  Yemen’s  Interior Ministry  said on April 5 that the nation’s
army killed more than 100 al-Qaeda militants in recent battles
in the southern province of Abyan. In September, government
troops recaptured Zanjibar from militants who took control of
the southern city in May.  Local citizens captured a checkpoint that the militants
seized during an attack on the army on April 9 and the army
destroyed two tanks captured by the militants, Saleem said.
Mohammed Jebel, a former district head of Lawdar and a leader in
the Popular Committees fighting al-Qaeda militants, was killed
today, he said.  Fifteen members of the civilian committee fighting al-Qaeda
have died in the fighting since April 9, according to the
Defense Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  