-- Zuckerberg Threatened to Disable Ceglia Site Amid Dispute
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-11T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-11/zuckerberg-threatened-to-disable-site-over-pay-dispute.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  cofounder  Mark Zuckerberg  threatened in 2004 to disable part of the website he
was working on for  Paul Ceglia , the New York man now suing him
for part-ownership of the multibillion-dollar company, according
to copies of e-mails filed by Facebook in federal court.  Zuckerberg worked for Ceglia in 2003 and 2004, while he was
attending  Harvard University  and building the website that would
become the world’s biggest social network. In an e-mail to
Ceglia, Zuckerberg demanded payment for work on Ceglia's website,
StreetFax.com, warning that if he didn’t get the money that was
coming to him, he would take down part of the site.  “I must receive $5,000 by next Saturday at midnight, or
the scroll search functionality will be removed from the site,”
Zuckerberg wrote in a message to Ceglia on Feb. 21, 2004, about
two weeks after he put “Thefacebook.com” online. Zuckerberg
told Ceglia he owed him $10,500 of the $19,500 he’d been
promised, according to the e-mails, filed by Facebook as part of
the lawsuit in Buffalo,  New York .  Facebook last month asked the judge to throw out the
lawsuit. The incident supports Zuckerberg’s defense that the
contract on which Ceglia bases his claim to half of the CEO’s
Facebook holdings is a fake, defense attorney Orin Snyder of
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP said in an e-mail April 9. A
different contract Facebook claims is the actual agreement
between the men shows Ceglia hired Zuckerberg for the StreetFax
work alone, the lawyer said. Zuckerberg never acted on the
threat to disable Ceglia’s website, according to Snyder.  ‘Cyber-Briber’  Zuckerberg’s 2004 e-mail to Ceglia prompted a lawyer
connected to StreetFax at the time to refer to him as the “brat
programmer” and “cyber-briber,” according to messages
included in Facebook’s court papers. The company said it found
the e-mails in Ceglia’s electronic files.  The contract Facebook claims is genuine would have
permitted Zuckerberg “to offline the site Streetfax.com and
remove his program” for non-payment. The contract Ceglia claims
Zuckerberg signed gives him no such right. In its court papers
seeking dismissal of the suit, Facebook said Ceglia never paid
Zuckerberg the remaining $10,500. The two last communicated in
May 2004, according to Facebook.  Facebook has disclosed in court papers 15 of about 300 
e-mails the company said it recovered from Zuckerberg’s Harvard 
e-mail account, consisting of communications with Ceglia and
others working for StreetFax at the time.  Frequently Demands Money  In the e-mails, Zuckerberg frequently demands money he
claims Ceglia owes him, while Ceglia asks for more time to pay.
The 15 messages span almost nine months, from Aug. 15, 2003, to
May 7, 2004, shortly before Zuckerberg left Harvard for  Palo
Alto ,  California , where he ran Facebook until moving it last
year.  Ceglia’s lawyer, Dean Boland, said his client’s computer
experts aren’t able to determine whether the Harvard e-mails are
genuine or complete because they haven’t had access to the
Harvard e-mail server. Facebook, now based in  Menlo Park ,
California, has also had exclusive access to computers
Zuckerberg used in 2003 and 2004, and evidence from suits filed
against the company by Facebook co-founder Eduardo Saverin, and
by Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss and Divya Nirendra, Boland said.  The plaintiffs in the two cases, former Harvard students
who claimed a role in founding Facebook, eventually settled.  Ceglia, 38, sued Zuckerberg, 27, and Facebook in 2010,
claiming he signed a contract with Zuckerberg in April 2003 that
made them partners in exchange for an investment in the project.
Zuckerberg said in court papers that the contract he signed
related only to his StreetFax work and had nothing to do with
Facebook.  Traffic Intersections  StreetFax, which Ceglia started to sell pictures of traffic
intersections to insurance companies, is no longer in business.
Facebook, which in February filed for an initial public offering
to raise $5 billion, is worth an estimated $95.8 billion,
according to SharesPost.com, which tracks nonpublic companies.  Facebook said in its request to dismiss Ceglia’s suit that
the complaint is a fraud on the court. Facebook claimed Ceglia
hopes to use the litigation to “leverage his fraud by
disrupting Facebook’s highly publicized initial public
offering.”  After Zuckerberg sent the 2004 message threatening to
disable the StreetFax site, Ceglia contacted Jim Kole, a lawyer
Facebook described in court papers as “an initial member of
StreetFax,” for advice on what to do, according to a separate
e-mail exchange made public by Facebook in the case.  Written Assurance  In messages dated March 4 and 5, Kole called Zuckerberg
“the brat programmer,” suggesting that Ceglia offer to pay him
some money, to be held in escrow until Zuckerberg “provides his
written assurance that he will not access or disable any portion
of the site.” Kole, formerly with Sidley Austin LLP, didn’t
return a call and e-mail seeking comment on the case.  “Mabe I am a littel to emotionally charged about this but
I think that after him illegally removing functionality from the
site that I dont want to pay this kid another dime,” Ceglia
wrote in an e-mailed response filed in court papers.  “I think I’ll just make a veiled reference to payments
that could be made if he settles the matter as a businessman
rather than a cyber-briber,” Kole answered in a handwritten
note, according to the Facebook court filings. “PLEASE, PLEASE
fax me the contract.”  Facebook’s forensic computer experts, from the firm Stroz
Friedberg LLC, said they discovered an image of the Ceglia 
e-mails, with the handwritten note, in one of Ceglia's e-mail
accounts, which they were permitted to access by order of the 
judge. The e-mail exchange was included in a report by Stroz 
Friedberg filed by Facebook with the court.  ‘Smoking Gun’  Facebook said Ceglia responded to Kole’s fax request by
sending him a copy of what the company says is the real
StreetFax contract, with no mention of a stake in the social
network. The company claims those e-mails and the attached
contract provide “smoking gun” proof in its defense.  In a March 8, 2004, e-mail, about two weeks after the
threat to disable StreetFax, Zuckerberg told Ceglia “The need
for my immediate payment has been resolved for now, and so I
guess it is to my advantage to allow you to continue to use the
site, as long as you can make monthly payments.”  “I really appreciate you not doing anything rash,” Ceglia
answered, according to the e-mails.  Later that month, Ceglia proposed giving Zuckerberg 
1 percent of StreetFax as security for the money he owed him.  ‘Giving Myself Ulcers’  “I am giving myself ulcers trying to get your money to you
before you take aggressive action against the site again,”
Ceglia said, according to the e-mail provided by Facebook.  In a hearing last week, U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio ruled that Ceglia’s lawyers may question Facebook’s
expert-witnesses in computer forensics, documents, paper and
ink, who have said Ceglia’s contract and the e-mails he produced
in the case are fake.  Foschio barred Ceglia from seeking more evidence from
Facebook, including Zuckerberg’s Harvard computers. The judge
has yet to rule on Facebook’s motion to dismiss the case.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court
for the Western District of New York in Buffalo
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 