-- ‘Fast and Furious’ Subpoena Case Ordered to Mediation
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-18T18:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/-fast-and-furious-subpoena-case-ordered-to-mediation.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
and a House committee were ordered by a federal judge to try
mediation to resolve a lawsuit over a congressional subpoena
probing the Justice Department’s Operation Fast and Furious.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in  Washington , in a
one-page order responding to concerns that four months of
settlement talks have failed, said the parties should begin
mediation today through April 22. The mediation will be overseen
by U.S. District Judge Barbara Rothstein.  Jackson’s ruling was made over objections from House
Republicans who said in a March 15 court filing that Holder is
not motivated to provide “useful documents” to the committee
and that mediation would just lead to further delay. Holder, in
the same joint filing, said mediation would provide a forum for
the parties to “frankly and confidentially” present their
views to a neutral third party.  The lawsuit against Holder brought by the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee stems from the panel’s
investigation into so-called gun walking, which allowed illegal
gun purchases in the U.S. to proceed in an effort to link the
weapons to Mexican gangs. Holder, citing executive privilege,
has refused to give lawmakers some material they wanted.  Incorrect Information  The Republican-controlled House is seeking documents
describing internal Justice Department discussions about a
February 2011 letter to lawmakers that Holder later said
mistakenly contained incorrect information.  The letter said the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives, which conducted Fast and Furious, hadn’t
“knowingly allowed” the tactics in the law enforcement
operation to be employed.  The committee cited Holder for contempt of Congress in
June. President  Barack Obama  has asserted executive privilege
over the documents and declined to turn them over.  In an October filing seeking dismissal of the case, Holder
said that under the U.S. Constitution’s separation-of-powers
doctrine, conflict over Operation Fast and Furious should be
resolved between the political branches.  An inspector general’s report outlined management failures
as well as flaws in the program that lost track of about 2,000
guns purchased by straw buyers. Two of the guns were found at
the scene of the 2010 killing in  Arizona  of U.S. Border Patrol
Agent Brian Terry.  If the parties can’t agree, Jackson said at a hearing in
November that she will consider the department’s argument that
the court lacks jurisdiction over the case before deciding
whether Congress has a right to any of the documents it seeks.  The case is Committee on Oversight and Government Reform v.
Holder, 12-cv-01332, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  