-- Abbott MitraClip Study Data Isn’t Easy to Interpret
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-18T20:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/abbott-mitraclip-study-data-isn-t-easy-to-interpret.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  needs to
conduct more research on its proposed clamp for leaky  heart
valves  before U.S. regulators can decide whether to approve the
device, Food and Drug Administration staff said today.  Agency staff said Abbott’s current data don’t prove the
safety or effectiveness of what would be the first minimally-
invasive mitral valve device sold in the U.S. Advisers to the
FDA are scheduled to meet March 20 to weigh approval of the
 Abbott Park , Illinois-based company’s product.  The MitraClip is inserted through the femoral vein in the
leg where it can then be led to the heart, a procedure that is
supposed to be less risky to the patient than traditional open-
chest methods. The U.S. and European market for transcatheter
mitral valve repair and replacement may be a $1 billion
opportunity by 2020, Lawrence Biegelsen, an analyst with Wells
Fargo Securities in  New York , said in a note to clients March 7.  Abbott’s analyses provided in its application for approval
“are interesting and important,” FDA staff said in a  report 
released today. “However, for the reasons discussed above, FDA
believes these analyses are hypothesis generating and do not
constitute valid scientific evidence of safety and
effectiveness.”  Patients who are considered too high risk for surgery don’t
have satisfactory options to treat the disease and suffer from
poor quality of life, Jonathon Hamilton, an Abbott spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  True Advance  “The MitraClip device represents a true advance for these
patients, and we look forward to discussing the totality of the
clinical evidence with Advisory Committee and hearing their
recommendations,” Hamilton said.  Abbott declined 2 percent to $33.46 at the close in New
York. The company has increased 18 percent in the past 12
months.  Mitral regurgitation -- an inefficient pumping of blood
caused when leaflets of the mitral valve don’t close properly --
is the most common type of heart valve disorder, according to
the  National Institutes of Health . The condition affects one in
10 people age 75 and older, Abbott said.  When the mitral valve doesn’t close all the way, it can
lead to a decrease in blood flow to the rest of the body. The
heart may try to pump harder to compensate and cause congestive
heart failure, NIH said on its website.  The FDA staff said a study known as the  Coapt trial  the
agency conditionally approved in February 2012 will provide
better data that may support approval. Researchers are estimated
to conduct final data collection in January 2017 and complete
the study in August 2019, according to NIH’s clinicaltrials.gov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  