-- Abe’s Support Rises as Japan Voters Back Decision on Trade Pact
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-03-18T02:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/abe-s-support-rises-as-japan-voters-back-decision-on-trade-pact.html
Almost two-thirds of Japanese
voters support Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s decision to join 
U.S.-led regional trade negotiations, according to two polls
that show rising support for his administration.  About 63 percent of the public supports last week’s
announcement that  Japan  will join the Trans-Pacific Partnership
talks, the Mainichi newspaper said. Abe’s approval rating rose
seven percentage points to 70 percent, the newspaper said. A
separate poll by the Yomiuri newspaper put his popularity at 72
percent, with 60 percent supporting the TPP talks.  Abe made the decision to enter the negotiation in defiance
of opposition from farmers, who have traditionally backed his
 Liberal Democratic Party , four months before parliamentary
elections. His popularity has risen every month since the LDP
regained power in December with vows to revive the economy
through monetary easing, fiscal stimulus and deregulation.  The prime minister today reiterated his determination to
protect an agriculture industry that is shielded by a 778
percent tariff on rice.  “I will firmly protect our agriculture and our food,” Abe
told a parliamentary committee. “I want to make that pledge
clear.”  About 41 percent of respondents to the Mainichi poll said
they would vote for the LDP in the proportional representation
section of the election for the upper house were it to be held
now, up eight percentage points on the previous poll a month
earlier. That compares with 7 percent for the  Democratic Party ,
currently the largest party in the chamber, and 13 percent for
the Japan Restoration Party.  Both surveys found opposition to Abe’s policy on nuclear
power following the 2011 Fukushima disaster. Asked whether they
agreed with his plan to restart reactors declared safe under new
rules to be announced in July, 53 percent of respondents to the
Yomiuri poll and 52 percent of respondents to the Mainichi poll
said they did not.  The Mainichi polled 954 people by phone on March 16 and 17,
while the Yomiuri surveyed 1,053 people between March 15 and 17.
Neither poll gave a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  