-- Madoff Business Partner Kohn Says She Gave $60 Million to Family
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-03-18T14:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/madoff-business-partner-kohn-says-she-gave-60-million-to-family.html
Bernard Madoff ’s European business
partner, Sonja Kohn, told a U.K. court she gave $60 million from
the convicted fraudster to companies and trusts linked to her
family.  Liquidators of London unit Madoff Securities International
Ltd. are pursuing Kohn to recover fees she was paid to introduce
European clients to his Ponzi scheme. She was ordered to come to
a London court to answer questions about the assets.  “I had made a decision it would go for the benefit of my
family,” the 64-year-old Kohn said, referring to the fees she
received from Madoff. She said she couldn’t remember details of
all the companies and trusts that received the money, or who
controlled them. “I wish there would be something left of it.”  Liquidators of Madoff’s estate are trying to recover at
least $80 million from the directors of his firm’s U.K. unit and
others who profited from the Ponzi scheme. Kohn, a former
economics adviser to the Austrian government, set up companies
in the British Virgin Islands,  Italy  and Gibraltar for the
income from Madoff.  Most of the companies have been wound up, she said. Asked
about one of the firms, she said she couldn’t remember it, and
it that it may have been “one of the companies created by my
advisers and never used.”  Pushpinder Saini, a lawyer for the liquidators, said Kohn
was really in control of the companies and could return assets
if she wanted. “We’re not trying to hide anything,” she
responded.  Kohn’s lawyer Trevor Asserson told the judge his client was
also a victim of the fraud and hadn’t suspected any wrongdoing.  The liquidators are wrong to think “there must be some
vast pot of gold somewhere,” Asserson said. He didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Madoff is serving 150 years in prison in North Carolina for
the fraud that caused his New York-based firm to collapse in
December 2008 sparking investigations and dozens of lawsuits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  