-- Affymax Falls After Firing 75% of Workers
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-03-19T20:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/affymax-fires-75-of-workers-while-considering-closure.html
Affymax Inc. (AFFY)  dropped to its lowest
value ever after the company said it will fire three-quarters of
its workforce and hire a bank to evaluate a possible sale or
bankruptcy after the recall of its only drug.  Affymax plunged 64 percent to $1.05 at the close in New
York, its lowest price since the shares began trading in
December 2006. The Palo Alto, California-based company has
fallen 73 percent in the past 12 months.  About 230 positions, including the medical affairs field
organizations, will be cut as a reason is sought for the
reported hypersensitivity reactions to anemia treatment Omontys
that caused the recall, the company said yesterday in a
statement. Affymax said the bank will consider options including
a sale of the company or assets, restructuring, winding
down operations and bankruptcy.  “While this decision was extremely difficult, aligning and
managing our limited resources around our product investigation
is our most important priority,” John Orwin, Affymax’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  On Feb. 25, Affymax fell the most ever after recalling
Omontys, which is used by kidney dialysis patients. Affymax and
its partner  Osaka , Japan-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  at the
time said they were analyzing data from three patients who died
to find a cause for the reactions.  Affymax said in a separate filing that it is unable to
estimate how long the investigation will take and whether the
company would be able to finish it.  “With limited funds and resources, the company may not be
able to complete the investigation or ever identify the causes
of the safety concerns,” Affymax said in the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  