-- Hagel Orders Pentagon Strategy Review in Uncertain Times
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-18T18:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/hagel-calls-for-strategic-choices-review-to-shape-2015-budget.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
directed Pentagon officials to conduct a review of “strategic
choices,” citing “both budgetary and strategic uncertainty.”  Hagel said in a memo that the review should use as its
“point of departure” the Pentagon strategy issued in January
2012 that emphasizes a rebalancing of U.S. power toward the Asia
Pacific region. He said the results will shape his budget
proposal for fiscal 2015.  “We must think and act ahead of this uncertainty and not
in reaction to it,” Hagel wrote in the memo dated March 15 and
obtained today by  Bloomberg News .  The review represents Hagel’s first attempt to reshape the
Pentagon’s  priorities  in light of efforts to reduce the federal
 budget deficit , end U.S. military operations in  Afghanistan  and
cope with an array of evolving threats, from the nuclear
programs of  Iran  and  North Korea  to diffuse terrorist groups and
cyberwarfare.  Hagel asked that the review, led by Deputy Defense
Secretary  Ashton Carter  in coordination with General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, be completed by
May 31.  Hunting License  A defense official described Hagel’s memo as a hunting
license to comb through the Pentagon budget from top-to-bottom
in the face of budget constraints such as the across-the-board
cuts called sequestration and in light of the latest threats.  Among defense programs likely to get fresh scrutiny are the
number and mix of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35s the services will
require, the number of aircraft carrier battle groups the Navy
needs and whether cruise missiles make unnecessary a new
penetrating long-range bomber for the  Air Force , according to
the official, who asked not to be identified discussing Hagel’s
thinking.  Other systems and areas to receive scrutiny include the
Army’s Ground Combat Vehicle; the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship;
the personnel needs of all the services; and tuition, health
care and retirement benefits for retirees, especially the
growing number of senior officers, the official said.  A second defense official said Hagel’s review represented
contingency planning on the budget and not acceptance that
sequestration is certain to continue. Instead, Hagel wants to
look ahead as to how the reduction of as much as $500 billion
through 2023 would be accommodated and tied to the strategy.  2015 Guidance  Hagel said the review’s findings would “frame” the
strategy budget guidance he’ll submit to the services to follow
at the beginning of fiscal 2015 budget planning.  The findings also will provide a foundation for the
department’s congressionally mandated Quadrennial Defense
Review, the next version of which is due February 2014.  The review Hagel convened follows similar actions directed
by predecessors  Donald Rumsfeld  and  Robert Gates . Rumsfeld faced
criticism from lawmakers in the months before the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks regarding the pace of his review.  For Related News and Information:
Pentagon Adding 14 Missile Interceptors to Deter North Korea  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  