-- Taiwan’s Perng Says Sustained Currency Intervention Not Needed
-- B y   A r g i n   C h a n g   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-03-18T04:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/taiwan-s-perng-says-sustained-currency-intervention-not-needed.html
Taiwan  central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan said the local dollar is “very stable” versus the
currencies of export rivals and sustained intervention to limit
gains has not been needed in the 15 years since he took office.  A drop in the Japanese yen, which is sliding for a sixth
month against the  U.S. dollar , has limited impact on Taiwan as
the two economies’ exporters don’t compete directly in overseas
markets, Perng said today in response to questions from
lawmakers. The monetary authority will step in to the  currency
market  to maintain order when volatility is excessive, he said.  The  Taiwan dollar  has lost 2.4 percent this year against
the greenback as the yen’s decline to the weakest since August
2009 fanned concern the island’s central bank will influence the
 exchange rate  to protect exporters. The yen dropped 9.1 percent
since Dec. 31 and South Korea’s won fell 4.5 percent.  Taiwan’s central bank has sold the local currency to
counter appreciation in the runup to the market close on most
days in the past year, according to traders who asked not to be
identified. Perng was appointed governor in February 1998 and
the island’s currency strengthened 7.9 percent since then. South
Korea’s won jumped 47 percent and the yen climbed 33 percent.  The Taiwan dollar was little changed today at NT$29.745
against its U.S. counterpart as of 12:38 p.m. in Taipei, based
on prices from Taipei Forex Inc. It touched NT$29.825 earlier,
the weakest level since Sept. 10.  South Korea  The island’s biggest manufacturers, including Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and HTC Corp. compete with  South
Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co. for export orders. Korean
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said Jan. 23 the government was
“all ready” to intervene and smooth won volatility as the yen
slides. Korean automakers and shipbuilders compete globally
against Japanese companies including Toyota Motor Corp. and
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.  Taiwan’s  exports  fell 16 percent in February, double the
drop forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey, as shipments
to  China  and the U.S. declined. The central bank, which held the
benchmark rate at 1.875 percent for a sixth time in December, is
due to review borrowing costs on March 28.  Perng, who was re-appointed to a fourth term, said today he
expects  Bank of Taiwan , the island’s largest by assets, will
begin handling Taiwan dollar transactions in China after being
named as the clearing bank in December.  The monetary authority will consider adding Chinese
sovereign bonds to its foreign-exchange reserves after signing a
currency-swap agreement with the People’s Bank of China, he
said. The island’s reserves stood at $404 billion on Feb. 28,
ranking them third-highest in  Asia , behind China and Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Argin Chang in Taipei at 
 achang153@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  