-- Algonquin Buying Spree Boosts Investor Returns
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-03-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/algonquin-buying-spree-boosts-investor-returns-corporate-canada.html
Algonquin Power & Utilities Corp. (AQN) ,
the most acquisitive utility in  North America , is rewarding
investors with the best total return among its Canadian peers.  Algonquin has returned 20 percent over the past six months
with dividends included, the most among 15 Canadian utility
operators, according to data  compiled  by Bloomberg. It is also
beating larger U.S. and European competitors including  PG&E
Corp. (PCG) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  France ’s EDF SA.  The company, based in Oakville, Ontario, has benefited from
investors seeking low-risk investments providing regular
dividend payments and growth, said Rupert Merer, an analyst at
National Bank Financial. The power, gas and water provider
announced six acquisitions valued at $471.2 million over the
past 12 months, including New England Gas Co., natural gas
distribution assets in the U.S. south and  renewable energy 
facilities, according to Bloomberg data.  “Management has done a good job diversifying the portfolio
into low-risk assets,” said Merer, who is based in Toronto and
has the equivalent of a hold rating on the shares. “Investor
thirst for yield is what has been driving their performance at
this point.”  Fourth-quarter net income surged 50 percent to C$3.6
million, as revenue doubled to C$143.1 million ($140.4 million),
helped by acquisitions in the second half of last year including
gas and electricity assets in  New Hampshire  and the Midwest,
Algonquin said in a March 14 statement.  Integration Risk  The company’s shares closed little changed at C$7.78 on
March 15 for a market value of C$1.56 billion. The stock has
returned 32 percent in the year through March 15 with dividends
reinvested, outstripping the 6.3 percent gain in the benchmark
Standard & Poor’s/TSX composite index. It has an indicated  yield 
of 4 percent compared with 3.0 percent for the TSX.  “These acquisitions will strongly contribute to our
strategy of providing attractive, total shareholder return
comprised of stable dividend yield and continued capital
appreciation,” said Chief Executive Officer  Ian Robertson ,
during a March 15 conference call with analysts.  Algonquin has said it is targeting 1 million regulated
utility customers and 1 million kilowatts of installed
electricity generating capacity by 2017. Robertson reiterated a
target of growing by 15 percent annually.  “While the company’s growth profile is impressive, we
believe much of the visible growth is already reflected in the
stock’s current valuation,” Juan Plessis, an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity said in a note, cutting the stock to hold from
buy. “With a large proportion of near-term growth stemming from
acquisitions, there exists the risk that the integration of the
U.S. utility and wind assets may not be as smooth as anticipated
and that pending acquisitions may be delayed.”  Renewable Energy  The company sees C$1 billion worth of potential new
investments over the next four years, including wind purchases
in  Quebec , Saskatchewan and solar in Ontario. By 2018, the
company will generate 93 percent of its power under long-term
power purchase agreements at its non-regulated, renewable power
division, from about 90 percent now.  “Algonquin has been very active in 2012, completing a
number of regulated utility and wind acquisitions,” said Nelson Ng, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  Vancouver , in a March
15 note. “We do not expect the pace of growth to slow in
2013.”  Regulated utilities in the U.S. priced from $100 million to
$300 million are the most likely takeover candidates, said
Robertson during the conference call. The company has a “pin
board worth of acquisitions that we think make strategic
sense,” he said.  Cash Flow  “As the business has grown the bell-ringing size of an
acquisition increases,” Robertson said. In addition to
purchases of regulated utilities, Algonquin is also considering
adding to its renewable energy portfolio and is looking into
opportunities to cooperate with Spanish wind farm developer and
turbine manufacturer Gamesa Corp Tecnologica, S.A.  The company in December completed a purchase of a stake in
three wind power projects with Gamesa, according to Algonquin’s
website.  Algonquin also has a relationship with  Emera Inc. (EMA) , owner of
 Nova Scotia ’s majority power producer and Algonquin’s largest
shareholder with 23 percent of the outstanding shares.  As the Ontario company grows, it will be able to fund more
of its expansion with  cash flow , said Chief Financial Officer
David Bronicheski, during the March 15 conference call. “We
have strong access to capital on the equity and debt sides,” he
said.  Increasingly Influential  Algonquin has two main divisions, Algonquin Power, which
owns all or part of 20 hydroelectric generating stations, five
wind farms and seven thermal energy plants. The Liberty
Utilities division has water distribution and wastewater
treatment, electricity and natural gas distribution across the
U.S. including  Arizona ,  California  and  Texas .  “The regulated utility side of Algonquin’s business has
become increasingly influential on the company’s overall
results,” said Matt Gowing, an analyst at Mackie Research in
Toronto in a note to clients. “Algonquin offers investors an
excellent combination of growth and yield, while having a low to
moderate risk profile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  