-- Halliburton, KBR Whistle-Blower’s Case Revived on Appeal
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-18T22:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/halliburton-kbr-whistle-blower-s-case-revived-on-appeal.html
Halliburton Co. and  KBR Inc. (KBR)  must
face a whistle-blower lawsuit that was revived by a federal
appeals court, which ruled that military operations in  Iraq 
exempted the plaintiff from a six-year deadline for filing
claims.  In a 2-1 ruling today, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Richmond, Virginia, reversed a lower-court judge’s dismissal of
a case against the companies filed by Benjamin Carter under the
 False Claims Act . Carter’s claims that Halliburton and KBR
falsely billed the U.S. in 2005 triggered the Wartime Suspension
of Limitations Act even though the  Justice Department  declined
to intervene in the case, the judges said.  “Whether the suit is brought by the U.S. or a relator is
irrelevant to this case because the suspension of limitations in
the WSLA depends on whether the country is at war and not who
brings the case,” U.S. Circuit Judge Henry Floyd wrote in the
ruling.  Carter, who worked for KBR as an operator in a water
purification unit in 2005, alleges the companies billed the U.S.
government for purifying water for four months at two Iraqi
camps that year when it hadn’t done so. He also alleges the he
and his colleagues were instructed to submit time sheets showing
that they worked 12-hour days on the purification when he hadn’t
worked on it at all.  Carter first sued in 2006. That case and three subsequent
complaints were dismissed on procedural grounds. In sending the
case back to U.S. District Judge James Cacheris in Alexandria,
 Virginia , the appeals court said Carter’s claims may still be
barred under a different provision of the false claims law.  Dissenting Judge  U.S. Circuit Judge G. Steven Agee, in a dissenting opinion
to today’s decision, said people might allow false billing to
continue knowing that they have more than a decade to file a
claim and that their reward is tied to the size of a recovery.  “Private party relators will be inclined to delay,
allowing their potential recovery to increase, knowing that the
government is unlikely to discover the fraud, and therefore
unlikely to be the first to bring a claim against the
perpetrators,” Agee said.  Susie McMichael, a spokeswoman for Houston-based
Halliburton, referred questions to KBR, stating that the
activity alleged in the lawsuit was pursuant to a KBR contract.  John Elolf, a spokesman for Houston-based KBR, said in a
statement that the company was disappointed with the ruling and
“respectfully disagrees” with the majority’s opinion.  “KBR is continuing to study the decision and weighing our
options,” he said. “We believe the underlying case is without
merit, and we are confident that it will ultimately be
dismissed.”  The case is United States ex rel. Benjamin Carter v.
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , 12-01011, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  Fourth
Circuit  (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 