-- Ambow Falls on Resignations as ADRs Drop: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-19T12:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/ambow-falls-on-resignations-as-adrs-drop-china-overnight.html
(Corrects to remove reference to first mainland Chinese
default in 16th paragraph.)  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO)  sank
the most in two weeks in New York, leading declines in Chinese
equities traded in the U.S., as directors resigned citing
disagreement with the education company’s management.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. fell 0.7 percent to 91.14
yesterday, the lowest level since November. Ambow, which said
last week it received a buyout offer, tumbled as much as 23
percent. Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. dropped the most in
five months and LDK Solar Co. plunged after an industry official
said China may abolish some subsidy programs.  New Oriental
Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  jumped a second day.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded Chinese equities to
underweight on concern growth will slow as inflation
accelerates. Ambow, a Beijing-based tutoring company, said
yesterday that three board members resigned, two days after
Baring Private Equity Asia Ltd. proposed taking the company
private at a 44.5 percent premium. In his resignation letter
filed by Ambow, board member Daniel Phillips said the audit
committee had “fundamental and irreconcilable” differences
with management.  “These resignations would put that offer in some kind of
jeopardy,” Trace Urdan, a senior analyst at Wells Fargo & Co.,
who suspended coverage of Ambow Feb. 12, said by phone from San
Francisco yesterday. “Baring can’t have perfect insider
information even it is very close to the company. More
importantly, it probably scares off anybody else from making a
competitive offer.”  Resignation Letters  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slid 1.7 percent to $36.79 in
New York, the lowest close since Nov. 21. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  dropped 0.6 percent to 1,552.10, retreating the most
in three weeks.  Ambow’s American depositary receipts tumbled 16 percent to
$1.30, the biggest one-day slump since Feb. 27. The company’s
ADRs have lost 83 percent over the past year. Trading volume was
seven times the daily average over the past three months, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Ambow surged 53 percent March 15 after saying Baring’s Asia
Private Equity Fund V LP offered to take it private for $1.46
per ADR. The company received resignation letters from three
board members, including Phillips, Mark Harris and Lisa Lo, it
said in a statement yesterday.  Phillips, chairman of Ambow’s audit committee, said in his
letter that the committee has “fundamental and irreconcilable”
differences with the company’s senior management over processes
required to complete an ongoing investigation and issues
concerning internal controls.  CEO Removal  Ambow said July 5 that it would conduct an internal probe
into allegations by a former employee of financial impropriety
and wrongful conduct in connection with the purchase of a
training school in 2008. The company said in a filing that day
that it wouldn’t comment until the probe was complete.  Mandy Li, Ambow’s Beijing-based spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment outside business
hours.  Harris, another audit committee member, said his
resignation was caused by the body’s inability to make changes
he believed to be “appropriate and necessary,” including the
removal of Chief Executive Officer Jin Huang.  Yingli (YGE) , a solar technology manufacturer based in Baoding,
China, dropped 6.9 percent to $2.30, the steepest daily loss
since October. LDK Solar, the second-biggest solar wafer maker
globally, fell 11 percent to $1.27 in the biggest decline in
three days.  Suntech Default  China’s new policy for solar energy would keep in place aid
for plants owned by the final user of the power, while trimming
back subsidies established to start utility-scale projects, Meng Xiangan, vice chairman of the China Renewable Energy Society in
Beijing, said in an interview yesterday. His organization acts
as a liaison between the government and industry.  LDK board member Liangbao Zhu resigned March 17 “for
personal reasons,” the company said in a PRNewswire statement
yesterday.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s biggest solar-panel
maker in 2011, slipped 8.4 percent to 64 cents in New York.  The manufacturer, based in Wuxi, China, failed to repay
$541 million of notes due March 15, breaching terms of other
outstanding loans.  ‘Solid’ Results  Suntech obtained an agreement from holders of 63 percent of
the notes to delay exercising their rights until May 15,
allowing executives to press ahead with restructuring payments.
Some noteholders not involved in those talks are organizing a
rival group and have threatened to sue.  New Oriental, the biggest private education provider in
China, surged 8 percent to $17.31 in U.S. trading for a two-day
advance of 17 percent. 86Research Ltd. analysts led by C. Ming Zhao said in a March 15 note that the company may also become a
buyout target after the offer for Ambow.  The company is “well on track” to deliver “solid”
results for the quarter ended in February, Oppenheimer & co.
analyst Ella Ji said in a note dated March 17, citing its school
checks. She reiterated an outperform rating, equivalent to buy,
citing an improved outlook and attractive valuation.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  sank 2 percent to
10,794.70 yesterday, the lowest level in more than three months.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares lost 1.7
percent to this year’s low of 2,240.02.  Thirty-day volatility  on the China-US gauge slid to 13.7
yesterday, the lowest level since May 2011, and compared with a
three-month average of 16.6, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  