-- Tamiflu Resistance in 2% of H1N1 Flu Cases Globally, Study Finds
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-03-18T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/tamiflu-resistance-in-2-of-h1n1-flu-cases-globally-study-finds.html
Tamiflu-resistant swine flu is
turning up in about 2 percent of cases globally, researchers in
 Australia  found, raising the risk that  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s pill
may become ineffective in fighting the pandemic H1N1 virus.  Drug resistance in the flu strain that sparked the 2009
influenza pandemic is being detected in virus samples collected
from patients who haven’t been treated with Tamiflu, suggesting
the mutant germs have spread, said Aeron Hurt, head of antiviral
susceptibility research at the World Health Organization’s
Collaborating Centre for Reference and Research on Influenza in
Melbourne.  A Tamiflu-resistant clone of an older, seasonal flu strain
took a year to become the dominant H1N1 virus globally. Swine
flu may follow the same path, leaving doctors without their
preferred treatment for influenza.  “That appears to be a larger risk now than it did at the
start of the pandemic,” Hurt said in a telephone interview.’’  Hurt is presenting the research today at the Annual
Scientific Meeting of the Australasian Society for Infectious
Diseases in Canberra.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s inhaled Relenza drug is effective
against the mutant strain, which causes the same symptoms as
drug-sensitive flu.  Glaxo Drug  Tamiflu, also known by its chemical name oseltamivir, and
Relenza, an inhaled powder, reduce the severity and the duration
of flu symptoms by 24 to 30 hours if treatment is started within
the first two days of illness, according to the companies. Both
drugs work by blocking a protein on the surface of influenza
particles called  neuraminidase , which allows the virus to spread
from infected cells to other cells.  “Rates of Tamiflu resistance remain low globally although
Roche takes the issue of resistance very seriously and
collaborates with international organizations and authorities to
monitor the situation,” said Daniel Grotzky, a spokesman for
the drugmaker.  Tokyo-based Daiichi Sankyo Co. and  BioCryst Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (BCRX) , based in Durham, North Carolina, have developed or are
developing alternative neuraminidase inhibitors.  Mutant H1N1 viruses evade Tamiflu through a single genetic
change known as the H275Y mutation which prevents the medicine
from clinging to neuraminidase. In the past, the mutation has
compromised the virus’s fitness, making it less likely to
spread.  Hurt, who was among a group of scientists that reported a
cluster of Tamiflu-resistant cases in eastern Australia in 2011,
found other genetic changes have simultaneously occurred in the
virus to enable the drug-repelling germ to retain its fitness.  Studies have shown that Tamiflu-resistant bugs develop
sporadically in 0.4 percent to 4 percent of adults and children
treated for seasonal influenza, according to Basel, Switzerland-
based Roche.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in  Melbourne  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  