-- Mammograms Every Other Year Reduce Risks in Most Women
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-18T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/mammograms-every-other-year-reduce-risks-in-most-women.html
A mammogram every other year
reduces the risk that most women will be incorrectly told they
may have breast cancer, without increasing the odds they will be
diagnosed with advanced disease, researchers said.  While earlier studies also found biennial mammograms may be
as effective as yearly screening, today’s research analyzed a
broader group of patients, including those with dense breasts or
who had used hormone replacement therapy that can increase
cancer risk. Data from almost 1 million women who participated
in the  Breast Cancer Surveillance Consortium  from 1994 to 2008
were reviewed in the study released by JAMA Internal Medicine.  The findings bolster guidelines from the U.S. Preventive
Services Task Force, which created a controversy in 2009 by
recommending biennial mammograms. The American Cancer Society
says women should undergo the screening every year for breast
cancer, the most common tumor in women, beginning at age 40.
Annual exams boost the number of false positives and biopsies
without preventing advanced cancer, the researchers said.  “You really decrease you chance of harm if you screen
every two years,” said lead researcher  Karla Kerlikowske , a
primary care physician and professor of medicine at the
University of  California , San Francisco. “The fear was that if
you do it every two years versus every year, you are going to
have a really big tumor when you are diagnosed. The reality is
these tumors just don’t grow that rapidly.”  Breast Density  The study found an exception for women 40 to 49 years old
with extremely dense breasts. Those patients were about twice as
likely to be diagnosed with large tumors or advanced cancer if
they skipped mammograms. They also had higher rates of false-
positive results. Those women should probably get annual
mammograms until 50, when they also can revert to getting
screened every other year, the researchers said.  “This study is not about whether you should start
screening at 40 or 50, but if you are going to be screened, does
it matter if you do it every year or every two years,”
Kerlikowske said in a telephone interview. “If you’re in that
younger group, with dense breasts, it probably does matter.”  More than 230,000 women will be  diagnosed  with breast
cancer in 2013, and almost 40,000 will die from it, according to
the American Cancer Society’s annual report. The number of
advanced breast cancers in women younger than 40 has tripled in
the U.S. during the past three decades.  The results should help doctors determine the most
effective approach for an individual woman, taking into account
more than just age, Kerlikowske said. Breast density, a
radiographic measure comparing the amount of white versus dark
on a mammogram, is particularly compelling, she said.  “We have had a lot of discussions about age, and we need
to move beyond it,” she said. “We want to know what is putting
a person at risk, and if they are at high risk, what we should
do differently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  