-- Lamprell Fined $3.6 Mln for Giving Market Incomplete Data
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-03-18T10:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/lamprell-fined-3-6-mln-for-giving-market-incomplete-data.html
Lamprell Plc (LAM) , an oil-rig
manufacturer, was fined 2.4 million pounds ($3.6 million) for
not telling the market quickly enough about its faltering
finances in early 2012.  Failures in Lamprell’s systems and controls caused it to
omit negative information about its financial performance in
statements to the market, the U.K. Financial Services Authority,
which levied the fine, said in a statement today.  “Lamprell could not adequately monitor its financial
performance against its budget and against market expectations
and therefore failed in its obligations as a listed company to
keep the market fully informed of its deteriorating financial
position,” the regulator said.  When it made the situation clear to the market in May,
Lamprell’s share price fell 57 percent, the FSA said.  The company’s controls were “seriously deficient for a
listed company of its size and complexity,” said Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s head of enforcement.  The fine is the first under the FSA’s new penalty policy,
based on a company’s market capitalization, which the regulator
said will lead to “significantly higher penalties than in the
past.” Lamprell fell 2.5 percent to 144 pence in London trading
at 10:06 a.m.  Lamprell received the regulator’s standard 30 percent
discount for settling early. The company “provided significant
and extensive cooperation” with the FSA and didn’t act
deliberately or recklessly in its failings, the company said in
a separate statement.  It agreed to settle “to avoid incurring significant
additional expenses and expending the further time that would be
required to pursue the matter,” said  John Kennedy , Lamprell’s
non-executive chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  