-- ANA Targets Southeast Asia After $1.8 Billion Share Sale
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-03-19T10:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/ana-targets-southeast-asia-deals-after-1-8-billion-share-sale.html
All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) ,  Japan ’s
largest airline by sales, is looking for acquisitions and
partnerships in countries such as India and  Thailand  after
raising $1.8 billion in a share sale last year for expansion.  “We’re considering various options, including acquisitions
or collaboration with a partner if we find one,” said Osamu Shinobe, who will become president of the airline on April 1,
when it becomes part of a holding company. “Our main focus is
 Southeast Asia . We haven’t made any decisions yet.”  ANA will be following other carriers such as AirAsia Bhd.
and Etihad Airways PJSC to look at expanding in  Asia . Etihad has
said it is in talks with  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  for an
investment, while  AirAsia (AIRA)  won approval this month in India to
form a joint venture and acquired a stake in Philippine rival
Zest Airways Inc.  The Japanese carrier, which in January canceled flights of
its  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 planes after battery problems, is targeting
countries where the carrier already flies, including Myanmar, to
expand, Shinobe said. The airline, set to become part of ANA
Holdings Inc. next month, started flights with two low-cost
carriers last year, one in partnership with a Hong Kong investor
and another with AirAsia.  Denver Service  “The strategy we decide on will vary depending on whether
we team up with an airline, or whether it’s with an investor,”
Shinobe said in an interview in  Tokyo  on March 14. “New
investments will be decided by the holding company.”  The  carrier  rose 0.5 percent to 210 yen in Tokyo today. The
stock has advanced 16 percent this year, compared with a 20
percent gain in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  ANA, which started a venture with  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  in 2011, predicts the sales gain from the
collaboration will more than double in the year ending March as
new services and improved connections lure fliers. The venture
allows the carriers to coordinate schedules and share revenue
and costs.  The Japanese carrier is looking for ways to increase
cooperation with United to boost sales, said Shinobe. United
plans to start a new service between Denver and Tokyo this year
and ANA will monitor the popularity of the route to see if there
is demand to add a service of its own, he said.  ‘Cannibalization’  “Aligning our Pacific flights with United’s domestic
network is the best way to get passengers,” Shinobe said.  ANA is also considering adding flights to Istanbul, where
fellow Star Alliance member  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  has its hub,
Shinobe said. A final decision is yet to be made, he said.  The Japanese carrier is looking overseas as domestic
competition increases. It raised 174 billion yen ($1.8 billion)
through selling shares last year, which it plans to use to buy
planes and acquire stakes in other companies, said Ryosei Nomura,
a spokesman at the airline.  The carrier jointly founded two domestic low-cost carriers,
Peach Aviation Ltd. and AirAsia Japan Co., which started
operations last year. It is also competing against a third.
Jetstar Japan Co., part-owned by Japan Airlines Co. and Qantas
Airways Ltd., also started flying in 2012.  “We have to resign ourselves to a certain amount of
cannibalization,” Shinobe said. “What’s important is how the
business model develops.”  ANA’s sales in January were cut by 1.4 billion yen after
the carrier canceled all flights on its fleet of 787s while
investigators probe what caused a fire on a Japan Airlines 787
parked at Boston airport and another lithium-ion battery on an
ANA aircraft to emit smoke, leading to an emergency landing.  Boeing last week gained permission to test safety upgrades
to the 787 Dreamliner’s battery systems that it said may allow
commercial flights to restart within weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  