-- Manchin Wooing Republican Gun Background Check Support
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-03-18T18:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/manchin-wooing-republican-gun-background-check-support.html
U.S. Senator  Joe Manchin  said he
wants to work with the  National Rifle Association  to agree on a
proposal for expanded criminal and mental-health background
checks for gun purchasers.  The West Virgina Democrat said he’s trying to craft a
background-check proposal that can win bipartisan support,
including from lawmakers like himself who have backing from the
NRA, which opposes new gun regulations.  “We’re hoping that enough people who come from the gun
background, such as myself, will step up and speak,” Manchin
said at a breakfast today sponsored by Bloomberg View in New
York.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada said last week
he is talking with Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy of  Vermont 
to determine what type of gun legislation Democrats will bring
to the floor next month. Democrats have been pushing for
stricter gun regulations since the the Dec. 14 killings of 20
children and six adults at an elementary school in Newtown,
 Connecticut , though some Republicans have resisted.  The Senate Judiciary Committee this month approved several
gun-related measures, including a ban on assault weapons and
limits on high-capacity ammunition magazines. That measure has
strong opposition in the full Senate and the House. The panel
also has endorsed tougher penalties for gun trafficking and an
expansion of background checks.  NRA Stance  The NRA, which favored expanding background checks as
recently as 1999, now opposes any new laws. NRA President  David
Keene  has said a background-check requirement for all private
gun sales could prove an onerous burden on law-abiding gun
owners. Many gun owners also are concerned that a paperwork
requirement could lead to a national gun registry, which is
prohibited by federal law.  Manchin has been working with New York Senator  Charles Schumer , the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, and with
Republicans  Mark Kirk  of  Illinois  and  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  to
craft a background-check proposal that can draw support from
senators of both parties.  To succeed, Manchin said he and other background-check
advocates must address a widespread concern among gun owners
that expanded background checks could allow the U.S. government
to confiscate their guns.  ‘Give Comfort’  “There’s a lot of hype out there, and that’s what they’re
believing,” he said. Manchin said he’s been trying to “give
comfort” to people, telling them, “I’m not going to take your
guns away, I’m not going to take my guns away.”  Manchin said he hasn’t spoken directly with President
 Barack Obama  about gun control legislation. Following the
Newtown shootings, Obama called on Congress to strengthen gun
laws.  Requiring criminal and mental health background checks
“makes all the sense in the world” and will go a long way “to
keep the guns out of the hands of the people that shouldn’t have
them,” Manchin said.  Manchin said he will propose creating a federal commission
to study the causes of mass shootings like the one in Newtown.  “It takes a culture for someone to use that gun in such a
horrific way, and we’ve got to find out what’s happening,” he
said. “We need to give people the expertise.”  While Manchin said he hasn’t found an NRA-backed Republican
to sign on to his background check proposal, he said
“everybody’s still at the table.”  “You would think this horrific, horrific Newtown tragedy
would at least make people sit down and look for reasonable
points to agree on,” he said. “I’ve got to make sure that I
can protect the law-abiding gun owners who use it for the
purpose of sporting or defense.”  “I’m really not concerned about my government turning on
me,” Manchin said. “So i’m not owning my guns for that
purpose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  