-- Apache Looking at All Options for $2 Billion of Asset Sales
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-03-18T19:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/apache-looking-at-all-options-for-2-billion-of-asset-sales.html
Apache Corp. (APA) , the fourth-largest
U.S. independent oil and natural gas producer by market value,
said its entire portfolio is up for review as it pursues at
least $2 billion in asset sales.  “We’re looking at all our options,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Steve Farris said in an interview at the
Howard Weil energy conference in  New Orleans  today. “We’re
repositioning our portfolio and looking at what the long-term
benefit” would be for shareholders, he said.  Apache spent more than $16 billion buying assets from 2010
to 2012, increasing holdings in the U.S., Canada, Egypt and the
North Sea. The Houston-based company said last month it planned
to sell about $2 billion of assets, possibly helping to pay down
debt. The total value of asset sales will be at least $2 billion
and “could be whatever we decide to put on the market,” Farris
said.  One potential sale is the company’s deep-water  Gulf of
Mexico  assets. Apache’s portfolio has changed since the company
obtained deep-water Gulf assets through the $2.7 billion
acquisition of Mariner Energy Inc. in 2010, Farris said. Apache
now has stronger positions in the onshore Permian and Anadarko
basins in the U.S., he said.  Whether Apache sells assets in the deep-water Gulf  depends
on the market for the holdings, he said. Apache at year-end
owned 900,000 gross acres in the Gulf of Mexico deep-water
region, according to the company’s annual report released March
1. The region contributed 2 percent of its total oil and gas
production in 2012, according to the report.  Farris, 65, said Apache also reviews its succession plan
every year. The company has a “very deep bench,” Farris said,
adding that he has no plans to leave.  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  EOG Resources
Inc. (EOG)  are the largest U.S. independent oil and gas producers by
market value, meaning they don’t have refineries or chemical
units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  