-- Are Republicans Abusing the Filibuster on Nominees?
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-03-18T22:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/are-republicans-abusing-the-filibuster-on-nominees-.html
At various times in history,
members of the  U.S. Senate  have  adopted  one of three positions
with respect to presidential nominees for the federal judiciary:  1. The blank check: A senator should vote to confirm anyone
the president chooses.  2. The competence and character test: A senator should vote
to confirm anyone the president chooses, unless the nominee is
incompetent or suffers from a fatal character flaw (as
demonstrated, for example, by corruption).  3. The out-of-the-mainstream test: A senator should vote to
confirm anyone the president chooses, unless the nominee’s views
are unacceptably extreme.  Under  Barack Obama ’s administration, influential Senate
Republicans seem to have adopted a fourth view:  4. The disagreement test: If a senator strongly disagrees
with a view expressed by a nominee, at any point in that
nominee’s career, he should support a filibuster against the
president’s choice.  As it is currently being used, the disagreement test is
unprecedented. True, the Senate has sometimes played an
aggressive role in the confirmation process. And true,  Senate
Democrats  ramped up their scrutiny under President George W. Bush. But the disagreement test is now going beyond anything we
have seen before, and it is producing an increasingly unworkable
situation.  To see the problem, we need to explore some basic
principles about Senate confirmation.  Constitution’s Provisions  The same provisions of the Constitution govern both
executive and judicial nominees. But as a matter of structure
and logic, it is usually agreed that the Senate should give the
president special deference when he is  appointing  members of his
own staff. The heads of the Cabinet departments work for him; he
oversees their decisions.  No one denies that the Senate is entitled to consider
whether executive-branch nominees are competent and honest. But
even here, the Senate must be circumspect and careful. Its
authority shouldn’t be turned into a license to  conduct  an
unbounded and humiliating Life Audit, in which a nominee is
subjected to limitless economic and personal inquiries that
would put the most obsessive Internal Revenue Service employee
(or divorce lawyer) to shame.  And because life is long and because human beings can be
spirited, it makes no sense to scour every statement ever made
by nominees to ensure that they have never said anything that
counts as controversial or highly provocative. For executive-
branch nominees, the president deserves a lot of deference.  By contrast, both Democrats and Republicans have rightly
insisted that because judges have life tenure and don’t work for
the president, the Senate is entitled to give greater scrutiny
to judicial nominees. Notwithstanding Republican grumbling
during the administration of  George W. Bush , the Senate may
certainly investigate the views and likely votes of such
nominees.  Suppose one of them believes that the Constitution permits
school segregation, or gives limitless authority to the
president, or forbids the minimum wage. These views are
unquestionably out of the mainstream, and no member of the
 Supreme Court  supports any of them (thank goodness). True, the
Senate shouldn’t disqualify people who have written
provocatively, but positions of this kind would be a legitimate
basis for hesitation.  The disagreement test is an altogether different matter.
Consider the case of District Court nominee  Elissa Cadish , who
asked the president to withdraw her nomination this month.  Republican Blockade  Her appointment was held up by Republican Senator  Dean Heller  of  Nevada , who opposed her because she said in 2008 that
she didn’t  believe that the Second Amendment created an
individual right to bear arms -- but promptly added, “I will
enforce the laws as they exist.”  When she made this statement, the law was as yet unsettled,
and four justices on the Supreme Court -- just one short of a
majority -- ultimately agreed with her conclusion. Are Senate
Republicans really entitled to reject a nominee because she
doesn’t agree with Justice  Antonin Scalia ?  Or consider Caitlin Halligan, the highly qualified nominee
for the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the District of Columbia
Circuit. Halligan was subject to a successful Republican
filibuster last week. Her sin? She participated in a well-
publicized lawsuit against gun manufacturers on behalf of  New
York  City.  Whatever the merits of that particular lawsuit, it can’t be
taken as disqualifying for appointment to the federal bench.
Over the course of a decade or more, any good lawyer is likely
to represent a controversial client or two; if she is involved
in litigation, she will sometimes take a position with which a
lot of reasonable people will disagree. Strong disagreement with
a lawyer’s client, or with her litigating position, isn’t
usually a legitimate basis for a filibuster.  It is important to stress that Senate Democrats deserve a
fair share of the blame for this dismal situation. In the 2000s,
their use of the out-of-the-mainstream test sometimes veered
disturbingly close to the disagreement test. But we are in the
midst of something genuinely novel: an abuse of the Senate’s
constitutional authority that is damaging, at the same time, all
three branches of the national government.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University Professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“ Simpler : The Future of Government,” to be published in April.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 