-- Argentina Seeks Papal Intervention in Falklands Dispute With U.K
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2013-03-18T16:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/argentina-seeks-papal-intervention-in-falklands-dispute-with-u-k.html
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner today asked her countryman Pope Francis to
help persuade the U.K. to open talks on her country’s
sovereignty claim over the Falkland Islands, known in Latin
America as Las Malvinas.  “We discussed what is a very sensitive issue for us, the
question of Malvinas,” Fernandez, 60, told reporters after
having lunch with the Pope at the Vatican. “I asked him to
intercede in opening a dialogue between the U.K. and
 Argentina .”  The two countries went to war in 1982 after Argentina, then
run by a military dictatorship, invaded the British territory in
the South Atlantic. Tensions heightened last year, when
Argentina protested the U.K.’s deployment of a modern warship in
the area. Earlier this month, Falkland islanders voted
overwhelmingly in a referendum to maintain the archipelago’s
status as a British territory.  During today’s meeting, Fernandez gave the pope a kit for
drinking mate, a typical tea sipped from a gourd.  Fernandez, who traveled to  Rome  to attend tomorrow’s papal
inauguration, was shown laughing during the meeting, according
to images broadcast on Argentine television. After his
appointment last week, Fernandez congratulated the 76-year-old
former Archbishop of Buenos Aires and called on him to deepen
dialogue between wealthy nations and developing countries.  As Archbishop of Buenos Aires, Jorge Bergoglio clashed
several times with Fernandez and her late husband and
predecessor Nestor Kirchner, opposing a same-sex marriage bill
and criticizing the government for failing to reduce the gap
between rich and poor. Bergoglio is the first non-European pope
in at least 1,200 years and the first Jesuit to lead the Roman
Catholic Church.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Buenos Aires at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  