-- Argentine Wines Have Mile-High Taste, Rock Bottom Prices
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-03-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/argentine-wines-have-mile-high-taste-rock-bottom-prices.html
After nine years of economic boom,
 Argentina  again teeters on its own fiscal cliff. Yet the one
continuing bright spot in the country's economy is its wine
industry, which has record sales abroad based on high quality
wine at remarkably modest prices.  According to the  Wines of Argentina , sales of the country’s
malbec, the dominant varietal here, grew by double digits
worldwide from 2004 through 2011, while the number of cases
exported to the U.S. more than doubled from 2007 through 2012.
At a time when the global market is glutted, Argentina is the
world’s fifth largest wine producer.  The country’s last financial crash in 2002 gave the wine
industry a boost when exports benefited from a weaker peso and
falling land prices made it cheaper to plant vines.  Seventy percent of Argentina’s wines come from the Mendoza
region, whose 900 vineyards occupy 370,500 acres spread across
desert-like terrain as high as 5,800 feet. The altitude, dry
soil and low humidity help protect against the effects of global
warming. The influence of warm and cold ocean currents el nino
and la nina are mitigated, and phylloxera blight is kept at bay.  Wine Pioneer  A number of highly-praised labels are now coming out of
Argentina, including  Bodegas Salentein  and BenMarco. But none
has the pedigree or clout of  Nicolas Catena Family Estates ,
founded in 1902, with vineyards throughout Mendoza.  His great granddaughter,  Laura Catena , is both managing
director of the company and a physician. She graduated magna cum
laude in biology from Harvard and earned a medical degree in
emergency care from Stanford. The mother of three (her husband
is also a doctor), Catena splits her time between her San
Francisco medical practice and her family’s winery in Mendoza.  “My personal motto is ‘Hard on issues, soft on people,’”
she told me during a visit to the Catena Zapata winery. “We
constantly work on quality through rigorous blending. A bottle
of wine is like an orchestra: the instruments are all wonderful
on their own, but together they create a truly beautiful
sound.”  The family was also a pioneer, starting in 1994, in growing
malbec, a grape used for softening cabernet blends in Bordeaux,
which is now Argentina’s most admired varietal.  Beginning in 2001, Catena brought her scientific knowledge
to bear on improving malbec to the point where it replaced
cabernet sauvignon as their principal varietal.  Catena Zapata’s high altitude vineyards now produce some of
the most prestigious wines in Argentina, none exceeding 14.5
percent alcohol levels. “We hate high alcohol,” Catena
insists, as we sample some of her wines.  Bold Malbecs  The  Nicasia Vineyards Malbec  2009 and the Adrianna Vineyard
Lot 9 Malbec 2009 were outstanding, big and bold but softer and
fruitier than the inky, malbec-based Cahors wines of  France .  Catena also owns two less expensive lines that really hit
the sweet spot in the current global market.  Don Miguel Gascon
wines  use malbec along with grapes like bonarda, syrah and
cabernet sauvignon to make bold, tannic wines with fruit up
front and a fine balance, just the thing for the Argentine beef
that dominates every meal here. These wines sell for $15 a
bottle and taste like they cost twice as much.  Catena’s third winery is  Alamos , whose winemaker, Felipe
Stahlschmidt, contends that his mountain climbing in the Andes
sharpens his senses for blending grapes from different
vineyards. “The mountains are always there to remind me of the
nature of the place,” he says.  Clean Chardonnay  The Alamos wines include a well-rounded  Seleccion Malbec 
2011 ($20), along with a remarkably complex  Cabernet Sauvignon 
2012 and a good clean Chardonnay. The Torrontes 2012, a white
varietal, is a real delight, with delicious spice, layers of
stone fruit flavors and a marvelous bouquet.  This formerly negligible grape widely grown in Argentina
could well become the next big white varietal, in the style of
viognier or  gruner veltliner .  What’s remarkable is that apart from the Seleccion Malbec,
all the Alamos wines sell for just $13. True, you can find good,
similarly priced white and red wines from  Italy ,  Chile  and even
Bordeaux. But these Argentinean varietals are very distinctive,
with unique flavors and styles that fully express their location
and show how modest grapes like malbec and torrontes can become
revelations in the glass.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on  TV  and Jeffrey Burke
on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 