-- Marks & Spencer Leaps on Speculation of $12 Billion QIA Bid
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-03-18T10:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/marks-spencer-shares-leap-on-speculation-of-qia-bid-correct-.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the
U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, rose the most in almost four
years in  London  trading on speculation that the Qatar Investment
Authority is considering an 8 billion-pound ($12 billion) offer.  The  shares  advanced as much as 9.4 percent to 407.4 pence,
the steepest intraday gain since March 31, 2009. They were up
7.5 percent as of 10:26 a.m., paring gains after a person close
to the sovereign wealth fund said it wasn’t considering a bid.  QIA has approached banks and private equity houses,
including  CVC Capital Partners , to assemble a group to make a
move on the London-based retailer, the Sunday Times reported
yesterday, citing senior sources in London’s financial district.
No approach has yet been made, the newspaper said.  Marks & Spencer declined to comment.  Today’s share price rise took the stock above billionaire
 Philip Green ’s 400 pence-a-share takeover attempt in 2004. Marks
& Spencer in January reported a decline in quarterly clothing
sales as Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  struggles to win
shoppers almost three years after succeeding  Stuart Rose .  “It is an understandable time for any suitors to consider
an approach for M&S because in all likelihood if the U.K.
clothing performance does improve and cash flows through in due
course then the share price should be much higher anyhow,”
Clive Black, an analyst at Shore Capital, said in a note.  Sainsbury, Harrods  A purchase would add to Qatar’s U.K. retail investments
that include a 26 percent stake in  J Sainsbury Plc, (SBRY)  the U.K.’s
third-largest supermarket chain. The Gulf country also bought
luxury department-store Harrods for 1.5 billion pounds in 2010.  The speculation regarding Marks & Spencer may increase
“bid noise” on Sainsbury, Andrew Gwynn, an analyst at Exane
BNP Paribas said in a note, though the food retailer’s pension
fund deficit “is a major stumbling block.”  Sainsbury  shares  rose 0.7 percent to 365.4 pence as of
10:26 a.m.  A buyer of Marks & Spencer could sell property, cut costs
and reduce  capital spending , according to Exane BNP Paribas.  Espirito Santo analysts estimate that about 65 percent of
the retailer’s 21 million square feet (1.95 million square
meters) of selling space is freehold and that its real estate
could be worth as much as 8 billion pounds.  Still, selling and leasing back property may be difficult
as Marks & Spencer reduces the size of its stores and shoppers
spend more online, analyst Caroline Gulliver said.  An offer is “unlikely,” according to Cantor Fitzgerald
Europe analyst Freddie George, though with equity markets close
to record highs, speculation is likely to persist, he said.  The cost of insuring Marks & Spencer’s debt against default
surged as much as 36 basis points, the most since May 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  