-- Asian Bond Risk Surges on Europe; Tower Bersama Hires Banks
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-03-18T07:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/asia-pacific-bond-risk-surges-as-europe-debt-turmoil-intensifies.html
The cost of insuring corporate and
sovereign bonds in  Asia  against non-payment surged as a levy on
Cyprus bank deposits spurred renewed turmoil in Europe. PT Tower
Bersama Infrastructure Tbk hired banks for a possible dollar-
denominated offering.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  jumped six basis points to 107 basis
points as of 2:31 p.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge is set for its biggest one-day
increase since Sept. 20, according to data provider CMA. Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. also hired lenders to arrange
meetings to discuss a possible bond in the U.S. currency.  Euro finance ministers reached an unprecedented agreement
on March 16 forcing depositors in Cypriot banks to share in the
cost of the latest euro-zone bailout. While Cyprus accounts for
less than half a percent of the 17-nation euro economy, the
concern is that the one-time tax on accounts could trigger bank
runs across  Europe  and further destabilize the financial system.  “More contagion fears will spread through investors and it
will encourage depositors in the European periphery to move
their funds to a safer place -- either under the pillow or to
Germany,” Mark Bayley, a Sydney-based credit strategist with
advisory company Aquasia Ltd., said. “This is essentially a
bail-in of depositors, and sets a dangerous precedent.”  Tower Bersama has picked seven banks to arrange fixed-
income investor meetings in Los Angeles,  Boston , New York,
 Singapore , Hong Kong and  London  from tomorrow, according to a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the terms aren’t set.  DCM Moves  Taiwan Semiconductor has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
arrange meetings in the U.S., Asia and Europe from today about a
possible senior note in dollars, a separate person said.  Zhong
An Real Estate Ltd. (672)  selected BNP Paribas SA, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and UBS AG to set up a series of investor meetings in  Hong
Kong  and Singapore to start tomorrow, according to a another
person with knowledge of the details.  Bank of America Corp.  has hired two syndicate bankers from
Credit Suisse Group AG in Asia, according to an internal memo
confirmed by Mark Tsang, a spokesman at the U.S. lender. Devesh
Ashra joins as head of Asia debt capital markets syndicate,
while Hital Desai moves to the bond syndicate team.  The bank has appointed Ashish Malhotra as head of Asia DCM,
Ranobir Mukherji as vice chairman of Asia DCM and Siong Ooi as
head of Asia-Pacific leveraged finance and loans.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose five basis points to
107.5 basis points as of 3:44 p.m. in Sydney, according to
National Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The gauge is poised for its
largest daily gain since Feb. 25, according to CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the private market. The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed
seven to 110.5 as of 3:31 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche
Bank AG prices.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  