-- Asia Stocks Drop Most in Eight Months on Cyprus Bank Levy
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-03-18T10:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/asian-stocks-drop-most-in-month-on-cyprus-deposit-tax.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the
regional benchmark index heading for the biggest drop in eight
months, amid concern an unprecedented levy on  bank deposits  in
Cyprus will plunge  Europe  back into crisis and that  China  will
add property curbs.  Every benchmark gauge in the Asia-Pacific dropped, with the
regional measure shedding about $190 billion in market value,
equivalent to almost eight times Cyprus’ annual gross domestic
product.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest automaker, slid
3.4 percent as the yen gained against all its major peers.
Esprit Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based clothier that counts
Europe as its No. 1 market, dropped 2.2 percent in  Hong Kong .
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  fell 2.4 percent in Sydney, leading mining
companies lower.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  sank 1.89 percent to 134.08 as
of 7:49 p.m. in  Tokyo , headed for its biggest decline since
July, with five shares falling for each that gained. The measure
rose 5.6 percent this year through last week as improving
economic data from the U.S. and speculation that  Japan  will
unleash more stimulus countered China’s efforts to rein in
property prices.  “The market is probably overreacting to the Cyprus
bailout,” said Ng Soo Nam, Singapore-based chief investment
officer at Nikko Asset Management Asia Ltd., whose Japan-based
parent oversees about $165 billion. “The investment environment
is still pretty conducive. Once the knee-jerk reaction to Cyprus
is over, then you’re back to a set of solid fundamentals that
has been behind this recovery. Valuations aren’t expensive.”  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has rallied the past four
months as central banks maintained loose monetary policies to
spur growth. Shares on the gauge traded at 14.7 times estimated
earnings last week compared with 14 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 12.7 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The safest place to be if you think the market’s going to
go down is cash,”  Donald Williams , Sydney-based chief
investment officer at Platypus Asset Management Ltd., which
manages about $1 billion, told Bloomberg Television. “We’ve
been finding valuations problematic for about six weeks and as a
result we’ve built up cash in our portfolio. There are no
sectors that are particularly cheap right now. We’re only
looking for a 10 percent correction at the most.”  Nikkei 225  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  retreated 2.7 percent, its
biggest decline in 10 months.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
dropped 2.1 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index lost 0.9 percent,
while Taiwan’s Taiex fell 1.5 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index tumbled 2 percent, the most
since Feb. 5, with volume 27 percent above its 30-day average
for the time of day. China’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.7
percent.  China on March 1 imposed its toughest real estate curbs in
a year, ordering the central bank to raise down-payment
requirements and  interest rates  for some second mortgages, as
well as enforcing a property sales tax.  Home prices  in China climbed in 62 cities of the 70 the
government tracks in February from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said today. Cities will be forced to
introduce new price-control measures as upward pressure on
prices will definitely increase in short term, Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst Jinsong Du said in an e-mail.  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades bowed to demands by
euro-area finance ministers to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5
billion) to help fund a bailout by taking a piece of every bank
account in Cyprus. The president delayed a vote on the measure
in parliament until today, a day later than planned, as he seeks
more time to persuade lawmakers to back him.  ‘Sell Euro’  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,  California ,
said on Twitter that the concern in Cyprus “moves risk-on trade
to back seat.” He added: “Sell euro as well.”  The euro dropped to its lowest this year against the dollar
and the yen strengthened against all major currencies. Exporters
fell, with Toyota Motor losing 3.4 percent to 4,850 yen and
Nissan Motor Co. declining 3.5 percent to 951 yen. Esprit
retreated 2.2 percent to HK$9.10.  The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI) , a gauge of Hong Kong-listed
options prices, surged 18 percent, the most since July, to
18.01, heading for the biggest advance since July and indicating
traders expect a swing of about 5.2 percent during the next 30
days. Measures of options prices in Japan and Australia also
jumped more than 15 percent.  Resource Stocks  Commodities fell as Cyprus stoked concern that Europe’s
debt crisis will deepen. Copper dropped by the most in five
months, pacing declines in industrial metals and oil.  BHP Billiton , the world’s largest mining company, fell 2.4
percent to A$34.69 in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group, the second-
biggest, slid 2.9 percent to A$59.55. Jiangxi Copper Co.,
China’s No.1 producer of the metal, fell 2.3 percent to
HK$17.02.  China’s property developers extended losses. Shimao
Property Holdings Ltd., controlled by billionaire Hui Wing Mao,
sank 1.4 percent to HK$12.96. Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. lost
2.4 percent to HK$11.32. Agile Property Holdings Ltd. dropped
1.6 percent to HK$8.88.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.9
percent today. The U.S. equity gauge climbed on March 14 to
within two points of its record closing level of 1,565.15 set in
October 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  