-- AT&T Hacker Auernheimer Is Sentenced to Months in Prison
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-03-18T23:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/at-t-hacker-auernheimer-is-sentenced-to-months-in-prison.html
The head of a computer hacking
group was sentenced to three years and five months in prison for
breaching  AT&T Inc. (T)  servers and stealing personal information of
more than 114,000 users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads.  Andrew Auernheimer, 27, was sentenced today in federal
court in  Newark , New Jersey, where he was convicted Nov. 20 of
conspiring to gain unauthorized access to AT&T servers and
disclosing private data to a reporter for the website  Gawker .
Auernheimer, who helped run a group called Goatse Security, was
handcuffed during the hearing, provoking gasps from supporters.  “I didn’t come here today to ask for forgiveness,”
Auernheimer told U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton. “The
Internet is bigger than any law can contain. Many, many
governments that have attempted to restrict the freedoms of the
Internet have ended up toppled.”  After Auernheimer spoke, prosecutor Michael Martinez
addressed the judge.  “He blames others,” Martinez said. “Instead of accepting
personal responsibility for his own conduct, he blames AT&T.”  The law draws “a bright line” in the case, Martinez said.  “When someone has gained access without a user’s
permission, that’s a clear trespass,” he said. “He says that
the reason we’re here is because we don’t like his ideas. The
reason that we’re here is that he wrote a code and engaged in a
clear trespass.”  In Handcuffs  As Martinez spoke, a U.S. marshal approached Auernheimer
from behind and told him to put away his phone. Other marshals
pushed his head against the defense table and handcuffed him.  Wigenton declared a recess, and the marshals escorted
Auernheimer to a side room. When he returned a few minutes
later, he was shackled, with a chain around his waist and
handcuffs attached to the chain.  He grinned at supporters. Several raised fists in support.  “While you consider yourself to be a hero of sorts,
without question the evidence that came out at trial reflected
criminal conduct,” the judge said in imposing the sentence.
“You’ve shown absolutely no remorse. You’ve taken no
responsibility for these criminal acts whatsoever. You’ve shown
no contrition whatsoever.”  Aside from the conspiracy charge, Auernheimer also was
convicted of possession and transfer of means of identification,
which each carried five-year terms. Under advisory sentencing
guidelines, he faced 41 months, which the judge imposed. She
also ordered him to pay restitution of $73,167 to AT&T.  To Prison  The judge ordered that his prison term begin immediately, a
request that his attorney made during the hearing.  Auernheimer had requested probation. He will appeal, said
his lawyer,  Tor Ekeland . Outside the courtroom, Ekeland said the
Computer Fraud and Abuse Act doesn’t clearly define what
constitutes unauthorized access to computers.  “This law is not at all clear,” Ekeland said.  Ekeland said he was “not quite sure” what Auernheimer was
doing before he was handcuffed in the courtroom.  “I think he may have been tweeting,” Ekeland said.
Marshals, he said, shoved “him face down on the table, and they
cuffed him.”  Auernheimer was part of a loose association of hackers and
so-called Internet trolls who make computer intrusions and
attacks, prosecutors said.  In June 2010, Auernheimer created computer code that lied
to computer servers and allowed him to steal personal
identifying information of iPad users. After the breach,
Auernheimer gave interviews touting his actions.  Trial Evidence  “The evidence at trial -- including e-mails, Internet
chats, and websites that captured the defendant’s words while he
was committing this crime -- proved” that Auernheimer knew he
was stealing, prosecutors said in court papers. He disclosed
private data to generate publicity for himself and his firm, the
U.S. said.  Auernheimer claimed he sought to protect the public from
corporate security vulnerabilities. He gave interviews
denouncing his prosecution and posted an “iPad Hack Statement
of Responsibility” on Jan. 21, according to court records.  “I did this because I despised people I think are unjustly
wealthy and wanted to embarrass them,” Auernheimer wrote.  At the trial, Daniel Spitler, a co-defendant who pleaded
guilty, testified against Auernheimer. Spitler is awaiting
sentencing.  The Electronic Frontier Foundation, which seeks to protect
civil liberties in the digital world, said will join the appeal
of Auernheimer, known to his supporters as “Weev.”  “Weev is facing more than three years in prison because he
pointed out that a company failed to protect its users’ data,
even though his actions didn’t harm anyone,” EFF senior staff
attorney Marcia Hofmann said in a statement. “The punishments
for computer crimes are seriously off-kilter, and Congress needs
to fix them.”  The case is U.S. v. Auernheimer, 2:11-cr-00470, U.S.
District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 