-- Late Winter Storm Threatens Heavy Snow for Northern New England
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-03-19T03:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/late-winter-storm-bears-down-on-u-s-northeast-with-snow-sleet.html
A late winter storm that has tied
up air traffic along the East Coast is expected to bring another
round of rain and sleet to the U.S. Northeast, snow to  Boston 
and a big boost to New England ski areas today.  Boston may receive 4 to 7 inches (10 to 18 centimeters)
with its northern and western suburbs getting 6 to 10 inches
from a storm expected to strike the area and have a
“significant impact” on this morning’s commute, according to
the  National Weather Service . More than a foot may fall in
central Massachusetts, across  Vermont , Maine and New Hampshire.  “As you head up closer to Boston there might be some more
problems,” John Dlugoenski, a senior meteorologist at
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , said yesterday.
“The significant snow is going to be in New England. The ski
areas are going to be excited.”  Winter storm warnings and advisories stretch from West
Virginia to Maine and across the Upper Great Plains into the
Great Lakes. Air traffic delays have been reported in  Chicago ,
 New York ,  Newark ,  New Jersey , and Philadelphia, the  Federal
Aviation Administration  said.  Across New York City’s western and northern suburbs, 2 to 5
inches of snow and sleet may fall, with an additional coat of
ice on top of that, according to the  National Weather Service .
The Adirondack Mountains in upstate New York may also receive 8
to 16 inches, Dan Hoffman, a meteorologist at the weather
service’s office in Upton, New York, said by telephone late
yesterday.  Flight Delays  As of 11:30 p.m. New York time yesterday, flights were
delayed by no longer than 29 minutes Newark’s Liberty
International airport, the FAA said on its website. Across the
U.S., 580 flights had been canceled, 132 of them into or out of
Chicago’s O’Hare, according to  FlightAware , an airline tracking
company in Houston.  Winter storm warnings and watches also have been posted
across Manitoba, southern Ontario, Newfoundland and Labrador,
New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Quebec, including Montreal,
which is expected to receive 6 to 12 inches of snow, Environment
Canada said yesterday. More than 19 inches may fall at higher
elevations in the province’s eastern townships.  Light rain was falling in Washington and Philadelphia
yesterday, according to the weather service. In New York, heavy
snow was falling in Central Park and  John F. Kennedy , LaGuardia
and Newark International airports were seeing light snow as of
7:50 p.m. yesterday, Hoffman said.  The snow was expected to begin changing to rain in New York
by about 9 p.m. yesterday, transitioning to all rain by 3 a.m.
this morning, said Hoffman.  Larger Pattern  The precipitation was forecast to reach Boston between 11
p.m. yesterday to 1 a.m. today, Eleanor Vallier-Talbot, a
meteorologist at the weather service’s office in Taunton,
Massachusetts, said by telephone yesterday. It was expected to
reach Maine by 7 a.m. today, according to Dlugoenski.  “It’s going to be a sharp line between nothing and a lot
in eastern New England,” Dlugoenski said. “The I-95 corridor
isn’t going to be impacted significantly.”  A larger weather pattern, called the negative phase of the
North Atlantic Oscillation, is keeping cooler air bottled up in
the Northeast while constantly bringing storms to the region,
 Tom Kines , a meteorologist with AccuWeather, said yesterday.
Since the start of February, Boston has received more than 47
inches of snow, according to the weather service.  From Dec. 1 through January, about 8.5 inches fell. Kines
said he believes the pattern will persist into April.  “Then it’s going to go right from winter to early summer,
or at least that is my hope,” Kines said.  Temperatures in the eastern U.S. will probably remain about
5 degrees lower than normal through April 1, according to  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
 Maryland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 Ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  