-- Avenue Appoints Richard Furst Chief Investment Officer
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-03-18T18:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/avenue-appoints-richard-furst-chief-investment-officer.html
Avenue Capital Group LLC, the
distressed-debt firm co-founded by  Marc Lasry , has appointed
Richard Furst as chief investment officer amid speculation that
Lasry will be nominated as U.S. ambassador to  France .  In his new post, Furst will oversee investment strategies
for the firm globally, according to an e-mail to clients sent by
 Sonia Gardner , Avenue’s president and Lasry’s sister. Gardner
didn’t mention Lasry in the letter, saying only she couldn’t
comment on “media speculation.”  Todd Fogarty, a spokesman for Avenue Capital at Kekst &
Co., declined to comment.  Former President  Bill Clinton  told guests at a fundraising
event that Lasry will be nominated by President  Barack Obama  to
be ambassador to France, the Wall Street Journal’s Washington
Wire reported March 14, citing an unidentified person who was in
attendance.  Lasry, who emigrated to the U.S. from  Morocco  when he was 7
years old and whose mother taught French at a private school,
gave a maximum of $30,800 in 2011 to support Obama’s re-election
campaign. He is close to Bill and  Hillary Clinton , and employed
their daughter, Chelsea, as an analyst from 2006 to 2008. Last
year, Lasry was part of a group of Wall Street executives who
gathered at the White House as the administration sought to
build support for a deal to avert the so-called fiscal cliff of
automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  CIO Position  Lasry, who is chairman and chief executive officer of the
firm, founded Avenue together with Gardner 18 years ago. While
he provided investment oversight of the firm’s strategies for
the past few years, the CIO position is new, according to a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the firm is private.  Furst, a senior portfolio manager of Avenue’s Europe
strategy, will continue to dedicate his time predominantly to
leading those investments, according to the letter sent by
Gardner. In his new role, Furst will spend a portion of his time
providing “high-level investment oversight globally,”
according to the letter.  Avenue, which had $11.7 billion in assets under management
as of Feb. 28, invests in distressed and undervalued debt and
equity globally. The firm in July raised $2.8 billion for its
second European special-situations fund.  Fortune previously reported news of Furst’s appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  