-- Cyprus Deposit Raid Stokes Senior Bond Concerns: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-03-19T16:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/bail-in-speculation-over-cyprus-sends-bank-default-risk-soaring.html
Europe ’s unprecedented tax on
Cyprus bank deposits is raising concern among holders of senior
bank bonds that they’ll be made to take losses should another
country need rescuing.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
insuring senior debt of 25 banks and insurers rose as much as 19
basis points to 162 basis points yesterday, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest jump since Aug. 2,
before the  European Central Bank  steadied markets by announcing
its bond-buying program, and the gauge is now at the highest in
almost three weeks.  European authorities pushed President Nicos Anastasiades to
raid bank accounts to help fund Cyprus’s 10-billion euro ($13
billion) bailout, potentially providing a blueprint for imposing
losses on senior investors, who rank alongside depositors as the
last to be hurt when bonds are impaired.  “This sets a precedent,” said Robert Kendrick, an analyst
in  London  at Legal & General Investment Management, which
oversees about $585 billion. “If the authorities are prepared
to impose losses on depositors, then presumably they wouldn’t
think twice about impairing senior bondholders.”  Moody’s Investors Service said the move is bad for bank
debt across Europe and shows policy makers are willing to
disrupt markets to avoid sovereign defaults and a euro break-up.  Bonds ‘Hit’  Banks in the south of Europe, whose governments are most in
need of international cash to meet their debt obligations, bore
the brunt of the increase in swap prices. Contracts on Milan-
based  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  climbed as much as 23 basis points yesterday
and were up 13 basis points today at 353, the highest since
March 4, prices compiled by Bloomberg show.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
 Spain ’s biggest lender, surged as much as 21 basis points
yesterday and today rose 13 to 279.  If countries such as Spain or  Italy  needed to produce money
to help fund their own bailouts, “it’s quite clear that senior
bonds would be hit before” depositors protected by government
deposit-guarantee programs, said Steve Hussey, a credit analyst
in London at AllianceBernstein Ltd., which manages $430 billion.  U.S. Risk  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 2.1 basis points to a mid-price of 81.6 basis points as
of 12:40 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 2.8 basis points to 17.89 basis points,
the highest since August 2012. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 6.1 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Richest Pickings  By taxing bank accounts, European Union policy makers are
targeting Cyprus’s richest pickings. The island’s banks had 40.1
billion euros of  deposits  as of Jan. 31, equivalent to 208
percent of the economy, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That’s higher than for other countries in the euro region’s
weaker peripheral countries, stoking speculation policy makers
would target Spanish or Italian lenders’ debt piles to fund
bailouts. Spanish bank deposits are equivalent to 82 percent of
the nation’s gross domestic product and in Italy the figure is
 64 percent , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There just wasn’t a significant layer of subordinated or
senior unsecured debt in the  capital structure  to take the hit”
in Cyprus, though elsewhere “that’s not necessarily the case,”
said Steve Hooker, the managing director of foreign research in
Hartford,  Connecticut , at Newfleet Asset Management LLC, which
oversees about $10.7 billion. “It just calls into question the
sanctity of the senior unsecured bondholder in the banks.”  Bail-Ins  Senior bank bondholders have avoided losses in the
financial crisis, apart from in  Denmark  in 2011. Policy makers
are aiming to give member states powers to impair senior
bondholders by 2018.  “The EU and ECB don’t want to lose money and will do what
it takes to make somebody else pay, and if it’s convenient to
make bondholders pay they’ll do it,” said Peter Tchir, the
founder of TF Market Advisors in New York. “They’ve gone too
far. This will impact people’s long-term decision making. The
only rational decision seems to be to reduce exposure to
European banks.”  Bank default swaps extended their increase today on
speculation Cypriot lawmakers will shoot down the deposit levy
when they vote in Nicosia, risking the Mediterranean island’s
euro membership. The Markit iTraxx Financial gauge rose a
further 10 basis points to 162 basis points, the highest since
March 1, prices compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bearing Brunt  Bonds sold by lenders with the lowest credit ratings were
hurt the most by the downturn in sentiment toward European
lenders after Cyprus’s announcement. The market disruption has
sent the euro down 1.5 percent to its weakest level this year
versus the dollar.  “It’s opening a bunch of potential outcomes going
forward,” said Dorian Garay, a New York-based money manager of
investment-grade debt at ING Investment Management, which
oversees about $240 billion. “Everything will be included” to
pay for future bailouts, and senior debt may “be affected in
the same way that depositors have been affected in this case,”
Garay said.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold speculative-
grade bank bonds instead of government debt rose 14 basis points
to a two-week high of 377 since the Cyprus tax announcement,
according to the Bloomberg High-Yield Financials Spread Index.
Yesterday’s 16 basis-point jump was the biggest since Feb. 26,
after Italy’s inconclusive elections.  “The situation in Cyprus is dramatically different than
it’s been in Italy or Spain, for example, but this does show the
extent to which the ECB and EU countries are prepared to go,”
said Mark Pibl, the head of credit strategy at Pierpont
Securities LLC in New York. “That’s what a lot of people are
nervous about. Today there’s more uncertainty out there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  