-- Bank of America Hires Debt Market Bankers From Credit Suisse
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-03-18T08:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/bank-of-america-hires-debt-markets-bankers-from-credit-suisse.html
Bank of America Corp.  hired two
debt capital markets bankers from  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  as the
lender reorganizes its Asian bond and loan arranging unit.  Devesh Ashra will join as head of  Asia  debt capital markets
syndicate, according to an internal memo confirmed by Mark
Tsang, a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank.
Ashra left Credit Suisse in  Hong Kong  last week, a person
familiar with the matter said. Hital Desai will also move over
from the Swiss bank as part of the bond syndicate team, while
three current Bank of America employees were given new roles,
the memo stated.  The U.S. bank holds a 7.4 percent market share among
arrangers of dollar-, euro- and yen-denominated bonds sold by
companies from Asia outside  Japan  this year, ranking seventh,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. HSBC Holdings Plc tops the
list, with Credit Suisse coming in ninth, the data show. Bank of
America has helped raise debt for companies including Noble
Group Ltd.,  Swire Properties Ltd. (1972)  and  Bank of India , boosting
its share of deals from 5.9 percent in 2012.  At least three bankers left the lender’s Asian debt capital
markets team in March last year, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time.  More Focus  In other changes announced today, Ashish Malhotra becomes
head of Asia DCM, Ranobir Mukherji was appointed vice chairman
of Asia DCM and Siong Ooi was named head of Asia-Pacific
leveraged finance and loans, according to the memo.  The moves “will provide us with a more focused coverage
model across the spectrum of DCM products,” according to the
memo, dated today, which was headed as an announcement from
Jason Cox and James Fleming, co-heads of Asia-Pacific global
capital markets.  A Credit Suisse spokesperson declined to comment on Ashra
and Desai’s departures today.  Credit Suisse was hired to arrange investor meetings ahead
of a possible U.S. dollar-denominated perpetual bond sale by
Catlin Insurance Co., a person familiar with the matter said
March 1, asking not to be identified because the details are
private.  Malhotra, who has worked for Bank of America since 2005 and
was previously head of debt syndicate, is now responsible for
investment-grade and high-yield origination across the region,
according to the memo. Ooi will focus on origination and
syndication of leveraged finance, while Mukherji will work on
key client debt origination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  