-- Kuroda Gets BOJ Monetary-Policy Fixer as Amamiya Returns
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-03-19T01:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/bank-of-japan-regime-change-deepens-as-amamiya-back-from-osaka.html
Incoming  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda will have a veteran of quantitative easing as
his top policy planner, after Masayoshi Amamiya was brought back
from running the bank’s  Osaka  branch.  Amamiya, who led the monetary affairs department for six
years before being sent to Osaka in May, got his old job back as
one of six executive directors, according to a BOJ statement in
Tokyo yesterday. The veteran central banker did a stint at the
Finance Ministry earlier in his career, an experience he may tap
as the government and BOJ step up policy coordination.  The central bank official, 57, was at the helm of the
department that draws up policy options when the BOJ adopted a
goal of 1 percent inflation and surprised forecasters by
injecting 10 trillion yen of  stimulus  in February 2012. Now, his
return gives him a chance to plot strategy as Kuroda attempts to
corral the nine-member board behind more easing.  “Amamiya is well respected inside the BOJ because he is
good at finding the middle ground,” said Takahiro Sekido,  Japan 
strategist in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., who
worked at the central bank for 14 years, until 2011. “He will
keep Kuroda happy by offering easing options, while he will keep
the new regime from crossing the line.”  The return of Amamiya after less than a year as head of the
 Osaka branch  breaks with typical tenures in the job. His
dispatching to Osaka, the commercial center of western Japan and
home of  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , months after the February stimulus
surprise was also a split with regular personnel announcements
traditionally being unveiled in early July.  Shirakawa Exits  Today is the last day for outgoing Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his two deputies. The departing BOJ chief, who
repeatedly warned against the danger of asset bubbles stemming
from excess stimulus, holds his farewell press briefing at 3:30
p.m. in Tokyo.  The new central bank leadership team starts tomorrow,
according to a government statement.  Shigeki Kushida takes over in Osaka after overseeing the
Nagoya branch, the BOJ said yesterday. Kazuo Momma, whose job
Amamiya is retaking, becomes deputy chief of international
affairs -- the outgoing executive director for the bureau is
Hiroshi Nakaso, who shifts to deputy governor this week.  Kuroda, 68, who has been Asian Development Bank president
since 2005 and previously served as vice finance minister in
charge of currency policy, was confirmed for his new post three
days ago. Analysts at banks from JPMorgan Chase & Co to Barclays
Plc expect the BOJ to add stimulus as soon as the next policy
meeting on April 3-4.  Personnel Changes  “The BOJ is aware that it needs to change not only its
mindset toward monetary easing, but also its personnel,” said
 Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Tokyo and a former BOJ official who isn’t related to
the governor. “This signifies the end of the Shirakawa era.”  Kuroda hasn’t publicly commented on any plans to change
personnel. At both the Finance Ministry and the ADB he found
roles for Masahiro Kawai, who co-wrote an opinion piece with him
in 2002 calling for an inflation target at Japan’s central bank.
Kawai is currently dean of the Tokyo-based Asian Development
Bank Institute.  Along with Nakaso, who told lawmakers last week he didn’t
see a divergence in views on policy between himself and Kuroda,
academic Kikuo Iwata is poised to join the central bank as a
deputy governor this week.  Monetary Affairs  Amamiya was promoted to executive director of monetary
affairs in 2010, when the BOJ set up its current asset-purchase
program with an initial 5 trillion yen. The fund became the main
policy tool, with the benchmark interest rate near zero, as the
bank sought to revive growth in the world’s third-largest
economy. The program is now targeted to reach 76 trillion yen
($804 billion).  He was also in place when the board adopted a goal of 1
percent inflation last year. Under pressure from Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, who swept to victory in elections in December on a
platform of reflation, the BOJ two months ago embraced a target
of 2 percent gains in consumer prices.  Expectations of greater easing have sent the yen about 16
percent lower against the dollar since mid-November and
propelled stocks to a 4 1/2 year high. The currency was 0.3
percent weaker at 95.52 per dollar as of 9:43 a.m. in Tokyo,
while the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 2 percent.  Toyota Motor Corp. has climbed 23 percent this year as the
exchange rate became more competitive for its exports. The
company agreed last week to pay its employees in Japan the
biggest bonus in five years, anticipating its net income to
triple this fiscal year.  Bond Purchases  Kuroda, who said last week he wants to discuss easing
“soon,” has repeatedly said that monetary policy alone can end
deflation. He signaled to lawmakers he would expand bond
purchases, saying that a self-imposed rule limiting the scale of
buying isn’t something adopted by other central banks.  The BOJ has pledged to keep the value of its bond holdings
below the amount of cash in circulation, excluding the asset-
purchase fund which it counts separately.  In parliamentary testimony in August 2011, Amamiya played
down the importance of the rule. The BOJ is similar to other
global central banks, he said, once bond purchases through the
asset-purchase program are taken into account.  Policy options under the new BOJ leadership include
accelerating bond-purchase plans and extending the maturity of
debt that the central bank buys, Kyohei Morita, chief economist
at Barclays in  Tokyo , said in a research report dated March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  