-- Barclays, JPMorgan Top Greenwich Structured Product Issuers Poll
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-03-18T15:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/barclays-jpmorgan-top-greenwich-structured-product-issuers-poll.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  topped a poll of providers of structured products to
individual investors, according to a survey by Greenwich
Associates.  The Stamford, Connecticut-based research company asked 369
distributors of the securities -- which can include advisers,
brokers and private banks -- who they thought were the most
important sellers of retail structured products in 2012. Forty-
four percent named London-based Barclays and JPMorgan in New
York as the top firms globally, Greenwich said in a report,
which was based on the opinions of the respondents rather than
actual transactions.  The company said the two banks dominated the global retail
structured products business because their platforms extend
across all major regions.  “Barclays and JPMorgan lead this market due to the breadth
of their capabilities and franchises,” Andrew Awad, a
consultant at Greenwich, said in the report.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  was cited as having the next biggest
“market penetration,” followed by UBS AG,  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , according to the poll.  Greenwich also recognized HSBC as a “global quality
leader” for providing the best service to distributors,
according to the report.  U.S. investors have bought $7.84 billion of structured
notes this year, just below the $8.92 billion purchased during
the same period last year. European and Asian investors have
sunk $18.7 billion into the securities, 13 percent less than the
year before, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to investors, while earning
fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose value is
derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  