-- BASF Opts Out of Leather-Chemical Mergers With Asia Refocus
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-18T14:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/basf-opts-out-of-leather-chemical-mergers-with-asia-refocus.html
BASF SE (BAS)  said it will slim its
leather and textile chemicals unit and focus on the most
profitable automotive and printing areas, opting out of a wave
of consolidation in the industry led by Clariant AG for now.  About 65 jobs will be cut worldwide, including 29 at BASF’s
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based headquarters and other positions
elsewhere in  Europe  and  South America , BASF said today. By
contrast, about 23 jobs will be added in growth markets such as
China, India and Turkey, BASF said.  The move comes at a time when Clariant’s decision to sell
its leather-chemicals business is expected to spark more deals
in the $4 billion industry. The European industry --dominated by
a handful of companies including Germany’s  Lanxess AG (LXS)  and Dutch
Stahl Holdings -- has suffered as Asian rivals added capacity
driven by local demand for luxury bags, shoes and upholstery.
TFL has been put up for sale by creditors.  “We are re-shaping our business setup to strengthen our
long-term ability to compete in a rapidly changing market
environment,” Francois Desne, a senior vice president at the
unit, said in a statement. “BASF strives to remain the
preferred partner of the leather and textile industries.”  The leather-chemical business will in future concentrate on
the auto and premium segments while textile chemicals will focus
on printing and finishing, BASF said. Research and development
activities for the businesses will move to Shanghai.  Clariant (CLN)  previously tried to sell its unit in 2008, and
Lanxess and BASF had discussed combining their leather-chemicals
assets, people familiar with the matter said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  