-- Bayer, Apple, Spanx, Grumpy Cat: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-18T11:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/bayer-apple-spanx-grumpy-cat-intellectual-property.html
A unit of  Bayer AG (BAYN) , Germany’s
largest drugmaker, sued  India ’s Glenmark Generics Ltd. seeking
to stop sales of a generic form of its  Finacea  gel used to treat
rosacea.  Glenmark, based in Mumbai, is seeking U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval for a generic version of the drug before
Bayer’s patent 6,534,070 expires in 2018, according to a
complaint filed March 14 in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  Plaintiffs will suffer “irreparable harm for which they
have no adequate remedy at law” unless Glenmark is prohibited
from using the technology before the patent expires, Bayer said
in court papers.  “Based on available information, Glenmark believes it may
be a first applicant” to file for the generic version of
Finacea “and may be entitled to 180 days of generic market
exclusivity,” Glenmark said in a statement March 15.  Finacea had U.S. sales of about $95 million for the 12
months ending Sept. 30, according to data compiled by  IMS
Health , a provider of health-care information, Glenmark said.  The case is Intendis GMBH v. Glenmark Generics Ltd., 13-
cv-00421, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Apple Accused of Technology Theft by Lucas-Founded Company  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was accused by THX Ltd., a company founded by
“ Star Wars ” producer  George Lucas , of stealing speaker
technology used in iPhones, iPads and iMac products.  THX holds a 2008 patent for a speaker unit that can boost
sound output and attach to computers or flat-screen televisions,
according to a complaint filed on March 14 in federal court in
 San Jose ,  California .  Apple products that incorporate the speaker units infringe
the THX patent, causing the company “monetary damage and
irreparable harm,” according to the lawsuit. The complaint
seeks a court order to stop the alleged infringement and a
reasonable royalty, or damages to compensate THX for lost
profit.  THX, founded in 2002, drew its name from Lucas’s first
film, THX 1138, according to Wookieepedia, a website about
“Star Wars.”  Once part of Lucasfilms, THX created a set of standards and
a certification system for theater sound systems to ensure the
sound quality of “Star Wars” movies could be reproduced for
moviegoers, according to the company’s website.  This year, San Rafael, California-based THX announced its
first mobile application, THX tune-up, available in Apple’s
iTunes  App Store , according to a Jan. 29 statement from THX. The
app allows consumers to use an Apple device with the iOS
operating system to adjust the performance of televisions,
projectors and speakers, according to the statement.  Marika Knapp, a spokeswoman for THX, said in an e-mail that
the company doesn’t comment on pending legal matters.  Colleen Patterson, spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on the complaint.  The case is THX Ltd. v. Apple Inc., 13-cv-01161, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California.  Spanx Takes on Yummie Tummie in Fight Over Design Patents  Spanx Inc., the Georgia-based maker of women’s body-shaping
undergarments, filed suit in federal court in Atlanta seeking a
declaration that it doesn’t infringe patents held by a New York-
based rival company.  According to the complaint, Times Three Clothier LLC, which
does business as Yummie Tummie, sent Spanx a letter in January
claiming that a number of its garments infringe seven Yummie
Tummie design patents. The two companies have failed to come to
agreement over the infringement allegations, and Spanx said
Yummie Tummie has “expressed its willingness to enforce its
patents.”  In its pleadings, Spanx says it doesn’t infringe the
patents and asked the court for a non-infringement declaration
and for awards of litigation costs and attorney fees.  Times Three is associated with Heather Thompson Schindler,
the named inventor on the patents and a cast member of the Bravo
Channel’s “Real Housewives of  New York .” The company didn’t
respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Spanx Inc.  v. Times Three Clothier LLC, 1:13-
cv-00710-WSD, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Georgia 
(Atlanta).  Cereplast Gets Patent for Biodegradable Nanopolymer Composition  Cereplast Inc. (CERP) , a California-based maker of bio-based
resins, received a U.S. patent for biodegradable nanopolymer
compositions and articles made from this compound.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, patent 8,389,614, issued March 5, covers a biodegradable
composition that can be used in molded, formed and extruded
articles such as packing materials and disposable beakers, cups
and cutlery.  In addition to the bio-based polymer, the compound includes
minerals such as silica or nanoclays belonging to the
vermiculate family.  Presently Cereplast of El Segundo, California, creates
 compostable bioplastic pellets  that its customers use to make
compostable packaging and single-use consumer products.  Cereplast applied for the patent in May 2011, with the
assistance of Boston’s Wolf, Greenfield & Sacks PC.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Gujarati Milk Producers’ Group Blocks Rival’s ‘Imul’ Trademark  Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd. has
blocked a Bengali milk producers’ co-op from registering
“Imul” as a trademark, the Hindu newspaper  reported .  India’s  Intellectual Property  Appellate Board canceled the
registration, saying “Imul” was too similar in sound to
“Amul,” the brand under which the Gujarat milk group marketed
its products, according to the newspaper.  The board said the two marks were phonetically similar, and
consumers were likely to be confused, the Hindu reported.  Initially the Registrar of Trademarks had permitted the
registration, saying it would have caused the Bengali group
unnecessary inconvenience and damage to refuse registration,
according to the newspaper.  ‘Grumpy Cat’ Owners Seek to Register Phrase, Images as
Trademarks  The owners of a cat whose scowling images have become an
Internet  meme  have applied to register “Grumpy Cat” as a
trademark.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, four applications were filed at the end of January to
register “Grumpy Cat” and an image of that cat as trademarks.
Applicants said they plan to use the mark on a variety of items
including beer mugs, decorative magnets, mouse pads, covers and
cases for mobile phones, clothing, stuffed toys and
entertainment services.  The applicant is listed as “Grumpy Cat Inc. Corp. Ohio,”
according to the database. Trademark counsel is  Kia Kamran  of
 Los Angeles , whose  website  indicates he does IP work for the
 music industry .  The cats owners,  when interviewed on NBC’s “Today” show ,
said they have begun creating “Grumpy Cat” merchandise in
response to consumer demands. Their website already offers a
 range of Grumpy Cat products , including coffee mugs, key chains
and posters, all featuring images of the scowling cat in a
variety of poses.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  TV Station Owners Say Retransmission Agreements Are Confidential  The corporate owners of four Pacific Northwest broadcast-
television stations filed suit against a cable outlet owned by a
public utility in Tacoma,  Washington , claiming the details of
their financial arrangements with the cable outlet are a trade
secret, the Tacoma News Tribune  reported .  They filed suit in Pierce County Superior Court seeking a
court order halting the release of the records to the News
Tribune, the newspaper reported.  The station owners claim that the documents -- known as
“retransmission agreements” --  covering how much they charge
Click Cable TV to rebroadcast their signals are a closely
guarded secret in the industry and their release would be
unprecedented, according to the News Tribune.  The newspaper is arguing that the agreements are public
contracts that should be released in the public interest, the
News Tribune reported.  Texas Payday Lenders Claim Backers ID is Protected Trade Secret  Two  Texas  state legislators have filed bills requiring so-
called payday loan operators to disclose their financial
backers, the Austin, Texas, Statesman newspaper  reported .  The Consumer Service Alliance of Texas, a trade group for
the payday-loan industry, said this information is a trade
secret and disclosing it put its members at a competitive
disadvantage, according to the newspaper.  Several of the organizations’ members have filed suits in
Texas seeking to block disclosure of what they claim are their
trade secrets, according to the Statesman.  One of the two lawmakers who filed pro-disclosure bills --
Representative Eddie Rodriguez, an Austin Democrat -- told the
newspaper that aim of the measures is identification of the
“big money” interests that benefit from lender’s so-called
predatory practices.  Coca-Cola Accused of Using GPS System Against China’s Security  The  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  has been accused of using GPS equipment
in a manner that threatens  China ’s national security,  Sky News 
 reported .  The soft drink company says it is using the system on its
delivery trucks solely to improve service and efficiency,’’
according to Sky News.  China tightly controls the use of satellite-navigation
systems, limiting them to use with government-approved maps, Sky
News reported.  These approved maps omit features the government classifies
as secret, and accuses those who use unapproved systems of
trying to obtain classified information illegally, according to
Sky News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 