-- Bell Council Corruption Case Deliberations Enter Fourth Week
-- B y   T o r i   R i c h a r d s ,   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/bell-council-corruption-case-deliberations-enter-fourth-week.html
Jurors deciding the case of six
former officials of  Bell, California , charged with looting 
public funds begin their fourth week without a verdict as 
deliberations drag on as long as the one-month trial.  The jury, weighing the case of alleged wrongdoing in a
blue-collar suburb from a downtown Los Angeles courthouse, 
ended last week by reviewing evidence, including testimony from 
Bell councilwoman Teresa Jacobo about a conversation she had 
with former city manager  Robert Rizzo  regarding pay.  Jacobo, 55, Oscar Hernandez, 65, George Mirabal, 63, Luis Artiga, 52, George Cole, 63, and Victor Bello, 54, were accused
of misappropriating about $1.2 million in public funds by
getting paid almost $8,000 a month for attending board meetings
that prosecutors said never took place or lasted a few minutes.  The state court trial didn’t include Rizzo, who was charged 
with 53 counts of misappropriation and conflict of interest. He
was accused of giving about $1.9 million in unauthorized loans 
to himself and others. Rizzo and former assistant city manager 
Angela Spaccia will be tried in a separate case.  All eight of the officials were arrested in September 2010
and accused of misappropriating more than $5.5 million.   The Bell scandal, with Rizzo receiving $800,000 a year to 
run a city of 38,000, has put the pay of municipal executives 
in  California  under scrutiny. The median salary for the state's 
city managers in 2009 was $187,728, according to California's 
controller’s office.  Household Income  Bell, located about 10 miles (16 kilometers) southeast of
Los Angeles, has five council members who serve part-time and
select the city’s mayor from among themselves.   The median household income of the city’s residents is 
$37,121 and 93 percent of them are Hispanic, according to U.S. 
Census data. Twenty-five percent live below the poverty line.  Prosecutors alleged that the six former council members on
trial were paid for “phantom” committee meetings on four
boards, the Solid Waste Authority, Surplus Property Authority,
Public Finance Authority and Community Housing Authority, from
the start of 2006 through July 2010.  Lawyers for the six defendants have argued that their
clients were unaware that the compensation they received was
tied to specific boards rather than part of their overall salary
as council members.  Legally Unauthorized  Shepard Kopp, Jacobo’s lawyer, said in his closing argument
that the prosecution failed to prove Jacobo knew the payments
she received weren’t legally authorized or that she should have
known they were legally unauthorized.  Kopp said Jacobo was a hard-working and caring person who 
relied on the advice of Rizzo and city attorney Ed Lee, who both 
told her the salary was legal.  The case is People v. Hernandez, BA376025, California
Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in state court in Los Angeles at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Tori Richards in state court in Los Angeles at 
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 