-- Berlusconi Offers Bersani a Path to Italy Premiership
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-03-18T08:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/berlusconi-s-pdl-offers-bersani-a-path-to-italian-premiership.html
(Corrects Berlusconi’s title in first paragraph.)  Former Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty Party offered to back
rival Pier Luigi Bersani’s bid to become prime minister if his
 Democratic Party  will support a PDL candidate for the
presidency.  “After three presidents in a row from the Left, moderates
deserve a representative in the presidential palace,” PDL
Secretary General Angelino Alfano said yesterday in an interview
on state-owned RAI3 television. “We will propose someone with
great prestige, absolutely acceptable to the Left, and that
would ease the way to the birth of a Bersani government.”  Bersani is struggling to put together a government after
inconclusive elections last month left him with a majority in
the Chamber of Deputies, though well short in the Senate, where
Berlusconi and comedian-turned-anti-establishment-politician
Beppe Grillo have blocking minorities. Bersani has so far ruled
out any alliance with Berlusconi’s forces, while Grillo has
refused to consider backing any of the existing parties.  An unidentified PD official rejected Alfano’s offer, news
agency Ansa reported.  Italy ’s 10-year bond yield has risen 29 basis points to
4.74 percent since the Feb. 24-25 elections on investor concern
that a weak or divided government won’t be able to shield Italy
from fallout from the debt crisis.  Second Choices  The obstacles facing Bersani this weekend were apparent
when he had to eject his initial candidates for the speakerships
of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate in favor of political
neophytes in a bid to lure enough votes from Grillo’s backers to
get them installed. Laura Boldrini, a former spokeswoman for the
United Nations High Commission for Refugees, was elected speaker
of the lower house, while Pietro Grasso, Italy’s top anti-mafia
prosecutor, won in the Senate with the support of a handful of
Grillo lawmakers.  Grillo in his blog called for the resignation of any of his
lawmakers who backed Grasso after ordering them to cast blank
ballots in the vote. He has said his Five-Star Movement will
never support the existing parties, which he accuses of having
ruined the country, and has said he wants to drive them all from
politics.  President Giorgio Napolitano, whose terms ends on May 15,
will begin consultations with the political parties on March 20
as he seeks to find a way out of the political impasse. As
Bersani did win a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, he will
probably be given the first chance to try to form a government,
though without the support of either part of Berlusconi or
Grillo’s forces, he has little chance of putting together a
majority.  Napolitano may seek to build another so-called technical
government led by a non-politician who would be acceptable to
enough of the new lawmakers to win confidence votes in both
chambers to form a government. Such a move would be a way to
avoid calling another election.  Napolitano orchestrated the current technical government
led by  Mario Monti , a former European Union competition
commissioner who was president of  Bocconi University  of Milan
when he was asked to lead the government after Berlusconi
resigned in November 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  