-- MBIA Executives Take Home $6.2 Million in Realized Compensation
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-18T23:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/mbia-executives-take-home-6-2-million-in-realized-compensation.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  Chief Financial Officer
Chuck Chaplin and Chief Operating Officer William Fallon each
took home $6.2 million in pay last year, the bond insurer
hobbled by soured mortgage debt said in a regulatory filing.  The sums represent amounts they realized during the year,
including salary, cash bonuses and pay accrued in previous
periods, the Armonk, New York-based company said yesterday in a
 filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The figures exclude the value of new, unvested equity
awards and deferred long-term incentives, according to the
filing. MBIA reported $10.7 million in 2012 pay for each of the
executives based on SEC reporting rules. They earned $3.5
million each based on the view of the board’s compensation
committee.  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman, declined to comment.  The New York State regulator for MBIA’s insurance units
criticized the company in December for paying four executives,
including Chaplin and Fallon, a total of $11.4 million in cash
to stay for three more years. Chaplin and Fallon were set to
receive $3.5 million each and must repay a portion and forfeit
additional stock awards if they leave before December 2015
without the board’s consent.  The credit rating of MBIA’s insurance unit that was created
in 2009 to jumpstart its municipal-debt guarantee business was
cut three levels in February to junk by  Standard & Poor’s .  While the National Public Finance unit, reduced to BB from
BBB, was created to split off its main muni-bond business from
mortgage losses, S&P said the business may not be able to
recover about a $1.6 billion intercompany loan to its distressed
unit if regulators seize that subsidiary as claims erode its
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  