-- BlackRock to Cut About 300 Jobs in Fink’s Reorganization
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-03-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/blackrock-to-cut-about-300-jobs-in-fink-s-reorganization.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, is cutting about 300 jobs, extending a
reorganization that included the shakeup of its investment units
last year.  BlackRock will reduce its workforce by less than 3 percent,
with some workers leaving immediately and others over coming
months, President Robert S. Kapito said today in a memo to
employees. Kapito said in the memo that BlackRock will continue
to hire and will probably have more employees at the end of 2013
than at the end of 2012.  “We are reshaping the organization by shifting certain
responsibilities and moving some roles to different locations or
areas of the business,” Kapito said. “The mix of employees
will change as our business is constantly evolving.”  Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, who with Kapito
co-founded New York-based BlackRock more than two decades ago,
moved more fund-management executives into top leadership roles
in August as the firm seeks to expand by attracting investor
assets rather than making acquisitions. Fink also split
BlackRock’s portfolio-management group into five investment
units to boost returns and revive investor deposits into
actively managed funds.  BlackRock, whose growth has been fueled by acquisitions
including the December 2009 purchase of Barclays Plc’s
investment unit, relied on the iShares exchange-traded funds to
drive its $47 billion in client deposits in the  fourth quarter 
of 2012. Active equity funds lost $5.4 billion to withdrawals
and investors pulled $374 million from active bonds.  BGI Acquisition  The  acquisition  of  Barclays Global Investors , which gave
BlackRock the iShares ETFs and index-tracking funds, vaulted the
firm to the top rank by assets and helped give it $3.79 trillion
under management. BlackRock has said that while it will consider
smaller purchases, it will not seek transformational deals.  BlackRock is also working to increase its sales to
individual investors. Kapito said in February the firm was
“underpenetrated” in the U.S. retail market with just a 2
percent share among assets in open-end mutual funds.  Fink has made a number of other changes to the firm’s top
ranks in recent months. BlackRock in February named its long-
time strategic and financial adviser Gary Shedlin as chief
financial officer, as Ann Marie Petach moved to a client-
oriented job at the firm’s investment institute.  The firm hired Philipp Hildebrand, the former head of the
Swiss central bank, in October to help expand relationships with
institutional clients overseas, and Linda Robinson in 2011 as
head of marketing and communications to oversee a five-year
branding campaign.  Replacing Managers  BlackRock also replaced five managers last month at funds
including those that invest in energy and small-capitalization
stocks. Robin Batchelor and Poppy Allonby took over from Denis
Walsh and Daniel Neumann as managers of two natural-resources
mutual funds. Travis Cooke replaced Andrew Thut and Andrew Leger
on the $1.4 billion BlackRock Small Cap Growth Equity Portfolio.
Phil Ruvinsky, Lawrence Kemp and Kathryn Mongelli assumed
responsibility for running the $286 million BlackRock Mid-Cap
Growth Equity Portfolio from Eileen Leary.  BlackRock had 10,500 employees as of Dec. 31, compared with
10,100 employees a year earlier, according to regulatory
filings.  The firm has added more than 1,500 employees, or almost 18
percent of its workforce, since the start of 2010, Kapito said
in today’s memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  