-- Blackstone German Housing Sale Signals Peak: Real Estate
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-03-19T10:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/blackstone-german-housing-sale-signals-peak-real-estate.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are among private-equity investors selling the
most German housing assets since they plowed into the market in
2005, a sign that price gains may have peaked.  Investors plan to sell at least 5 billion euros ($6.5
billion) of apartments and shares of property companies this
year, according to company statements and people with knowledge
of the deals. Private-equity firms divested about 3.8 billion
euros of housing in 2007, when there were no share sales, data
from broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. show.  “We’re using the attractive market to clean out and
reposition our portfolio,” said Olaf Claessen, director of
asset management at London-based Round Hill Capital LLC, which
owns about 2.5 billion euros of German homes. “We don’t think
there’s an urgent need to exit, but certain properties have
gained in value and could make sensible exit scenarios.”  The German housing market has changed since private-equity
firms started investing at the beginning of the last decade,
creating opportunities for buyers with different objectives.
Investors like Blackstone, the world’s largest buyout firm, and
Goldman initially struggled to make good on bets that they could
buy apartments in bulk and then raise rents or resell at a
profit to individuals.  Delays in government plans to open up the market and the
financial crisis stifled gains until about 2009, when prices
began a four-year climb and German home ownership increased.  Rental Returns  Today’s prospective buyers, including pension funds and
insurers, may be more focused on annual returns from rents as
they seek to offset low interest rates on European fixed-income
assets. A German 10-year government bond yields about 1.4
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For those investors, returns of about 5 percent from rental
income are sufficient, according to Matthias Moser, head of
alternative investments at  Patrizia Immobilien AG. (P1Z)  The company
buys large apartment portfolios on behalf of pension funds and
insurers. It’s one of the bidders in talks to acquire 32,000
homes from Bayerische Landesbank for about 2.5 billion euros,
two people with knowledge of the matter said in January.  “What you get at today’s prices are reliable long-term
returns, but not the 20 percent that private equity seeks,”
Moser said.  Publicly traded German property companies such as  Deutsche
Wohnen AG, (DWNI)  TAG Immobilien AG and  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB)  are also
buying, taking advantage of their ability to raise capital on
the  stock market  at favorable terms.  Sales Jump  Housing portfolio sales and equity offerings by private-
equity firms are set to jump from 108 million euros in 2012
after prices rose by 17 percent from a 2009 low and rents
increased by 9 percent. The firms are cutting back now as price
gains slow, funds reach maturity and opportunities for higher
returns emerge in areas such as distressed debt sold by banks.  Apartment values in January fell for the first time on an
annual basis since December 2009, according to data compiled by
Berlin-based online mortgage broker Europace. The housing market
has “lost some vigor,” Germany’s central bank said in a
February report.  “They’re taking advantage of the opportunity,” said Andre Adami, head of the Berlin office at research company BulwienGesa
AG. “They see very clearly that you can get top prices at the
moment and the window of demand for German homes will close at
some point.”  Biggest Sellers  Three companies, New York-based Blackstone, Lincoln
Equities Group LLC of New Jersey and a Deutsche Bank AG unit
that invests in real estate and infrastructure, expect to sell
23,000 German homes combined this year, according to people with
knowledge of the plans.  Blackstone plans to sell almost 8,000 Berlin apartments
valued at about 400 million euros, two people with knowledge of
the matter said in February.  In the U.S., private-equity firms are buying single-family
houses with plans to rent them out, taking advantage of property
prices that fell by more than a third from a July 2006 peak and
growing demand from families to lease homes. Blackstone, the
largest investor in the industry, has spent more than $3.5
billion to purchase 20,000 homes across the country.  In addition to selling homes outright, some German
landlords are cashing in through the stock market. Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. may sell 30 percent to 40 percent of
Deutsche Annington, Germany’s largest landlord by number of
apartments, in an initial public offering, Guy Hands, founder of
the London-based buyout fund, said in an interview earlier this
month. Terra Firma will probably exit the company altogether
within two years, Hands said.  Property IPOs  Goldman’s Whitehall Street Real Estate unit in January
raised about 1.3 billion euros in an IPO of LEG Immobilien AG,
creating Germany’s largest landlord by market value. Whitehall
is included in the estimate for sales by private-equity
companies this year.  Spokesmen at Blackstone, LEG, Goldman Sachs and Deutsche
Bank declined to comment. No one at Lincoln or Deutsche
Annington responded to a request for a comment.  The sale of German real estate to private-equity firms
began in December 2000, when Terra Firma bought 64,000 homes
from Deutsche Bahn AG, the state-owned railway, for $2.6
billion. Government-owned institutions and companies including
utilities EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  also sold assets. Deal volumes
peaked in 2005 as private-equity firms took advantage of a 10-
year slump in the housing market to purchase 4.9 billion euros
of properties, according to Jones Lang.  More Homeowners  Investors were counting on a revival of the market as
lenders offered homebuyers a wider variety of mortgages,
enabling landlords to sell apartments to the occupants for more
than the price they paid. German home ownership increased by
about 1.7 percent from 1998 to 2006,  when it reached 41.6
percent , according to the Federal Statistics Office. By 2010,
ownership climbed to 45.7 percent, still one of the lowest rates
in Europe.  As government delays and the financial crisis hurt home
sales, rent restrictions limited companies’ ability to increase
income and attempts to cut maintenance costs were challenged by
tenants.  “Many of these PE firms’ plans didn’t pan out in the
end,” said Peter Papadakos, an analyst at Green Street Advisors
in London.  Private-equity firms don’t publish their returns from
German real estate investments.  Publicly traded German property companies including
Deutsche Wohnen, TAG Immobilien and GSW Immobilien are also
buying, using their shares as currency, Papadakos said.  Small Window  “The listed companies are the predominant buyers,” he
said. “They know there’s a short-lived window of opportunity
when their share price trades at a premium to the net asset
value.”  The FTSE/EPRA NAREIT Index of German property stocks rose
24 percent in the past 12 months.  Three companies climbed  by
more than 40 percent, led by Patrizia with a 69 percent gain and
 TAG Immobilien AG (TEG) , which increased by 42 percent.  Deutsche Wohnen, the country’s second-largest residential
landlord by market value, raised 195 million euros in January to
finance acquisitions. The previous month, TAG Immobilien, a
Hamburg-based residential property owner, raised 270 million
euros to purchase 11,350 east German homes from the government.  GSW Immobilien, the country’s No. 4 landlord by market
value, is issuing convertible bonds with coupons of less 2.5
percent. In November, the company raised 185 million euros.  IPO Glut  The additional supply of property stocks is already
weighing on the market, Green Street’s Papadakos said. That may
limit the ability of private-equity firms to take advantage of
home-price growth through share offerings.  “There’s probably a bit of new-issue fatigue among
investors,” he said. “Once you have five or six listed
residential companies, there’s less of a scarcity factor.”  The NAREIT property company index, which rose 10 percent in
the first quarter of 2012, has gained 0.6 percent this year.
Shares of LEG Immobilien, priced initially at 44 euros, closed
at 42.6 euros yesterday. The underwriting banks bought back
shares every day for a month following its Feb. 1 listing to
stabilize the price, Goldman Sachs said on March 6.  LEG’s pricing and the stock’s lackluster performance may
prompt Terra Firma to price a Deutsche Annington IPO more
conservatively, said Torsten Klingner, an analyst at Warburg
Research in Hamburg.  “With LEG, there was little breathing room in the price,”
he said. “With Annington, they’ll have to take investor
interests into account more adequately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  