-- BofA’s Countrywide Must Face FHFA’s Securities Fraud Claims
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-18T23:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/bofa-s-countrywide-must-face-fhfa-s-securities-fraud-claims-1-.html
Bank of America Corp .’s Countrywide
Financial unit must face securities fraud claims by the Federal
Housing Finance Agency, which sued for damages as the
conservator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles, in a
March 15 decision, denied Countrywide’s request to dismiss the
FHFA’s claims. Countrywide claimed that the agency failed to
provide sufficient factual information that the offering
documents for residential mortgage-backed securities contained
misrepresentations.  “The amended complaint alleges that Countrywide expanded
its underwriting guidelines through the ‘matching strategy,’ but
did not disclose that information to investors,” Pfaelzer said.
“The mere expansion of underwriting guidelines does not support
a claim under the securities laws, but failing to disclose that
expansion to investors constitutes a viable misstatement.”  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  and Fannie Mae bought $26.6 billion worth of
residential mortgage-backed securities that Countrywide sold
from Aug. 30, 2005, to Jan. 23, 2008, according to the
complaint, originally filed in state court in New York in 2011
and moved to federal court in Los Angeles. Pfaelzer last year
rejected Countrywide’s contention that the claims were filed too
late.  Pfaelzer said the FHFA has plausibly alleged that
Countrywide provided false information in the offering materials
regarding the loan-to-value ratios of the underlying mortgages.
The judge also said the agency adequately alleged that
Countrywide deviated from its listed underwriting guidelines,
and that the mortgage lender was to blame for the false credit
ratings of the securities.  Offering Documents  The judge said there was no plausible allegation that
Countrywide didn’t accurately represent the owner-occupancy of
the mortgaged homes provided by borrowers in the offering
documents for the mortgage-based securities.  The FHFA brought its lawsuit against Countrywide in
September of 2011 to make sure that it would fall within the
three years the agency had from the time of the start of its
conservatorship in September of 2008 to file tort claims on
behalf of Freddie Mac and  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , Christine Chung, a lawyer
for the agency, said at a hearing last year.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored
enterprises created to support the housing market by buying
residential mortgages in the secondary market, have operated
under U.S. conservatorship since 2008, when they were seized
amid subprime mortgage losses that pushed them toward
insolvency.  The judge in her March 15 ruling granted Bank of America’s
request to dismiss the claims against the bank as successor of
Countrywide Financial, which it acquired in 2008.  17 Banks  The FHFA sued 17 banks including Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG. Most of the suits
were filed in federal court in Manhattan in September 2011 or
moved to the court later. Mortgage-backed securities cases
against Countrywide are being coordinated in Los Angeles.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment on the judge’s ruling.  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Countrywide
Financial Corp., 12-cv-01059, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at +1-
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 