-- BOJ Easing Will Fail to Spur 2% Inflation, Waseda’s Noguchi Says
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-03-18T00:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/boj-easing-will-fail-to-spur-2-inflation-waseda-s-noguchi-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s path to revive the world’s third-biggest economy through
increased monetary stimulus will fail to turn around persistent
deflation, said Waseda University professor Yukio Noguchi.  That contrasts with the views of Abe’s picks to run the
 Bank of Japan. (8301)  Haruhiko Kuroda, due to become BOJ governor after
being approved by Japan’s parliament last week, has said the
central bank should buy a large amount of longer-term bonds to
achieve its goal of 2 percent inflation. Kikuo Iwata, confirmed
as one of two deputy governors, has said bond buying can end
deflation within two years.  “Quantitative easing doesn’t work effectively,” said
Noguchi, 72, an adviser at Waseda’s Financial Research Institute
in Tokyo. “Liquidity in the banking system has been vastly
expanded, but the money stock didn’t react. Not just in Japan -
it’s the same phenomenon in the U.S. It’s common sense around
the world.”  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, due to step down tomorrow
along with two deputies, and his board left policy unchanged at
their last meeting on March 7. The BOJ under Shirakawa pledged
to keep the value of its bond holdings below the amount of cash
in circulation, excluding a 76 trillion yen ($801 billion)
asset-purchase fund which it counts separately.  If the BOJ begins to directly underwrite Japanese
 government bonds , a process known as monetization, it could lead
to capital flight, a plunge in the yen and runaway inflation,
Noguchi said. That may be the only way the nation can lighten
the burden of its public debt, he said.  ‘Structural Reform’  Outstanding obligations will probably balloon to 245
percent of economic output this year, the most in the world,
according to an estimate by the  International Monetary Fund .  Japan returned to growth in the fourth quarter, data showed
on March 8, bolsteringAbe’s campaign to end 15 years of
deflation and revive the world’s third-biggest economy. That
contrasted with a report last week showing a plunge in machine
orders in January.  “What  Japan ’s economy needs in order to be revitalized is
structural reform,” according to Noguchi. “It’s not monetary
policy.”  Japanese  consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.2
percent in January from a year earlier, the third-straight
decline, the statistics bureau said on March 1. So-called core
consumer prices have declined an average of 0.2 percent each
month over the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The BOJ adopted a 2 percent inflation target in
January at Abe’s urging.  “An inflation target has been set, but it’s pretty obvious
it won’t be realized,” Noguchi said. “Even if monetary policy
can pull at prices, it can’t push.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in  Tokyo  at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  