-- Bovespa-Futures Rise as Commodities Gain Boost Exports
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-25T12:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/bovespa-index-futures-fall-as-commodities-drop-dims-export-view.html
Bovespa (IBOV)  futures rose as higher
commodities boosted the outlook for Brazilian raw-material
producers and after Cyprus reached agreement on a bailout,
easing concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  Homebuilder  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes  may move after Credit Suisse Group AG raised its
recommendation to the equivalent of hold. Competitor  Tecnisa SA (TCSA3) 
may be active after posting a fourth-quarter loss that was wider
than analysts had forecast, spurring Citigroup Inc. to downgrade
the stock to sell.  Bovespa-index  futures contracts  expiring in April added 0.4
percent to 55,645 at 9:04 a.m. in Sao Paulo.  Brazil ’s real was
little changed at 2.0098 per dollar.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials added
0.4 percent after Cyprus reached an accord with creditors,
paving the way for 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of emergency
loans to stave off the threat of default. The tentative
agreement between Cyprus and the so-called troika of
international lenders was reached in overnight talks in Brussels
and ratified by finance ministers from the 17-nation euro area.  The Bovespa has  retreated  13 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China 
has lost 6.7 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.2 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.8 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.14 billion
reais ($3 billion) on March 22, which compares with a daily
average of 7.67 billion reais this year through March 18,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  