-- BP Loses Bid to Dismiss Gross Negligence in Spill Trial
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-03-18T21:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/bp-loses-bid-to-dismiss-gross-negligence-in-spill-trial.html
BP Plc (BP/)  lost an effort to eliminate
the possibility of a finding of gross negligence that might
trigger fines as much as $17.6 billion in the trial over the
2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  “I’m not going to grant that motion,” U.S. District Judge
 Carl Barbier  in New Orleans today told a lawyer for the London-
based oil company. “I don’t see any point in arguing it.”  BP’s lawyer Andrew Langan asked Barbier to disallow a
gross-negligence finding as lawyers for the plaintiffs suing the
company rested their case. “We don’t think there has been a
finding of gross negligence” against BP, Langan said, only to
be immediately rebuffed by the judge in the nonjury trial.  For BP, a finding of gross negligence would mean the
company might be liable to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion
in Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive
damages to claimants who weren’t part of a $8.5 billion
settlement the company reached with most private party
plaintiffs last year.  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million barrels of oil
into the Gulf of Mexico. The accident sparked hundreds of
lawsuits against London-based BP, owner of the well, Vernier,
Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and Houston-based  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cement services.  Legal Tests  The trial over liability for the disaster began Feb. 25.
Barbier will determine responsibility for the disaster and
whether one or more of the companies acted with willful or
wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal
requirement for establishing gross negligence.  For Transocean and Halliburton, findings of gross
negligence would mean the companies might be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs.  Scott Dean, a spokesman for BP, declined to comment on
today’s ruling.  Lawyers for Halliburton and two other defendants,  Cameron
International Corp. (CAM) , and M-I Swaco, a unit of  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,
told Barbier today they would file motions to erase the gross-
negligence claim.  Houston-based Cameron, the maker of the blowout preventer
on the project, agreed to pay BP $250 million in December 2011
in exchange for the oil company’s indemnifying it from damage
claims. The settlement didn’t cover fines, penalties or punitive
damages.  Drilling Fluid  M-I Swaco, which provided drilling fluid, settled with BP
last year without disclosing the terms. Swaco’s lawyers filed a
motion today asking Barbier to find that that there is no
evidence that the company engaged in willful or wanton
misconduct. It also asked for a finding that no acts or
omissions by the company caused the disaster, according to court
papers.  Transocean began presenting its defense with testimony by
Calvin Barnhill, a petroleum engineer hired by the company as an
expert witness.  Barnhill, who has investigated some 100 oilfield incidents,
disagreed with earlier testimony by a U.S. Justice Department
drilling expert who characterized the crew of the doomed
Deepwater Horizon rig as complacent.  “They responded every time an event occurred,” Barnhill
testified today. “They were trying to get it right. I think
they just misinterpreted what they were seeing.”  No Intent  After three weeks of testimony in which plaintiff and
government lawyers accused BP, Transocean and Halliburton of
placing profits above safety, Barnhill said he saw no evidence
that anyone on the rig intentionally ignored pressure anomalies
in the minutes before the deadly blowout of April 20, 2010.  “I don’t think anybody out there deliberately
misinterpreted what they were seeing,” Barnhill said.  Barnhill said Transocean’s drilling crew had the
responsibility to monitor the Macondo well “at all times” for
a dangerous “kick,” pressure anomaly or other indication of a
blowout. A kick is an entry of gas or fluid into the wellbore,
which can set off a blowout.  BP, as operator of the well, was responsible for designing
and conducting a critical negative-pressure test, used to check
whether cementing had sealed off any leaks in the well, he said.
The test would have been used to shut down drilling operations,
if it hadn’t been misinterpreted as successful, he said.  Barnhill said a negative test with even “inconclusive”
results should have resulted in a shutdown.  ‘Isn’t Baseball’  “This isn’t baseball,” he said. A “tie doesn’t go to the
runner.”  Barnhill said the Transocean drill crew should have shut
down the well at 9:30 p.m. the night of the explosion, at the
same time that pumps were shut off.  The subsea blowout preventer and other emergency measures
weren’t activated until approximately 17 minutes later, Barnhill
testified. Transocean drilling supervisor, Randy Ezell, BP well
site leader  Donald Vidrine  and others made phone calls alerting
the command center of the vessel of continuing increases in
pressure despite the shutdown of all pumps on the rig.  “They started taking actions consistent with well
control,” Barnhill said of Vidrine and the Transocean drilling
supervisors and crew members. “Unfortunately, they were too far
gone” by that time, he said.  Moments later, pressurized oil and gas shot up from the
well more than a mile below the Gulf of Mexico. The rig burst
into flames and sank two days later, setting off the largest
offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  Engineer Call  About an hour before the blowout, Vidrine told BP onshore
drilling engineer Mark Hafle in a phone call that the test
results showed pressure on the drill pipe and zero pressure on
an additional pipe, called a kill line.  Hafle told Vidrine that “you can’t have pressure on the
drill pipe and zero pressure on the kill line in a test that’s
properly lined up,” Barnhill said. While this indicated the
test was unsuccessful, Vidrine did not stop work and instructed
the rig to proceed with operations, Barnhill testified.  Vidrine apparently never told the Transocean drilling crew
about the 8:52 p.m. call with Hafle, Barnhill said.  Barnhill doesn’t believe that supervisors intentionally
ignored what he thought was an “inconclusive” negative test,
he said under cross-examination by plaintiffs’ attorney Paul
Sterbcow.  “I really don’t believe these guys would have said ’damn
the torpedoes’” if they didn’t believe they had correctly
interpreted the negative test, Barnhill said.  Criminal Charges  Vidrine and Hafle have declined to testify, invoking their
Fifth Amendment right. Vidrine and another BP site manager,
Robert Kaluza, were indicted on federal charges of manslaughter,
have pleaded not guilty and are scheduled to go to trial next
January.  BP pleaded guilty to 14 federal charges, including
12 felonies, and admitted it misinterpreted a critical pressure
test just before the explosion. It agreed to pay $4 billion in
fines and penalties, plus $525 million to settle a Securities
and Exchange Commission claim that the company underestimated
the size of the spill.  BP, in settling the criminal prosecution, didn’t resolve
the lawsuit seeking civil Clean Water Act fines.  Transocean pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor Clean Water Act
violation and agreed to pay $1.4 billion, including $400 million
in criminal penalties.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans
at  allenmct@gmail.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  