-- Brazil's Rio Bravo Plans Fund for Investment in Northeast
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-03-18T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/brazil-s-rio-bravo-plans-fund-for-investment-in-northeast.html
Rio Bravo Investimentos, the
Brazilian asset manager founded by former central bank President
Gustavo Franco, is seeking to raise as much as 400 million reais
($203 million) for a fund that will invest in companies in the
nation’s Northeast region.  “We are hunting for middle-size companies with fast
growth,” Chief Investment Officer Paulo Bilyk, who started Rio
Bravo with Franco in 2000, said in an interview in Sao Paulo,
where the firm is based. “The Northeast is where we found a
number of those companies with better quality at an interesting
price,” said Bilyk, who helps manage 10 billion reais.  Private-equity firms are targeting the region as growth
there outpaces the business hubs of Sao Paulo and Rio de
Janeiro. Kinea, Darby Overseas Investments Ltd., Vinci Partners
Investimentos Ltda. and Graycliff Partners LP are among firms
that have purchased assets in the Northeast.  Kinea, the private-equity and asset-management boutique of
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , agreed last year to buy a stake in
Grupo Delfin, which has a network of medical diagnostics clinics
in the northeast states of Bahia and Rio Grande do Norte. In
September, Darby bought part of Dall, a food provider for
offshore oil platforms in six northeast states. Vinci Partners
and Graycliff also closed deals in the Northeast last year.  Rio Bravo, which has two funds already dedicated to the
region, plans to invest in companies with revenue between 80
million reais and 300 million reais, private-equity manager Luiz
Borges de Medeiros Neto said in an interview from Recife. The
fund will target health-related industries, non-durable consumer
goods, specialized retailers and infrastructure services.  Shifting Growth  The Northeast, which includes Maranhao, the country’s
poorest state, represented 13.5 percent of  Brazil ’s gross
domestic product in 2010, according to the most recent data
available from statistics bureau IBGE. That’s up from 13 percent
in 2002. Sao Paulo, Brazil’s richest state, accounted for 33.1
percent in 2010, down from 34.6 percent in 2002, while Rio de
Janeiro, the second-richest, declined 0.8 percentage point to
10.8 percent in 2010.  Rio Bravo’s new fund will be managed by its office in
Recife, where it has four employees.  For Related News and Information:
Actis to 3i See Deal Far From Sao Paulo to Rio: Corporate Brazil
Rio Bravo Energy Fund Seeks Investors Within, Outside Brazil
Brazil Buyout Firms’ $9 Billion in ‘Dry Powder’ Ready for Deals  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  