-- Brazil Swap Rates Drop for Third Day; Currency Little Changed
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-03-18T21:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/brazil-swap-rates-drop-for-third-straight-day-currency-weakens.html
Brazil’s swap rates fell for a
third day as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatened global growth and
spurred speculation that policy makers in Latin America’s
biggest country will refrain from raising borrowing costs.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 declined one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.57 percent. The real
was little changed at 1.9827 per U.S. dollar, after earlier
falling as much as 0.4 percent.  “The swap rates reflect what is going on abroad,” Luis Otavio de Souza Leal, the chief economist at Banco ABC Brasil SA
in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “The central bank
showed in the minutes that one of the factors generating caution
in monetary policy is the uncertainty abroad and the increase in
risk aversion.”  Minutes of the central bank’s March 5-6 meeting, published
last week, indicated that an increase in the 7.25 percent target
lending rate wasn’t imminent as policy makers said that “a
cautious management of monetary policy” was needed.  Traders
pared back bets today on an increase in  Brazil ’s benchmark rate
after an unprecedented levy on Cyprus’s bank savings revived
concern Europe’s debt crisis may worsen.  Analysts covering Brazil’s economy lowered their inflation
forecast for 2013 to 5.73 percent from 5.82 percent while
raising it to 5.54 percent from 5.50 percent for next year,
according to the median of about 100 estimates in a central bank
survey published today.  Inflation Outlook  Economists lowered their inflation forecast because
consumer tax cuts on food staples will help contain price
increases, according to Souza Leal.  “The market showed that it only sees this impact as
temporary since they decreased the inflation forecast for 2013
and raised it for 2014,” Souza Leal said.  Longer-term swap rates rose, with the contract due in
January 2017 rising three basis points to 9.36 percent, as
inflation concerns persisted, said Paulo Petrassi, a portfolio
manager at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis.  “The markets were digesting the news on Cyprus throughout
the day, and since domestic inflation continues to be worrying,
the swap rates came back to adjust for that,” he said in a
telephone interview.  After the real closed at a 10-month high of 1.9442 on March
8, it weakened three days later as the central bank intervened
by selling $1 billion of reverse foreign-exchange swaps, helping
exporters. The currency has rallied 3.5 percent this year, the
best performance among emerging-market currencies after
 Thailand ’s baht and  Mexico ’s peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  