-- California’s Lockyer Seeks Examination of School Bonds
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-03-19T01:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/california-s-lockyer-requests-probe-of-school-bond-deals.html
California Treasurer Bill Lockyer
asked state Attorney General  Kamala Harris  to determine whether
agreements between some school district officials and bond
underwriters used public funds in violation of the law.  Some California school districts are awarding exclusive
contracts to the companies for bond sales approved by voters in
an election, in return for getting campaign services from the
underwriter, Lockyer wrote in a letter yesterday to Harris. He
asked for a formal legal opinion on the practice.  “These arrangements raise substantive questions about
whether school-district officials have violated state law by
using public funds for campaign services related to advocating
the passage of bond measures,” Lockyer wrote.  Underwriters typically help school districts conduct
community forums and other public meetings on bond issues, and
sometimes conduct voter surveys or help prepare ballot
arguments, Lockyer said.  In some cases, schools agree that fees for the sales will
reimburse the underwriters for pre-election services, according
to the letter.  Lynda Gledhill, a spokeswoman for Harris, said the office
received the letter, will review it and didn’t have a comment.  Lockyer asked Harris for an opinion on whether a school
district violates state law by using public funds to advocate
the passage of a bond measure when it reimburses the underwriter
for the cost of offering campaign services, such as providing
campaign consultants.  He also asked whether an underwriter providing campaign
services in exchange for consideration for an exclusive
agreement to sell bonds should be required to report the cost of
the services as a contribution to the bond-measure campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 