-- Can China Take Over as World Economy’s 800-Pound Gorilla?
-- B y   D a n i e l   A k s t
-- 2013-03-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/can-china-take-over-as-world-economy-s-800-pound-gorilla-.html
Economics, like life, is a
balancing act. And the trouble with the global economy is that
it’s badly out of balance.  That’s the view of economists Peter Temin and David Vines
in their new book, “ The Leaderless Economy .” They say the
international cooperation needed to restore balance requires a
hegemon -- a farsighted, 800-pound gorilla of a nation with a
good grasp of Keynesian economics.  Sound like anyone you know? Before you start chanting
“U.S.A.,” be forewarned: The authors consider the U.S. a
hegemon on the way out.  The result is a book that is remarkable by being scary,
enlightening and just a little bit dull at the same time. You
can learn a lot by reading it, but you may not be convinced a
single economic powerhouse is so necessary after all.  The notion that the world’s economic woes -- including, in
the developed world, slow growth and heavy debts -- are the
result of global trade and financial imbalances isn’t new.  Paul
Krugman ,  Barry Eichengreen ,  Michael Pettis  and  Martin Wolf  have
written about this issue.  The essential argument, as made by Temin and Vines, is that
a nation’s balance of payments is inextricably connected with
whether it can maintain full employment and run on all economic
cylinders.  China’s Strategy  Thus,  China ’s export-oriented growth strategy, with its
artificial suppression of the yuan, was likely to lead to
unemployment in the U.S. absent dangerously low interest rates
and excessive borrowing -- both of which we had in the years
leading to the crash. These factors contributed to the housing
bubble and the subsequent crisis -- and a great deal of
unemployment.  What’s needed, Temin and Vines argue, is a dominant global
power to sustain an international approach to bringing the
world’s economies back into balance. It’s happened before -- in
1944 at  Bretton Woods ,  New Hampshire , where 44 nations agreed to
a new world monetary order under the aegis of what really was
the almighty dollar.  For a long time the U.S. was the hegemon, albeit not always
willingly or even consciously. But the authors see the financial
crisis of 2007-08 and its aftermath as a pivotal end-of-regime
episode, analogous to the terrible interregnum between British
and American economic leadership -- a period otherwise known as
the Great Depression.  Weakened U.S.  Now, they argue, the U.S., weakened by debt and political
paralysis, is no longer unquestionably pre-eminent. China, if it
is ever to assume the mantle of leadership, isn’t ready yet.  “The Leaderless Economy” drags in places but has two
great strengths. First, it recounts 20th-century monetary
history with a sharp eye for parallels to our own time. History
is a great teacher, and the authors offer a useful perspective
on it, reminding us that politically inspired macroeconomic
errors such as the Treaty of Versailles can have catastrophic
consequences.  Second, the book draws strong parallels between two
profound imbalances that pose hazards to the world’s economic
health: the one between China and the U.S., and a similar
lopsided situation between Germany and such struggling members
of the European Union as Greece and Spain.  Exchange Rates  China’s insistence on an undervalued  yuan , and in Europe
the straitjacket of the euro, have both had the effect of
preventing exchange rates from adjusting as needed in order to
rebalance trade, resulting in slow growth, unemployment and
excessive debt in the deficit countries.  The authors are commendably alert throughout to the
economic and political complexities involved.  The case is far from ironclad, however, that our troubles
really are attributable to the lack of a single nation serving
as undisputed economic leader. The authors themselves
acknowledge that “as China maintains the exchange rate between
the  renminbi  and the dollar, it is not clear what even a more
assertive  United States  could do.”  On the other hand, when the crash came the  Federal Reserve 
and the Treasury acted decisively and internationally, just as a
hegemon should. Since their effective interventions, inflation
and policy changes in China have driven up the value of the
yuan. Americans have been saving more. And sooner or later the
Chinese will become more avid consumers.  The beginnings of a rebalancing, in other words, may
already be under way. Whether it fully succeeds will depend on
the politicians, who could do worse than to read this book.  “The Leaderless Economy: Why the World Economic System
Fell Apart and How to Fix It” is published by  Princeton
University Press  (315 pages, $29.95). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (Daniel Akst writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on design, Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Daniel Akst in  New York  at  danielakst@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 