-- Canada January International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-03-18T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/canada-january-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for January
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-residents acquired $13.3 billion of Canadian securities
in January, led by corporate debt instruments. Meanwhile,
Canadian investors reduced their holdings of foreign securities
by $1.2 billion, following four straight months of investments.  As a result, net inflows of funds from cross-border
transactions in securities resumed in January, after two
consecutive months of net outflows. This was a return to the
general trend observed since 2009, with foreign investment in
Canadian securities exceeding Canadian investment in foreign
securities.  Non-resident investors focus on Canadian corporate debt
securities  Non-resident investment in Canadian debt securities
strengthened to $11.7 billion in January, as the investment
focus shifted from government to corporate debt securities.
Acquisitions of Canadian private corporate debt instruments
reached $10.3 billion in January, the largest inflow since
October 2001. This was led by new issues of US dollar-
denominated instruments in the US market. In addition, foreign
investors added $2.6 billion of federal government enterprise
bonds to their holdings, their largest investment since May 2012.  Non-resident investors reduced their holdings of federal
government debt securities by $4.3 billion in January, the
largest outflow since March 2012. Activity in Canadian Treasury
bills accounted for the entire reduction through retirements,
after two months of sizable foreign investment in these
instruments. The supply of new federal debt instruments was
limited to bonds in January; however, acquisitions of federal
bonds by non-residents slowed for a fourth straight month.  In January, Canadian long-term  interest rates  reached their
highest level since April 2012, while short-term rates were
stable. The Canadian dollar depreciated against the US dollar
for a second month.  Foreign investment in Canadian shares resumes  Foreign investment in Canadian shares was $1.7 billion in
January, after a $6.7 billion merger- and acquisition-related
reduction in December. The largest inflow since September 2012
was led by secondary market purchases. Canadian share prices
were up 2.0% in January, ending the month at their highest level
since August 2011.  Canadian holdings of foreign bonds down  Canadians reduced their holdings of foreign bonds by $3.3
billion in January on secondary market sales. Investors sold
$6.0 billion of US  government bonds  on the secondary market over
the month, partially offsetting an acquisition of $10.4 billion
in the previous three months. Sales activity largely involved
bonds with short-term maturities. Acquisitions of maple bonds
moderated the divestment over the month.  Canadian acquisition of US stocks remains robust  Canadians purchased $2.2 billion of foreign equities in
January, marking a fifth straight month of acquisitions.
Investment was all in US instruments and was focused on
investment funds tracking broad US stock market indices. US
stock prices rose 5.0% in January to reach their highest level
in over five years.  Note to readers  The data series on international transactions in securities
cover portfolio transactions in equity and investment fund
shares, bonds and money market instruments for both Canadian and
foreign issues.  Equity and investment fund shares include common and
preferred equities as well as units/shares of investment funds.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  