-- Capital Expands Investment Options After Drop in Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-03-18T21:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/capital-expands-investment-options-after-drop-in-assets.html
Capital Group Cos., owner of
American Funds, expanded its investment options and reorganized
its equity teams in response to feedback from financial
advisers.  Capital Group plans to offer separately managed accounts,
or SMAs, to retail customers for the first time,  Chuck Freadhoff , a spokesman for the Los Angeles-based firm, said in
an interview today. The company has begun offering more
collective investment trusts, or CITs, increasing the number of
institutional products that mirror the firm’s mutual funds. It
also removed the divisions between managers overseeing stock
investments for retail and institutional clients.  “When you listen to advisers, they would prefer to work
with fewer asset managers, and they would like to have the same
managers available in the mutual funds, the variable annuities
and the separately managed accounts,” Kevin Clifford, head of
fund distribution, said in an e-mailed statement.  Capital Group, the third-largest U.S. mutual-fund company,
has started to slow a more than two-year exodus of customer
assets. Investors deposited money with American Funds in January
and February, the first positive months since May 2010. The
company lost a net $61.6 billion to mutual fund withdrawals in
2012 and $5.6 billion from its largest institutional unit,
Capital Guardian Trust, according to research firms  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN)  and eVestment.  Assets at the firm fell to $1.14 trillion as of Dec. 31
from $1.5 trillion at the end of 2007.  ‘Limited Number’  Separately managed accounts typically provide wealthy
clients or financial advisers more customized investments than
mutual funds. Capital Group’s new accounts will be available
through a “limited number” of broker-dealers by the end of
June, Freadhoff said. The brokers will establish the minimum
investment requirements.  CITs are unregistered, pooled investment products,
typically with lower fees than mutual funds because of cheaper
marketing and compliance-related costs.  Capital Group has opened CITs modeled after the $73 billion
Capital World Growth and Income Fund and the $6.1 billion
International Growth and Income Fund. The firm plans six more of
the trusts, which are targeted primarily at 401(k) retirement
plans, Freadhoff said.  The reorganization of investment-management teams means the
company will drop the names of several units, including Capital
Guardian, Capital Research and Management, and Capital
International, Freadhoff said. The company will now rely on two
brand names: Capital Group and American Funds.  The changes were reported earlier today by Pensions &
Investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  