-- Central Banker Says Colombia Won’t Necessarily Cut Policy Rate
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-03-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/central-banker-says-colombia-won-t-necessarily-cut-policy-rate.html
Colombia “won’t necessarily” take
advantage of the slowest inflation in six decades to cut
interest rates this week, central bank co-director Cesar Vallejo
said.  The bank’s 7-member policy committee will consider a range
of factors such as the behavior of credit indicators and
government spending, as well as gross domestic product and
consumer prices, before deciding whether another cut is
warranted, Vallejo said.  “Of course there is space to cut rates,” Vallejo said in
a March 15 phone interview.“Inflation is low, observed GDP is
very possibly below potential GDP. Does that mean we’re going to
cut rates? No, not necessarily.”  Colombia has cut  borrowing costs  six times since June, as
economic growth slowed to the lowest in nearly 4 years and
industrial output slumped. Nineteen analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast another quarter point cut on March 22, while
3 analysts predict that the bank will hold the policy rate at
3.75 percent.  The central bank’s board will study consumer and commercial
credit growth and default rates, among other things, Vallejo
said. Changes in borrowing costs can take between 9 and 12
months to affect output, and longer to affect inflation, he
added.  The economy grew 3 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey, slower than Peru and  Mexico , while faster than Brazil
and  Argentina . The national statistics agency will publish its
fourth quarter GDP report on March 21.  Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas, who chairs the central
bank’s board meetings, told reporters March 15 that “everything
indicates” that Colombia can continue to cut interest rates.  Inflation slowed to 1.84 percent in February, the lowest
rate since 1955. Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus
or minus 1 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  