-- Cervical Cancer Vaccines Spurned by 44% of U.S. Parents
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/cervical-cancer-vaccines-spurned-by-44-of-u-s-parents.html
Almost half of U.S. parents say
they won’t vaccinate their daughters with  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Gardasil
or  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Cervarix, which prevent the sexually
transmitted virus that causes cervical cancer.  Researchers analyzed data from a national survey from 2008
to 2010 on immunizations for teenagers. The proportion of
parents saying they wouldn’t vaccinate their teens against the
human papilloma virus rose to 44 percent in 2010 from 40 percent
two years earlier, according to the report released today in the
journal  Pediatrics .  The number of girls who received either injection rose to
about one-third in 2010 from 16 percent in 2008, the analysis
found. About 1 in 6 parents said they weren’t convinced it was
safe, and vaccination rates for HPV were substantially lower
than injections to protect against tetanus, whooping cough and
meningococcal disease.  “That’s the opposite direction that rate should be
going,”  Robert Jacobson , a pediatrician at the Mayo Clinic
Children’s Center in Rochester,  Minnesota , and a senior
researcher of the paper, said in a statement. “HPV causes
essentially 100 percent of cervical cancer and 50 percent of all
Americans get infected at least once.”  Most people infected with HPV can fight the infection with
no lasting harm. In some, however, it lingers and turns
cancerous. The vaccine is more effective in younger adolescents,
Jacobsen said. It doesn’t offer any protection once sexually
active people contract the virus.  HPV is the most common sexually transmitted infection.
About 20 million Americans have it, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. About 12,000 women
get cervical cancer each year in the U.S. and 4,000 die from it,
 according  to the American Cancer Society.  Gardasil sparked debate in 2007 as 24 states introduced
legislation to mandate HPV shots for school girls, even with a
lack of long-term safety studies. Since then, several studies
have concluded the immunization is safe, though it’s hard to
detect rare side effects after a product is on the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  