-- Chidambaram May Ease India FDI Caps, Seeks Interest-Rate Cut
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-03-18T05:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/chidambaram-may-ease-india-fdi-caps-seeks-interest-rate-cut-1-.html
India’s finance minister said the
nation may ease restrictions on foreign-direct investment and
called on the central bank to cut  interest rates , as he extends
efforts to revive growth in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  “Many caps can be removed or certainly relaxed,” and a
review of the limits has begun, Palaniappan Chidambaram, 67,
said in a March 15 interview in  New Delhi . A narrower  budget
deficit  has created space for a rate cut, he said before the
central bank’s policy decision tomorrow. He also said Indian
companies seem “quite happy” with the rupee at its current
level of 54 to 55 per dollar.  The review may herald a sweeping relaxation of the
investment caps in about two dozen industries ranging from
telecommunications to banking, which would be India’s biggest
opening to overseas companies since the 1990s. Chidambaram
 estimates  the country’s economy may need more than $75 billion
of foreign capital this year and next to fund a record current-
account gap, adding pressure to relax rules.  Ten-year  government bonds  rose after the minister’s
comments signaling he sees room for lower rates. The yield on
the 8.15 percent note due June 2022 traded at 7.85 percent in
Mumbai from 7.86 percent on March 15, according to the central
bank’s trading system. Three-month non-deliverable rupee
forwards weakened to 55.24 a dollar after the comments on the
currency, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Completely Irrelevant’  “Some of these caps are completely irrelevant in terms of
the changed situation,” said Chidambaram, who became finance
minister for the third time in July last year. “We need to
clear some of the cobwebs accumulated in India and go out and
woo specific business houses.”  Chidambaram has helped to spearhead policy changes to
revive a faltering economy. The government since mid-September
has permitted more foreign investment in retail and aviation,
cut levies on overseas borrowing, curbed fuel subsidies and set
up a panel to speed up stalled road, rail and port projects.  “This creates transparency on what is being done and shows
that the government is not only serious on continuing with the
reforms but also implementing them,” said Leif Eskesen, chief
India and  Southeast Asia  economist for HSBC Holdings Plc in
 Singapore . “It is important to demonstrate the determination
and willingness to move forward on these policies.”  The rupee has appreciated 2.1 percent versus the dollar
since the changes began on Sept. 13, to 54.29 per dollar at
11:17 a.m. in Mumbai. It remains down 7.6 percent in the past 12
months, a period when the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  climbed 10.4
percent.  Exporters Happy  “Both importers and exporters, to the extent I know, to
the extent that I have been told, seem quite happy with the
rupee between 54 and 55,” Chidambaram said.  The finance minister said he’s trying to identify which of
the world’s largest 500 companies have yet to invest in India.
He visited  Europe , Singapore and  Hong Kong  earlier in 2013 to
court capital inflows.  “We are looking at it in a very focused manner,” he said
in the interview. He added that ways to attract portfolio
inflows of a “longer tenure” are being considered.  Foreign-direct investment fell 34 percent to $22.8 billion
in 2012, according to government  data .  Record Deficit  The deficit in the  current account , the broadest measure of
trade, widened to an unprecedented $22.3 billion in the quarter
ended Sept. 30, or  5.4 percent  of gross domestic product.  Chidambaram in the Feb. 28 budget narrowed the  fiscal gap 
to 5.2 percent of GDP in the year to March 31, 2013, seeking to
avert a credit-rating downgrade and reduce inflation risks.  Consumer prices  are rising almost 11 percent, and inflation
continues to be “a worry,” Chidambaram said.  He set a budget-deficit goal of 4.8 percent of GDP for
2013-2014, relying on higher tax revenue and asset sales to help
pay for increased welfare spending before polls due by 2014.  The plan is credible and the threat of Asia’s No. 3 economy
losing its investment-grade status has “clearly receded by
quite a few yards,” the finance minister said.  The  Reserve Bank  of India should “take comfort” from the
effort to contain the deficit, Chidambaram said.  “We have argued on the government’s side that there is a
case for lowering the policy rates,” he said. “We express our
view but the governor has to take the call.”  Rate Cut  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last week the
administration “firmly embraced” fiscal responsibility in the
budget. Credit Suisse Group AG has said the plan’s revenue
assumptions are “too high.”  Thirty of 35 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict
Subbarao will cut the benchmark  repurchase rate  to 7.5 percent
from 7.75 percent, the second reduction this year. The rest
expect no change. The decision is due at 11 a.m. tomorrow.  Still, Moody’s Investors Service said in a note today that
India’s food inflation is exacerbating macroeconomic imbalances
and is “credit negative.”  India’s economy  will  expand  5 percent in 2012-2013, the
slowest pace in a decade, hurt by cooling  investment  and a drop
in  exports , statistics agency forecasts show. While that’s
better than the U.S. and Europe, it trails  China  and is below
India’s average of about 8 percent in the past 10 years.  The current-account shortfall has triggered memories of
India’s crisis in 1990-1991, when the country airlifted gold to
pledge as collateral for a loan from the  International Monetary
Fund  after foreign reserves slid.  Political Hostility  The nation at the time devalued the rupee, tackled
government monopolies, cut tax rates and let foreign companies
take majority stakes in sectors including automobiles and
pharmaceuticals to rescue the economy.  The current efforts to encourage wider foreign
participation may face opposition.  The Congress Party-led ruling coalition lost its majority
in parliament last year when a key ally withdrew support over
the decision to allow overseas businesses such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. to set up supermarkets.  Global retailers have yet to take advantage of the rules.  AirAsia Bhd., Southeast Asia’s biggest budget airline, has
said it plans to start a venture in  India  following the
liberalization of aviation investment limits.  The Cabinet has approved bills to allow overseas companies
to invest in the pensions industry for the first time, and hold
as much as 49 percent of insurance businesses. The legislation
needs the assent of lawmakers.  “We have to find $75 billion and that’s not easy,”
Chidambaram said, referring to the money needed to finance the
current-account gap. “We have to really motivate the investor
to continue to invest in India.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  