-- China Stocks Cut by JPMorgan as Banks Seen Falling on Inflation
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2013-03-18T05:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/china-stocks-cut-by-jpmorgan-as-banks-seen-falling-on-inflation.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised
cutting Chinese  stock  holdings and betting against the nation’s
biggest banks as economic growth slows and inflation quickens.  The largest U.S. lender by assets downgraded China to
underweight and recommended bearish derivatives tied to the
country’s four biggest  banks ,  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan’s chief
Asia and emerging-market strategist, wrote in a report today.
Mowat had a neutral position on China in a Feb. 20 note.  “Growth momentum is now slowing with policy response
constrained; a nasty combination,” Mowat wrote.  China’s industrial output had the weakest start to a year
since 2009, retail sales growth slowed and inflation exceeded
projections. A government report today showed new  home prices 
posted the broadest advance since December 2011, challenging
Premier  Li Keqiang ’s efforts to prevent a real estate bubble.
Rapid credit growth, elevated property prices and a decline in
potential growth have increased risks of a financial crisis in
China, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a March 15 report.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , the benchmark gauge
for mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong , tumbled 2.3 percent
at the mid-day trading break for the biggest drop among Asian
equity indexes.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the
country’s biggest lender by market value, dropped 3 percent.  Chinese policy makers will probably tighten liquidity this
year to curb inflation, Katherine Lei, an analyst at JPMorgan,
wrote in a separate report dated yesterday. The proliferation of
non-bank financing makes it difficult to determine the scale and
timing of government measures to reign in  credit  growth,
creating additional “uncertainty,” Lei wrote.  Put Options  JPMorgan recommended put options or short positions in
total return swaps linked to Chinese banks for investors who
share the firm’s pessimistic view on the industry.  The bearish outlook contrasts with that of HSBC Holdings
Plc, which said on March 10 that  China ’s central bank will
probably keep monetary policy “relatively accommodative” in
coming quarters as “modest” inflation pressure helps support
the economic recovery.  China’s industrial production increased 9.9 percent in the
first two months of 2013 and retail sales rose 12.3 percent,
government data showed March 9, trailing economists’ estimates.
New local-currency loans in February fell to 620 billion  yuan 
($99.6 billion), the People’s Bank of China said, lower than the
estimates of 27 out of 28 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer prices  climbed  3.2 percent in February from a year
earlier, topping the median economist estimate of 3 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey. New home prices rose in 62 cities of the
70 the government tracks in February from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today.  Stocks Correction  Zhou Xiaochuan , who was reappointed governor of China’s
central bank on March 16, said at a March 13 press conference
that policy makers should be on “high alert” over inflation.  The Hang Seng China index is poised to enter a so-called
correction after  declining  more than 10 percent from this year’s
closing high on Feb. 1. The gauge has retreated 5.8 percent this
year, compared with a 2.2 percent drop in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index.  Mowat said in a Feb. 20 report that developing-nation
shares may enter a “significant correction.” The MSCI emerging
markets gauge has dropped 3.4 percent since then, versus a 2
percent gain in the MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  