-- Xi Stresses Positive U.S. Ties in Lew Meeting Amid Tensions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-19T05:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/china-s-new-leaders-to-meet-u-s-treasury-chief-lew-in-beijing.html
Chinese President Xi Jinping
stressed positive ties with the U.S. in his first meeting with a
foreign official since taking the post amid tensions between the
world’s two biggest economies over espionage and exchange rates.  The nations’ economies have a “seamless connection” and
their relationship is of “great importance,” Xi, in his sixth
day as president, said during a meeting with U.S. Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew at the Great Hall of the People in
Beijing. Lew, in his first trip since taking office Feb. 28,
said they had a “special responsibility” for strong global
growth, before reporters were ushered out of the room.  The session with Xi began two days of talks for Lew on
topics ranging from the nations’ half-trillion dollars in annual
trade to accusations that the yuan is undervalued and that  China 
engages in online spying. New Premier Li Keqiang, who will meet
with Lew tomorrow, said this week that the country opposes
hacking and is a victim of attacks.  “Maintaining a healthy relationship with China is an
important task for Mr. Lew,” said  Eswar Prasad , a former
International Monetary Fund official who is now a professor at
Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. “The U.S.
administration recognizes the need to engage with China in a
more constructive fashion so that a variety of contentious
issues can be dealt with frontally rather than becoming
roadblocks to a smoother relationship.”  Exchange Rate  Lew raised the exchange rate, intellectual property,
cybersecurity and North Korea during the 45-minute meeting,
according to a U.S. official who asked not to be identified. The
two also discussed the global economy including Cyprus,
according to the official, after a decision by euro-area finance
ministers to tax bank deposits in the island nation threatened
to revive debt turmoil in the region.  Lew was scheduled to meet today with Xu Shaoshi, head of
the National Development and Reform Commission, and Finance
Minister  Lou Jiwei , according to the U.S. Li will meet with Lew
tomorrow, said Lou Danzhu, an official with China’s Ministry of
Foreign Affairs. Xi and Li were named to the two top posts last
week, completing a once-a-decade power handover within the
Communist Party.  Xi, 59, succeeded Hu Jintao as party chief in November and
replaced him as president on March 14. The next day, Li, 57,
became head of government as premier, following his appointment
as the party’s No. 2 official in November.  Growth Opportunities  Lew, 57, will discuss “opportunities for cooperation and
growth” and “efforts to level the playing field and create new
opportunities for U.S. workers and businesses,” the Treasury
Department said March 17 in an e-mailed statement.  “The fact that Lew chose China as his first foreign visit
and that he will be the new Chinese economic team’s first
foreign visitor highlights how important each country has become
to the other’s economic agenda,” said David Loevinger, a former
senior coordinator for China affairs at the U.S. Treasury
Department, now an analyst in Los Angeles at TCW Group Inc.  China needs to make more progress on the yuan, a senior U.S.
administration official said March 15. Lew, who succeeded
Timothy F. Geithner, will also discuss cybersecurity with
Chinese officials, the official said.  Cybersecurity has vaulted to the top of the U.S. agenda as
President  Barack Obama  seeks to curb attacks on corporate
networks that U.S. intelligence agencies and security firms such
as Mandiant Corp. have traced to China. Obama told Xi in a call
last week that the issue will be a key part of bilateral talks.  Hacking Victim  Hacking is a “worldwide problem and in fact China itself
is a main victim of such attacks,” Li said March 17 at his
first press briefing since his appointment by the National
People’s Congress. “China does not support -- in fact it is
opposed to -- hacking attacks.”  China is the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries, with
$1.26 trillion in holdings as of January, according to Treasury
figures. China is the biggest trading partner for the U.S.
behind  Canada , with two-way trade last year reaching $536.2
billion, and the deficit on the U.S. side at $315 billion in
2012, more than any other nation.  Li also said March 17 that China’s new government will, as
in the past, “attach great importance to our relationship with
the U.S., a relationship between the world’s largest developed
country and the world’s largest developing country.”  Members of Congress have called for China to let its
currency strengthen further, saying that the  yuan  is undervalued,
making U.S. exports too expensive and Chinese imports too cheap.
Lew told U.S. lawmakers earlier this year that addressing
China’s exchange rate would be a “top priority.”  After keeping the yuan stable for a decade, China allowed
its currency to strengthen 21 percent from July 2005 to July
2008. Appreciation was then halted for almost two years to help
exporters weather a global recession and the currency has
advanced about 10 percent against the dollar since controls were
loosened in June 2010. China has repeatedly said that the yuan
is close to an equilibrium level.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Beijing at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  