-- China Aids IDB in Boosting Latin American Loans as Growth Slows
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-03-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/china-aids-idb-in-boosting-latin-american-loans-as-growth-slows.html
China will help the Inter-American
Development Bank finance $12 billion in loans for Latin America
and the Caribbean this year as the region struggles to recover
from the global financial crisis.  The region is forecast to grow 3.9 percent through 2017,
down from 4.8 percent during the five years before the 2007
global recession, the Washington-based lender said in a March 17
report released during the bank’s annual meeting in Panama City.
The  People’s Bank of China  will help finance $2 billion in
loans, with most of the credit going to Latin American
companies, according to the IDB.  While slowing inflation is giving central banks in Latin
America leeway to stimulate growth, the region will be held back
by falling commodity prices and widening fiscal deficits, the
IDB said. Out of 21 major economies in the region that were
reviewed for the bank’s study, only Colombia, Trinidad & Tobago
and Belize were in better fiscal shape than before the financial
crisis.  The bank urged governments to invest in infrastructure and
boost domestic savings to revive growth, saying that “the space
for monetary policy action has shrunk.”  Still,  Mexico ’s central bank unexpectedly cut borrowing
costs March 8 for the first time since 2009, reducing its key
rate to 4 percent. Colombia’s monetary authority has lowered its
benchmark by 1.5 percentage points to 3.75 percent since June
and the central bank may step up purchases of the dollar to
weaken the peso, Colombian bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said.  Colombian Peso  “For the Colombian economy it would good and appropriate
if the peso was a bit weaker,” Uribe said in a March 16
interview on the sidelines of the Panama City meeting.  Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, has been caught
between the slowest growth since the aftermath of the Lehman
Brothers collapse in 2009 and the fastest annual inflation in 14
months. A possible cycle of rate increases could limit growth to
3 percent while failing to slow inflation to the central bank’s
target, Ilan Goldfajn, a chief economist for Itau Unibanco
Holdings SA, said in a March 16 interview.  Brazil  may receive as much as $3.7 billion this year from
the IDB as the country prepares to host next year’s soccer World
Cup and the 2016 summer Olympics.  Established in 1959, the IDB is the biggest source of
development financing for Latin America and the Caribbean,
according to its website. The lender has 48 members, including
the U.S., Brazil and Mexico.  The bank’s annual meetings are close to becoming
“obsolete” as the region emerges from the global crisis, said
Walter Molano, head of research at Greenwich, Connecticut-based
BCP Securities LLC.  “Latin America is no longer in flames like it was in the
past,” Molano said in a March 16 interview in Panama City.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Washington at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  