-- Chinese Stocks Enter Correction as JPMorgan Cuts to Underweight
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-18T08:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/china-s-stock-futures-drop-signaling-indexes-will-extend-losses.html
China’s stocks fell, dragging the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  down 12 percent from this
year’s high, as slowing growth and faster inflation spurred
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to downgrade the nation’s shares.  The Hang Seng China index slumped 2.1 percent to close at a
three-month low of 10,794.70. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
declined 1.7 percent to 2,240.02 and the CSI 300 Index lost 1.5
percent to 2,502.49. JPMorgan cut China to underweight and
recommended bearish derivatives tied to the country’s four
biggest banks,  Adrian Mowat , its chief Asia and emerging-market
strategist, wrote in a report today.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)  led declines by automakers after the
nation’s quality watchdog ordered partner Volkswagen AG to
recall some vehicles. China Resources Cement Holdings Ltd. sank
the most since October 2011 in Hong Kong amid concern over
substandard materials.  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  fell in its longest
losing streak on record in Shanghai on speculation Guo Shuqing
will be replaced as head of the securities regulator.  “Investors are concerned about the possibility of slowing
growth and monetary tightening,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based
 fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285
million. “The departure of Guo is perceived as negative for the
market as he’s reform-minded and pushed forward innovative
measures for the brokerage sector and the stock market.”  The measure of 40 Chinese stocks traded in  Hong Kong 
entered a so-called correction after falling more than 10
percent since Feb. 1. The gauge has lost 5.6 percent this year,
compared with a 5.8 percent advance by the MSCI All-Country
World Index, and  trades  at 8 times earnings for the next 12
months, less than its five-year average of 10.3, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Nasty Combination’  Chinese stocks have tumbled in the past month on concern
that an economic recovery will falter as officials take steps to
cool the  property market  and counter risks for banks from an
expansion in credit. The Shanghai index has retreated 8 percent
from this year’s Feb. 6 peak.  “Growth momentum is now slowing with policy response
constrained; a nasty combination,” Mowat wrote. The strategist
had a neutral position on China in a Feb. 20 note.  SAIC slid 2.6 percent to 14.66 yuan, the lowest close since
Dec. 6.  FAW Car Co. (000800)  retreated 2 percent to 7.68 yuan. Volkswagen
was told to recall vehicles fitted with the direct-shift gearbox
system, the regulator said.  Stocks also fell as an unprecedented levy on  bank deposits 
in Cyprus threatens to plunge Europe back into crisis. Europe is
China’s biggest export market, making up about 18 percent of the
nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co.  Violating Rules  China Resources Cement tumbled 7.3 percent to HK$4.32. Two
concrete units were ordered to halt business for violating
rules, while industry portal xbsn.com reported China was
investigating cement companies for monopolistic practices. Anhui
Conch Cement Co. dropped 1.8 percent to a four-month low of
HK$24.85.  An index of  property stocks  in the Shanghai Composite lost
1.4 percent, taking its decline since Feb. 5 to 17 percent, as
the broadest advance by new  home prices  since December 2011
spurred concern the government will add news measures to cool
gain. China State Construction Engineering Corp. tumbled 4.3
percent to 3.35  yuan .  Property Pressure  Home prices climbed in 62 cities of the 70 the government
tracks in February from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
said today. Beijing prices jumped 5.9 percent, while they
advanced 8.1 percent in Guangzhou. Cities will be forced to
introduce new measures as upward pressure on prices will
definitely increase in the short term, Credit Suisse Group AG
analyst Jinsong Du wrote in an e-mail.  Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged yesterday to open the economy to
more market forces and strip power from the government to
achieve 7.5 percent annual  growth  through 2020 and spread the
benefits of the nation’s expansion. He retained People’s Bank of
China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  and added sovereign wealth fund
chief  Lou Jiwei  as finance minister after a once-in-a-decade
leadership transition.  China faces rising risks of a financial crisis because of
excessive credit, elevated property prices, declines in the
labor force and limited productivity gains, according to a March
15 report from Nomura Holdings Inc.  Citic Securities, the biggest listed brokerage, retreated
2.1 percent to 12.62 yuan in a ninth day of declines. Haitong
Securities Co,, the nation’s second largest, slumped 2.9 percent
to 10.83 yuan.  Former Bank of China Ltd. Chairman Xiao Gang will replace
Guo as head of the securities regulator, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the matter. Since Guo became chairman
of the securities watchdog in 2011, the CSRC has expanded
foreign investor quotas to buy stocks, cut trading fees and
pushed companies to increase dividends.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  