-- China’s Largest Mass Merchant Turns to Its Own Brands for Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/china-s-largest-mass-merchant-turns-to-its-own-brands-for-growth.html
Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. (6808) ,  China ’s
largest operator of big-box stores, will boost its own brand
offerings and add higher-margin items to increase sales after
opening new stores helped raise 2012 profit by half.  The company’s RT-Mart and Auchan chains will add at least
700 more own-label products including stationary and cutlery
this year and reduce local brands in favor of higher-end lines,
Peter Huang,  executive director , said in an interview. The
retailer plans to boost own-brand sales to 10 percent of revenue
in two years from 8 percent now, he said.  Huang’s shift to higher-end products is intended to help
the Shanghai-based venture between  Taiwan ’s RT-Mart and  France ’s
Groupe Auchan SA maintain its lead over  Wal Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 Carrefour SA (CA) , its biggest rivals. Retailers can earn gross
profit margins of between 10 percent to 25 percent on own
branded non-food items, said Nice Wang, an analyst with Yuanta
Securities HK Co.  “Should Sun Art widen the number of own-brand products and
take its product mix upscale, it would definitely help gross
profit margins this year,” said Wang, whose brokerage has a buy
rating on the stock.  Sun Art’s profit jumped 51 percent last year and the
company expects sales at existing stores to increase at least 2
percent faster than inflation this year as rising incomes boost
consumer spending, the company said in a briefing yesterday.  “Chinese incomes are rising, and that’s creating demand
for more expensive, higher-end offerings” Huang, 57, said in an
interview yesterday.  Local Flavor  The Hong Kong-listed retailer, which operated 273
hypermarkets in China as of Dec. 31, plans to open as many as 55
new stores this year, Huang said, mainly in smaller cities in
Eastern and Southern China.  Sun Art had a 13.6 percent share of China’s 507 billion
 yuan  hypermarket industry in 2012, compared with 10.9 percent
for Wal-Mart and Carrefour’s 6.9 percent, data from researcher
Euromonitor show.  Sun Art is confident it can grow its China market share by
0.5 percent this year, Chief Executive Officer Bruno Mercier
said yesterday.  The grocer has drawn customers by building American-style
megamarts, then filling them with local favorites such as ready-
to-eat dough fritters and steamed buns and by recreating the
feel of local street markets with hairy crabs laid on table
tops.  China’s economic growth accelerated to 7.9 percent in the
final three months of 2012 from a year earlier. The pace may
pick up to 8.2 percent in the three months through March,
according to the median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg last month.  Sun Art’s French and U.S. rivals have yet to find a way to
match the company’s growth.  Carrefour, France’s biggest retailer, said on Jan. 17 that
same-store sales excluding exchange rates and gasoline in China
declined 3.1 percent. Wal-mart is “particularly focused” on
improving profitability in China,  Charles Holley , CFO of Wal-
Mart said on March 13.  Wal-Mart grew its market share in every country under their
international division except China last year, he said.  Sun Art’s store locations and scale are also an advantage
that allow it “to benefit from the macro trends like
urbanization, an economic rebound and the rising spending power
in second and third-tier cities,” Lina Yan and Erwan Rambourg,
Hong Kong-based HSBC analysts, wrote in a Feb. 27 report.  Yan and Rambourg forecast the company’s sales to double
between 2012 and 2017.  Sun Art, which distributes products under own brands
including RT-Mart and Auchan, will widen both food and non-food
offerings, Huang said in an interview in  Hong Kong .  RT-Mart and Auchan branded items retail for about 15
percent less than mainstream brands, Mercier said. It already
carries more than 2,000 such products under its own labels, he
said.  Competition this year is likely to moderate from 2012, as
international rivals have slowed store expansion, Huang said.
Sun Art has no plans currently to offer more aggressive
promotions than it did last year, he said.  The hypermarket operator is also looking to expand in the
e-commerce industry in the next two to three years, Mercier
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  