-- China Home Prices Up in Most Cities, Posing Policy Challenge
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-18T07:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/china-home-prices-rise-in-most-cities-posing-policy-challenge.html
China ’s new  home prices  posted the
broadest advance since December 2011, a test for new Premier Li Keqiang as he seeks to prevent a bubble without damping economic
growth.  Prices climbed in 62 cities of the 70 the government tracks
in February from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today. Beijing prices jumped 5.9 percent from a
year earlier, the biggest since February 2011, while they
advanced 8.1 percent in Guangzhou, the most since January 2011.  China on March 1 imposed its toughest curbs in a year,
ordering the central bank to raise down-payment requirements and
 interest rates  for second mortgages in cities with excessive
price gains, enforcing a property sales tax and telling local
governments with the biggest price pressures to tighten home-
purchase limits. It ordered individuals selling properties to
pay a 20 percent tax on the sale profit when the original
purchase price is available, a levy that is being easily avoided.  “We are expecting more property policies in the next
couple of months including those issued by local governments,
because the fast-rising home prices have put the government
under a lot of pressure,” said Ding Shuang, a senior China
economist with Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong . “It’s not only a
big challenge for the new administration, but also shows that
previous curbs have not worked.”  The  Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index (SHPROP) , which tracks 24
developers, declined 1.4 percent to the lowest since Dec. 7 at
the close of trading.  More Measures  The southern cities of Guangzhou and Shenzhen were among
major cities that led gains in February from a year earlier.  Prices in Shenzhen advanced 5.7 percent. The special
economic zone that borders Hong Kong said last week it is taking
steps to guide developers in setting reasonable prices and is
implementing the central government’s measures to ensure prices
don’t rise too quickly.  The biggest decline in new home prices last month was in
Wenzhou, where they tumbled 10.1 percent from a year earlier.  Existing home prices rose 6 percent in Beijing last month
from 12 months ago and increased 3.9 percent in  Shanghai ,
according to the data. They climbed 5.7 percent in Guangzhou and
3.9 percent in Shenzhen.  Local Response  Premier  Wen Jiabao , who was succeeded by Li on March 15,
had vowed to keep housing affordable and taken multiple measures.
During his tenure, Wen raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements, imposed a property tax for the first time in
Shanghai and Chongqing and enacted home-purchase restrictions in
about 40 cities.  Local governments must respond to the central government’s
March 1 policies, including home-price control targets, by the
end of the month.  Private data also has shown increases in prices. Home
prices rose for nine straight months, increasing 0.8 percent in
February, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s
biggest real estate website owner.  China’s property prices will “definitely” decline this
year, Shanghai Securities News reported on March 14, citing
housing minister  Jiang Weixin  as saying.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  