-- China’s Money Rate Drops as Treasury Bills Mature; Swaps Steady
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-03-18T04:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/china-s-money-rate-drops-as-treasury-bills-mature-swaps-steady.html
China ’s money-market rate dropped
from a two-week high amid maturing government bills and as the
central bank prepares to offer reverse-repurchase contracts this
week that add funds to the banking system.  Two treasury bills come due today, injecting 30 billion
 yuan  ($4.8 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The People’s Bank of China asked banks on the need for seven-
and 14-day reverse repos, said a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions who declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 32 basis points, or 0.32
percentage point, to 3.04 percent as of 11:37 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  “The maturing bills plus other sources of inflows are a
possible reason” for the lower repo rate, said Becky Liu, a
China rates strategist in  Hong Kong  at Standard Chartered Plc.  The central bank hasn’t issued reverse-repurchase
agreements since Feb. 7. The PBOC also asked lenders today to
submit orders for 28-day repurchase contracts that drain funds,
the trader said.  The seven-day repo rate climbed 88 basis points last week
as the central bank mopped up 44 billion yuan from the system
through repurchase operations, taking the  withdrawals  to 964
billion yuan in the last four weeks.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was little
changed at 3.27 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It rose six basis points last week.  The yield on the 2.91 percent government bonds due April
2015 held at 3.07 percent, according to the Interbank Funding
Center, the least in a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  