-- Cocaine-Addled Artists Try Cough Syrup, Mushrooms: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-03-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/cocaine-addled-artists-try-cough-syrup-mushrooms-review.html
“The smell of opium,” said Pablo Picasso to fellow smoker Jean Cocteau, “is the most intelligent
of all odors.”  While Picasso never got hooked on the drug, Cocteau had to
be treated in a hospital where he wrote a book on his addiction.  “Sous Influences” (Under the Influence), an exhibition at
the Maison Rouge in Paris, examines the role of drugs in the
arts. Antoine Perpere, the show’s curator, is an artist himself
who has worked at a Paris detoxification center.  It’s an enormous subject, well beyond the means of a small,
private institution. You’ll look in vain for Baroque boozing
scenes or masterpieces such as Edgar Degas’s “Absinthe
Drinkers.”  Although alcohol and tobacco are briefly mentioned, the
emphasis is on illegal drugs, mostly in connection with
contemporary art. Some of the 90 artists who created the 250
works on view are well known. Many others are not.  One of the earliest pieces is an 1853 drawing by French
neurologist Jean Martin Charcot, Sigmund Freud’s teacher, who
experimented with hashish -- a nightmarish document not unlike
Hieronymus Bosch’s apocalyptic visions.  Belgian writer Henri Michaux (1899-1984) used mescaline to
widen the doors of perception. His drawings are calmer: Some
look like mysterious tissues viewed through a microscope.  The counterculture of the 1960s turned the use of
psychedelic drugs based on LSD, which had been discovered in
1943, into a popular pastime.  Acid Color  The show includes colorful posters from that period with
bizarre distortions and sinuous lines straight from the arsenal
of Art Nouveau.  Although the catalog does its best to explain the
difference between calming psycholeptics (opium, morphine,
heroin), stimulating psychoanaleptics (cocaine, crack,
amphetamines) and hallucinogens (defined as cannabis and LSD),
you could be forgiven for getting lost in the show.  Clarity is not the show’s forte, and the wall texts are of
no great help. You have to follow your own instinct to discover
the highlights.  One of the more remarkable contributions comes from U.S.
performance artist  Bryan Lewis Saunders . He has produced a
series of self-portraits under the influence of various
substances including marijuana, valium, cough syrup and bath
salts.  Day Tripper  Francis Alys, a Belgian who lives in Mexico City,
specializes in “paseos,” or strolls, in the tradition of the
French “flaneurs.” In one of his walks, titled “Narcotourism,”
he took a different drug in the course of seven days and
recorded his trips with notes and photographs.  Carsten Holler, a German agricultural scientist and
entomologist, is fascinated by poisonous mushrooms. He has
produced replicas of the amanita muscaria, or fly agaric, that
was used by Siberian shamans as an intoxicant.  Some of Holler’s mushrooms come in specially adapted
aluminum suitcases complete with mirror, solar battery and
electric motor.  Mushrooms also appear in Damien Hirst’s “The Last Supper,”
a tongue-in-cheek series of giant posters based on
pharmaceutical labels. The brand names of the drugs have been
replaced with trivial foodstuffs such as corned beef, meatballs
and yes, mushrooms.  Not every item in the show is so amusing. Shortly after
Jean-Michel Basquiat presented his drug-fuelled paintings in
Paris, he died of an overdose.  “Sous Influences” runs through May 19. Information:
 http://www.lamaisonrouge.org .  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jeffrey
Burke  on books,  John Mariani  on wine and  Greg Evans  on U.S.
television.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 