-- Colombia May Boost Dollar Purchases to Weaken Peso, Uribe Says
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-03-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/colombia-may-boost-dollar-purchases-to-weaken-peso-uribe-says.html
Colombia’s central bank may step up
dollar purchases as the South American country seeks to bolster
its drive to weaken the peso, bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe
said.  An increase in purchases from the current $40 million a day
is a “possibility” Uribe said in a March 16 interview in
Panama City, where he attended the Inter-American Development
Bank’s annual meeting. The bank will buy close to $3.5 billion
of greenbacks from Jan. 1 through May 31, after buying more than
$4.8 billion last year, Uribe said.  The peso has fallen 2 percent this year as Colombia bought
dollars and cut overseas debt sales after the strength of the
peso, which has gained more than any other major Latin American
currency since 2009, made coffee, flower and banana exports less
competitive. President Juan Manuel Santos said March 14 he wants
the central bank to be “more creative” in its efforts to limit
peso gains.  “For the Colombian economy it would good and appropriate
if the peso was a bit weaker,” Uribe said. Asked about
increasing the scale of purchases, he said “it’s a possibility.
For now, the decision is to keep accumulating” close to $40
million daily.  The peso has gained 13 percent since 2009, the most of the
six most-traded Latin American currencies.  Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas has said that the
government will purchase $1 billion to service debt in addition
to the $1 billion it will purchase for its oil-stability fund.  Colombia will continue to build  foreign reserves , which
have swollen to a record $38 billion, to reflect its larger
current account and to protect the economy from a global
slowdown, the 54-year-old Uribe said.  Rate Reductions  Policy makers on Feb. 22 reduced the benchmark lending rate
a quarter point to 3.75 percent, the sixth cut in eight months,
as the economy grows slower than its potential.  February’s annual inflation of 1.83 percent was the slowest
in six decades. Inflation will accelerate while remaining below
3 percent this year, the mid-point of the central bank’s target
range, Uribe said.  Yields on Colombia’s benchmark peso bonds due 2024 have
fallen 1.01 percentage points in the past three months to 4.92
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  