-- Colonial May Expand Capacity on Northeast Pipeline System
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-03-18T12:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/colonial-may-expand-capacity-on-northeast-pipeline-system.html
Colonial Pipeline Co. is
considering projects that would add as much as 600,000 barrels a
day of capacity to its Northeast fuel pipeline system, including
at least 100,000 barrels a day to the  New York  Harbor area.  Colonial, based in Alpharetta,  Georgia , is looking to
expand a line to Linden,  New Jersey ; extend another to New
Jersey from its current terminus near Baltimore; add capacity to
the two main lines; and build a new pipeline to Atlanta from the
 Gulf Coast , the company said today in a statement. It’s also
taking steps to protect the system against a “superstorm” like
 Hurricane Sandy .  The company will “more clearly define” the plans by the
middle of 2013, Chief Executive Officer Tim Felt said in the
statement. The proposed projects underscore how refinery
closings on the Atlantic Basin have increased demand for other
routes to get fuel to New York Harbor, the delivery point for
futures contracts traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  “This concept of growing Colonial is fully supported by
Colonial’s owners and is in direct response to customers who
demand more capacity,” Felt said. “We have many permitting and
other hurdles to cross, but we are convinced this is the kind of
infrastructure our customers want and our country needs.”  Hurricane Protection  The proposed projects would also harden the  Northeast’s
infrastructure  against another hurricane, Felt said. Sandy,
which went ashore in New Jersey on Oct. 29, limited pipeline
deliveries to the Northeastern region and sent the area’s
gasoline supplies to 22.4 million barrels in November, the
lowest seasonal level in at least 10 years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Colonial is evaluating a 100,000-barrel-a-day capacity
increase to Line 3, which carries gasoline, diesel and other
products to Linden from Greensboro,  North Carolina . The company
finished a 60,000-barrel-a-day expansion to the line Feb. 27,
which brought capacity to 885,000 barrels a day.  If Colonial moves forward with that expansion, it plans to
consider several other projects, including extending Line 4,
which starts in Greensboro, to southern New Jersey from its
terminus near Baltimore.  Colonial then might consider adding capacity to Lines 1 and
2, its main gasoline and diesel lines that run to Greensboro
from Houston. The company expects to increase gasoline capacity
on Line 1 by 100,000 barrels a day to 1.5 million in the second
quarter of this year. Line 2 can move more than 1 million
barrels of distillate today.  Gulf Coast  Colonial is also reconsidering a shelved plan to build a
new pipeline to Atlanta from  Baton Rouge ,  Louisiana . Altogether,
the projects could add 600,000 barrels a day to the system.  Demand to  ship products  on Colonial’s system has increased
in recent years as refineries shut in  Pennsylvania , New Jersey,
Aruba and the Virgin Islands, taking 833,000 barrels a day of
refining capacity offline in the U.S. Atlantic Basin. Demand for
shipping gasoline on Colonial’s mainline has outstripped
capacity in 12 of the past 13 five-day shipping cycles,
according to bulletins from the company.  The Colonial system includes 5,500 miles of pipelines
originating in Houston and ending in Linden on the New York
harbor. The company says it transports approximately 100 million
gallons of fuels a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  