-- Columbia Names Steve Coll as Dean of Journalism School
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-18T22:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/columbia-university-names-steve-coll-dean-of-journalism-school.html
Columbia University  named veteran
reporter and editor  Steve Coll  as dean of its Graduate School of
Journalism.  Coll, 54,  will take over from Nicholas Lemann, who is
stepping down at the end of the academic year after a decade at
the school, the New York-based university said today in a
 statement .  Columbia President  Lee Bollinger  led the search for
Lemann’s replacement. Coll, a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, is
a staff writer for the New Yorker magazine and president of  New
America Foundation , a nonprofit, nonpartisan public policy
institute in  Washington . He spent two decades as a foreign
correspondent and editor at the Washington Post, serving as
managing editor from 1998 to 2004.  “This is an era of experimentation,” Coll said in an
interview. “A lot of institutions are being asked to think
about journalism, and I have always thought a university is in a
great position to practice journalism, try new models and
resource serious reporting.”  Coll is the author of seven books including the Pulitzer-
winning “Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan
and  Bin Laden , from the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001,”
published in 2004.  Biggest Concern  He also won a Pulitzer in 1990, with David A. Vise, for a
series on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Coll graduated from Occidental College in  Los Angeles  in
1980.  Student expenses are one of Coll’s biggest concerns, he
said. The one-year Master of Science is estimated to  cost 
$83,884, including $58,008 in tuition and fees, for the
2013-2014 academic year, according to the journalism school’s
website.  “I want to assess our model and look at the value
proposition for students -- that’s the first priority of any
dean at a school like this,” Coll said.  At a time when many news organizations are shrinking
staffing and cutting budgets as readers and advertisers move to
online media from traditional news outlets, Coll said he’s “not
a pessimist.” He’ll be looking at how Columbia, with its global
reach, can help create new ways for “independent, in-depth,
serious” journalism to survive, he said.  ‘Respected’ Journalist  “Steve Coll is one of the most experienced and respected
journalists of his generation,” Bollinger said. “Sweeping
changes in digital technology and the global marketplace have
created unprecedented challenges and opportunities for the news
media that demand our constant reflection on the mission and
substance of a modern journalism education.”  Under Lemann, the journalism school hired 20 full-time
faculty members; built a student center; and completed its first
capital fundraising campaign. It also created new initiatives in
investigative reporting, digital journalism, business and
science reporting, and executive leadership for news
organizations.  The challenge for the new dean “is the same challenge we
all face -- maintaining a tradition of excellence in an industry
that is being radically restructured,” said  Edward Wasserman ,
dean of the journalism school at the  University of California ,
Berkeley.  Today’s graduates need to be able to work in almost any
medium, rapidly shifting among technologies, styles, jobs and
even sources of funding for their work, Wasserman said in a
telephone interview last week.  “You have a faculty that trains students for a profession
they have never really inhabited,” he said.  Columbia’s journalism school, founded by Joseph Pulitzer,
opened in  1912  and administers the Pulitzer Prizes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  