-- CommonWealth REIT Says Ousting Board Would Hurt Landlord
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-03-18T20:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/commonwealth-reit-says-ousting-board-would-hurt-landlord.html
CommonWealth REIT (CWH)  said a campaign
by its largest shareholders to remove the board serves only
those  investors  and would bring “harm and disruption” to the
property owner’s business.  The real estate investment trust is urging stockholders to
reject the efforts by Corvex Management LP and Related Cos. to
control the company and install new trustees, Newton,
Massachusetts-based CommonWealth said today in a statement. The
current board and management have “critical knowledge of the
company’s operations and properties,” CommonWealth said.  Keith Meister’s Corvex and Related, led by Chief Executive
Officer Jeff Blau, last week asked a Maryland state court to
void amendments to CommonWealth’s bylaws that make it difficult
for shareholders to replace board members. The New York-based
investors, who unsuccessfully challenged a share sale by the
REIT earlier this month, said in a Feb. 26 letter to the board
that a “misalignment of incentives” between the REIT and its
external management has driven down the value of the stock.  “Corvex and Related are primarily interested in reputation
building” with their “self-serving activism campaign against
CommonWealth’s board,” the REIT said in the statement. “A
wholesale removal of the company’s trustees without cause is not
in the best interest of the company and would bring material
harm and disruption to the business and operations.”  Control Premium  Shareholders are being asked to relinquish control of the
company without Corvex and Related “committing to pay a control
premium, or even any amount, for the outstanding CommonWealth
common shares,” the REIT said.  Joanna Rose , a spokeswoman for the investors, said she
couldn’t immediately comment on CommonWealth’s statement.  Corvex and Related filed documents with the Securities and
Exchange Commission asking CommonWealth shareholders to consent
to the board’s removal, the companies said last week. They hired
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as their adviser and intend to work with the
lender on any financing required for their effort.  CommonWealth sold 34.5 million shares at $19 each in an
offering completed on March 5 that resulted in net proceeds of
about $628 million. Corvex and Related sued to block the
offering because of the dilution it would cause to stockholders.
The investors estimate the company’s real estate assets are
worth about $40 a share.  Corvex and Related own about 8.6 percent of CommonWealth,
according to a regulatory  filing .  Amended Bylaws  The REIT changed its bylaws on March 1 to make it harder
for an investor to replace  board  members. A shareholder or group
of investors must own 3 percent of the company for at least
three years before taking action to remove a trustee, according
to a filing.  CommonWealth’s charter permits holders of two-thirds of the
outstanding shares to remove trustees by written consent, Corvex
and Related said last week. The board would then have to call a
special  shareholders’ meeting  to elect its successors.  CommonWealth’s five-member board of trustees includes
President Adam Portnoy and his father, Barry Portnoy, a company
founder. They also own Reit Management & Research LLC, or RMR,
the external management company for the REIT.  Corvex and Related claim that the board buys properties at
a high valuation to maximize management fees for RMR.  CommonWealth rose 0.9 percent to $23.11 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  