-- Cornerstone Plans $303 Mln U.K. Real Estate Investment
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-03-18T12:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/cornerstone-plans-303-mln-u-k-real-estate-investment.html
Cornerstone Real Estate Advisers
LLC, which manages $38.9 billion of property and related assets,
will spend as much as 200 million pounds ($303 million) buying
U.K. warehouses and office buildings over the coming two years,
European Chief Executive Officer Charles Weeks said.  The purchases will be made on behalf of Cornerstone’s
clients, Weeks said in a March 14 interview. He said
Cornerstone, a unit of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
will buy office buildings in central  London  and warehouses
leased to small- and medium-sized U.K. businesses.  Cornerstone’s London-based European operations “can buy
fundamentally a very good bit of real estate in a great
location,” but the best-valued assets have a short lease,
Weeks said. “If you believe in the real estate, then you should
still be interested in acquiring the asset because you’re
confident that you’ll be able to” extend the lease or attract
new tenants, he said.  Cornerstone will buy from 100 million pounds to 200 million
pounds of property without initially borrowing to fund the
purchases, Weeks said. It may “apply some leverage to that in
time,” once the portfolio is built up, he said. Cornerstone
recently bought 35 million pounds of warehouse parks located in
Solihull, about a 90-minute drive from London’s Heathrow
Airport, as well as in Sheffield, England, and in Glasgow,
 Scotland , according to a March 1 statement.  Rental Yields  Yields for the best U.K. warehouses ranged from 6.25
percent to 8.25 percent last year, according to data compiled by
broker CBRE Group Inc. Yields for income-producing office
buildings in London’s West End district average 3.5 percent and
in the  City of London  financial area they’re about 4.7 percent,
broker Savills Plc said this month. Yields are the annual rental
income expressed as a percentage of the purchase price.  Cornerstone, based in Hartford,  Connecticut , may also open
offices in Germany and  France  this year as it seeks to increase
lending and attract more equity from investors, according to
Weeks. It’s likely to double the amount it lends to commercial-
property owners in  Europe  to as much as 800 million euros within
24 months, he said in the interview at the MIPIM real estate
conference in Cannes, France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 