-- Cyprus Banks Like Iceland’s Dwarf Economy as Clients Pay
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-03-19T17:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/cyprus-bank-assets-dwarfing-economy-to-make-aid-exception.html
The European Union’s decision to
force Cypriot savers into a bailout came after banks grew so
large that they dwarfed the nation’s economy, resembling
Iceland’s finance industry before its collapse.  Cyprus’s bank assets swelled to 126.4 billion euros ($164
billion) at the end of January, seven times the size of the 18
billion-euro economy, from 78 billion euros in 2007, data from
the  European Central Bank  and the EU’s statistics office show.  The Cypriot government announced an unprecedented tax on
deposits three days ago, seeking European aid after its banks
lost 4.5 billion euros on Greek sovereign debt and failed to
meet euro area capital requirements. Troubles on the
Mediterranean island have resembled those of Iceland, which
seized control of its banks in 2008 when they were unable to
finance debt 12 times the size of the economy.  “The banks grew as they amassed funds from wealthy
foreigners and now that size is too much for the country to
handle on its own,”  Philipp Haessler , a European banks analyst
at Equinet AG in  Frankfurt , said by telephone. “Cyprus is being
made an example of.”  European finance ministers on March 16 ordered Cyprus to
impose a levy of 6.75 percent on deposits of less than 100,000
euros -- the ceiling for European Union account insurance -- and
9.9 percent on funds above that.  Vote Delayed  The Parliament in Nicosia began debating the measure today,
which will raise 5.8 billion euros. Cyprus, which had delayed
the vote on two occasions, may lower costs for smaller savers so
long as it meets the target, euro area finance ministers said in
a statement late yesterday. Banks are due to remain shut until
at least March 21 after a holiday yesterday.  The benchmark  Stoxx 600 Banks Index (SX7P)  closed down 2.1
percent, extending declines this week to 3.5 percent. Banks from
crisis-struck European nations led the drop, with  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Spain ’s second-biggest lender, sliding
4.8 percent to 7.23 euros.  Iceland, where an $85 billion banking industry default
plunged the $13 billion economy into economic crisis in 2008,
acted within its rights when it refused to cover U.K. and Dutch
depositors of failed bank Landsbanki Islands hf, the European
Free Trade Association Court in Luxembourg ruled in January.  Attractive Rates  Like Iceland, investors in Cypriot banks were chasing
interest on deposits that looked increasingly attractive as the
returns available in other parts of the euro area declined. In
January, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  demanded an
investigation into whether  Russia  is using the island as a
destination for  money laundering . Cypriot officials deny the
country is a haven for illegal money.  President Nicos Anastasiades said today that the assembly
may reject the plan because lawmakers feel it’s against the
country’s interests.  Cypriot banks paid an average 4.45 percent on deposits of
less than two years in January compared with 4.25 percent in
2008, according to data from the  Central Bank of Cyprus . The
European Central Bank slashed rates to 0.75 percent from 4
percent in the period and German banks lowered theirs to 1.5
percent from 4.01 percent.  Of the 68.4 billion euros in deposits held by non-bank
clients at Cypriot lenders at the end of January, 21 billion
euros, or 31 percent, was from clients outside the euro area and
7 percent from other nations inside the currency bloc, according
to the Cypriot central bank.  The country’s three biggest listed lenders --  Bank of
Cyprus Plc ,  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB)  and  Hellenic Bank Pcl (HB)  -- had
a total of 6.5 billion euros of losses in 2011 after writing
down the value of their Greek bond holdings.  Russia Connection  Russian companies and individuals have $31 billion of
deposits in Cyprus, according to Moody’s Investors Services.  More than a third of the branches of the  Bank of Cyprus ,
which held 27 percent of the country’s deposits at the end of
September, are located in Russia.  Russian businessman  Dmitry Rybolovlev  is the largest
shareholder in the Bank of Cyprus with a 9.7 percent stake held
via British Virgin Islands-based trust Odella Resources,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rybolovlev, worth $9.4
billion, bought an apartment at 15 Central Park West,  New York ,
for $88 million last year.  President  Vladimir Putin  called the tax “unfair,
unprofessional and dangerous” in a statement posted on the
Kremlin’s website yesterday. A spokesman for Putin wasn’t
available to comment on how much Russian cash is held in Cypriot
banks.  ‘No Option’  European leaders are pushing the government to tap banks’
deposits because their corporate bonds are limited in size,
reducing the effect of any Greece-style haircut. The country’s
small tax base also hampers its ability to raise funds.  “There was no other way as there was no debt outstanding
at Cyprus’s banks that they could impair,” Christine Schmid, a
Zurich-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said by phone.
“There was no option. So they went after the deposits.”  The Cypriot charge on deposits is raising concern that
other European states such as Spain or  Italy  might levy similar
one-time taxes to help rescue their troubled lenders, said
 Alexander Friedman , global chief investment officer at UBS AG.  “The depositor bail-in sets a dangerous precedent,
rendering  deposit insurance  partially worthless,” Friedman, who
is based in New York, said in an e-mailed report yesterday.
“While being flagged as an exceptional situation, this may
accelerate problems of other weaker banks in the European
periphery by increasing the risk of bank runs.”  The Cypriot plan is “unlikely to be a model for other EU
states,” Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain
said in a speech at a conference in Frankfurt today.  Not Normal  Italian and Spanish banks are smaller than their Cypriot
peers relative to the size of their respective economies.
Spanish banking assets total more than three times the size of
the economy while Italy’s banks have assets equal to more than 2
1/2 times gross domestic product.  “Cypriot banks aren’t normal but European policy makers
should have seen it coming,” Klaus Fleischer, a professor of
banking and finance at the University of Applied Sciences in
Munich, said by phone. “Deposits are deposits regardless of
where they are in  Europe  and with people watching this in other
countries, there’s a risk they lose faith in the system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  