-- Cypriot Gas Revenue Seen as Scant Return for Deposits
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-03-19T10:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/cypriot-gas-revenue-seen-as-scant-compensation-for-lost-deposits.html
(Corrects value of reserves in ninth paragraph of story
published yesterday.)  Cyprus, which is seeking to impose
a levy on  bank deposits  to fund part of a euro area bailout,
plans to compensate depositors with future gas income from
foreign sales of the fuel that may never materialize.  “Potential gas exports from Cyprus will compete in an
international market of multiple other gas suppliers,” Noel Tomnay, head of global gas research for Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in
Edinburgh,  Scotland , said today by e-mail. “This comes with
risk and uncertainty. At this time, there are no guarantees that
exports will be commercially achieved.”  People who keep their deposits in Cyprus for two years
would receive securities linked to future revenue from the
country’s natural gas reserves, Cyprus President Nicos Anastasiades said yesterday as people lined up at cash machines
to withdraw their money. The east Mediterranean island nation
says it has reserves of 60 trillion cubic feet. That’s about 21
years of U.K. demand, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s statistical review.  The Parliament postponed until tomorrow a vote to impose
losses on the nation’s depositors to finance a 10 billion-euro
($13 billion) bailout aimed at preventing a financial collapse
and possible departure from the euro area.  Cypriots woke up on March 16 to find bank funds frozen as
the country’s authorities prepared to remove the tax from
accounts before banks reopen.  ‘Very Early’  “Holders of these securities may not see any return for
years,” Tony Regan, a consultant with Tri-Zen International
Inc. in  Singapore  and a former  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  trading
executive, said today in an e-mail. “With the fairest of winds
I can’t see significant production within five years.”  Cyprus, which first discovered gas in 2011, won’t start
exporting the fuel before 2020 at the earliest,  Andy Flower , an
independent consultant and a former BP Plc executive, said today
by phone from Surrey, England.  The offer to depositors “can’t be a good deal,” he said.
“You are asking people to invest in something that is in a very
early stage.”  Cyprus may hold offshore gas reserves of as much as 60
trillion cubic feet, Charalambos Ellinas, head of Kretyk, the
country’s state hydrocarbons company, said on March 15. That
would be worth about 475 billion euros at today’s price for
month-ahead gas on the Title Transfer Facility in the
Netherlands, mainland Europe’s biggest market, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkey Dispute  Some of the rights to offshore reserves are disputed by
 Turkey , which invaded the northern part of the island in 1974
after a coup aimed at uniting it with  Greece . Turkey sent an
exploration vessel accompanied by warships and jets to stop
Cyprus drilling for oil and gas in 2011.  The country has granted licenses for exploratory drilling
in six blocks that may contain as much as 40 trillion cubic feet
of gas, Ellinas said.  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , based in Houston, will
in the third quarter begin exploratory drilling in block 12 of
the Economic Exclusion Zone, which has reserves of as much as 8
trillion cubic feet, Commerce and Industry Minister George Lakkotrypis said on March 13.  “The security holders will probably have to be paid from
the government’s share” of gas revenue, Regan said. “Will
there be enough money to pay them? We could be talking about
billions of dollars.”  Cyprus has so far given gas-exploration licenses to Noble,
Total SA and a venture of  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  