-- DeMarco Pushes Housing Finance Reform as Fannie Profits Soar
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-19T18:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/demarco-calls-for-new-push-on-reform-as-fannie-profits-return.html
Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the two
government-seized mortgage financiers, appear increasingly
likely to pay billions of dollars to the  U.S. Treasury , focusing
attention in Washington on what should replace them.  Edward J. DeMarco, the acting regulator of the two
companies, appeared before the House Financial Services
Committee today and urged lawmakers to reduce or eliminate the
 mortgage market ’s reliance on taxpayers. At the same time, a
Senate panel heard testimony from the authors of an alternate
plan for housing-finance reform issued in February by an
independent commission.  “I have been observing a developing ‘consensus’ among
private-market participants that the conforming conventional
mortgage market cannot operate without the American taxpayer
providing the ultimate credit guarantee for most of the
market,” DeMarco said in testimony at the House hearing. “That
clearly is one outcome, but I do not believe it is the only
outcome that can give our country a strong housing finance
system. I believe that our country, and its financial system,
are stronger than that.”  Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac have been under U.S. conservatorship since 2008 and
have drawn nearly $190 billion in taxpayer aid to stay afloat
during that time. Lawmakers who don’t want the companies to
return to their previous status as government-sponsored
enterprises, or GSEs, are becoming concerned that political
momentum for winding down and replacing them could erode as the
housing market rebounds and profits soar.  ‘True’ Reform  “I am determined that this hearing will be the last time
that Director DeMarco -- or, if you believe press reports, his
successor -- will testify before this committee before we
finally and belatedly markup a true GSE reform legislation,”
House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Jeb Hensarling , a
Republican from  Texas , said at the hearing.  One of the potential replacements for DeMarco is North
Carolina Representative Mel Watt, a Democrat who sits on the
Financial Services Committee and said he intended “to listen,
not to engage” in today’s hearing.  Fannie Mae, in a regulatory filing on March 14, raised the
possibility that it could soon be required to send as much as
$62 billion to the U.S. Treasury because, once it is profitable,
it may have to start counting potential tax credits as part of
its net worth. The company said it would delay filing its
earnings report for the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2012, while it
studies the accounting issue.  ‘Significant’ Income  Regardless of the outcome, Fannie Mae said it expects to
report “significant net income” for the quarter.  The news helped send Fannie Mae’s preferred stock soaring
to the highest point since September of 2008, when it was seized
by the government and dividends were suspended. Fannie Mae’s $7
billion of 8.25 percent preferred shares climbed to $2.96 in  New
York  on March 15 from $2.08 on March 13. They traded at $3.14 as
of 1:35 p.m. today.  The company’s common  shares , which reached as high as
$69.49 in 2007, more than doubled to 68 cents from 29.5 cents on
March 14.  The securities may be worthless unless the companies can
pay off the funds they owe to taxpayers or see their bailouts
reworked. Under the current terms of the companies’ aid
agreements, any money sent to Treasury is considered a return on
the taxpayers’ investment, not a repayment. That’s because the
federal government structured the bailout so that they could not
regain independence without a new housing finance system in
place.  Government Role  DeMarco said he does not anticipate that legislative
changes to the housing finance will end the government’s
involvement entirely. “It’s not really what I’m expecting or
would like to see,” DeMarco said.  “What I would envision is we’ve got to start moving that
dial away from government, away from taxpayers and back toward a
more private capital participation,” he said. “Between zero
and $10 trillion there are a lot of places to reset that dial
and I think we can make substantial progress away from taxpayers
and still have a vibrant role for government.”  Republicans praised DeMarco’s work and often called his
plans “courageous.”  “The steps being taken by the director are far more than
any reform the administration has undertaken,” Representative
 Scott Garrett , a Republican from  New Jersey , said. “It appears
to me that they are more than content to keep their head in the
sand and act as if no long-term reforms to our housing finance
system are needed.”  Congressional Approval  Lawmakers including Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana
Republican, and Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts
Democrat, on March 14 introduced a bill that would ensure Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac couldn’t emerge from government control even
if they end up paying more to the Treasury than they took in
aid. The measure would ban sales of senior-ranking U.S.
Treasury-owned preferred shares without congressional approval.  “This bill shows that Republicans and Democrats do agree
on the urgency required to reform the mortgage finance system,”
Vitter said in a statement.  Senate banking Committee ranking member Michael Crapo, a
Republican from  Idaho , said in the “weeks to come” he will
describe his views for long-term housing reform.  Differing Views  “For too long our differing views as to the optimal
solution seem to have prevented substantive negotiations from
even starting,” Crapo said at a Banking Committee hearing on
housing reform options. “Although we do not agree on what
should be the final product today, this should not preclude us
from beginning negotiations, or even jointly identifying the
problems in today’s market.”  Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson , a Democrat
from  South Dakota , said he will work with Crapo for a series of
hearings before moving onto a “consensus” bill.  “A partisan bill or a bill full of ideology that ignores
the realities of our economy would be irresponsible, especially
when the housing market is beginning to show signs of
strength,” Johnson said.  Even without legislation, Treasury is extremely unlikely to
change the rules to allow the companies to emerge from
conservatorship, said Thomas Lawler, a former Fannie Mae
economist who’s now a housing consultant in Leesburg, Virginia.  Not AIG  Investors are wrong to expect that Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac will emerge from government control in a manner similar to
American International Group Inc., the insurer that repaid its
government bailout in December, said Ed Mills, an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets & Co. in Arlington, Virginia.  “The difference between AIG and Fannie and Freddie
couldn’t be more stark,” Mills said in a telephone interview.
The two mortgage companies were government-sponsored with long
histories of implicit taxpayer support before their rescues. In
addition, he said, Fannie Mae “has the greatest amount of
political baggage of any company to have ever existed in the
history of the  United States .”  DeMarco urged lawmakers to not wait to begin housing
finance reform and said the continued conservatorship of the
entities is holding the private market back.  “There are a number of things inhibiting the full return.
One of them is Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  are still the dominant
players in the marketplace and they are operating with taxpayer
support, which puts them in a place that other private investors
cannot get to,” DeMarco said.  Divisions Remain  Democrats and Republicans remain divided on what should
replace the two companies, and the Obama administration has yet
to present a plan for a housing-finance overhaul. That leaves
DeMarco, who leads the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , to
gradually shrink them on his own.  Democrats have pushed for a replacement for DeMarco because
of his resistance to forcing the government entities to perform
principal reductions for troubled homeowners.  “I am concerned that Mr. DeMarco has used his wide
latitude in regulating Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to make a
number of controversial decisions during his tenure, including
refusing to move forward with principal reduction modifications,
even when they would benefit the taxpayer, and raising fees in
states with strong  consumer protection laws ,” Committee ranking
member Maxine Waters, a Democrat from California, said.  DeMarco’s opening statement was interrupted by protesters
holding signs saying “Dump DeMarco” and “Principal
Reduction.”  President  Barack Obama  is getting closer to nominating a
replacement for DeMarco, 52, a career government employee who
has been in his current post since 2009. DeMarco has been
criticized by some housing advocates and Democratic lawmakers
for refusing to let the two companies cut debt for borrowers
whose mortgages exceed the value of their homes. At the same
time, he has earned praise from Republican lawmakers for his
focus on improving the companies’ bottom lines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  