-- Denmark Races to Prevent Foreclosures as Home Prices Sink
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-19T09:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/denmark-races-to-prevent-foreclosure-shock-as-home-prices-sink.html
Representatives from Denmark’s
mortgage industry are meeting with the government today in the
hope of easing repayment terms on interest-only loans that
threaten to unleash a wave of foreclosures this year.  The Association of Danish Mortgage Banks and the Mortgage
Bankers’ Federation are due to start talks with Business
Minister Annette Vilhelmsen to decide how to treat borrowers who
won’t be able to afford the interest-only loans they took out a
decade ago once amortization requirements kick in this year.
Borrowers are also struggling as a deepening property slump
drives  house prices  down to 2005 levels.  “Eighty percent of homeowners under 35 years of age are
under water. That’s a lot,” Curt Liliegreen, head of the Center
for Housing Economics in Copenhagen, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “This is a problem that threatens the
Danish economy.”  Denmark’s housing crisis, which started when the nation’s
property bubble burst in 2008, is showing signs of deepening.
Prices sank 2.8 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the
two mortgage groups said yesterday. More than 100,000 households
will need to have special terms negotiated if they are to meet
their loan obligations, according to a February study by the
University of Southern Denmark.  ‘Rough Time’  “The housing market is still having a rough time,”  Steen Bocian , chief economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said today in an
economic report. “Even though the pace of declines slowed last
year, it’s too early to talk about a turn-around.”  House prices may start to rise this year, though at a
slower rate than inflation, Bocian said. He forecast a 1 percent
increase in  home prices  this year and 0.6 percent in 2014.  Denmark’s $590 billion  mortgage industry  -- which is about
twice the size of Denmark’s economy -- in 2003 started giving
borrowers the option of deferring amortization for as long as a
decade. The interest-only mortgages were popular, and have since
grown to account for 56 percent of all outstanding home loans,
according to the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks. The
central bank has criticized the loans, arguing they inflated a
housing bubble that plunged  Denmark  into a recession.  The mortgage industry wants the government to approve a
plan that would allow homeowners to treat their property debt as
two separate loans. The move would give lenders the freedom to
let borrowers roll over debt within an 80 percent loan-to-value
threshold into new interest-only loans. Only debt exceeding that
limit would be amortized. Without the proposed change, borrowers
would need to start amortizing the whole amount.  ‘Dramatic Increases’  “There will be very dramatic increases in monthly payments
for many families and it’s happening at a time with relatively
high unemployment,” Liliegreen said. “That’s a dangerous
cocktail.”  Denmark’s property prices have dropped more than 20 percent
since their 2007 peak, triggering a regional banking crisis
that’s wiped out more than 12 lenders.  Gross domestic product 
shrank 0.6 percent last year, the biggest annual decline in
three years, prompting economists at  Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  to characterize
2012 as Denmark’s “annus horribilis.”  While the nation’s  unemployment rate , including people in
vocational training courses, has hovered close to 6 percent, the
number of people outside the workforce rose to its highest last
quarter since at least 1996, as record numbers stopped looking
for work, Jan Stoerup Nielsen, senior analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
said Feb. 13. The economy lost as many as 8,000 jobs last year,
according to Danske Bank.  Foreclosures  Foreclosures increased as much as fivefold after Denmark’s
housing bubble burst in 2008. Last month, they declined to 361
from 481 a year earlier, according to the statistics agency,
after interest rates on mortgages refinanced yearly fell to
below 0.5 percent in November and December auctions.  The risk of higher interest rates now poses a threat to the
housing market’s recovery, Nordea said today. The Stockholm-
based lender forecast a 0.9 percent increase in house prices
this year and 1.9 percent in 2014.  The Danish central bank, which defends the krone’s peg to
the euro, will raise rates as part of a gradual normalization of
monetary policy that “we expect will push financing costs
higher,” Nordea said.  The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rates  in
January after investor appetite for AAA rated assets waned amid
an improved outlook for southern Europe. Even after that
increase, the bank’s deposit rate remains below zero at minus
0.1 percent. The lending rate is 0.3 percent.  ‘Facing Customers’  The mortgage industry has already signaled to banks,
including Nykredit A/S and the home-loan arm of Danske Bank A/S,
to start following its recommendations, even before winning
government backing.  The banks “have to react,” Karsten Beltoft, director of
the federation, said in an interview last month. “They’re
facing customers right now.”  Denmark’s Financial Supervisory Authority has declined to
comment on the legality of the measure, leaving it to Vilhelmsen
to decide whether banks are in fact violating the law by
breaking up the loans.  Vilhelmsen said Feb. 20 the approach risks “weakening
mortgage bonds’ security.”  Interest rates on home loans plunged last year to record
lows as investors fleeing  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis sought
the safety of Denmark’s top-rated covered bonds.  Cause of Collapse  Danish mortgage banks aren’t allowed to grant loans that
exceed 80 percent of a property’s value. Any shortfall caused by
house price declines is filled by the banks, which must provide
extra collateral to maintain their credit ratings.  A government-appointed committee examining the causes of
Denmark’s 2008 housing collapse is due to report its findings
within months. The central bank has urged the industry to phase
out interest-only lending, while the FSA, as of May 1, may
impose fines on banks that don’t ensure new borrowers can afford
to repay their principal. The agency also said in November it
was looking into the option of requiring depositors to make
larger down-payments before gaining access to mortgage
financing.  “There is a moral hazard problem,” Liliegreen said. “But
the question of what happens to society, to the economy, is more
important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  