-- Descending Triangle Suggests 3% U.S. Yields: Technical Analysis
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/descending-triangle-suggests-3-u-s-yields-technical-analysis.html
U.S. Treasury bond yields may
decline to 3 percent for the first time in almost two months
after falling out of a descending triangle pattern, according to
CRT Capital Group LLC, citing technical analysis.  “Three percent is certainly doable, with the market a bit
more risk-off,”  David Ader , head of U.S. government-bond
strategy at CRT in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said yesterday in a
phone interview. “We are coming into quarter-end and that is
usually a bearish time.”  Thirty-year bonds rose yesterday, pushing yields down three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.18 percent in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, as an
unprecedented proposed levy on  bank deposits  in Cyprus
threatened to reignite the euro region’s debt crisis, boosting
demand for a refuge. The last time the yield touched 3 percent
was Jan. 24.  “Resistance comes first at 3.107 percent, the breakdown
level post the Italian election rally, and then 3.06 percent,
the high volume of accumulation of that rally,” Ader wrote
yesterday in a note to clients. Yields rose from 3.06 percent
after an inconclusive Italian election on Feb. 24-25 to 3.28
percent on March 8, the highest since April.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.
formed as the gauge retreated from the January high, he said.  A  descending triangle  is a bearish chart pattern used in
technical analysis that is created by drawing one trend line
that connects a series of diminishing market tops, and comparing
that against a second line drawn along a level that has
historically proven to be a support, according to Investopedia.  Support is an area in a chart where buy orders are
clustered, and resistance is where sell orders congregated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  