-- Devon CEO Sees North American Service Costs Down 2% This Year
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-03-18T00:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/devon-ceo-sees-north-american-service-costs-down-2-this-year.html
Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) , the second-
worst performer in the Standard & Poor’s 500 explorers and
producers index last quarter, said it expects total service
costs to drop about 2 percent this year as the price of pressure
pumping and drilling-rig gear declines.  “We’ve been seeing costs leveling off for a while and
starting to come down a little bit,” John Richels, chief
executive officer at the Oklahoma City producer, said in an
interview at the Howard Weil Energy Conference in New Orleans.
“We have alliance agreements with all of the large providers
and we renegotiate them from time to time.”  After several years of rising costs from contractors
providing drilling  rig  and hydraulic-fracturing services, prices
started to fall around the second half of last year, he said.
Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, involves pumping millions of
gallons of water mixed with sand and chemicals to unlock
hydrocarbons from underground rock.  Prices charged for U.S. fracking services are forecast to
drop another 4 percent this year after a 15 percent tumble last
year, according to PacWest Consulting Partners LLC, a Houston-
based industry adviser. Fracking equipment this year, measured
by the amount of horsepower available, will exceed demand by an
estimated 29 percent. About 15.7 million horsepower was
competing to meet demand for 12.2 million, the consultant said.  The average number of land rigs operating in the U.S.
dropped 13 percent in the fourth quarter to 1,692 compared with
a year earlier.  Areas of very high activity, such as in the Permian Basin
in west Texas, didn’t see total service costs drop off as much
as in other areas of the U.S., Richels said.  Devon  dropped  14 percent in the final three months of last
year.  Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX)  fell the most among the  index 
members at 14.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  