-- Downgrade Threat Sees Banks Favor Deposits, Debelle Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-03-18T22:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/downgrade-threat-sees-banks-favvor-deposits-debelle-says.html
Australia ’s banks are paying the
same to raise funding through three-month deposits as they are
on five-year unsecured bonds as they seek to safeguard credit
ratings, central bank Assistant Governor Guy Debelle said.  Lenders’ debt issuance is holding in line with maturities
even as funding costs drop, amid a “desire to maintain a strong
rating, with the latent threat of a downgrade if wholesale
issuance were to grow ‘too large’,” the Reserve Bank of
Australia’s Debelle said in prepared remarks of a speech in
Sydney today. “This reflects the somewhat misplaced assessment
of ‘deposits good, wholesale funding bad.’”  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) , which all hold Standard & Poor’s fourth-highest
credit grade, have cut reliance on bond markets since the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled financial
markets. Outstanding notes issued by the nation’s four biggest
banks dropped to $392 billion currently from $437 billion in the
third quarter of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Term deposits with banks increased 7.7 percent to A$546.4
billion in the year to January, the most in RBA data going back
to 1984. Such holdings may be nearing a peak as debt costs fall
and a stock market rebound tempts customers back into riskier
assets, Commonwealth Bank Treasurer Lyn Cobley said March 12.  Spreads Narrow  Yields on Australian dollar-denominated financial notes
dropped 119 basis points over the past year to 143 basis points
more than similar-dated government debt, near the narrowest
spread since 2007, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. The
gap on a broad market gauge of all bonds in the nation has
narrowed more quickly than the global average, the data show.  Australia’s bond market is benefiting from strong
international demand for assets in the nation’s currency,
Debelle said today. Sales of sovereign notes by Japanese
investors have been “more than compensated for” by other asset
managers boosting purchases, and the market has become more
attractive to foreign borrowers, he said.  “Kangaroo issuance has been supported by the broad-based
reduction in spreads, the attractive basis, and foreign
investors looking beyond AAA instruments for Australian dollar
exposure,” he said. “These foreign investors have been notably
active and Asian investor participation in particular continues
to grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  