-- Drive-By Truckers Flex Southern Muscle in Port Chester
-- B y   S a r a h   G r a n t
-- 2013-03-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/drive-by-truckers-flex-southern-muscle-in-port-chester.html
About a 10-minute drive from
where a hedge-funder might be cradling a bottle in his
Greenwich, Connecticut, wine cellar, Patterson Hood was
gripping his guitar on the stage of the Capitol Theatre.  The burly band leader and his Drive-By Truckers
brought southern muscle music to the storied Port Chester,
 New York , venue Friday night.  Built in 1926 and listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, the Capitol served in the 1960s and ’70s
as a suburban Fillmore East, with concerts by the  Rolling
Stones , Jefferson Airplane,  Pink Floyd  and many more. It
closed in 2011 for $2 million in renovations, and re-opened
last year with new sound and lighting systems.  On Friday, the Drive-By Truckers played a relentless
90-minute set that began with a slow-grinding introduction
to “A Ghost to Most” from the 2008 album “Brighter Than
Creation’s Dark.”  The five-piece alt-country band, based in  Athens ,
 Georgia , feature an assaultive three-guitar sound and an
affinity for Muscle Shoals-era soul (Hood’s father, David
Hood, was a member of the Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section).  The Truckers gained notoriety with 2001’s “Southern
Rock Opera.” It uses Lynyrd Skynyrd and the plane crash
that killed lead singer Ronnie Van Zant to broach thorny
social issues such as racial politics and substance abuse.  Shared Spotlight  Hood and guitarist Mike Cooley, the band’s other core
member since 1996, shared time in the spotlight, with Hood
fronting the big, grittier tunes like “Don’t Be in Love
Around Me” and “Girls Who Smoke.”  Cooley’s controlled vocal let Hood cut loose on the
guitar for rollicking numbers like “Carl Perkins’
Cadillac” and “Zip City.”  Hood sings in a higher register than Cooley, so the
two harmonize well. Glass-raisers like “Hell No, I Ain’t
Happy” and even “Birthday Boy” sounded more nuanced than
most chorus-friendly tunes. Crowd members danced arm-in-
arm, transforming the lavish theater into a honky-tonk
dive, if only for a few minutes.  Throughout the set, a miscellany of influences
surfaced, from Police-style vamping to the more overt
Warren Zevon power chords of “Women Without Whiskey,”
sung by Cooley.  As most things southern gothic go, the glee quickly
unraveled into gloom with the help of Jay Gonzalez’s organ
dirges. Arched over an imaginary mic stand, Hood cut into
“Sink Hole,” about a bad banker driving him to the brink
of insanity.  Robert Mitchum  When Hood sang the opening refrain, “I’ve always been
a religious man,” he sounded like Robert Mitchum as the
killer-preacher from “The Night of the Hunter.” And when
he lumbered across the stage, he recalled the ultimate
Skynyrd-nemesis,  Neil Young .  The Drive-By Truckers avoid the flag-waving and
posturing of some southern rock while offering social
commentary. The band brings sophistication to the genre.  The Old 97’s, alt-country pioneers from  Texas , opened
with a rousing, sing-along-heavy set rich in history. They
played “Champaign,  Illinois ” a song co-written by  Bob Dylan , as well as Merle Haggard’s “Mama Tried.”  Barroom Romances  At 42, the youthful guitarist/singer Rhett Miller
deserves to be mentioned as one of country’s great
songwriters, but he rarely is. His barroom romances are
honest and unabashed, much like his stage presence. Do his
hips ever stop gyrating?  Eventually, Miller traded his acoustic guitar for a
sleek black electric, careening into the timely,
distortion-dense “Four Leaf Clover” followed by “Every
Night Is Friday Night (Without You).” The set neared its
close with “Jagged,” a song that sounds anything but,
with distinct vocal harmonies and a guitar riff as welcome
as the gin-and-tonic that Miller’s narrator desperately
needs.  The Drive-By Truckers are touring nationally through
May. Information:
 http://www.drivebytruckers.com/shows.html .  (Sarah Grant works for  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Sarah Grant in New York at 
 Sgrant43@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 