-- Earthquakes and the Mind-Bending Laws of Markets
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2013-03-18T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/earthquakes-and-the-mind-bending-laws-of-markets.html
Like the devastating Japanese
earthquake of 2011, the stock market crash of Oct. 19, 1987,
came as a total shock to most people. Yet the crash wasn’t
entirely without warning. Five days before, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average dropped 95 points, which was then an all-time
record. Two days later, it closed down another 108 points. Just
like others crashes -- 1929, for example -- and all major
earthquakes, the 1987 crash was preceded by significant
rumblings.  The comparison of tectonic and market shocks goes far
beyond metaphor and analogy. Consider, for example, how much the
prices of stocks and other financial instruments change over a
certain time interval -- say a few minutes, a single day, or a
week. In the early 1960s, French mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot
carried out a landmark study of such changes in the prices of
cotton and found that the statistics of large market returns
follow an inverse power law very much like the Gutenberg-Richter
law for earthquakes. More than 30 years later, physicists found
that this law-like pattern holds for intervals varying from a
second up to a month and in different kinds of markets --
stocks, foreign exchange, futures -- as well as in many
different countries.  Law-like Pattern  The close correspondence with the Gutenberg-Richter law
raises some intriguing questions. The behavior of markets, we
tend to believe, rests on the thoughts and emotions and actions
of innumerable people, firms, and governments. Equilibrium
theory -- the crystallization of decades of academic thought
about how the economy works -- insists it reflects the rational
nature of human beings. Yet somehow all this thinking and
psychology and individual free will don’t get in the way of a
law-like pattern. It turns up in the marketplace just as readily
as it does in the purely mechanical workings of the earth’s
crust.  What does the power law mean? In the case of earthquakes,
it implies that large and small temblors work the same way, as
continental plates slide past one another, releasing energy as
heat and vibration. How much simply depends on how far the
sliding goes and the surface area involved. The point is that
large and small earthquakes aren’t essentially different in the
way that, say, stars and Ping-Pong balls are. They differ only
in degree, not quality.  Power-law mathematics causes trouble for our intuition,
which is attuned to another way of thinking. The average weight
of an adult male in the U.S. is about 190 pounds. There is a
small fraction of men who weigh more than 300 pounds, some more
than 400, and a handful pushing the record books at 600 or more.
If peoples’ weights worked like earthquakes, then some people
would weigh tens of millions of pounds, as much as 10 Boeing 767
jetliners put together. Such people would be big, but not in any
sense freakishly big, just big in an expected and ordinary way.  Power laws reveal the profound and generally underestimated
importance of extremes. According to exponential, “normal”
statistics, extreme events are so rare they can be disdainfully
ignored. Power-law statistics, which are ubiquitous in
everything from the sizes of meteors to the earnings of books or
films, mean that extremes aren’t so rare and they matter most.
Things like the movements of continental plates and markets
aren’t really driven by a gradual accumulation of the normal and
routine, but by the singular, disproportionate impact of a few
great tumultuous earthquakes and crises.  Unfortunately, centuries of science and mathematics
tradition, focusing on the normal statistics of things like
weights, heights, and test scores, has taught us to see the
world incorrectly. It was a telling moment on April 27, 2010,
when Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar
testified to the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations, which was exploring his company’s role in the
financial crisis.  Seeing Things  “We were seeing things,” Viniar said, recalling the tumult
of the worst days, “that were 25-standard-deviation events,
several days in a row.”  In Gaussian mathematics, even an eight-standard-deviation
event is expected only about once in the entire history of the
universe. A 25-standard-deviation event should be expected about
once every 10 to the 135th power years -- one followed by 135
zeros. Stocks over a single day typically change less than about
2 percent, so a movement of even 10 standard deviations means a
movement of at least 20 percent. While normal statistics says
this should happen once every 10 to the 22nd power days, market
data show that it happens essentially every week for at least
one of the few thousand stocks in the market. So perhaps we
should reexamine our assumptions.  Power laws are immensely important for proper risk
management, for assessing the likelihood of large market
upheavals with at least some accuracy. But what’s of even
greater importance is that the power law of market returns helps
illuminate a path to theories of finance with greater
explanatory power than we’ve previously seen. It is a core fact
that any theory of markets really has to explain.  (Mark Buchanan, a theoretical physicist, is the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You.” This is the second in
a series of three excerpts from his new book, “Forecast: What
Physics, Meteorology and the Natural Sciences Can Teach Us About
Economics,” to be published March 26 by Bloomsbury. The opinions
expressed are his own. Read  part one .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 