-- EasyJet CEO Says Boeing Credible Contender for Jet Deal
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-18T15:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/easyjet-marches-on-moscow-in-challenge-to-british-airways.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  Chief Executive Officer
Carolyn McCall said  Boeing Co. (BA)  stands a realistic chance of
winning a large fleet order to reclaim a customer that it lost
to Airbus SAS more than a decade ago.  Boeing is “an absolutely serious contender for a very
large transaction,” McCall said in an interview today on the
discount carrier’s inaugural flight to Moscow. The Chicago-based
aircraft maker would need to offer an “amazing deal” to retake
the spot as EasyJet’s preferred aircraft provider, she said.  EasyJet, Europe’s second-largest discount carrier, has
opened the bidding for new planes including the Boeing 737 Max
and Airbus A320neo as it develops its fleet expansion plan from
2017. While low-fare carriers typically harmonize aircraft types
to rein in costs, EasyJet operated planes from both
manufacturers as it transitioned to an all-Airbus fleet after
committing to the Toulouse-based airplane maker in 2002.  “We are used to running a dual fleet,” McCall said.
“We’ve worked out a very efficient plan to do it. That’s not to
say its the optimal efficient plan, but it can be done depending
on the price we get from Boeing.”  The stakes are high for Boeing after Airbus secured orders
for more than 400 A320 airliners in less than a week from
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Turkish Airlines (THYAO) , and Lion Mentari
Airlines PT. Lion Air today announced a deal for 234 A320s,
topping a contract it signed a year ago with Boeing for 230
jets, in the biggest purchase ever for Airbus by numbers.  Ryanair Win  Boeing is poised to announce an order for 170 737-model
planes this week with  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s largest
discount carrier, people familiar with the matter said. The
contract would be worth $15.1 billion at least price, with
customers typically receiving large discounts.  McCall said Airbus also has a lot riding on the outcome of
her airline’s order, saying a loss to Boeing would mark a
“massive blow” for the European manufacturer.  EasyJet founder and No. 1 shareholder Stelios Haji-Ioannou
has urged the airline’s management to focus on profitability
rather than growth and has threatened to further cut his 37
percent holding after selling some of his stake in January for
the first time since 2004.  “If the board places another order for aircraft it will
destroy shareholder value into the future,” Stelios said in
January. “Instead of ordering new aircraft, EasyJet should aim
for a 10 percent profit margin.”  Shareholder Discussions  McCall said “we will be talking to all our shareholders in
the coming weeks and months about this evaluation.” A decision
will not be taken until a new chairman is named to replace
departing Mike Rake, she said. Stelios has been a frequent
critic of Rake.  EasyJet may hold off on a large order for its long-term
fleet needs if the prices aren’t attractive and instead sign a
smaller contract to continue expanding the Luton, U.K.-based
carrier’s networks in the 2015 to 2017 period, she said.  The airline needs more aircraft as it grows its network and
goes head-to-head with network carriers such as  British Airways. (IAG) 
Easyjet is targeting a bigger share of Europe’s lucrative
business-travel market on longer routes such as the Moscow
service, it’s 100th destination from London Gatwick.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  