-- Hedge Funds Build Treasury Bets to ’07 High in Bear Rebuke
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-03-18T16:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/hedge-funds-build-treasury-bets-to-07-high-in-bear-rebuke-2-.html
Hedge funds  are the most bullish on
10-year Treasuries since 2007, betting the  U.S. economy  is too
fragile for the  Federal Reserve  to stop buying bonds even as the
 jobless  rate drops to the lowest in four years and household
wealth climbs.  Investors using borrowed funds to boost returns, so-called
 leveraged accounts,  held $56.2 billion in contracts wagering on
gains in 10-year Treasury futures in the week ending March 5,
data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. That’s
the most since just before credit markets froze and the economy
went into recession, sparking a rally in  government bonds . As
recently as July, there were net bets against the Treasuries.  Rather than heading into a  bear market  after annual returns
of 9.5 percent since mid-2007, hedge funds see value in longer-
term U.S. debt because of the minimal risk of sudden inflation
and higher yields relative to other sovereign securities. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress Feb. 26 that benefits of
buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage bonds a month
outweigh the potential harm from rising inflation as a result of
the purchases.  “It’s just really expensive to fight the Fed,” Jason Evans, co-founder of hedge fund NineAlpha Capital LP in  New York 
and the former head of U.S. government bond trading at Deutsche
Bank AG, said in a March 14 telephone interview. “Whether
yields have begun a structural rise is not the million dollar
question, it’s the multibillion dollar question.”  Weaknesses Exposed  The economy’s weakness was illustrated March 15, when a
measure of  consumer confidence  fell to the lowest level since
2011. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
sentiment  index (SPX)  for March dropped to 71.8 from 77.6 in February.
The gauge was projected to rise to 78, according to the median
estimate of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries extended declines from last
week as turmoil over a planned tax on Cypriot bank deposits
boosted demand for refuge assets. The rate dropped three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.96 percent at 12:20 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It slid
as much as nine basis points to 1.90 percent, the lowest since
March 6 and the biggest  intra-day  drop since Feb. 25.  The price of the 2 percent security due February 2023 added
12/32, or $3.75 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 12/32.  Economic Growth  While the yield is down from more than 5 percent in July
2007, it’s up from a record low of 1.38 percent in July 2012 as
more investors switch to riskier assets amid gains in jobs and
housing. Economic growth will reach 2.7 percent by year-end from
0.1 percent last quarter, based on the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of stocks is up 10 percent this year, including reinvested
dividends.  Investors say it’s not time to abandon Treasuries, because
the securities may be cheap relative to inflation. Yields on 10-
year notes are about 0.79 percentage point higher than the
personal consumption expenditure price index, the Fed’s favored
inflation gauge. Earlier this month it reached the most since
May 2011. So-called real yields were negative a year ago.  Treasuries due in 10-years or more also yield about 0.54
percentage point more than the average for government debt
elsewhere with similar maturities, also the most since 2011,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The average since
mid-2007 is 0.44 percentage point, with U.S. yields below the
rest of the world by as much as 0.2 percentage point in July.  ‘Not Convinced’  “I’m not convinced that there is any reason yields will go
up a lot in the near term,” David Gerstenhaber, who founded New
York-based Argonaut Management LP, said in a phone interview
March 12. “Yields will likely bounce around in a range.”  The risk for bondholders is if the economy picks up speed.
Even after payroll taxes rose on Jan. 1,  sales  at retailers
jumped 1.1 percent in February, the most in five months.  Net worth  for households and non-profit groups rose $1.17
trillion from October through December, or 1.8 percent from the
previous three months, to $66.1 trillion, the highest since
2007, the Fed said March 7 in its  flow of funds report .  “Although there are some near term risks to the U.S.
economy due to the pass-through of fiscal policy, overall, we
are looking for growth to be at or above trend through the
balance of this year,”  John Stopford , the London-based head of
fixed-income at Investec Asset Management, which oversees more
than $100 billion, said by telephone March 13.  Bullish Wagers  The Fed, which meets this week to discuss monetary policy,
may slow the pace of bond purchases later this year, causing 10-
year Treasury yields to move in a range of 2.5 percent to 3.5
percent, he said. The median estimate of more than 70 economists
and strategist surveyed by Bloomberg is for the yield to end the
year at 2.25 percent.  While the U.S. may be recovering, most of the world’s major
economies are struggling. Growth among the Group of 10 may only
be 1.15 percent this year, the least since the recession of
2009, based on the median estimate in separate surveys by
Bloomberg.  The number of net-long contracts in 10-year futures held by
leveraged accounts stood at 540,397 as of March 12, from 562,057
the prior week. The last time bullish wagers were as high was in
August 2007.  No ‘Pivot’  There was a net-short position, or bets on rising yields,
in July, as rates began to rise from the record low, generating
a loss of about 1 percent over the final five months of the year
as measured by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The total position of leveraged accounts in all interest
rate contracts, are $40.4 billion, compared with the record
$50.8 billion in December, based on  CFTC  data tracked by Royal
Bank of  Scotland  Group. These accounts were last year as much as
$28.5 billion net short in May.  “It’s not a pivot point for rates right now,” said James Conklin, co-chief investment officer at Greenwich, Connecticut-
based $1 billion hedge fund QFS Asset Management LP and former
head of investment research at FX Concepts, a currency fund, in
a March 15 telephone interview. “An aggressive short in
Treasuries is early at this point.”  Whether bond prices rise or fall, many investors see an
opportunity to profit from the  gap  between short- and long-term
yields, which are about double the average since 1977.  An investor buying seven-year notes today yielding 1.34
percent would own a security with five years left to maturity in
2015. The current five-year note yields 0.76 percent. That means
if yields don’t change, a $10 million investment would earn
$531,000, a return of 5.31 percent before leverage.  Printing Money  “The cost of being underinvested in the Treasury market
eats you alive every single day,” said NineAlpha’s Evans.  Bernanke told Congress last month that the Fed will keep
the benchmark lending rate between zero and 0.25 percent, where
it’s been since December 2008, until unemployment falls below
6.5 percent, providing the inflation rate is under 2.5 percent.  “It’s very difficult for you to have a bond market crisis
when ultimately the central bank can print money,” Suhail Shaikh, Chief Investment Officer at Fulcrum Asset Management
LLP, said in a telephone interview on March 13. The $1.6 billion
computer-driven hedge fund group was founded by former British
Broadcasting Corp. Chairman Gavyn Davies.  Bullish Tilt  The bullish tilt doesn’t signal that yields are poised to
spiral higher, one common outcome when bets are at an extreme,
according to  James Lee , the head of U.S. derivatives strategy at
Royal Bank of Scotland in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  A broader CFTC gauge that tracks all  non-commercial  account
holdings of interest-rate contracts shows the bets are more
balanced. Measured in 10-year equivalents, the market is
bullish, or long, in all rate contracts by $3.86 billion as of
March 12, down from the record of $66.8 billion reached in
September.  “There are other measures of overall speculative positions
that aren’t stretched, which signals there is still room for
yields to fall,” Lee said in a March 11 interview.  Investors have placed $44 billion with bond managers this
year, more than double the almost $20 billion that went to U.S.
stock funds, according to the  Investment Company Institute . The
Fed’s most recent flow of funds  data  shows the household sector,
which includes U.S. hedge funds, private equity funds and
personal trusts, increasing Treasury holdings to $1.036 trillion
in December from $648 billion a year earlier.  “These leveraged accounts are very suspect on the
recovery,”  David Keeble , head of fixed-income strategy at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in New York, a unit
of  France ’s third largest bank, said in a telephone interview
March 8. “And it has been taking a lot to change their minds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  