-- Egyptians Turn to Vigilante Justice as Economy Worsens
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-03-18T14:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/egyptians-turn-to-vigilante-justice-as-economy-worsens.html
A group of residents near the
Egyptian town of Mahala shot dead a man suspected of stealing a
truck on the same day that two other alleged thieves of a
rickshaw were strung up by their feet, highlighting the nation’s
security vacuum.  The cases yesterday in the two Nile Delta towns, reported
by the state-run Ahram Gate, occurred days after Egyptian
authorities encouraged civilians to detain suspected criminals
at a time when security forces have been largely absent from the
streets, in some cases because they are on strike for better
wages and equipment.  “In absence of adequate state security, people are killing
and lynching suspected offenders,” Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, who is an opposition leader, said on his Twitter
account. “Law and order is our immediate priority.”  Vigilante incidents, increasingly common in the two years
since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster, have become symptomatic of the
growing chaos in  Egypt  as President Mohamed Mursi struggles to
revive an economy reeling from its slowest growth in two
decades, rising inflation and dwindling foreign reserves.  “This is a natural reaction to the fact that people have
been feeling insecure over the past two years,” Ziad Akl,
senior analyst at Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies, said in a phone interview today.  On the day the suspected criminals were killed, the
International Monetary Fund’s top regional executive was in
Cairo for what he termed “constructive” talks. The government
is pushing ahead with a $4.8 billion loan request that has been
stalled for months as officials revised an economic plan the IMF
sought amid the chronic unrest in the Arab world’s most populous
nation.  Political Tumult  The economic challenges have mirrored the political tumult
sweeping the country, as Mursi’s leadership has been met with
violence, demonstrations and growing polarization.  Critics contend he is more focused on advancing the
Islamist agenda of the Muslim Brotherhood organization that
fielded him for office than on promoting the nation’s broader
interests.  Mursi’s plan to hold parliamentary elections beginning next
month created new frictions, and on March 6 a lower court
suspended the vote. A Supreme  Administrative Court  said
yesterday the appeal filed by the government on the earlier
ruling would be heard March 24.  Mursi has portrayed the vote as key to rebuilding state
institutions and bolstering stability after the lower house of
parliament was dissolved last year following a court order.  A top opposition group said it would boycott the vote,
saying the country must be stabilized before elections are held.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  