-- Egypt Issues New Army Uniforms to Combat Impersonations
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-03-18T13:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/egypt-issues-new-army-uniforms-to-combat-impersonations.html
The Egyptian army issued new
camouflage uniforms to some of its soldiers, saying that would
make it tougher for “infiltrators” to whip up unrest by
impersonating troops.  General Osama Askar, head of  Egypt ’s Third Army in Suez,
said the new uniforms were issued in his region after the
military received information that gunmen equipped with uniforms
and weapons were planning to pose as troops and incite
protesters against the army, state-run Ahram Gate reported
today. The newspaper did not say why the new uniforms were
issued only to soldiers in Suez.  Yesterday, the army said it confiscated cloth waiting to be
smuggled into the neighboring Hamas-run Gaza Strip that was
identical to material used for military and police uniforms. It
urged citizens to be on alert for possible impersonators.  President Mohamed Mursi has accused agitators of exploiting
the rifts and deepening poverty still roiling Egypt two years
after  Hosni Mubarak  was overthrown. He has not provided evidence
and critics have accused him of using the threat of agitation to
deflect responsibility for growing unrest that’s gripping the
country.  The military has suggested militants operating in Gaza
might have planned attacks on Egyptian forces, and has declared
it would destroy the network of smuggling tunnels underneath the
Gaza-Egypt frontier that serve as a conduit for weapons and
militants, as well as commercial goods. It began flooding some
of the tunnels with sewage last month.  Attacks against military and police targets in Egypt’s
northern Sinai peninsula, which borders Gaza, have surged in
recent months, including 15 bombings of the now-idle  gas
pipeline  to  Israel .  Last year, militants killed 16 Egyptian soldiers in an
ambush near a border crossing with Gaza. The military said the
assailants may have been supported by “elements” in Gaza.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  