-- Electronic Arts CEO Steps Down as Quarter Results Fall Short
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-03-18T22:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/electronic-arts-says-ceo-riccitiello-steps-down-search-starts.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-
largest U.S. maker of video games, said John Riccitiello is
stepping down as chief executive officer and warned quarterly
results may fall short of forecasts. The shares rose.  Chairman Larry Probst, 63, who ran EA until 2007, becomes
executive chairman and will lead management as the board seeks a
new CEO, the  Redwood City , California-based company said today
in a statement. Riccitiello’s last day is March 30.  Several new titles under Riccitiello, including “Medal of
Honor” and the multiplayer “ Star Wars ,” failed to meet
expectations, said Edward Woo, an analyst at Ascendiant Capital
Markets in  Irvine ,  California . The company also flubbed the
latest version of its popular “SimCity,” which some users
couldn’t play because EA’s computers were overwhelmed.  “He lasted a pretty long time given that the company
hasn’t really performed that well,” said Woo, who has a neutral
rating on the stock. “The fact that their stock is up on the
news goes to show investors weren’t that big a fan of
Riccitiello.”  Peter Moore , 58, EA’s chief operating officer, is a leading
candidate to fill the job, Woo said.  “It’s his to lose,” Woo said. The company had no comment
beyond the statement.  The resignation comes as the industry gears up for a new
generation of consoles while facing threats from less costly
games played on phones and tablets. Nintendo Co. came out with
the Wii U in November and Sony Corp. plans a new PlayStation
before year-end. Microsoft Corp. hasn’t said when a new Xbox
will become available.  Online Titles  EA, the maker of “FIFA” soccer titles and “Madden”
football games, is offering more of its products online to
counter slumping sales of conventional console-based titles.
U.S. retail sales of video games slid 22 percent last year to
$13.3 billion, according to NPD Group, an industry researcher.  Riccitiello, 53, took over as CEO from Probst in 2007. He
had been with the company for a decade, having previously worked
at Sara Lee Corp. Probst served as CEO starting in 1991.  “My decision to leave EA is really all about my
accountability for the shortcomings in our financial results
this year,” Riccitiello said in a blog posting.  Electronic Arts said the current fourth quarter may fall
short of forecasts issued on Jan. 30. The company had seen
profit of 57 cents to 72 cents a share, excluding items, on
adjusted revenue of as much as $1.13 billion. Chief Financial
Officer  Blake Jorgensen  cited slumping console sales at the time
for the company’s lowered full-year outlook.  Electronic Arts rose 3.1 percent to $19.30 in extended
trading. The shares dropped 0.9 percent to $18.71 at the close
in  New York  and are up 29 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  