-- Elizabeth Cheval, EMC Capital Chairman, Dies of Aneurysm at 56
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-03-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/elizabeth-cheval-emc-capital-chairman-dies-of-aneurysm-at-56.html
Elizabeth Cheval, the founding
chairman of Illinois-based investment firm  EMC Capital
Management Inc.  and a breakout star of a 1980s experiment in
whether successful trading can be taught, has died. She was 56.  She died on March 9 at Beijing United Family Hospital,
three days after suffering a brain aneurysm during a business
trip to China, according to her sister, Susan Mack. She lived in
Lake Forest, Illinois.  With average annual returns of 107 percent,  Cheval  was the
top futures money manager for the five-year period ending in
1990, Crain’s Chicago Business reported. From the time Cheval
began trading in 1985, through last month, she and her firm
posted average annual returns of 21.1 percent, compared with
10.7 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “She was legendary in this industry and extremely generous
and kind to everyone,” John Krautsack, Cheval’s successor as
chairman, said yesterday in an interview. “I worked for Liz
side by side for 18 years, and not only was she a mentor to me,
she was a true friend. She was just a remarkable woman.”  The firm, based in Bannockburn, Illinois, about 30 miles
(48 kilometers) north of Chicago, has about $100 million under
management. Investors in managed futures seek returns that don’t
correlate to other types of investments.  The holder of a mathematics degree, Cheval was among 20
apprentices chosen from thousands of applicants to be trained in
1983 and 1984 by veteran commodities traders Richard J. Dennis
and William Eckhardt. Their goal was to determine whether
successful trading -- when to buy and sell, based on trends --
could be taught.  Market Challenge  Once trained, the apprentices were given as much as $1
million to trade for Dennis’s firm, C&D Commodities.  “I simply couldn’t believe that a world renowned trader
would teach us his methods and give us his private capital to
trade,” Cheval recalled, according to an  interview  she did in
2011 for a blog maintained by Chicago-based Attain Capital
Management. “I assumed that there would be a catch, another
story revealed at the interview.”  The blog identified Cheval as the only woman among the 20
trainees. In a 2007 book about the program, “The Complete
TurtleTrader,” author Michael W. Covel said she was one of two
female trainees.  Dennis called his students “turtles,” likening them to
the “huge vat with thousands of squirming turtles” he had
viewed during a visit to a farm in Singapore.  About Prices  In his book, Covel said one example of the Turtle training
in action came when Cheval, in July 1990, bought 350 oil
contracts for less than $20 a barrel and held them as prices
topped $40. In October, she started selling at $38 a barrel and
liquidated her holdings with an average exit price of $34.80,
Covel wrote.  “There was no discussion about OPEC, government reports or
other fundamental factors used in Cheval’s decision-making,” he
wrote. “It was all about the price action telling her to enter
and exit.”  Elizabeth Ann Cheval was born on Nov. 1, 1956, in Wheaton,
Illinois, the fourth of five children of Joseph W. and Ann Mack.  In 1978, she graduated from  Lawrence University  in
Appleton, Wisconsin. Following work in film editing, she took a
job as a desk clerk at the Chicago Board of Trade and was in
that job when she responded to a three-line advertisement that
Dennis and Eckhardt placed in the Wall Street Journal.  She founded EMC Capital in 1988.  In her interview with the Attain Capital blog, Cheval said
the CBOT’s open-outcry trading pit gave an advantage to men,
with their “larger, heavier” frames.  With so much trading done electronically now, she said
money-management is a good field for women: “No one can dispute
your contribution based on gender in investment management. Your
performance is there in black and white in the P&L report.”  Cheval was married and divorced. Survivors include her
mother, Ann Mack, and siblings Michael Mack, Joan Mack, Susan
Mack and Joe Mack,  according  to Wenban Funeral Home in Lake
Forest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  