-- Emerging Stocks Fall to Three-Month Low on Cyprus Bailout
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-18T16:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/emerging-stocks-fall-to-three-month-low-on-cyprus-tax-turmoil.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled to
the lowest level in three months, led by Russian equities, as
 Europe ’s bailout of Cyprus sparked concern over more financial
turmoil. Currencies weakened and borrowing costs climbed.  VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-largest lender, capped the
biggest drop in 10 months. Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore
producer, fell a second day in  Sao Paulo  as commodity prices
declined.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Hyundai Merchant Marine
Co., which got at least 17 percent of their sales from Europe in
2011, sank more than 2 percent in  Seoul . The ruble weakened to
the lowest level this year against the dollar.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.1 percent to
1,030.37 by 12:13 p.m. in New York, its sixth day of losses.
European finance ministers reached an unprecedented agreement
March 16 forcing depositors in Cypriot banks to share in the
cost of the latest euro-area bailout. Including loans to
companies registered in Cyprus, Russia’s “exposure” is about
$60 billion, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “It’s not so much Cyprus itself, but it reminds people
that there’s still risk in Europe,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-
based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment Management,
which oversees $170 billion, said by phone. “It really shakes
confidence in the banking system.”  Cyprus’ banks will remain closed on Tuesday and Wednesday,
according to a government official, as lawmakers meet tomorrow
to vote on a bank tax to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.6 billion)
as part of a bailout aimed at preventing a financial collapse
and a possible exit from the euro area. While Cyprus accounts
for less than half a percent of the 17-nation euro economy, the
concern is that the one-time tax on accounts could trigger bank
runs across Europe and further destabilize the financial system.  Lower Target  The MSCI emerging-market index is headed for its lowest
close since Dec. 10. Morgan Stanley cut its target this year for
the gauge to 1,220 from 1,230, reflecting a “moderate
downgrade” in earnings forecasts, analysts led by  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a report dated today.  All 10 groups in the developing-nations index dropped today
as technology, energy and financial shares had the biggest
losses. The broader measure has slipped 2.4 percent this year
and trades at 10.8 times  estimated  12-month earnings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a multiple of
14.2 for the MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares, which
has climbed 7 percent in 2013.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund fell 0.9 percent to $43.40. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a gauge of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
jumped 9.8 percent to 17.54.  The Bovespa index declined for a fifth session. Vale was
the biggest drag on the gauge, falling 1.4 percent.  Mexico ’s
equity market is closed today for a holiday.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  declined 2.2 percent, the biggest loss
since Nov. 13 and the most among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg. VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender, slumped
5.3 percent. OAO Sberbank, the nation’s largest lender with a 14
percent weighting on the Micex, retreated 3.8 percent. The ruble
weakened 0.6 percent against the dollar.  Cyprus is both the biggest direct investor into Russia and
the biggest recipient of Russian investment abroad, according to
Russian central bank data. The 21 countries in the MSCI index
send about 26 percent of their exports to the European Union on
average, according to the  World Trade Organization .  Hungary’s BUX Index slid 1.1 percent, declining for a fifth
day, the longest losing streak since Dec. 10. Poland’s WIG 20
Index fell 1.2 percent.  Chinese Stocks  China’s stocks fell, dragging the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  down 12 percent from this year’s high, as
slowing growth and faster inflation spurred JPMorgan Chase & Co.
to downgrade the nation’s shares.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)  led declines
by automakers after the nation’s quality watchdog ordered
partner Volkswagen AG to recall some vehicles.  South Korea ’s won touched its lowest level in almost six
months and the ringgit sank to a seven-month low against the
dollar. The  Thai baht  dropped the most in more than two months.  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries increased three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 291, according to the JPMorgan
Chase & Co. EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  