-- Menendez Prostitution Claims Rejected by Dominican Police
-- B y   J o s e   M o n e g r o   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2013-03-18T23:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/menendez-prostitution-claims-rejected-by-dominican-police.html
Police in the  Dominican Republic 
said three women were paid by an attorney to falsely claim on
videotape that they had sex with U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez .  Maximo Baez Aybar, a police spokesman, said at a press
conference in  Santo Domingo  today that a Dominican attorney
asked another lawyer to find the three women for him, saying the
tape would be used in a divorce case.  Police said the women ranged in age from 20 to 24.  “They confessed that a person who seemed foreign asked
them questions via the Internet and that they gave the answers
that the lawyers who had hired them told them to give,” Baez
said.  The women received 46,000 Dominican pesos ($1,100) to make
the tape, Baez said.  Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat who is chairman of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has said the prostitution
claims were made up by political enemies before his re-election
in November. U.S. investigators are examining his relationship
with a Florida eye doctor, Salomon Melgen, who has been a top
political donor.  A federal grand jury in Miami is probing Menendez’s role in
advocating for Melgen’s business interests, the  Washington  Post
has reported. The Senate Ethics Committee also is examining
Menendez.  ‘Smear Campaign’  The statements by the Dominican police “show this was a
smear from the very beginning,” Menendez told reporters in
Washington. “I hope that federal authorities here will
prosecute just like Dominican authorities are,” he said.  Asked about reports that he is under investigation by a
federal grand jury, Menendez said: “We welcome any review. We
believe at the end of the day that any such review will show our
actions were appropriate.”  At the press conference today, Dominican police also said
the women had falsely stated on the videotape that they had sex
with Melgen.  Melgen’s attorney, Kirk Ogrosky, said in an e-mailed
statement that the announcement by the police is “further
evidence corroborating what we have been saying from day one --
that the allegations against Doctor Melgen are false and
politically motivated.”  Baez said the police investigation will continue and that
the attorney general will determine whether to file charges.  Menendez’s approval ratings have plunged amid allegations
that he improperly helped Melgen. A Quinnipiac University poll
released last month showed that 36 percent of New Jersey voters
approve of his performance, down 15 points from January. Seventy
percent of those polled, including 72 percent of independents,
said they had read or heard about the controversy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at 
 susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan in Washington, at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  