-- Mertesacker May Get Wolfsburg Bid, Express Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-03-18T12:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/mertesacker-may-get-wolfsburg-bid-express-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Wolfsburg at Door  Wolfsburg may attempt to sign Arsenal’s German defender Per Mertesacker before next season,  the Daily Express said.   The 28-year-old has been part of a disappointing Arsenal
defense this season, and may become available should Gunners
manager  Arsene Wenger  decide to move for Swansea’s Ashley Williams, the newspaper said.  Wolfsburg sporting director Klaus Allofs signed Mertesacker
when he was general manager at Werder Bremen in 2006, the
Express said.  Liverpool Leavers?  Liverpool rejected offers from Leeds, Cardiff and Bolton to
take forward Raheem Sterling on loan,  the Mirror said.   The 18-year-old England player has struggled to get game
time since the Reds signed  Daniel Sturridge , the newspaper said.  Manager  Brendan Rodgers  will allow midfielder Suso to join
a Championship team on loan, the newspaper said, after the
Spaniard made a dozen appearances for Liverpool this season.  Chelsea Cost  Chelsea is demanding 17 million pounds ($25.7 million) from
 Atletico Madrid  for goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois,  the Daily Star
said.   The Spanish club may be open to taking the Belgian as
partial exchange for its striker Radamel Falcao, whom the Blues
want to sign, the newspaper said.  Courtois has yet to play for Chelsea after signing in June
2011 and has been on loan at Atletico for almost two seasons,
the Star said.  Chelsea Search  Chelsea’s search for goalscorers is also taking scouts to
 France , where they watched St. Etienne striker Pierre-Emerick
Aubameyang score last weekend,  the Daily Mail said .  The 23-year-old has expressed interest in leaving for a
bigger league, the newspaper said. Newcastle and  Borussia
Dortmund  are also watching him, the Mail added.  Arsenal will attempt to sign Aubameyang on scout Gilles Grimandi’s recommendation, the Sun said.  Reading Future  Reading’s interim manager Eamonn Dolan has the support of
the club’s players to coach the rest of the season after
replacing the fired Brian McDermott,  the Sun said.   Dolan was the academy coach at Reading, whose owner Anton
Zingarevich fired McDermott March 11 after a run of four defeats
left the team in danger of being relegated from the league.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  