-- Ethiopia to Open First Industrial Zone to Bolster Economy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-03-18T11:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/ethiopia-to-open-first-industrial-zone-to-boost-economic-growth.html
Ethiopia  will spend 900 million
birr ($49 million) to open its first industrial hub for export-
oriented manufacturers in a bid to deliver faster economic
growth, Industry Minister Mekonnen Manyazewal said.  South Korean garment-makers are among companies in talks
with the government about establishing operations at the planned
site in the capital, Addis Ababa, Mekonnen said in an interview
in the city on March 15. The facility is scheduled to open
before the fiscal year ends on July 7, he said.  “This is one of the key strategies to facilitate and
support foreign and domestic private-sector partners and
particularly to enhance exports,” Mekonnen said. “It’s key for
our industrialization.”  The economy of Ethiopia expanded an annual average of 10.6
percent for the eight years through 2011,  double  the rate of all
of  Africa , according to the  World Bank . The Horn of African
economy runs on a mixture of state dominance of large industries
such as banking, telecommunications and power with private
investment in manufacturing and agriculture.  The project is known as the Bole Lemi Industrial Zone and
covers 156 hectares (385 acres). It’s designed to help companies
such as agro-processors, pharmaceutical-makers and textile
manufacturers produce and sell value-added goods and boost
revenue from exports. The government is building roads,
electricity and telecommunications infrastructure at the site
and it will offer tax incentives for industries based there.  Trade Zones  Ethiopia is ranked 127th out of 185 nations in the World
Bank’s  Ease of Doing Business  Index, behind African countries
including Swaziland and  Kenya . Companies are hindered by a lack
of protection of investment and barriers to cross-border
trading, according to the World Bank. The bank’s International
Finance Corp. is contributing to a $10 million project to help
Ethiopia ease investment rules for businesses.  Similar zones are being considered in at least five other
locations including, Kombolcha, 158 miles northeast of Addis
Ababa, and Dire Dawa, a self-administered city about 228 miles
east of the capital, Mekonnen said.  The government is making a push to attract private
investment with plans to convert its investment agency into a
“one-stop service” for new companies to register, Mekonnen
said. It is also introducing measures to speed the clearance of
exports and imports at the border, he said.  Tax Breaks  The government passed a law last year offering income tax
breaks of as long as six years for manufacturers of items
including leather products, sugar and textiles. Producers who
send 60 percent or more of their goods abroad will receive an
additional two-year income-tax  exemption , Mekonnen said.  Tax incentives on imported capital goods are reserved for
existing investors and companies planning to expand their
operations by more than 50 percent, according to the law.  “If there’s no expansion you are not creating new
capacity,” Mekonnen said. “The reason we give incentives is to
encourage re-investment.”  Huajian Group, a Chinese shoemaker, said last year it plans
to invest $2 billion over a decade building a new manufacturing
zone on the outskirts of  Addis Ababa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  