-- Metro CEO to Run Cash & Carry Wholesale Unit Amid Restructuring
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-03-18T10:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/metro-ceo-to-run-cash-carry-wholesale-unit-amid-restructuring.html
Metro AG (MEO)  said Chief Executive
Officer Olaf Koch will head its largest unit as  Germany ’s
biggest retailer simplifies its management structure.  Koch, who took office at the start of last year, will
replace Frans Muller at Cash & Carry, Dusseldorf-based Metro
said in a statement today. Muller, CEO of the wholesale unit
since 2008, will leave the company as of March 31 “by mutual
agreement,” the retailer said.  Koch is focusing on the Cash & Carry wholesale business and
the Media-Saturn electronics unit, while cutting investment in
Kaufhof department stores and Real grocery outlets. Metro agreed
in November to sell its Real stores in eastern  Europe  to French
retailer Groupe Auchan SA.  “Metro Cash & Carry is the engine and growth driver of the
group and its significance is now also reflected in the
management board’s new structure,” Franz Haniel, chairman of
Metro’s supervisory board, said in a statement today. “By
combining the management of the group and that of its main sales
line, we are streamlining our decision-making processes and
creating a more direct management structure.”  Chief Financial Officer Mark Frese will take over
management of Kaufhof and the real estate entity, Metro said
today.  Metro shares declined 1.4 percent to 21.49 euros as of
11:03 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock is up 2.4 percent this year
compared with a 12 percent increase for the  MDAX Index. (MDAX)   Earnings before interest and tax were 1.98 billion euros
before one-time items in 2012, Metro said on March 1, almost
meeting the company’s forecast of 2 billion euros. The retailer
cut the prediction in October, having earlier said earnings
would be about the same as 2011’s 2.37 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  