-- EU Told States It Expects Parliament to Back Carbon Fix in April
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-03-18T16:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/eu-told-states-it-expects-parliament-to-back-carbon-fix-in-april.html
The European Union’s executive told
EU national governments last month that it expected the bloc’s
Parliament to approve in April the start of negotiations on a
proposal to reduce a record glut of carbon permits.  The European Commission updated representatives of EU
nations on the status of the  draft measure  during a meeting of
climate experts from member states on Feb. 27 in Brussels,
according to a summary of the gathering obtained by  Bloomberg
News . The proposal, which includes an amendment to the EU
 emissions trading  law, has divided EU governments and members of
the Parliament, which is next scheduled to discuss the draft
measure at its plenary meeting starting on April 15.  “One member state asked for a clarification on what the
European Parliament is going to do in relation to the
proposal,” according to the document. “The commission
explained that its understanding was that the plenary is
expected to give a mandate” for negotiations with member states
about the final wording of the draft measure.  The amendment to the EU emissions law is the first element
of the strategy known as backloading, which assumes delaying
auctions of 900 million carbon permits from 2013-2015 to
2019-2020 to help prices rebound from record lows. It needs
approval from both the Parliament and member states to become
binding. EU allowances for December delivery have lost 46
percent this year amid concerns that the stopgap measure to curb
oversupply may fail. The contract fell 5 percent to 3.62 euros
($4.69) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 4
p.m. in  London .  ‘Bitter End’  A majority of members of the European  People’s Party , the
biggest group in the Parliament, are against backloading,
arguing it undermines predictability for investors and leads to
higher energy prices. The EPP will oppose it “to the bitter
end,” Eija-Riitta Korhola, the group’s lead lawmaker on the
draft measure, said yesterday on her Twitter Inc. account.  The EPP was unsuccessfully seeking to remove a non-binding
recommendation for the commission to intervene on the carbon
market in a vote on the Parliament’s energy policy report last
week. The reference to carbon permit supply curbs in the report,
which covers a different policy area than emissions trading, was
eventually upheld by a margin of three votes.  Undecided Nations  While supporters of backloading outnumber opponents among
the EU’s 27 governments, the backing is short of 255 out of 345
votes needed for the measure to pass as several nations,
including  Germany , remain undecided.  During the Feb. 27 meeting of the Climate Change Committee
of national climate experts, three more countries expressed
formal support for the carbon market rescue plan, two of them
conditionally, according to the EU document.  The commission also told member states that it recommended
“proceeding swiftly” with the second round of aid to clean
technologies from a special carbon-permit reserve, known as
NER300. The EU is due to open the contest for subsidies from the
sale of 100 million permits on April 3 and will seek “to
shorten the time-to-award from 25 to 15 months,” according to
the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  