-- European Banks Slide as Cyprus Levy May Threaten Ratings
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-03-18T12:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/european-banks-slide-as-cyprus-levy-threatens-ratings.html
European banks declined on concern
an unprecedented tax on savings in Cyprus will have negative
implications for the ratings of the continent’s lenders.  The  Stoxx 600 Banks Index (SX7P)  dropped as much as 2.4 percent,
led by banks in crisis-hit  Italy  and  Spain .  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Italy’s biggest bank, slumped 5.2 percent to 3.63 euros at 1:20
p.m., the lowest level in three months.  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  lost
5.3 percent to 28.40 euros in Paris.  European finance ministers reached an agreement on March 16
forcing depositors at Cypriot banks to share in the cost of the
latest euro-zone bailout. Moody’s Investors Service said the
decision, due to be voted on in the Cypriot parliament tomorrow,
may hurt the confidence of savers at European banks and limits
support for bank creditors in the region.  “The psychological crux is that savers can now be called
on to contribute to bailouts and it might have been smarter to
let  deposit insurance  do its job,” Ingo Frommen, a banking
analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, said by
telephone.  The measures would raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.6 billion)
by taking a piece of every bank account in the country. Scenes
of Cypriots lining up at cash machines raised the specter of
capital flight elsewhere.  European Deposits  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. said the steps may unnerve
deposit-holders in the nations most impacted by the  European
debt crisis .  “It is reasonable to expect that the deposit volatility in
stressed sovereigns could rise,” Goldman Sachs analysts
including Jernej Omahen wrote in a report to investors. Still,
any response from depositors in Italy, Ireland, Spain and
 Portugal  will probably be limited as their “perception of banks
has improved,” they said.  UniCredit also led the credit default swaps of European
banks higher, with contracts on senior debt rising 21 basis
points to 344.  While criticizing the plans as “setting a dangerous
precedent,” UBS AG expected “no immediate bank runs in other
countries,” analysts including Thomas Wacker said in an e-
mailed report.  Sovereign Priority  Moody’s said the support package for Cyprus reduces the
immediate risk of a restructuring of its sovereign debt.
European banks had $39 billion in claims in Cyprus as of Sept.
30, according to  Bank for International Settlements  data.  “While raising the risk of deposit flight out of
peripheral banking systems, the agreement reflects euro-area
policymakers’ desire to avoid sovereign defaults in addition to
 Greece ’s,” the ratings company wrote in its credit outlook.  The outcome of tomorrow’s vote on the measures, delayed
today for a second day, will be key to determining the direction
of asset prices, Frommen said. President Nicos Anastasiades’
government has 20 seats in the 56-member assembly. Diko, which
supported him in his election last month, holds eight seats.  The plan has “broken trust in a way that is similar to the
taboo that was originally broached in Greece and risks pushing
citizens further away from  Europe ,” Frommen said. “Stocks
could improve depending on how the vote goes, but if we see runs
on banks or violence then Europe could shiver.”  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  called the tax “unfair,
unprofessional and dangerous,” according to a statement posted
on the Kremlin website. Russian companies and individuals have
$31 billion of deposits in Cyprus, according to Moody’s
Investors Services.  Cypriot banks had 68.4 billion euros of deposits from
clients other than banks at the end of January. The planned levy
-- 6.75 percent of all deposits up to 100,000 euros and 9.9
percent above that -- would whittle down the euro-area’s bailout
of Cyprus to 10 billion euros from 17 billion euros, near the
size of the nation’s 18 billion-euro economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  