-- European Stocks Decline on Concern Over Cyprus Bank Levy
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-03-18T16:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/european-stock-futures-slide-on-cyprus-bank-levy-concern.html
European stocks retreated, with the
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index paring an earlier tumble, after the euro
area forced Cyprus to adopt a levy on  bank deposits , prompting
concern that the region’s debt crisis will reignite.  UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s largest lender, fell as banks posted
the worst performance among the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx
600. Ericsson AB posted its largest retreat in more than two
months after agreeing to end its unprofitable chip venture with
STMicroelectronics NV. Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. led a
decline by commodity producers as metal prices slid.  The Stoxx 600 retreated 0.2 percent to 296.81 at the close
of trading, paring a slide of as much as 1.2 percent. The equity
benchmark has still  risen 6.1 percent  this year as reports on
U.S. payrolls and Chinese exports bolstered confidence in the
global economic recovery and central banks continued their
stimulus measures. Cyprus and  Greece  closed their markets for a
public holiday today.  “This creates a precedent and is a bit scary today,”
Matthieu Giuliani, who helps oversee $5.3 billion as a  fund
manager  at Palatine Asset Management in Paris, said in a phone
interview. “In the short term, it hurts the market. But this is
a case specific to Cyprus. I don’t see  Germany  or the European
Union imposing such a thing on  Spain  or Italy. It would create
panic in the banking system.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 5 percent greater than the average of the last
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The VStoxx
Index, a gauge of expected volatility in the euro area, soared
15 percent today, its biggest increase since Feb. 26.  Luxembourg Slides  National benchmark indexes fell in every western- European (SXXP) 
market that opened today except Ireland and Iceland. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 and France’s CAC 40 lost 0.5 percent, while Germany’s
DAX declined 0.4 percent. Luxembourg’s LuxX Index dropped 2.2
percent today, its biggest slide in seven months.  While Cyprus accounts for less than half a percent of the
17-nation euro area’s economy, the raid on bank accounts risks a
resumption of the financial crisis that began in 2009 in Greece.
Moody’s Investors Service said that the move limits support for
bank creditors across Europe and shows that policy makers will
risk disrupting financial markets to avoid sovereign defaults.  The levy enabled the euro area to lower its bailout of
Cyprus to 10 billion euros ($13 billion) from an original figure
of about 17 billion euros. President Nicos Anastasiades will try
to persuade lawmakers to back the plan. Parliament postponed a
vote due to take place this afternoon. Cyprus will leave its
banks closed until March 21, a government official said,
declining to be identified.  European Stocks  Morgan Stanley recommended that investors hold more
European equities than are represented in benchmark indexes in a
note dated March 17. Strong recent performance and positive
investor sentiment suggest volatility will increase in the
second quarter. The brokerage added that the economy remains
supportive for stocks in the longer term.  A gauge of bank shares sank 1.5 percent for the worst
performance on the Stoxx 600. UniCredit lost 3.6 percent to 3.69
euros, while Societe Generale SA,  France ’s second-largest
lender, slid 3.3 percent to 28.98 euros. Banco Santander SA,
Spain’s biggest bank, dropped 2.3 percent to 5.83 euros.  Ericsson lost 2.2 percent to 83.50 kronor after agreeing to
wind down the ST-Ericsson joint venture and divide the assets.
The electronics companies failed to find a buyer for the
business. STMicroelectronics will incur cash costs of $350
million to $450 million, lower than the charges it had estimated
in January. The shares climbed 5.4 percent to 6.17 euros.  ENRC, Kazakhmys  ENRC slumped 7.2 percent to 321.9 pence after the
Independent on Sunday reported that the Kazakh metals producer
may announce a writedown of more than $1 billion this week. The
newspaper cited figures from Deutsche Bank AG. Kazakhmys Plc,
the biggest copper producer in  Kazakhstan , retreated 6.1 percent
to 505.5 pence, its lowest price since April 2009.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc surged 6.9 percent to 398.1
pence, its biggest gain in almost four years. The shares earlier
rallied as much as 9.4 percent after the Sunday Times reported
that Qatar Investment Authority has considered an 8 billion-
pound ($12 billion) bid for the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer. The newspaper cited unidentified people working in the
 City of London . A person close to the sovereign-wealth fund said
today that QIA has not considered making an offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  