-- Teva Investors File Suit to Seek Management Pay Details
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-03-18T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/teva-investors-file-suit-to-seek-management-pay-details.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA) , which pledged last year to boost transparency under Chief
Executive Officer Jeremy Levin, is facing investor pressure in
its home country of Israel to reveal individual executive pay.  Teva, the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, has an
April 4 deadline to respond to a class-action lawsuit filed in
Tel Aviv  district court  by shareholders Sharon Hannes and Ehud Kamar. The investors say in the complaint that the refusal to
publish managers’ compensation violates Israeli and U.S. rules.
The Petach Tikva-based drugmaker only reports wage and benefit
figures for its 11 top executives as a group.  The drugmaker, Israel’s most valuable company, has already
been facing political scrutiny over its corporate income-tax
rates as it carries out a $2 billion spending-reduction plan
over five years. The investors sued Teva in November, almost
four months before Swiss voters approved some of the world’s
toughest limits on corporate executive pay.  “Teva has been under pressure from all different
directions, including its tax exemptions,” said Gilad Alper, a
senior analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in
 Ramat Gan , Israel. “If releasing executive pay helps to ease
that pressure, they just might do it.”  Shares in Teva are traded in both Israel and the U.S. The
stock listed in Tel Aviv has fallen 8.1 percent in the past 12
months, valuing the company at 128 billion shekels ($35
billion).  Managers’ Compensation  Cash compensation to 11 current executive officers during
2012 was $12.7 million, Teva said in its  annual report  released
on Feb. 12. Those managers received another $4.04 million
exercising  stock options , it said.  The drugmaker “is and has been acting in accordance with
all applicable laws and regulations with regard to the
disclosure of its  executive compensation ,” Hadar Vismunski, a
spokeswoman for Teva, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“For over a decade, this has been the practice of many leading
dual companies in  Israel .”  Levin took the CEO post in May, when he made his promise
for more openness.  Teva published individual pay for its five most senior
managers in its 1999 and 2000 annual reports, Hannes and Kamar
said in their court filing. The drugmaker switched to reporting
a combined figure after Israeli law was amended in 2000 letting
dual-listed companies use reports produced under market rules in
the other country where the stock trades for filings in Israel,
they said.  Similar Regulations  Remuneration for each executive should still be reported
because both U.S. and Israeli rules require the breakouts for
domestically listed companies, the investors said, citing the
support of Jesse Fried, a Harvard Law School professor and co-
author of “Pay Without Performance: The Unfulfilled Promise of
Executive Compensation.”  Hannes is a law professor at Tel Aviv university, while
Kamar is professor of law and director of the business-law
program at the University of  Southern California .  Judge Danya Keret Meir will hold a hearing on the case June
19, following Teva’s reply next month and a response by Hannes
and Kamar by June, according to the Tel Aviv court’s economic
division.  Boosting pay transparency may not necessarily improve
performance or reduce costs to shareholders, Sarig Gafny, Teva’s
former senior director of global compensation and benefits, said
in an interview.  “The motives behind a push to boost transparency in pay
might be good,” said Gafny, who now runs his own compensation
consulting practice in Israel. “But academic research and past
experience has shown that as compensation is revealed, upward
pressure on executive pay is created.”  The case is Class Action 18048-11-12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  