-- McKenzie Will Leave Reds Rugby Team, Targets National Job
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-19T04:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/ewen-mckenzie-will-leave-reds-super-rugby-team-at-end-of-season.html
Ewen McKenzie will leave the
 Queensland Reds  at the end of this season after overseeing the
Australian team’s transformation from Super Rugby strugglers to
title contenders, saying he wants to coach a national squad.  McKenzie, who moved to a director of coaching role with the
Reds this year after guiding the Brisbane-based franchise to
back-to-back Australian Conference titles, said he’s “ready for
the next level” after nine years with provincial teams.  “I’d love to be able to coach at a higher level, but
loving and getting opportunities is two different things,”
McKenzie, 47, said at a televised news conference. “It really
depends on what opportunities there are. There may be none.”  McKenzie, a Rugby World Cup winner with  Australia  in 1991,
has been linked in local media with taking over as Wallabies
coach from  Robbie Deans , whose contract runs out at the end of
this year. McKenzie said today that he’ll look at options at
home and overseas amid speculation that he could be a candidate
to coach Ireland following its second-last finish in  Europe ’s
Six Nations tournament.  “That’s purely a function of timing,” McKenzie said.
“Ireland had a loss on the weekend and I’ve made an
announcement today, and people put two and two together. If
there’s a coaching assignment that looks like a real challenge
for me, I’ll have a look at it.”  McKenzie coached the New South Wales Waratahs, Stade
Francais and the Reds since ending a three-year spell as
Wallabies assistant coach in 2003.  Reds Turnaround  In 2010, McKenzie took a Queensland team that had won eight
games during the previous three seasons to fifth place, its best
finish in eight years. The Reds won their first Super Rugby
title in the professional era in 2011 and also reached the six-
team finals series last year. They’re currently fifth in the 15-
team standings with a 3-2 record.  “When Ewen joined us in late 2009 the Reds and Queensland
Rugby were at a very low point,” Queensland Rugby Chairman Rod
McCall said in the statement. “Ewen has not only been
responsible for turning around the on-field performances and
attitude of the Queensland Reds, but he has also played an
integral role in bringing success back into our organization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  