-- Ex-Calpers CEO Buenrostro Indicted Over Apollo Investment
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-03-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/ex-calpers-ceo-buenrostro-indicted-over-apollo-investment.html
Federico Buenrostro, former chief
executive officer of the California Public Employees’ Retirement
System, was charged with conspiring to trick the pension fund
into paying millions of dollars in fees for a $3 billion
investment into funds managed by  Apollo Global Management LLC. (APO)   Buenrostro, 64, who led the state’s public pension fund
from 2002 to 2008, was accused along with  Alfred Villalobos , 69,
of conspiracy to defraud the U.S., engaging in a false scheme
against the U.S. and conspiracy to commit mail fraud and wire
fraud in a grand jury indictment announced yesterday by U.S.
Attorney Melinda Haag in San Francisco.  The case focuses on false documents the two men allegedly
created so Villalobos could garner millions of dollars in fees
for acting as a middleman in obtaining money from Calpers, the
largest U.S. public pension fund, for the Apollo funds. Fees for
middlemen were at the center of a corruption scandal in which
Villalobos, a Calpers board member from 1993 to 1995, was sued
by state prosecutors and the pension system’s head of private
equity resigned.  In the wake of the scandal, Calpers adopted rules
compelling any company seeking a contract worth more than
$10,000 to report hiring a placement agent to win the fund’s
business. The rule also requires disclosure of how much was paid
and for what services.  “We’ve been through our embarrassment on this already,”
Rob Feckner, Calpers board president, said yesterday in an
interview. “This is a good day.”  Placement Agent  Villalobos, founder and managing director of Arvco Capital
Research LLC, allegedly acted as a placement agent in helping
Apollo to secure investments by Calpers in 2007 and 2008. Apollo
required Arvco to obtain an investor disclosure letter from
Calpers before paying any fees for securing the investments,
Haag said in a statement. One purpose of the letter was to
memorialize that investors were aware of the relationship
between the placement agent and Apollo, according to the
indictment.  After Calpers’ legal and investment offices declined to
sign a letter, Villalobos and Buenrostro allegedly conspired to
create a series of fraudulent letters that were transmitted to
Apollo in 2008 and 2009, according to the indictment. Apollo
paid Arvco a total of approximately $14 million in fees after
receiving the letters, Haag said.  After civil and criminal investigations were begun, both
defendants made false statements to securities regulators and
concealed information from them and the FBI about the letters,
Haag said.  Buenrostro didn’t immediately respond to a phone message
seeking comment on the charges. Chris Nichols, an attorney for
Villalobos, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message.
The two men appeared in federal court in San Francisco and are
free on bond. A hearing in the matter is scheduled for May 8.  Maximum Penalty  The maximum penalty for conspiracy to commit mail fraud,
the most serious charge, is 20 years in prison and a $250,000
fine, or twice the loss or gain from the conduct, whichever is
greater, according to Haag’s statement.  “Apollo has always followed best practices in handling its
placement agent relationships, and was not aware of any
misconduct engaged in by Mr. Villalobos during the time that he
worked with Apollo,” the New York-based private-equity firm
said in an e-mail. “We have cooperated fully with all
regulatory agencies investigating this matter, and will continue
to do so.”  Buenrostro and Villalobos were sued on similar grounds last
year by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in federal
court in  Nevada .  The SEC alleged that the two men fabricated documents they
provided Apollo so that the firm erroneously believed Calpers
had reviewed and signed the placement agent fee-disclosure
letter Apollo required. Buenrostro left Calpers in June 2008 to
work for Villalobos, who is a former board member of the pension
fund.  SEC Case  Buenrostro, who is defending himself without a lawyer in
the SEC case, denied the agency’s allegations in a July 20
answer to the civil complaint.  Calpers now limits gifts to board members from individuals
and firms doing business with the system or seeking to do
business with the fund.  State lawmakers also passed a law prohibiting money
managers from paying contingency fees to middlemen who help win
state retirement-plan contracts and requires placement agents to
register as lobbyists.  Calpers commissioned a law firm to review the fees paid by
its external managers to placement agents. The review resulted
in $215 million in fee concessions from companies such as Apollo
Global, Relational Investors LLC and Ares Management LLC and
others.  The case is U.S. v. Villalobos, 13-cr-00169, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  