-- Fed Will Keep Buying Bonds, Pierpont’s Stanley Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-03-18T17:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/fed-will-keep-buying-bonds-pierpont-s-stanley-says-tom-keene.html
The  Federal Reserve  won’t exit any
time soon from unprecedented bond-buying under its quantitative-
easing stimulus strategy, even as the world’s biggest economy
shows signs of recovery, according to  Stephen Stanley  of
Pierpont Securities LLC.  “This is as dovish a Fed as we have ever seen, and they
don’t intend to seriously consider tapering or winding down
quantitative easing for quite some time,” Stanley, Pierpont’s
chief economist, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee .  The central bank, which opens a two-day policy meeting
tomorrow, is purchasing $85 billion a month of Treasury and
mortgage debt to support the economy. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said in a speech this month the Fed will keep buying bonds until
there’s “substantial improvement” in the labor market.  Treasuries climbed today, pushing  10-year yields  down the
most in three weeks, as speculation flared that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will worsen after euro-area finance ministers sought to
tax bank deposits in Cyprus as part of a bailout. U.S.
government securities have lost 0.5 percent this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data, as a report
showed the U.S. unemployment rate dropped to the lowest since
December 2008.  Benchmark 10-year yields  fell  three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.96 percent today in New York. They
dropped earlier as much as nine basis points, the biggest
intraday slide since Feb. 25. They climbed on March 8 to 2.08
percent, an 11-month high, after a Labor Department report.  ‘Well Ahead’  “The U.S. is well ahead of Europe in terms of resolving
our issues, and today just underscores that,”  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Stanley said. “If Cyprus can tax bank
depositors, is Italy or Spain or someone like that going to do
it going forward?”  Fed policy makers reiterated after their January policy
meeting that their key  interest rate  will stay at almost zero as
long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent and inflation is
projected at no more than 2.5 percent. The  jobless rate  fell to
7.7 percent in February, down from more than 8 percent before
September, data showed March 8. The  consumer price index  was 2
percent in February from a year earlier, another government
report showed on March 15.  “The old saying of don’t fight the Fed, well in this case,
the Fed is whacking the market over the head with a double
sledgehammer -- both short end and long end,” Stanley said.
“Chairman Bernanke and company are determined to err on the
side of overstaying their welcome, rather than tightening
prematurely, and they are going to want to convey that to
markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  