-- FERC Power Limited, JPM Hearings, SAC Capital: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-18T12:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/ferc-power-limited-jpm-hearings-sac-capital-compliance.html
The Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission lacks authority over futures contracts, a U.S.
appeals court ruled, handing a victory to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and an ex-Amaranth Advisors LLC trader fined
$30 million by FERC.  Congress intended to centralize oversight of futures
contracts in the CFTC, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington
said March 15. It brushed aside FERC’s contention that the two
agencies share jurisdiction over aspects of energy markets that
allowed FERC to fine trader  Brian Hunter  for alleged market
manipulation, ruling the Commodity Exchange Act gives the CFTC
“exclusive jurisdiction.”  The case highlights a turf battle between the two agencies
developing at least in part from expanded powers Congress
granted to FERC in 2005 to regulate energy trading in the wake
of blackouts in California triggered by Enron Corp. traders.  FERC had argued that the CFTC’s exclusive jurisdiction over
regulating futures contracts and futures markets doesn’t extend
to manipulation, because such activity can involve conduct in
several markets.  Steve Adamske , a spokesman for the CFTC, and Tamara Young
Allen, spokeswoman for FERC, declined to comment on the ruling.  Hunter’s attorney,  Michael Kim , of  Kobre & Kim LLP , said in
a statement that “FERC unjustly vilified Mr. Hunter for years,
but in fact it was the FERC which had acted outside the law.”  Hunter dumped large numbers of contracts within the last 30
minutes of trading in an effort to drive down the closing price
of the futures, according to court documents. The move benefited
Amaranth’s larger opposing positions in off-exchange
derivatives, regulators said.  Amaranth lost $6.6 billion betting on the price of natural
gas. The hedge fund collapsed in 2006. In August 2009, the
company agreed to pay $7.5 million to end U.S. cases brought by
FERC and the CFTC over price manipulation.  On April 11, a federal judge in Manhattan gave final
approval to a $77.1 million settlement by Amaranth to resolve a
class action brought by traders.  FERC filed an administrative case against Hunter the day
after the CFTC brought a civil enforcement action against him in
federal court in Manhattan over the same trading. The commission
ordered him to pay $30 million in penalties, ruling he
manipulated the price of contracts on the New York Mercantile
Exchange in 2006 while boosting the value of financial
derivatives.  The CFTC’s case against Hunter was put on hold in January
2012 after Hunter sued to challenge FERC’s authority in the
matter, according to court records.  The case is Hunter v. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
11-1477, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
(Washington).  Special Section: JPMorgan Hearings  Braunstein Repeats ‘I Don’t Recall’ at Senate Grilling on Dimon  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Douglas Braunstein was grilled March
15 by U.S. senators after saying he couldn’t remember how Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  reacted when the bank resumed
sending reports to a regulator.  Democrat  Carl Levin  of Michigan, the head of the Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations, asked about Dimon’s reaction
after a panel report March 14 saying the CEO told executives
last year to stop sending the investment bank’s daily results to
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Dimon believed
“it was too much information,” the report said, citing an
interview with an OCC examiner.  Levin pressed about an account in the report that Dimon
“reportedly raised his voice in anger” after learning that
Braunstein, then the chief financial officer, began to provide
the data again to the OCC.  “I don’t recall the specifics of his reaction,” answered
Braunstein, who is now vice chairman. Braunstein told the
senator at least two other times that he couldn’t remember
specifics.  Braunstein and Dimon were named in the report as executives
who misled investors in April of last year when they discussed a
portfolio of credit derivatives at the chief investment office,
or CIO, that eventually posted more than $6.2 billion in losses.
The former CFO said March 15 that Dimon was concerned about the
confidentiality of the reports when the bank stopped supplying
information to the OCC.  U.S. Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry , in prepared
testimony for hearing, said “there were red flags that we
should have noticed and acted upon.” The OCC, the primary
federal-bank regulator, has taken actions to bolster its
supervision.  The failure of federal regulators to act sooner “can’t be
excused,” Levin said during his opening remarks. The panel’s
top Republican, Senator  John McCain , said financial regulators
were “asleep at the switch.”  “Do we live in a world, Mr. Braunstein, that government
regulations of our businesses and our lives, we just decide,
well, because we’re concerned about something, we’re not going
to comply with the regulations,” asked McCain. “Is that how
JPMorgan works?”  “No sir, it does not,” Braunstein replied. Dimon wasn’t a
witness at the March 15 hearing after being questioned last year
by panels in the Senate and House of Representatives.  Separately, Ina Drew, former head of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
chief investment officer, Ashley Bacon, JPMorgan’s acting chief
risk officer, and Peter Weiland, former head of market risk in
the CIO, also testified before the  Subcommittee  about the
“London Whale” loss last year.  For the video, click here, and click here.  Michael Cavanagh , co-chief executive officer of JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s corporate and investment bank, also testified
before the Subcommittee. Cavanagh led JPMorgan’s internal review
of the “London Whale” loss.  For the video, click here.  Markets ‘Too Complex’ for Bank Risk Control, Trone Says  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC, talked about
the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations hearing
March 15 on the trading loss at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief
investment office last year.  He spoke with  Erik Schatzker , Christine Harper and
 Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”
 Stanley Crouch , chief investment officer at Aegis Capital Corp.,
also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  High-Frequency Equities Trading Worry Overstated, ASIC Says  Concern about high-frequency trading in Australian equity
markets is “overstated,” the country’s securities regulator
said after concluding a study that found no systematic
manipulation of markets by traders using these strategies.  The Australian Securities and Investments Commission saw a
“marked change” in the behavior of traders using high-
frequency trading strategies during the course of its study,
which began  last year , the regulator said in a  statement  on its
website. A separate study examining so-called dark pools showed
there are now more systems that account for 25 percent to 30
percent of the Australian equity market volume. Dark pools are
private trading venues that don’t display prices until after
trades take place.  Australia,  Hong Kong  and Singapore have considered the
extent to which trading strategies that rely on speedy placement
of bids and offers should be regulated amid concern that they
can be used to manipulate prices. ASIC proposed a new rule for
minimum resting periods for “small and fleeting” orders and
another for the guidance on trading practices that may
illustrate manipulative activity. The regulator said it will
consult with market participants following today’s release.
Comments need to be submitted by May 10 and a guide on rules is
scheduled to be released in July or August.  For more, click here.  EU Parliament to Seek Views on Financial Regulation Priorities  European Union lawmakers said they are seeking views on
“future priorities” for financial regulation.  The  European Parliament ’s economic and monetary affairs
committee said it would seek written comments from industry and
other interested parties on the “coherence” of EU legislation,
and on work plans for the remainder of this parliamentary term.
The deadline for submissions is June 14.  IMF Urges More Forceful Action to Repair EU Banking System  The European Union needs to take “more forceful action”
to shore up its damaged financial sector, including targeted
asset-quality reviews to make sure banks aren’t hiding further
problems, International Monetary Fund staff said in a report
March 15.  From French banks with big cross-border exposures to
vulnerable German savings banks, Europe’s banking industry faces
risks that mean it should press ahead with efforts to build a
banking union, the Washington-based IMF said in its first
assessment of financial regulation across the 27-nation bloc.  EU leaders decided last year to create a common euro-area
bank supervisor at the European Central Bank as part of efforts
to contain the sovereign debt crisis. The IMF urged the EU to
meet June targets for designing rules for the ECB supervisor and
on how banks can apply for direct aid. EU leaders also have set
a June deadline for governments and the European Parliament to
agree on legislation that sets out how authorities should handle
bank failures.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Lamprell Fined $3.6 Million for Not Alerting Market to Finances  Lamprell Plc (LAM) , an oil-rig manufacturer, was fined 2.4
million pounds ($3.6 million) for not telling the market quickly
enough about its faltering finances in early 2012.  Failures in Lamprell’s systems and controls caused it to
omit negative information about its financial performance in
statements to the market, the U.K. Financial Services Authority,
which levied the fine, said in a statement today.  When it made the situation clear to the market in May,
Lamprell’s share price fell 57 percent, the FSA said.  The fine is the first under the FSA’s new penalty policy,
based on a company’s market capitalization, which the regulator
said will lead to “significantly higher penalties than in the
past.”  Lamprell received the regulator’s standard 30 percent
discount for settling early. The company “provided significant
and extensive cooperation” with the FSA and didn’t act
deliberately or recklessly in its failings, the company said in
a separate statement.  It agreed to settle “to avoid incurring significant
additional expenses and expending the further time that would be
required to pursue the matter,” said  John Kennedy , Lamprell’s
non-executive chairman.  Goldman, JPMorgan Ordered to Fix Capital Planning in Stress Test  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co., the
world’s biggest trading firms, must submit new capital plans to
regulators to address weaknesses the Federal Reserve found in
their planning processes.  The central bank didn’t object to the capital plans of the
two New York-based companies, and approved proposals from 14
other banks, the Fed said March 14 in a report. Capital plans
submitted by Ally Financial Inc. and BB&T Corp. were rejected,
while  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest U.S. credit-card issuer
by customer spending, revised its submission to win approval.  The deficiencies found at Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan
related to projections of  losses and revenue , according to a Fed
official. While the two firms can immediately implement dividend
and buyback plans, they must fix the weaknesses and resubmit
their proposals by the end of the third quarter, the official
said. Regulators, intent on preventing a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis, have run annual stress tests to see how the
largest lenders would fare in a recession or economic shock to
ensure that banks don’t jeopardize the financial system.  For more, click here and click here.  SAC Capital to Pay Record $614 Million Over Insider Trading  SAC Capital Advisors LP, the hedge fund run by billionaire
 Steven A. Cohen , will pay a record $614 million to settle U.S.
regulatory claims that two of its affiliates made illegal trades
using nonpublic information.  CR Intrinsic Investors agreed to pay more than $600 million
-- the most ever in an insider-trading case -- and Sigma Capital
will forfeit about $14 million, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a statement March 15. Cohen hasn’t been
accused of wrongdoing.  Cohen’s SAC Capital will pay the entire settlement
expenses, according to a person familiar with the firm who asked
not to be named because the information is private. SAC has said
before that it would indemnify clients against disgorgement of
illegal profits and legal fees.  “This settlement is a substantial step toward resolving
all outstanding regulatory matters and allows the firm to move
forward with confidence,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for
SAC Capital, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are committed
to continuing to maintain a first-rate compliance effort woven
into the fabric of the firm.”  The SAC affiliates settled the SEC’s claims without
admitting or denying wrongdoing. The settlement doesn’t preclude
a case against Cohen, according to a person familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t
public.  “ Steve Cohen  has not been charged with any wrongdoing and
has done nothing wrong,” Gasthalter said.  The SEC said its investigation is continuing.  Courts  Ex-Altium Banker to Be Charged in FSA Insider-Trading Probe  A former managing director at Altium Capital Ltd. will be
charged in an insider-trading investigation and face trial next
year along with a former Deutsche Bank AG broker and four
others.  Grant Harrison was sent a summons March 14 and told to
appear in court in April to be charged, a lawyer for the U.K.
Financial Services Authority, Neil Saunders, said at a London
court hearing March 15. Harrison will be added as a defendant in
the case against Martyn Dodgson, a former managing director at
Deutsche Bank, Saunders said.  The case is scheduled to go to trial in September 2014 and
last as long as three months, according to information from the
March 15 hearing. Contact information for Harrison couldn’t
immediately be found.  “The FSA has informed us that the allegations relate
entirely to this individual’s personal actions while with a
previous employer,” Altium said in a statement. Harrison no
longer works for the firm and his actions haven’t had any impact
on Altium’s clients, it said.  Harrison, who is listed as “inactive” on the FSA’s
register of people approved to work in the industry, joined
Altium as a managing director and the head of public company
business development in September 2011, according to a  statement 
on the firm’s website. He previously worked for Lloyds Banking
Group Plc in its equity capital markets business, and for a
Panmure Gordon & Co. unit, according to Altium. immediately be
found.  The charges stem from the FSA’s biggest insider-trading
investigation, known as Operation Tabernula, Latin for little
tavern. The agency alleges the men made more than 3 million
pounds ($4.5 million) on improper trades. Another defendant,
Richard Baldwin, was charged in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 