-- Few IPhones or Intel Chips Banned When Patent Owners Ask
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-03-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/few-iphones-or-intel-chips-banned-when-patent-owners-ask.html
VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC)  dropped its
bid to get a U.S. trade panel to ban imports of the iPhone in
March, after winning a $368 million jury verdict over  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s use of patented networking technology without permission.  A U.S. appeals court in January  made clear  patent owners
such as VirnetX that don’t make products can seek to halt
imports of foreign-made items. That they have that right has
brought Apple together with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Samsung Electronics
Co, its opponents in smartphone patent fights around the world,
to lobby Congress to stop companies like VirnetX from using the
threat of trade cases to force legal settlements or win
royalties.  “It’s part of a leverage game. It’s part of a litigation
tactic,” said Matt Tanielian, executive director of ITC Working
Group, which in addition to the three smartphone makers is
backed by  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  “It has nothing to do with the merits and has
nothing to do with international trade.”  Patent-licensing companies say such legislation would
address a situation that doesn’t exist.  The International Trade Commission, whose mission is to
protect the U.S. economy from unfair competition, hasn’t in the
past six years issued a single import ban requested by patent
owners who didn’t either make products or invent the technology
in question, a trial lawyers’ group found.  Eighteen percent of ITC cases during that time were filed
by patent licensing companies, according to  a June report  by the
agency.  Wyden, McCain  The ITC Working Group spent $550,000 last year lobbying
Congress, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The
group’s mission is to force patent licensing companies --
sometimes referred to by the pejorative “trolls” -- to sue in
federal court for relief instead of seeking import bans at the
ITC.  The House Judiciary Committee last week held a hearing on
curbing “abusive” patent litigation. Lawmakers including
Senators Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, and John McCain, an
 Arizona  Republican, have written letters expressing concerns
about patent-licensing companies being able to get import bans.
No such proposals have been introduced in committees that
oversee the ITC this year.  District court is the only proper forum for companies like
VirnetX, Tanielian said. The threat of a possible import ban is
being used to force manufacturers into settling for more than
they would normally pay, he said.  Owners’ Rights  Some patent-licensing companies see the push to involve
Congress as part of a battle to dilute their rights, which
includes efforts to limit software patents and make the loser in
a patent case pay the winner, said Matthew Vella, president of
 Acacia Research Corp. (ACTG) , of Newport Beach,  California , a licensing
company that filed a case against Ericsson AB in January.  Vella called the lobbying effort “a thinly designed
attempt to depress the value of intellectual property.”  “If you’re going to take away the forum from everybody,
that’s a public policy argument,” Vella said in an interview.
“But that’s not what they’re proposing. What they’re proposing
is arbitrarily drawing a line and saying certain inventors get
to use the forum and certain inventors don’t.”  Officials with VirnetX, based in Zephyr Cove,  Nevada , which
lost a patent trial in district court with Cisco last week, had
no comment for this story.  Three Bans  Intel in February won a patent-infringement case brought to
the ITC by X2Y Attenuators LLC. The case drew the attention of
lawmakers from both political parties who said granting X2Y’s
request to block Intel chip imports would cost jobs at U.S.
plants that do initial manufacturing before products are
assembled overseas.  The ITC has issued only three import bans in cases
involving patent owners that don’t make products. Each of those
owners -- Rambus Inc., Tessera Technologies Inc. and the
 University of Nebraska Medical Center  -- had developed the
technology, according to the ITC Trial Lawyers Association.  “We don’t have a lot of evidence yet that this is a huge
problem,” said  David Foster  of Foster Murphy in  Washington , who
helped write the report. “If you engage in legislation you
could have some unfortunate effects.”  Patent-licensing companies are turning to the trade agency
in part because a 2006 Supreme Court ruling made it harder to
win federal court orders halting sales of products found to
infringe U.S. patents. The U.S Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit, which handles all patent appeals, said that decision
doesn’t apply to the ITC, which is bound by trade law.  ITC Cases  Total cases at the ITC increased 530 percent from 2000 to
2011, driven by the fight over mobile devices between Apple and
its rivals like Samsung.  The commission has tightened its rules on what qualifies as
protected licensing activities, and is taking evidence about
whether import bans are in the public’s interest.  VirnetX, which owns patents that let employees access work
computers while at home, announced it was dropping its ITC case
against Apple the day after U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis
denied the company’s request for an order against Apple over
patent infringement. Had VirnetX pursued the ITC case and won,
the iPhone, a product that made up half of Apple’s $156.5
billion in sales last year, could have been halted at the U.S.
border.  Other non-manufacturers have dropped their cases at the
agency. Immersion Corp. on March 12 said it was withdrawing its
complaint against HTC Corp. and instead pursuing cash
compensation in district court. Beacon Navigation, a Swiss
company that had filed a complaint against automakers over
global-positioning systems, did the same in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  