-- Fiscal Deadlines Fade for Months as Congress Shifts Focus
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-03-18T15:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/fiscal-deadlines-fade-for-months-as-congress-shifts-focus.html
As Congress returns this week to
confront immediate budget issues that have consumed the debate
in  Washington , lawmakers are preparing to pivot to topics such
as immigration, gun control and energy policy.  A barrage of fiscal challenges, including a March 27
deadline for extending funding for the federal government, will
yield to matters that could prove just as fractious.  This week, in the final days before a two-week recess,
legislators are expected to extend federal spending through
Sept. 30 to avoid a government shutdown. The House and Senate
anticipate adopting separate, partisan budget plans for the next
fiscal year that they won’t attempt to quickly reconcile.  By legislating to the least-common denominator, Congress
over the past three months will have avoided an across-the-board
income tax increase, prevented a default on the nation’s debt
and sidestepped a shutdown. While automatic spending cuts will
remain in place and government worker furloughs will start,
Congress won’t be up against a fiscal deadline until a debt
ceiling increase is needed in August.  “We have two or three issues that are substantive issues -
- immigration, guns as examples -- that are moving forward, and
I hope that we bring them to the floor,” Senator Richard Durbin
of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, said in an
interview last week. “Fiscal problems are big problems, but
there are other challenges in America.”  Pipeline Bill  In the House, Republicans announced plans to pass a bill by
the end of May approving the Keystone XL oil pipeline from
 Canada  that would run through part of the U.S. Representative
Fred Upton, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
said he wants to advance that and other measures before Congress
takes up 2014 spending bills in June.  “It’s the time that we do our work,” said Upton, a
Michigan Republican.  The Republican-controlled House has passed a bill to extend
government funding through Sept. 30. The Senate is considering
its version this week and is expected to send it back to the
House well before the March 27 deadline.  When they finish work this week, lawmakers will return to
their districts for a recess during the Passover and Easter
holidays.  After that, no major fiscal deadline will approach for
several months. Technically, the U.S. will hit the federal debt
ceiling in mid-May, under a law passed earlier this year to
delay default.  Extraordinary Measures  The Treasury Department can use so-called extraordinary
measures to extend that date so an increase won’t be needed
until August, said Steve Bell, senior director of the economic
policy project at the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington.  The gap until the next potential fiscal showdown buys time
for lawmakers working on tax policy to focus on a possible
rewrite of the U.S. tax code instead of wrangling with more
immediate issues. The House Ways and Means Committee has set up
11 bipartisan working groups to grapple with revising the code,
and they are scheduled to report to the full panel by April 15.  “It’s an important time for us to be pushing the ball down
the field,” said Representative Pat Tiberi, an Ohio Republican
and Ways and Means member.  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said that
“talk about raising revenue is over,” on ABC’s “This Week”
program yesterday. “It’s time to deal with the spending
problem.”  Finance Committee  Similarly, the Senate Finance Committee is starting a
series of bipartisan meetings on a tax overhaul.  Meanwhile, the automatic cuts that started March 1 will
remain in place. The reductions total $85 billion this year and
$1.2 trillion over nine years. Because government agencies must
give employees a 30-day notice of furloughs, some effects of
sequestration will start being felt.  Federal Aviation Administration workers, including air-
traffic controllers, have been told that furloughs will begin
April 21. Private firms that operate airport towers are awaiting
the FAA’s decision on how many will be shut starting April 7.  Supreme Court justices Anthony Kennedy and Stephen Breyer
told lawmakers last week that cuts affecting the federal
judiciary would undermine its work if left in place for more
than a few months. The reductions amount to about 5 percent of
the court’s budget, or $3.7 million, for the rest of the fiscal
year, which would be absorbed temporarily through furloughs and
shorter work days for some employees.  ‘Simply Unsustainable’  Over the longer term, Kennedy said in testimony before a
House appropriations subcommittee March 14, “it is simply
unsustainable.”  During the deadline lull, talk about a potential “grand
bargain” on the budget won’t vanish.  President  Barack Obama  met with Republicans and Democrats
in the House and Senate last week, reiterating his pitch for a
plan that would pair cuts in future spending for entitlement
programs such as Medicare with additional tax revenue.  While those conversations occur, the extra breathing room
could benefit consideration of a five-year reauthorization of
U.S. agriculture policy that would replace direct payments to
farmers with a more insurance-based safety net, said
Representative Frank Lucas of  Oklahoma , chairman of the House
Agriculture Committee.  “I believe the oxygen level will be higher, and you need
that kind of environment to be able to get into the really
detailed policy issues,” he said. “And the farm bill is
detailed, intense, policy-focused material.”  Taxes, Immigration  Representative James Lankford, a member of the House
Republican leadership, cited a tax overhaul and immigration as
issues expected to get attention in coming months.  At the same time, he said, lawmakers are aware that the
next debt-ceiling standoff is only months away, with no clarity
on how it will be resolved.  “I wish it did leave more room for the things that we need
to do,” said the Oklahoman. “We are kind of like a family that
fights about money all the time. Once you get into debt
everything is about money, and that’s where we are now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  