-- Fund Managers May Face Bank-Style Bonus Curbs in Draft EU Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-18T10:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/fund-managers-may-face-bank-style-bonus-curbs-in-draft-eu-plan.html
Managers of retail investment funds
in the European Union may face pay curbs similar to those
imposed on bankers as the European Parliament seeks to crack
down on awards it says encourage excessive risk taking.  European Parliament lawmakers may seek to ban managers of
so-called UCITS funds from receiving bonuses worth more than
their fixed pay, according to draft plans obtained by  Bloomberg
News . The move follows a compromise deal last month between the
assembly and national governments to cap banker bonuses at twice
fixed pay.  “The UCITS bonus cap will ensure that the bankers’ cap
cannot be circumvented,” Sven Giegold, the lawmaker leading the
assembly’s work on the fund manager rules, said in an e-mail.
“We need a level playing field in the interest of financial
stability.”  Payouts in the financial industry have been under scrutiny
since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
government rescue of American International Group Inc., which
were blamed in part on traders and executives making risky bets
to boost results and subsequent bonuses.  Like the bank rules, the measures for UCITS must be
approved by parliament and national governments before they can
take effect. Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee is set to vote on its negotiating position on March
21, according to the assembly’s  website.   Under the draft parliament plans, payment of at least a
quarter of a fund manager’s bonus would need to be deferred,
with this figure rising to 60 percent for “particularly high,”
pay awards.  The Financial Times reported on the latest proposals
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  