-- Galeries Lafayette Seeks Renaissance Amid Store Death
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-03-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/galeries-lafayette-seeks-renaissance-amid-department-store-death.html
Philippe Houzé knows a dinosaur
when he sees one.  The chief executive officer of Paris-based department-store
operator Groupe Galeries Lafayette is convinced that the format
faces extinction. So he’s seeking to transform the 119-year-old
retailer by buying brands in cosmetics and other categories to
distribute alongside third-party labels like  Ralph Lauren  as
demand weakens and e-commerce gains popularity with consumers.  “The department store is dead,” Houzé, 65, said over
breakfast at Galeries Lafayette’s Paris flagship. “Long live
the multi-specialist lifestyle retailer. That’s the strategy.”  Houzé is pushing for change ahead of a forecast decline in
revenue this year after a “difficult” start to 2013. As well
as looking at buying more brands, the executive has an eye on
neighboring merchant  Printemps  with a view to consolidating
share in  France , and plans to accelerate expansion overseas.  The number of department stores in France has dwindled to
77 today from 220 in 1980 amid competition from other formats,
according to Houzé. The advent of discount chains, specialist
retailers, shopping malls, branded boutiques and e-commerce has
revolutionized domestic shopping in the period, making
traditional department stores seem like “dinosaurs,” he said.  Until now, the company, which has been  owned  by France’s
Moulin family since 2009, has stayed relevant by maintaining a
roster of luxury brands, focusing its offer around fashion,
beauty and personal accessories and reorganizing its stores to
cater to tourists. It’s also made forays overseas, opening
outlets as far afield as Dubai, and moved online, while
bolstering its ranks with Moulin family members.  Galeries
Lafayette  yesterday named Houzé’s son Nicolas as head of its
department store division.  Bigger, Stronger  Yet, after selling a stake in grocery retailer Monoprix in
2012 and amid the prolonged spending crunch, Galeries Lafayette
has reached an impasse.  “To exist tomorrow in our profession, we are obliged to
strengthen” our business, said Houzé, whose wife is a Moulin.  Areas the department-store operator may seek to bolster
include jewelry, fashion, cosmetics, and watches, he said. It
isn’t interested in Nocibe, the Villeneuve D’Ascq, France-based
fragrance and cosmetics retailer that owner Charterhouse Capital
Partners LLP is seeking to sell for about 600 million euros
($777 million), a spokeswoman said.  Galeries Lafayette plans to lift store revenue from labels
it owns to 25 percent from 15 percent, Houzé said, declining to
give a time frame. The aim is to build a house of brands under
one roof that offers the best of French and international
premium and luxury goods, he said.  Bananas, Watches  Reinvention isn’t new to Galeries Lafayette. Since its
inception as a haberdashery in 1893, the company has diversified
into and, in some cases, out of products from bananas to bed
linen. Its current businesses include watchmakers Louis Pion and
Royal Quartz; Bazar de l’Hôtel de Ville known as BHV, which
sells everything from pet accessories to power tools, and
jeweler Didier Guerin, which it acquired last year.  Owning brands “brings the benefits of higher margins,”
John Mercer, an analyst at Mintel in  London , said in a phone
interview. It’s also “a competitive advantage because you’re
offering a brand that can’t be bought from” rivals.  Galeries Lafayette  revenue  rose 7.6 percent to 3.2 billion
euros in 2012, according to the company. At group level, sales
climbed 5.6 percent to 3.7 billion euros.  Western European department-store sales gained 3.1 percent
to 56.5 billion euros last year, rebounding after a 0.4 percent
decline in 2011, according to Euromonitor International Plc.
Even so, sales in the region still trail 2007 when they reached
61 billion euros, the researcher estimates.  Printemps  The biggest name on Houzé’s shopping list is Printemps, the
148-year-old retailer of products from Acqua di Parma perfume to
Ermenegildo Zegna suits whose flagship store sits next door to
Galeries Lafayette’s. Printemps has five outlets in France.  Combining with Printemps is “an opportunity to create a
global player offering the art of French living,” Houzé said.  Since September, Galeries Lafayette has failed with two
bids for Printemps, the second of which valued its Paris-based
rival at 1.8 billion euros.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s RREEF real estate
investment unit entered exclusive talks in February to sell its
70 percent stake in Printemps to co-owner Borletti Group and
investors from Qatar.  Houzé hasn’t given up on capturing Printemps. After
lobbying government officials, including Benoit Hamon, junior
minister for consumer affairs, and members of industry minister
 Arnaud Montebourg ’s team, the executive said he met this month
with the Qatari investors, aiming to persuade them to switch
allegiance. A spokesman for  Qatar Holding  declined to comment.  International Push  If Houzé fails, he’ll seek another deal to secure Galeries
Lafayette’s future, he said. The company raised 1.18 billion
euros from the sale of its 50 percent stake in Monoprix and can
expect more proceeds from disposing of its share of consumer
credit business Laser.  Alongside creating “unassailable fortresses” in different
categories, Houzé wants to expand internationally. This year,
Galeries Lafayette will open stores in Jakarta and Beijing. By
2015, the retailer aims to add five to seven new stores,
including in Istanbul. Galeries Lafayette has 62 stores in
total, all but three of which are in France.  In  China , luxury retailing is polarized between shopping
malls and direct distribution by brands, which isn’t necessarily
the best way of catering to customers’ needs, Houzé said. “I
believe there is a place in-between,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  