-- German Stocks Drop on Cyprus Bank Deposit Levy Concerns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-03-18T16:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/german-stocks-drop-on-cyprus-bank-deposit-levy-concerns.html
German stocks  declined the most in
more than two weeks after the euro area forced Cyprus to adopt a
levy on bank deposits, prompting concern that the region’s debt
crisis will reignite.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  fell the most on the benchmark  DAX Index. (DAX) 
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the world’s second-biggest carmaker, slipped to
its lowest since Nov. 19 after saying it will recall vehicles in
 China .  The DAX Index dropped 0.4 percent to 8,010.7 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt, paring earlier losses of as much as 1.8
percent. The benchmark measure has still gained 5.2 percent this
year amid optimism central banks around the world will continue
to support economic growth. The broader HDAX Index lost 0.3
percent today.  “The decision of the politicians in the euro zone to build
up a bailout package for Cyprus with a participation of bank
depositors is something new,” Roger Peeters, chief executive
officer at Close Brothers Seydler Research in Frankfurt, wrote
in an e-mail. “Since the weekend, there is more uncertainty
about the safety of  bank deposits . This looks set to unsettle
markets.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 12 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  While Cyprus accounts for less than half a percent of the
17-nation euro area’s economy, the raid on bank accounts risks a
resumption of the financial crisis that began in 2009 in  Greece .
Moody’s Investors Service said that the move limits support for
bank creditors across  Europe  and shows that policy makers will
risk disrupting financial markets to avoid sovereign defaults.  Banks Drop  Deutsche Bank fell 1.9 percent to 33.46 euros as a gauge of
banking stocks fell the most of the 19 industry groups in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Commerzbank AG (CBK)  declined 0.3 percent to 1.20 euros, paring
earlier losses of as much as 2.4 percent. Credit Suisse Group AG
downgraded its recommendation on the stock to neutral from
outperform, citing concern over the bank’s recent 2.5 billion
euros ($3.2 billion) rights offer, and saying it wanted to see
evidence of earnings stabilization before investing in the
shares.  Allianz SE, Europe’s largest insurer, retreated 1.7 percent
to 110.30 euros.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, lost
0.6 percent to 149.35 euros. A gauge of European insurance
companies declined the second most on the Stoxx 600.  Volkswagen slipped 0.7 percent to 159.25 euros. The
carmaker said in a March 16 statement that it will conduct a
voluntary recall related to its direct-shift gearbox system in
China.  Deutsche Telekom  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  retreated 0.8 percent to 8.51 euros.
Revenue for January and February at  Germany ’s largest
telecommunications company fell 6.7 percent, compared with a
targeted 5 percent decline, Wirtschaftswoche reported, citing
internal monthly reports.  Lufthansa AG advanced 2.4 percent to 16.55 euros, for the
biggest gain on the DAX. UBS AG upgraded its recommendation on
Europe’s second-biggest airline to buy from neutral, citing
positive developments in its efforts to reduce its cost base.  Evotec AG (EVT) , a drug research and development company,
advanced 7.8 percent to 2.57 euros, its biggest gain since July
10. Chief Executive Officer Werner Lanthaler returned to work
today after taking a leave of absence in October due to illness.  Henkel AG, the Dusseldorf-based maker of Persil detergent,
gained 1.2 percent to 73.44 euros after Nomura Holdings Inc.
raised its target price on the shares to 74 euros from 68 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  