-- Germany Restates Deposit Guarantee as Cyprus Concern Spreads
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-03-18T12:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/germany-restates-deposit-guarantee-as-cyprus-concern-spreads.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government was pressed to reiterate a 4 1/2-year-old pledge
guaranteeing bank deposits as concern rippled across  Europe  at a
decision to fund Cyprus’s bailout by taxing the island’s savers.  “It’s the nature of a guarantee that it remains valid,”
Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, told reporters in
Berlin today when asked whether the pledge Merkel made in 2008
with her then-finance minister,  Peer Steinbrueck , still held.  Merkel’s government, the biggest contributor to euro-area
bailouts during the debt crisis that emanated from  Greece , backs
the 5.8 billion-euro ($7.6 billion) levy on Cypriot bank account
holders. At the same time, it is up to the country’s government
to determine how debt sustainability is achieved, Seibert said.  The bailout was announced early on March 16 after a meeting
of euro-area finance ministers. Cyprus needs to vote the package
through its parliament to secure another 10 billion euros in
rescue loans.  With this deal, “the responsible people are partly
included and not only the taxpayers in other countries,” Merkel
said two days ago at a meeting of her Christian Democratic Union
party in her electoral district in northern  Germany , according
to remarks broadcast on ARD television. “And I think it’s right
that we went down that road.”  As stocks dropped and the euro weakened to its lowest level
this year, Seibert moved to reassure investors that Cyprus, with
a bloated banking sector, represented a “special case.”  “These are situations that are very specific to the
Cypriot problem,” Seibert said. That’s why “no one has to
spread concern among savers or depositors in other European
countries or Germany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  