-- MGM Studio Reports Profit From ‘Bond,’ ‘Hobbit’ Releases
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-03-18T19:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/mgm-studio-reports-profit-from-bond-hobbit-film-releases.html
MGM Holdings Inc. (MGMB) , the studio that
emerged from bankruptcy more than two years ago, reported
fourth-quarter net income of $40.2 million, driven by the James
Bond film “Skyfall” and “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey.”  Fourth-quarter revenue soared almost sevenfold to $902.6
million, the closely held  Beverly Hills , California-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. The studio posted a
loss of $11.2 million a year earlier.  MGM is basking in renewed success as the studio weighs an
initial public offering. “Skyfall” and “The Hobbit” took in
more than $1 billion each in worldwide ticket sales, according
to  Box Office Mojo , and MGM is counting on future versions for
years of profit. “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,” a co-
production with Time Warner Inc., was the first of three planned
films based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s novels.  “Nobody expected ‘Skyfall’ to do more than $600 million at
the box office,” Steven Azarbad, a portfolio manager at New
York-based Maglan Capital LP, which owns about 1 percent of MGM,
said before the release. “Together with two more ‘Hobbit’
films, a remake of ‘RoboCop’ and  Brett Ratner ’s ‘Hercules,’ the
film slate looks exceptionally strong for years to come.”  For its second calendar year of operations since emerging
from bankruptcy in December 2010, MGM reported 2012 profit of
$129 million on revenue of $1.38 billion, the company said. The
studio plans a private call with investors at 12:30 p.m.  New
York  tomorrow and will make a replay available after 7 p.m.,
according to the statement.  Future IPO?  Along with an IPO, the results may signal a new era of
financial stability for MGM, the maker of classic films
including “Gone With the Wind” and “The Wizard of Oz.”
Including the 2010 bankruptcy, the studio has changed hands at
least eight times since 1969.  Billionaire investor  Kirk Kerkorian  acquired and sold the
studio three times during the period.  MGM Holdings said in July it submitted a confidential IPO
filing to regulators through a process that lets the owners
gauge potential interest before moving ahead.  Proceeds from a stock sale could be used to pay for film
production or go to investors that include Anchorage Capital
Group LLC, Highland Capital Management LP and Solus Alternative
Asset Management LP, which have board seats.  The studio refinanced its debt in January, securing $650
million in loans for film production and digital ventures,
people familiar with the transaction said at the time. The loans
lowered  interest rates  and replaced a $500 million facility
arranged in February 2012, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  