-- Goldman Bearish Gold Call Overrun by Inflation: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-03-18T13:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/goldman-bearish-gold-call-overrun-by-inflation-argentina-credit.html
Argentines are buying more gold
than ever to protect their savings from the Western Hemisphere’s
fastest inflation as the country’s bonds suffer the worst
returns in developing nations.  While Goldman Sachs Group Inc. called for gold prices to
peak last month and billionaire  George Soros  cut his stake by
more than half, Banco de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires, Argentina’s
only gold trader, is talking with mining companies to buy the
metal directly as surging demand exhausts its supply of scrap.
The bank began marketing gold to individuals after the nation
tightened currency controls in October 2011, selling 280 kilos
in its first year for 102.6 million pesos ($20 million).  Argentines are turning to the precious metal to preserve
the value of their savings as economists forecast the peso will
lose more value than any currency in the world and President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  bans most dollar purchases. The
nation’s estimated inflation rate of 26 percent is also eroding
the value of fixed-income securities, causing  Argentina ’s peso-
denominated bonds to  lose  5.5 percent this year versus a 2.2
percent gain in emerging markets, according Barclays Plc.  “I’m buying gold every chance I get,” Guillermo Acosta, a
27-year-old security guard, said inside a branch of Banco Ciudad
in downtown Buenos Aires. “With this inflation, I feel like my
savings will evaporate if I keep them in pesos.”  Dollar Bonds  Acosta’s initial investment of 10 grams of gold in February
last year has returned 47 percent as the price per gram rose to
381.5 pesos from 260 pesos.  Argentina’s government  dollar-denominated bonds  fell an
average 14.3 percent in that span, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI global index, and the peso weakened 15 percent.  The nation hasn’t borrowed money from overseas debt markets
since its $95 billion default in 2001 and Fernandez’s increasing
influence over the economy since her re-election in 2011 has
pushed up the  interest  that bond investors demand to 13.9
percent, or three times the average in  emerging markets .  With Argentina printing pesos to finance itself, the amount
of pesos in the economy has  increased  38 percent in the past
year, leading analysts to anticipate that the currency will
depreciate 12.9 percent through year-end, the most among
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Banco Ciudad is the only bank left that trades the metal
after Fernandez in July banned the purchase of certified 99.99
percent pure gold for savings. The bank sells it at 99.96
percent purity, according to Carlos Leiza, who oversees the
lender’s gold trading.  ‘Keep Up’  “The boom goes in hand with the inability to buy
dollars,” he said in an interview at his office in Buenos
Aires. “People are looking for alternatives that at least
implicitly hold the value of the dollar. The demand has been
strong for over a year now. We can barely keep up.”  The  extra yield  that investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar-denominated debt instead of Treasuries widened
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1,185 basis
points at 9:55 a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  The cost of protecting $10 million of Argentine government
debt against default for five years with credit-default swaps
rose 88 basis points to 3,121 basis points, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Last year, Banco Ciudad limited purchases to 100 grams per
person per day in direct sales to individuals. Investors who
want to speculate on the price of gold without actually owning
the metal are also buying record amounts of futures contracts.  ‘Good Option’  The number of open futures contracts due in June in the
Rosario Futures Exchange, where they are traded locally, climbed
183 percent in the past year to 14,508, and reached an all-time
high of 15,276 on Jan. 29.  “Faced with the inability to buy foreign currency,
investors are seeing gold futures as a good option to dollarize
their portfolios,” said Sebastian Porcel, director of Buenos
Aires-based futures brokerage Global Agro. “The fact that
people are going through the burden of owning actual gold bars
shows the huge need they have to protect savings.”  While demand for gold is rising in Argentina, Goldman Sachs
last month cut its three-month target to $1,615 an ounce from
$1,825, and also chopped its six- and 12-month forecasts. The
bank said the cycle for gold prices, which has climbed for 12
straight years, has probably turned as the recovery in the U.S.
economy gathers momentum and investments decrease.  Soros reduced his stake in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest
gold exchange-traded fund, by 55 percent in the fourth quarter,
filings showed last month.  Prices Drop  Gold futures traded in New York have fallen 11 percent in
the past six months.  The difference between the prices to buy and sell gold is
greater than the gap when trading futures, meaning investors are
more at risk of losing money when they need to sell, according
to Claudio Burelli, the head of the currency trading desk at
Buenos Aires-based brokerage Puente Hermanos Sociedad de Bolsa.  There is a 35 percent difference between the prices to buy
and sell gold at Banco Ciudad, while there’s no premium to sell
the country’s benchmark 2017 dollar bond in the local market,
according to the Buenos Aires-based Open Electronic Market,
known as MAE.  “There’s a big spread in prices, so to make money, not
only does the price of gold have to rise, you have to beat that
gap,” said Burelli, who sold gold before it was restricted.  Exchange Rate  Gold sold by Banco Ciudad also isn’t recognized
internationally, making it more difficult to determine its
value, he said.  The cost of 100 grams of gold in Argentina as of last week
was 36,646 pesos. In New York, the same amount based on the
benchmark troy ounce (31 grams) sold for about $5,126.  The bank multiplies that price by 0.95 to account for the
lower quality of the gold to get a dollar price of $4,870.  While the implied exchange rate of 7.5 pesos per dollar is
higher than the official rate of 5.09, it’s still better than
the rate of 8 pesos per dollar in the black market.  “Historically, gold has been seen as a store of value, so
as long as options for doing that in Argentina are limited,
people are going to keep buying it,” Banco Ciudad’s Leiza said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  