-- Liberty Said Close to Buying Charter Communications Stake
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-03-18T20:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/liberty-said-to-buy-stake-in-charter-from-apollo-oaktree.html
John Malone’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) 
is close to a deal to acquire 25 percent of  Charter
Communications Inc. (CHTR)  from its private-equity investors, according
to a person familiar with the situation.  The firms include  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and Oaktree
Capital Management LP, Charter’s largest shareholders, said the
person, who asked not to be named as the process is private. The
stake was worth $2.48 billion at today’s closing price.  Charter, the fourth-largest U.S. cable operator, has been
taking advantage of improving cash flow to refinance debt and
add customers through the acquisition of  Cablevision Systems
Corp. (CVC) ’s Optimum West. Its shares have almost tripled since the
end of 2009, when it emerged from bankruptcy protection with the
deal that gave the private-equity firms their stakes.  The stock  rose  8.8 percent to $98.04 at the close in New
York, the highest closing price since the bankruptcy.  Anita Lamont , a spokeswoman for St Louis-based Charter,
declined to comment. Courtnee Ulrich, a spokeswoman for
Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Media, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail and voice mail seeking comment.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo at Rubenstein
Associates Inc., declined to comment. Andrea Williams, a
spokeswoman for Oaktree, didn’t immediately respond to a voice
mail seeking comment.  Cable Investments  While Malone’s Liberty Global Inc. has 19.6 million pay-TV,
Internet and phone customers, mostly in Europe, and the
billionaire directly holds a 4.8 percent stake in satellite-TV
company DirecTV, his U.S. cable investments have been limited
since he sold Tele-Communications Inc. to AT&T Corp. in 1999.
Liberty Media holds an undisclosed stake in Time Warner Cable
Inc., the second-biggest U.S. cable company, according to the
annual report of Malone’s company.  Dow Jones earlier reported on the deal to sell the Charter
stake to Malone.  Started by  Paul Allen , a Microsoft Corp. co-founder, in
1993, Charter filed for bankruptcy protection in March 2009
after becoming overwhelmed by more than $21 billion in debt.
Allen’s stake dropped to 35 percent when Charter emerged with
about $8 billion less debt. He has since sold almost all his
remaining shares, according to regulatory filings.  Charter said earlier this month that Apollo would reduce
its stake by 6.2 million shares and Oaktree would sell 3.1
million in an underwritten offering. Those transactions have
already been completed, according to filings.  The company agreed this year to acquire Optimum West for
$1.63 billion, gaining more than 360,000 customers in Montana,
Wyoming, Colorado and  Utah . Charter currently serves about 5
million customers in 25 states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  