-- Libya’s Waha Oil Output Cut by 120,000 Barrels a Day, Arusi Says
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2013-03-18T10:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/libya-s-waha-oil-output-cut-by-120-000-barrels-a-day-arusi-says.html
Waha Oil Co.’s pipeline in  Libya 
was shut because of a strike at its Gialo field resulting in a
cut in the country’s crude output by 120,000 barrels a day, Oil
Minister Abdulbari al-Arusi said.  The protest is continuing today at the Gialo field, which
feeds crude into a pipeline that runs to the Es Sider export
terminal, Abduljalil Mayuf, spokesman of Arabian Gulf Oil Co., a
unit of National Oil Corp., said by phone from the eastern city
of Benghazi.  Nuri Berruien, chairman of state-run NOC, which owns Waha
Oil in partnership with ConocoPhillips, Hess Corp. and Marathon
Oil Corp., couldn’t be reached on his mobile phone for comment.  Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest crude reserves, is
struggling to contain strikes and sporadic armed clashes as it
strives to increase oil output and attract foreign investors in
the aftermath of the uprising that ousted Muammar Gaddafi and
put the country in political turmoil.  Truck drivers who transport jet fuel to Benina Airport in
the eastern city of Benghazi are also on a walkout, forcing the
government to bring product from the capital Tripoli at a higher
cost to ensure the operations of flights at the facility, al-
Arusi told reporters yesterday.  “At the end, we are able to use force if these strikes
continue to impact important facilities,” al-Arusi said.
“These impact the lives of citizens and Libya’s relationship
with foreign companies.”  Prime Minister Ali Zaidan said that halting oil production
is a “crime punishable by law,” according to Libya’s official
news agency LANA.  Libya’s crude output rose to 1.38 million barrels a day in
January, according to the  International Energy Agency , and the
Oil Ministry plans to boost supply to as much as 2 million
barrels by the end of 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleh Sarrar in Dubai at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  