-- Iceland Strategies Dodging Currency Shock Point to Euro
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-03-18T14:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/iceland-strategies-dodging-currency-shock-point-to-euro.html
As  Iceland  maps out strategies to
exit currency controls in place since the nation’s 2008 economic
meltdown, joining the European Union, and then the euro, is
emerging as the clearest path toward stability.  Policy makers in the $13 billion economy are trying to work
out how to unwind capital restrictions that are blocking as much
as $8 billion from exiting Iceland without triggering a currency
crisis. A committee made up of officials from Iceland, the
European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund is now
charting the nation’s options.  The group “is searching for ways to help us remove the
capital controls and immobilize the offshore kronur overhang, to
prevent it from changing into a catastrophe that floods
Iceland’s economy,” Foreign Minister Ossur Skarphedinsson said
in an interview from Reykjavik. “My personal opinion is we
won’t be able to remove the capital controls or immobilize the
offshore kronur overhang in a desirable manner without that
being a part of our EU accession talks.”  Iceland, which is still recovering from the economic trauma
caused by an $85 billion bank industry default 4 1/2 years ago,
started EU membership talks in 2010. Removing the capital
controls, imposed after the krona plunged as much as 80 percent
against the euro in the offshore market, now marks the final
goal post on the island’s path toward resurrection from its
worst economic crisis in more than six decades.  Free Float  Finance Minister Katrin Juliusdottir and central bank
Governor Mar Gudmundsson have both signaled that the removal of
currency restrictions probably won’t be followed by a free
floating krona regime.  Iceland holds parliamentary elections on April 27, four
years after the Social Democratic-led government ousted its pro-
deregulation predecessor following a wave of protests over
economic mismanagement. Most polls suggest the government of
Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir won’t be re-elected.
That’s unlikely to change the nation’s currency goals,
Skarphedinsson said.  “All of Iceland’s political parties have said that they
want to consider adopting another currency. Some of the
solutions proposed have been a bit mysterious, such as the
Canadian dollar,” Skarphedinsson said. “However, if you look
into that matter seriously, there’s only one solution, and
that’s adopting euro.”  The krona gained as much as 1.5 percent and traded 0.3
percent higher against the euro at 162.67 as of 2:14 p.m. in
Reykjavik. The euro was down today against all major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, and fell to its lowest level against the
dollar this year, after talks to rescue Cyprus resulted in an
unprecedented levy on the island’s bank savings, threatening to
reignite the crisis.  Deadline Dropped  Efforts to ease the krona controls have encountered a
number of obstacles. Parliament agreed on March 9 to drop a 2013
deadline for lifting the restrictions. A second bill was also
put forward, designed to make it more difficult for offshore
investors to re-invest their kronur inside the island.  The krona has lost about 10 percent against the euro since
an August peak. That’s spurred inflation in excess of 4 percent
and left Icelanders worse off. Households owe the island’s banks
1.43 trillion kronur ($11.5 billion) in debt indexed to
inflation, according to a statement the parliament’s website on
March 7.  Won Praise  Yet the nation has won praise from the IMF for its approach
in handling the crisis, in part because it put households’
wellbeing ahead of bank creditor claims and because of its use
of krona controls. The country emerged from an IMF-backed
program in August 2011 and is now outgrowing most of  Europe .
Iceland’s economy expanded 1.6 percent last year, according to
the statistics office. The euro zone, now mired in its fourth
year of fiscal crisis, contracted 0.6 percent in 2012, the
European Commission said Feb. 22.  Though that’s cooled Icelanders’ eagerness to join the EU
and the euro, membership in the bloc is inevitable,
Skarphedinsson said. Delays in the talks, as Europe tries to
deal with its debt woes and Iceland readies for elections, may
even help smooth the accession process, he said.  “I’m very certain that eventually we’ll complete the talks
and that a referendum will approve of Iceland becoming a member
of the EU,” he said. “From my point of view it’s not
undesirable that the talks have taken a little longer than first
anticipated, as we, the proponents of EU membership, need the
euro zone to have become stronger and that the EU is doing
better. And that’s what is happening now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  