-- High-Frequency Firms’ Wash Trades Need U.S. Review, Chilton Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-18T03:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/high-frequency-firms-wash-trades-need-u-s-review-chilton-says.html
High-frequency trading firms
conduct transactions with themselves in ways that distort
liquidity in derivatives markets and warrant regulatory review,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission member
Bart Chilton.  So-called wash sales, in which a party buys a contract from
itself, are occurring even though they violate regulations set
by the CFTC,  CME Group (CME)  Inc. and Intercontinental Exchange Inc.,
Chilton said in a speech prepared for a National Grain & Feed
Association conference today in San Francisco.  “In voluminous instances these cheetahs are engaged in
this activity,” Chilton said in the remarks, likening high-
frequency traders to the world’s fastest mammals. “When they do
so, it might appear to be liquidity, but it is not. It isn’t
really there. It’s fantasy liquidity.”  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission have
increased their focus on high-frequency and algorithmic trading
since May 6, 2010, when about $862 billion was erased from stock
values in 20 minutes before share prices recovered from the
plunge. Regulators have expressed concern that some firms and
electronic exchanges don’t have enough control over trades or
technology glitches that could roil markets.  The SEC on March 7 voted unanimously to propose rules
requiring exchanges and other electronic-trading venues to
maintain technology systems against disruptions and report any
outages. It was the first planned update of standards in 22
years.  The CFTC  also has been considering whether to issue a so-
called concept release, a step prior to formal rulemaking that
could lead to new testing, supervision and oversight
requirements for high-frequency and automated trading.  In the speech, Chilton said that wash trades require
review. “We need to ensure that we have the correct policies
and procedures in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  