-- IMF Agrees With Kosovo on $6.5 Million Tranche as Growth Slows
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-03-18T15:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/imf-agrees-with-kosovo-on-6-5-million-tranche-as-growth-slows.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
agreed with  Kosovo  to release a 5 million-euro ($6.5 million)
tranche of a standby loan as the Balkan nation’s economy slows
amid the debt crisis in  Europe .  The IMF’s Executive Board will probably consider approving
the package in April, the Washington-based lender said today in
a statement. Kosovo officials intend to treat the arrangement as
a precautionary loan for 2013, meaning they don’t plan on
drawing the funds, according to the statement.  Kosovo’s  economy  “continues to display growth rates above
those of most neighboring countries and is expected to remain
subdued but resilient” in 2013, IMF mission chief Johannes
Wiegand said, according to the statement. Even though the
banking system is stable and liquid, “risks remain, including a
possible deterioration in labor market conditions in the host
countries of Kosovo’s diaspora.”  The economy of the Balkan country, which declared
independence from  Serbia  five years ago, is driven by
remittances from Kosovars living in European countries such as
Germany and Switzerland. Gross domestic product is forecast to
expand around 3 percent this year, the IMF said in December.  “In this challenging environment, disciplined fiscal
management, safeguarding an adequate level of government bank
balances, prudent financial supervision by a strong and
independent central bank, and structural reforms to boost
competitiveness remain critical to support macroeconomic
stability and growth,” the IMF said in today’s report.  Kosovo is set to resume talks with Serbia on March 20 as
both nations aspire to accelerate their path toward European
Union membership. Serbia’s Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  will meet
his Kosovar counterpart Hashim Thaci “to normalize relations”
between the two sides, EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton 
said earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  