-- In Israel, Obama Must Put Peace Burden Where It Belongs
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-18T22:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/in-israel-obama-must-put-peace-burden-where-it-belongs.html
On the eve of his first visit to
Israel as the U.S. president,  Barack Obama  is being  lobbied , not
least by his secretary of state,  John Kerry , to commit the U.S.
to a  fresh campaign  of peacemaking between the Israelis and
Palestinians. He should resist the coaxing.  Conditions aren’t ripe for a new agreement, so investing
all-out U.S. diplomacy in one runs the risk of squandering
resources better devoted elsewhere. It also sends the dangerous
message to the Palestinians that they can rely on others to want
peace more than they do.  For starters, there is a broad consensus in Israel that the
Palestinians today cannot agree or adhere to a peace accord.
That’s why the recent Israeli election campaign featured almost
no discussion of the  peace process , and why the  governing
coalition  that Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has just formed
includes parties with contradictory views on the subject.  This is not to say that Israelis are overly cynical about
prospects for peace. In December, pollsters asked Israelis and
Palestinians about the widely anticipated terms of a final
settlement: a two-state solution, with  Jerusalem  shared, in
which some West Bank Jewish settlements are annexed by Israel
and the Palestinians are compensated with equal parcels of
Israeli land. Two-thirds of Israelis supported such a deal while
 just 43 percent  of Palestinians did.  A strong, united Palestinian leadership devoted to
peacemaking might be able to bring the people around.
Unfortunately, no such leadership exists. Instead, the  Gaza
Strip  is ruled by Hamas, the  Islamist group  dedicated to
Israel’s destruction. The West Bank is controlled by the
moderate organization Fatah whose chief,  Mahmoud Abbas , supports
a two-state solution and the compromises that could make it
happen. If Abbas were to negotiate a peace agreement with
Netanyahu, he would have no way of imposing it on Hamas, whose
armed men ejected Fatah from Gaza in 2007.  Palestinians have long counted on others to bring the
conflict to an end. They expected the Arab states to defeat
Israel militarily and were repeatedly disappointed. They hoped
the nonaligned movement would snub Israel and the European Union
would shame Israel into concessions, and that didn’t work. Last
year, they turned to the  United Nations  to give them a state,
but it exists on paper only.  In his visit to the  West Bank , Obama should remind
Palestinians that only they have the power to win their
independence. It’s not complicated. They have to live up to
their half of the accepted formula of territory for peace,
instead of aligning themselves with a party that supports
Israel’s annihilation and proves its point with  rocket attacks .  Obama should remind Israelis, too, of their territory for
peace obligations. Israeli leaders, on the left and right, have
offered to cede land to a Palestinian state. Yet Israel has a
history of unilaterally altering the shape of such an entity by
expanding Jewish settlements. Obama would be wise to argue that
continued settlement building is against Israel’s long-term
interest because it aggravates Palestinian hostility and will
make it harder to draw final borders, if that day ever comes.  The U.S. must remain a steadfast supporter of  Israel . But
the reasons for shuttle diplomacy are not apparent at this
moment. Israel is doing pretty well. Its technologically
advanced  economy is robust , walls blocking off Palestinian areas
have minimized terrorist infiltrations, and a missile shield has
provided  effective  protection against rocket attacks.  What’s more, the U.S. has learned that solving this
conflict won’t stop Arab leaders from cynically deploying anti-
American sentiment. Increasing energy independence means
appraising Arab alliances with open eyes.  Make no mistake. The U.S. should continue to promote peace
in the region. Responding to the pressure to do something,
however, is not the same as getting something done.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 