-- In Shanghai, More Dead Pigs, but Still No Answers
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-03-18T17:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/in-shanghai-more-dead-pigs-but-still-no-answers.html
Two weeks after the first of  13,000 
(and counting) floating dead pigs appeared in  Shanghai 
 waterways , nobody seems to know exactly why or where those pigs
died.  Newspapers, blogs and government agencies offer theories
and explanations --  cold weather  and something called the
 porcine circovirus  are the leading candidates -- but so far no
official  has pointed with certainty  to the village or villages,
farm or farms, where thousands of pigs died.  Rather, the residents of Shanghai are mostly told what
allegedly didn’t cause it ( an epidemic ) and where it didn’t
happen ( Shanghai ). Such rhetoric is well-suited to governments
that either don’t know what they’re talking about or prefer not
to talk about what they do know.  In the case of Shanghai, it’s also emblematic of
bureaucrats  inclined to obfuscate when confronted with a genuine
public-health scare . On March 16, Xinhua, the state-owned and -
operated news wire,  reported that , “The municipal water affairs
department said tests indicate that the city’s water quality is
safe and meets national standards for drinking water.”  True or
not , such statements may work wonders with a bureaucrat’s
superiors, but they’re unlikely to reassure a Shanghai public,
which views the dead pigs as  one more example of the
government’s inability to protect the food supply  (and is
already accustomed to buying bottled water or boiling what comes
from the tap).  So, what’s a bureaucrat to do? One approach is to intensify
the search. But that risks the embarrassment of not finding an
answer or -- much worse -- finding one you don’t want to share.
Already, the ugliness of the latter possibility is coming into
view. Foreign and domestic reports suggest that at least a
partial cause of the tide (though not the deaths) is  a recent
crackdown  on a lucrative trade in diseased, dead pigs for use as
food.  As a result, farmers in search of a low-cost means of
disposing diseased pig corpses allegedly turned to dumping. If
any of  this is true , it’s likely that local governments were
aware that the trade, and the dumping, were occurring and failed
to prevent it. Indeed, last week  China ’s Central Propaganda
Department  issued an order  prohibiting licensed news
organizations from covering a reporter’s inquiry into farmers
being unable to afford to cremate their diseased pigs.  And as of Monday in China, the media is making a consistent
effort to downplay the tide, with headlines declaring that the
number of pigs being recovered is “ in decline .”  But just in case it’s not,  Shanghai has stationed  boats on
the border of neighboring Zhejiang province to intercept any
floating carcasses before they enter the city limits. It’s
impossible to say whether these boats will have any positive
public-health benefit. But for city administrators struggling to
dissociate their city from floating dead pigs, an anti-pork
armada must be viewed as a pretty good investment.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 