-- India’s Nifty Stock Futures Drop on Cyprus Deposit-Tax Turmoil
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-03-18T02:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-drop-on-cyprus-deposit-tax-turmoil.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures fell,
signaling benchmark indexes may drop, amid concern an
unprecedented levy on  bank deposits  in Cyprus will drag Europe
back into crisis.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for March delivery sank 0.8
percent to 5,847.5 at 10:40 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying
CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
fell 0.6 percent to 5,872.60 on March 15. The S&P BSE Sensex
index tumbled 0.7 percent to 19,427.56, extending the weekly
decline to 1.3 percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares slid 0.6 percent to 1,119.89.  Euro finance ministers reached an unprecedented agreement
on March 16 forcing depositors in Cypriot banks to share in the
cost of the latest euro-zone bailout. The European Union
accounted for 17.2 percent of India’s exports in the six months
ended September 2011, according to the commerce ministry, making
it India’s largest trading partner. The  Reserve Bank  of India
meets for its next policy review tomorrow.  “We expect a selloff today driven by global sentiments on
the back of the Cyprus issue,” A.K. Prabhakar, senior vice
president for equity research at Anand Rathi Financial Services
Ltd., said in an e-mail today. “We don’t expect a cut in
 interest rates  or the reserve ratio tomorrow by the RBI.”  Policy Meeting  The RBI, balancing the risks of economic growth at a decade
low with “stubborn” inflation, will probably cut interest rates
by a quarter-percentage point tomorrow, swap contracts indicate.  RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao last week signaled the
government’s  deficit  was less of an obstacle to rate cuts,
saying that Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram “firmly
embraced” fiscal responsibility in his budget last month. He
also said “sluggish” economic growth is likely to curb import
demand and the trade deficit.  The Sensex is valued at 13.2 times  projected 12-month
profits , compared with 14.3 times on Jan. 25, when the gauge
climbed to a two-year high, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That compares with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.6 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  