-- India Gold ETF Sales Mimic Soros as Goldman More Bearish
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-03-19T06:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/india-gold-etf-sales-mimic-soros-as-goldman-more-bearish.html
Indian gold funds are shrinking for
the first time since June as investors in the biggest bullion-
consuming nation follow billionaire  George Soros  in pulling
money from products backed by the precious metal.  Exchange-traded funds in gold saw outflows of 80 million
rupees ($1.5 million), data from the Association of Mutual Funds
in India show. Investments in sovereign-debt funds rose by 4.46
billion rupees, the sixth straight month of inflows. Gold prices
in India have slid 4 percent this year, while rupee bonds
returned 2.7 percent, the second-highest gains in Asia.  “Globally we are seeing a decelerating gold trend, and
overweight investors will be adjusting asset allocations,”
Lakshmi Iyer, Mumbai-based head of fixed income and products at
Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Co., which oversees about $6
billion of assets, said in a March 14 telephone interview. “We
should see some interest-rate easing over the next two or three
quarters,” encouraging people to seek capital gains in bonds,
she added.  Soros cut his holdings in SPDR Gold Trust, the largest
exchange-traded gold product, by 55 percent last quarter, and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicts the metal’s 12-year rally will
end as a U.S. economic recovery gathers momentum. The Reserve
Bank of India lowered its benchmark  repurchase rate  to 7.50
percent from 7.75 percent today, while saying the scope for
further monetary easing remains limited.  ‘Worst Over’  “A lot of investors are replicating George Soros in
liquidating their gold positions as they might be feeling there
is no more requirement for safety in their portfolio,”  Kishore Narne , Mumbai-based head of commodities and currency at Motilal
Oswal Commodity Broker Pvt. Ltd., said by telephone yesterday.
“There is a feeling that the worst is over” for the global
economy, he said.  Goldman Sachs last month reversed an assumption that
exchange-traded gold holdings will expand in 2013, analysts
Damien Courvalin and  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a Feb. 25 report,
after minutes of the Federal Reserve’s January meeting showed
several policy makers said the central bank should be ready to
vary the pace of its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  climbed to a record on
March 14 and the Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against six counterparts, rose to the highest level since August
on March 13 as employment growth surged in the world’s largest
economy. Gold prices tend to move inversely to the currency.  Investments in Indian gold ETFs are unlikely to recover in
coming months as investors will look for appreciating assets,
Kotak Mahindra Asset’s Iyer said.  Gold Futures  Technical charts indicate gold futures on the Multi
Commodity Exchange of India will probably drop to a support
level of 28,700 rupees per 10 grams ($1,645.03 an ounce) within
a month, Dhanik Shah, a senior analyst at Angel Commodities
Broking Pvt. in Mumbai, said by telephone on March 11. That
would be the lowest intraday level since May 18.  While the appeal of gold as an investment has weakened,
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and Quantum Asset
Management Co. expect demand for the metal to remain relatively
high in India.  ICICI Bank, India’s second-largest lender by assets,
estimates the nation’s households hold $1.1 trillion of gold,
which accounts for about 7 percent of their total wealth. The
precious metal is the predominant form of savings in rural
India, where about 70 percent of India’s 1.2 billion people
live, Nilesh Mundra, head of investment strategy for private
banking at ICICI, said at a conference in  Singapore  on March 13.  15 Million Weddings  About half of India’s population is younger than 25 years,
and with an estimated 15 million weddings expected to take place
each year until 2020 the nation is likely to generate demand for
an additional 500 tons of gold, according to Mundra. Of the
total annual consumption, recorded at 864.2 tons in 2012 by the
World Gold Council, 90 percent is imported, he said.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram wants to channel
some of the wealth locked in bullion into investments to boost
an economy growing at the slowest pace in a decade. “Non-
productive” holdings, including gold and art, rose by about 800
billion rupees in the year through March 2012, the latest
 government estimates  show. They account for 7.6 percent of
India’s investment rate, which is at a three-year low of 35
percent of gross domestic product, according to official data.  Gold ‘Passion’  India’s “passion” for gold partly accounts for the record
shortfall in the nation’s  current account , the broadest measure
of trade, Chidambaram said in his Feb. 28 budget speech to
parliament. He proposed tax benefits to encourage purchases of
stocks instead. Gold import duty, which was tripled to 6 percent
in the past year after inward shipments rose to a record 969
tons in 2011, was kept unchanged.  Importers including Monal Thakker, president of Amrapali
Group in the western city of Ahmedabad, say increasing the levy
would boost smuggling. The “status quo” on taxes is a good
sign for the industry and will attract people to gold, Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the All  India  Gems & Jewellery Trade
Federation, a grouping of retailers, traders and exporters, said
last month.  Illegal shipments of the metal were rampant until the turn
of the century because of high duties. The levy was increased by
60 percent to 400 rupees per 10 grams in 1999, which was cut to
250 rupees in 2001 to discourage smuggling. Gold imports have
been taxed as a percentage of their value since January 2012,
after global prices surged 10 percent in 2011.  Gold smugglers were once immortalized by Bollywood, with
most villains in the 1970s portrayed as one. Even Indian matinee
idol Amitabh Bachchan played the role in the 1975 hit Deewar,
which was based on a real-life Mumbai gangster.  ‘Preferred Asset’  To curb unlawful imports, Chidambaram in his latest budget
increased overseas travelers’ duty-free baggage limit for
jewelry to 100,000 rupees from 20,000 for each woman passenger
and 50,000 from 10,000 for a man. The change is the first since
1991, when India opened its economy.  “From the standpoint of Indian households, gold is likely
to remain a preferred asset class owing to still-high consumer
price inflation,” Sanjay Mathur, Singapore-based head of
economic research at RBS, wrote in a March 14 report. “Negative
real deposit rates accentuate the appeal of gold.”  Consumer prices  rose 10.91 percent in February after a
10.79 percent climb the previous month, a government report
showed on March 12.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest
lender, pays 8.75 percent on  one-year deposits .  Bonds, Rupee  The yield on the 8.15 percent government bond due June 2022
rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.90 percent
today. Benchmark 10-year sovereign notes offer a  premium  of 595
basis points over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries. The rupee
weakened 0.1 percent to 54.2125 per dollar today.  Bond risk in India has fallen every month since September.
The cost to insure the debt of State Bank, considered a proxy
for the sovereign by some investors, for five years against non-
payment rose one basis point to 192 basis points yesterday,
according to data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Gold prices in India fell in 2013, and were trading at
29,608 rupees per 10 grams as of yesterday, after rising each
year since 2005. Demand for gold coins and bars has fallen due
to a perception abroad that the global financial crisis is
ebbing, according to Quantum Asset.  “There is a kind of profit booking as people have made a
reasonably good amount of money in gold,” Arvind Chari, a
senior fund manager at Quantum Asset in Mumbai, said by
telephone on March 15. “What investment demand we had about six
months back, might not be the same at the current levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  