-- India to Consider Tomorrow Proposal to End Curbs on Sugar Mills
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-03-18T15:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/india-to-consider-tomorrow-proposal-to-end-curbs-on-sugar-mills.html
India, the world’s second-biggest
sugar producer, deferred for a day consideration of a proposal
to scrap four-decade-old state curbs on mills, Food Minister
K.V. Thomas said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  will head a cabinet meeting
tomorrow that will consider allowing mills to sell sugar freely
in the local market, Thomas told reporters in New Delhi today.
It will also discuss ending a government program of buying sugar
from producers at below-market prices to supply to the poor, he
said. Discussion of the proposals was deferred today as some
senior ministers including Finance Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram weren’t present at a cabinet meeting, Thomas said.  Scrapping of state purchases may allow  Bajaj Hindusthan
Ltd. (BJH)  and  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM) , the biggest mills, and
other producers to boost revenues by about 27 billion rupees
($497 million) annually, according to Abinash Verma, director
general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association. A government
panel in October recommended ending state controls including
regulation of sales by the mills, first introduced in 1972.  Sugar makers are restricted by rules that govern sales by
each mill for every four-month period in order to cap prices,
while states fix cane rates to help 50 million farmers earn
more. Factories in  Uttar Pradesh , set to be the biggest
producing state, owed 54.6 billion rupees to growers, Thomas
told parliament on Feb. 26, after cane prices were raised to a
record for the 2012-2013 crop.  Shares of sugar producers rallied in Mumbai. Bajaj
Hindusthan Ltd. rose 1.2 percent to 21.95 rupees,  Shree Renuka
Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) , the top refiner, advanced 1.3 percent to 26.85
rupees, while  Dhampur Sugar Mills Ltd. (DSM)  climbed 2.9 percent to
48.60 rupees.  Drought Conditions  Sugar for delivery in April fell 0.6 percent to 3,025
rupees per 100 kilograms on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai today. Futures have fallen 7.4 percent
this year.  Production in India, the world’s largest consumer, will
fall to 24 million metric tons next season from 24.5 million
tons this year as a drought in Maharashtra and Karnataka, which
together account for 45 percent of output, curbs planting, Farm
Minister  Sharad Pawar  said March 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  