-- India’s Second-Largest Drugmaker Mourns Death of Founder
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-03-18T05:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/india-s-second-largest-drugmaker-mourns-death-of-founder.html
K. Anji Reddy, the founder of  Dr.
Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD) , India’s second-largest drugmaker,
died Friday after “ailing for some time,” the company said.  The cause of death wasn’t given in a statement released by
Dr. Reddy’s late on March 15. Reddy, a billionaire, died of
 liver cancer  at the Apollo Hospital in Hyderabad, the Indian
Express  reported , without saying where it got the information.  “We deeply regret the demise of our beloved Founder-
Chairman,” the company said in a  black entry page  to its
website, bearing the message and a photograph of Reddy, whose
year of birth was given as 1941. “May his soul rest in peace.”  A chemical engineer, Reddy founded his namesake company in
1984, according to the statement. He started funding research
with an investment of 60 million rupees ($1.1 million) in 1993
with the goal of making the Hyderabad-based company the first
Indian  firm  to create a drug and sell it globally, Reddy said in
an interview in 2006 in which he said he was born in 1939.  For the first time, he missed the company’s annual
shareholder meeting last July, leading to speculation about his
retirement, Forbes said on its website in a profile of Reddy. He
had earlier stepped down from an active executive role at the
company, which is now managed by his son Satish Reddy, who is
managing director, and son-in-law G.V. Prasad, who is vice
chairman and chief executive officer.  “The second line of management that he had created is good
enough to take the company forward,” said Surya Narayan Patra,
an analyst at Systematix Shares & Stocks Ltd. in Mumbai.  ‘Like Playing God’  Reddy, who was conferred India’s third-highest civilian
honor, the Padma Bhushan, in 2011, listed Dr. Reddy’s on the  New
York  Stock Exchange in 2001, the first  drug company  from  Asia ,
excluding  Japan , to list on the U.S. bourse.  The company reported record  sales  of 96.6 billion rupees
($1.8 billion) in the year ended March 31. Larger Indian rival
 Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  reported revenue of 122.5 billion
rupees in the 12 months to Dec. 31.  Dr Reddy’s  shares  fell 1.2 percent to 1,800.05 rupees at
11:11 a.m. in Mumbai.  “I want to see one of my products being taken by people
across the world,” Reddy said in the 2006 interview. “I want
to see them improving and leading a better life. It’s like
playing God.”  Kallam Anji Reddy spent his early years in the village of
Tadepalli in the southern Indian state of  Andhra Pradesh , where
his father grew turmeric, an Indian spice. Reddy graduated from
the local high school and went on to get a bachelor of science
degree from Andhra Christian College in Guntur in 1958.  Extraordinary Contributions  “In improving access to affordable, high quality medicines
and in innovation, his contributions have been extraordinary,”
Satish Reddy said in Friday’s statement.  A native speaker of Telegu, Reddy taught himself English
and earned another bachelor’s degree in pharmaceuticals and fine
chemicals in 1964 from the University of Bombay, now called the
University of Mumbai. He followed that with a Ph.D. in chemical
engineering from the National Chemical Laboratory in the western
city of Pune.  In 1985, Reddy started making methyldopa, an off-patent
hypertension drug that Merck had discovered. A year later, Reddy
listed his company on the  Bombay Stock Exchange  and four
regional exchanges by selling 1.1 million shares to the public.
Reddy’s passion for research led Dr. Reddy’s taking up drug
discovery research in 1993 and was the first pharmaceutical
company in  India  to initiate basic drug discovery research.  “He had one unrealized dream,” Saumen Chakraborty, chief
financial officer of the company, said in an interview. “It was
to launch a drug discovered and developed by Dr. Reddy’s.
Hopefully, we will fulfill his dream one day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  