-- Copper Touches Four-Month Low as Cyprus Fuels Europe Concerns
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-03-18T14:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/industrial-metals-fall-on-cyprus-copper-touches-4-month-low.html
Copper fell to a four-month low in
New York as a levy on  bank deposits  in Cyprus stoked concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  Depositors in Cypriot banks will be forced to share the
cost of the latest bailout under an accord reached March 16 by
euro-area finance ministers.  Raw materials  from crude oil to
soybeans retreated along with equities, as Treasuries and the
dollar advanced. Copper also slid as inventories tracked by the
London Metal Exchange  expanded  for a 23rd session.  “The Cyprus announcement is another painful reminder of
how vulnerable Europe is, and it has spooked investors,” Harry Denny, a broker at Hoboken, New Jersey-based PVM Futures Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. “Copper stocks continue to grow,
so you can’t look to supply and demand fundamentals for support
either.”  Copper futures for delivery in May tumbled 2.2 percent to
$3.4415 a pound at 10:34 a.m. on the Comex in  New York  after
touching $3.4175, the lowest since Nov. 9.  The euro slid the most in 14 months against the dollar. A
stronger greenback saps demand for commodities as an alternative
investment.  Money managers increased  net-short  positions, or bets on
lower copper prices, by 2.3 percent from a week earlier to
16,764 Comex futures and options contracts as of March 12,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Inventories monitored by the LME rose 3.4 percent to
543,925 metric tons, daily exchange figures showed.  Stockpiles are rising “at an alarming rate” and global
inventories including metal in bonded warehouses in  China  are at
an all-time high, Barclays Plc said in a note today. Supplies of
copper tracked by the LME more than doubled since the end of
November to the highest since March 2010.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months slumped 2
percent to $7,598.50 a ton ($3.45 a pound)  Aluminum, lead and zinc fell to the lowest since November
in  London . Nickel and tin also dropped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  