-- Israel Chemicals’ Dead Sea Workers Protest Potash Corp. Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-03-18T15:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/israel-chemicals-workers-protest-potash-deal-at-dead-sea-plant.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  employees
began a strike at a Dead Sea unit of the fertilizer producer to
protest a proposed takeover by Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc., a union representing workers said.  Hundreds of workers blocked the entrance to the plant and
1,300 downed tools, according to an e-mailed statement from the
workers committee at Dead Sea Works Ltd. Union leaders are
considering extending the action to other plants run by Tel
Aviv-based ICL, the statement shows. ICL said the workers’
conduct was harmful to the unit and its staff and was motivated
by unrelated issues including the payment of bonuses.  “The actions today are intended to make it clear to the
plant management and to the Israeli government that ICL workers
won’t agree to a merger deal between Potash and ICL and will
fight this with all their power,” Armond Lankry, chairman of
the workers committee, said in the statement.  Potash Corp. is preparing concessions ranging from job
guarantees to a local stock-market listing to allay concerns
that a deal would be harmful to  Israel , a person familiar with
the plans said March 14. Israel Chemicals, the nation’s second-
largest publicly traded company, has a market value of about 60
billion shekels ($16.3 billion). Potash buying the 86 percent of
the company it doesn’t already own would be the largest takeover
in the  Middle East , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ICL workers “know well” that only the government can
decide on the Potash Corp. transaction, the company said in an
e-mailed statement. ICL dropped 0.3 percent to 47.27 shekels by
the close in  Tel Aviv .  Environment Minister  Adding to opposition to the deal, departing Environment
Minister Gilad Erdan said the proposed takeover endangers
Israel’s economic, social, and environmental interests. Erdan
said in a March 16 letter to Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ,
posted on the ministry website, that he “strongly opposes” it.  “Aside from the short-term economic benefit to the State
of Israel from the one-time  tax revenue  resulting from the sale,
no benefit will accrue to the State of Israel from the sale, and
instead, it will expose the country to significant economic,
social, and environmental dangers,” Erdan wrote in the letter.
He will serve as minister of communications and homeland
security in the new government, Yisrael Hayom reported today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  