-- Mitsubishi Buys Kirin’s Food Flavoring Unit for $321 Million
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-03-18T09:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/mitsubishi-buys-kirin-s-food-flavoring-unit-for-321-million.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Japan’s biggest
trading house, will acquire  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ’s domestic food
flavoring unit for 30.5 billion yen ($321 million) to expand in
consumer businesses.  The trader agreed to buy 81 percent of Kirin Kyowa Foods
Co. in June and the rest in January 2015, Tokyo-based Mitsubishi
said in a  statement . The deal will expand the range of
businesses at Mitsubishi’s Life Sciences division. The unit,
formed two years ago, focuses on seasoning, sweeteners and
fermentation technology, the company said in the statement.  Kirin Kyowa is at least the third food investment by
Mitsubishi in as many months as the trader leads domestic rivals
including  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  in shifting focus to health care,
utilities and nutrition to counter lower profits from selling
bulk commodities such as coal and iron ore.  Consumer goods  rose
to  12.4 percent  of Mitsubishi’s profit last year, from 9.8
percent in the previous period.  “The global market for food ingredients and flavoring
materials is said to be valued at $120 billion,” Mitsubishi
said in the statement. Buoyed by Asia’s emerging economies that
are improving living standards and putting pressure on  food
supply , there is an “increased demand for food products that
are delicious and healthy from safe and secure sources.”  Taking over Kirin Kyowa from the Japanese beverages group
will give Mitsubishi a company that supplies large-scale food
processors and retail food chains with flavor enhancers such as
yeast extracts, nucleotides and hydrolyzed proteins. The food
sciences company has operations in Japan, Indonesia and China,
according to the statement.  Mitsubishi, which owns 32 percent of  Lawson Inc. (2651) , Japan’s
second-largest convenience store operator, has in the last two
years invested in meat and livestock in China with Cofco Corp.,
entered the salmon-farming business in Chile and added grain
collection and coffee plantations in Brazil.  The trader in December said it agreed to invest in a 3
billion-yen seafood venture in Thailand. In January, it made an
offer to buy Japanese meat products retailer  Yonekyu Corp. (2290)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  