-- J.C. Penney Advances as ISI Recommends REIT-Like Entity
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-03-18T20:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/j-c-penney-rises-as-isi-suggests-reit-like-entity-for-retailer.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  jumped after an
analyst at ISI Group said the retailer could turn its top 300
stores into a real estate investment trust-like entity that
would sublet space to other brands.  J.C. Penney, based in Plano,  Texas ,  rose  6.2 percent to
$16.44 at the close in New York, for the largest increase since
Feb. 21. The company was the biggest  gainer  in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  A REIT operating under a separate name could be valued at
about $40 a share, Omar Saad, an analyst at ISI Group in New
York, wrote in a note today. The remaining J.C. Penney-branded
business, with 800 stores, could be worth about $6 a share, he
said.  “JCP’s most valuable asset is its low-cost real estate,
and we believe there are many premium brands that would
potentially be interested in subleasing space within the best
locations,” Saad wrote.  Last month, J.C. Penney reported that annual sales plunged
25 percent to $13 billion, the lowest since at least 1987,
during the first year of a transformation plan under Chief
Executive Officer  Ron Johnson . The department-store company,
which plans to turn most of the chain’s stores into clusters of
boutiques, has lost longtime J.C. Penney shoppers by
experimenting with a shift to everyday low prices and replacing
classic products with trendy new brands.  Saad listed Ugg, H&M and  Calvin Klein  among brands and
merchants that could be willing to lease space in the REIT unit.
ISI doesn’t have a rating or price target for J.C. Penney’s
shares.  UGG, H&M  The remaining stores could continue under the J.C. Penney
brand using a “traditional discount-driven department store
model,” Saad wrote.  J.C. Penney has agreements with landlords that would
largely prevent subleasing,  Liz Dunn , an analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd. in  New York , said today in a telephone interview.
While landlords could agree to sublet, it’s unlikely, said Dunn,
who has a neutral rating on the shares, the equivalent of a
hold.  “The logistics of it make it really challenging to do
unless there’s a more severe distressed scenario whereby
Penney’s went bankrupt or something,” she said. “I don’t think
that’s happening anytime soon.”  Asset ‘Benefit’  Spinning off some of the real estate could buy the company
time as it pursues a turnaround strategy, William Frohnhoefer,
an analyst in New York with BTIG LLC, said today.  Real estate is “an asset which we believe can be accessed
to the benefit of equity investors,” Frohnhoefer, wrote in an
investor note March 14, when he initiated coverage of the
retailer with a buy rating.  However, the company would have to reach an agreement with
a group of bondholders who claim the retailer defaulted on debt,
he said today in a telephone interview.  Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney, declined to
comment.  Chief Financial Officer Ken Hannah said last week that J.C.
Penney aims to reverse its “huge miss” with core customers
last year by expanding private-label lines such as St. John’s
Bay.  Caribou Coffee Co. said last week it would no longer pursue
plans to open shops in J.C. Penney’s stores, about six months
after Johnson cited the company as a potential partner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  