-- James Madison Top Scorer Will Sit Half of NCAA Game After Arrest
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-03-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/james-madison-top-scorer-will-sit-half-of-ncaa-game-after-arrest.html
Rayshawn Goins , the leading scorer
and rebounder for  James Madison University , will sit out the
first half of the Dukes’ National Collegiate Athletic
Association men’s basketball tournament game tomorrow against
Long Island University Brooklyn following his arrest.  Goins, a senior forward averaging 12.7 points and 7.4
rebounds per game, was arrested two days ago and charged with
obstruction of justice and disorderly conduct, both
misdemeanors, according to the Rockingham/Harrisonburg General
District Court  website . He was released on his own recognizance
and has an April 8 hearing.  His arrest came the same day that matchups for the NCAA
tournament were announced. Harrisonburg, Virginia-based James
Madison beat Northeastern 70-57 on March 11 to win the Colonial
Athletic Association conference tournament and qualify for the
NCAA tournament for the first time since 1994. The Dukes face
LIU Brooklyn in a play-in game in Dayton,  Ohio , with the winner
taking on No. 1 seed  Indiana  on March 22.  Don Egle, a spokesman for the school, said yesterday in an
e-mail that he did not have any information about Goins’s
attorney, and none was listed on the court website.  Coach Matt Brady made the decision to sit Goins “in
accordance with JMU athletic policy,” the school said in an e-
mailed statement.  “After having thoroughly reviewed the details in this
case, the athletic administration supports coach Brady’s
decision,” the school said in the statement.  Speaking at a media luncheon yesterday, Brady said the team
has played many minutes without Goins this season.  “I’m not sure that it wouldn’t necessarily be the best
team, some times in this next game, to have him on the bench,
trying to get back in the game, saying, ‘Coach, when am I going
back in?’” Brady said before the punishment was announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  