-- JPMorgan Loss Led CIO Rift as Whale Sought Peace, Call Shows
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-03-18T14:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/jpmorgan-loss-drove-cio-rift-as-whale-sought-peace-call-shows.html
Bruno Iksil, the  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  trader known as the London Whale, had an e-mail sent to
about 20 colleagues last year estimating almost double the daily
losses his book had shown thus far. Then the phone rang.  “Why did you do that?” his supervisor, Javier Martin- Artajo, said at the start of the March 20 call. The position was
failing to recover, Iksil explained.  “Okay, Okay, listen you’ve done it,” Martin-Artajo said,
according to a transcript. “You think that this is right. This
is not what I would have done but you’ve done it so I’m okay
with this.”  The exchange is among numerous snapshots of life inside
JPMorgan as the London Whale trades unraveled, resulting in more
than $6.2 billion in losses for the  biggest U.S. bank . The
conversations were revealed last week as the U.S. Senate
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations released a 301-page
 report  on the botched derivatives bets, as well as almost 600
pages of e-mails, phone-call transcripts and other records.  While lawmakers used the documents to bolster their
findings that the New York-based company and its executives
misled investors and regulators, the tome also provides a rare
look at how traders and their bosses grappled with stress and a
growing sense that they wouldn’t be able to contain the damage.  “It doesn’t help us for the conversation for tomorrow,”
Martin-Artajo responded to Iksil, referring to a meeting
scheduled for March 21 with Ina Drew, 56, who was in charge of
the bank’s chief investment office, and Achilles Macris, 51, who
headed international CIO in  Europe  and  Asia .  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman and Martin-
Artajo’s attorney, Greg Campbell, declined to comment about the
phone conversation. An attorney for Iksil didn’t respond to
messages seeking comment.  ‘Stupid Quants’  The e-mail estimated a daily loss of $43 million in the
synthetic credit portfolio, and a $600 million to $800 million
“lag” -- the difference between the levels reported internally
and actual mid-prices in the market.  “I know it’s embarrassing but--” Iksil said.  “Yea I don’t understand your logic, mate, I just don’t
understand,” Martin-Artajo said. “Achilles, he told me that he
didn’t want to show the loss until we know what we’re going to
do tomorrow. But it doesn’t matter. I know that you have a
problem, you want to be at peace with yourself, okay, it’s okay,
Bruno.”  A spreadsheet detailing the bank’s comprehensive risk
measure, or CRM, “just shows the problem,” Martin-Artajo told
his trader. “It shows that that we have a book that has been
reduced in terms a lot. It shows that these guys have been doing
something with the model that is stupid, okay, because the CRM
now, they just don’t know how to explain what we do, okay?
They’re just stupid quants, really.”  Bullish Bet  The CIO’s job was to invest the bank’s idle cash while
minimizing risk. Iksil agreed that his positions acted as a
bullish credit bet, “but that’s why I tried sending this P&L,”
he said, using industry shorthand for a profit-and-loss
statement. “It’s lagging so much that actually we have to show
loss, and I explained that that this is a lag that keeps going,
that amounts to a potential of 800 bucks, right, that --”  “What are you saying, Bruno? What are you talking about?”
Martin-Artajo said. “You’re losing your mind here, man.”  “This is just what we need to explain tomorrow, you don’t
need to in the e-mail, man,” Martin-Artajo said. He expressed
concern that Drew would stop them from expanding the bets, and
that JPMorgan’s investment bank would get involved because
employees in that unit took the opposing side on some of the
trades, wagering that Iksil’s strategy would fail.  ‘Strange’ Logic  “That’s what you fear, right? That at some stage we are in
a corner because no one wants to go on with this challenge with
the IB, yes?” Iksil said, referring to the investment bank.
“My logic is strange but in fact, I have to choose between one
bad thing and one thing that I think was worse.”  “I’m not going to sugar coat things,” Martin-Artajo said,
adding that he was trying to “get all the facts” for Macris
and Drew. “It’s just that I um, [expletive], I wish, I don’t
know, just explained this a little bit better,” Martin-Artajo
said.  He had a call earlier that day with Daniel Pinto, co-head
of the fixed-income unit in the investment bank, with whom he
raised concerns later that week that the unit’s traders were
marking positions unfairly against the CIO. The more losses
Iksil had to recognize, he said, “the harder it is to settle
with the IB at a better price, if that’s what’s going to
happen.”  Later in the call Martin-Artajo asked, “Everything else
okay? You tired, you okay, man? You tired, are you sleeping
well?”  ‘Feel Bad’  “The discussion with Achilles, you know he tried again the
question I have, do I miss something? Did I miss something? And
I did feel, you know, unsettled by his questions,” Iksil said.
“I feel bad. If I do know that I know I’m not making your life
any easier, and if --”  “No, no, no, you know I think that you’re an honest guy,
you know, it’s just that I did not want you to do this way, but
you know, you feel that the bid-offer spreads are giving you a
headache,” Martin-Artajo said. “Let’s go and relax a little
bit if you can, and let’s start tomorrow, and we’ll start
again.”  “There’s not a lot we can do on the phone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  