-- KBC, Santander Start $1.68 Billion Sale of Bank Zachodni
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-03-18T09:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/kbc-santander-start-1-68-billion-sale-of-polish-bank-zachodni.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC)  of  Belgium  and  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  of  Spain  are selling a stake in  Poland ’s  Bank
Zachodni WBK SA (BZW) , seeking to raise as much as 5.39 billion-zloty
($1.68 billion) in what is to be a record Polish share offering.  The banks will offer as much as 20 million shares in a
range of 240 zloty to 270 zloty each and will set the final
price by March 21, Zachodni, Poland’s third-biggest lender, said
in a regulatory filing today. The offering is set to be the
biggest by a publicly traded company in Poland, taking the value
of this year’s deals to 14.9 billion zloty, a record start of
the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The banks are offering their stakes as stocks slumped in
 Europe  and the euro weakened to its lowest level this year after
an unprecedented levy on Cyprus’s bank savings threatened to
throw Europe back into crisis. Santander, which completed
Zachodni’s merger with KBC’s Kredyt Bank SA in January, is under
pressure from Polish regulators to boost the proportion of
Zachodni shares which are available to other investors. The sale
will boost the bank’s so-called free-float to 30 percent.  “There’s room for such an offering on the market and the
bank is well-perceived by investors” after its merger with
Kredyt, Jaroslaw Niedzielewski, who helps manage the equivalent
of $529 million at Investors TFI SA. “What weighs on the
offering is the situation on financial markets after the tax in
Cyprus, which could scare away foreign investors.”  Cyprus Tax  Zachodni shares pared losses and were unchanged at 268.8
zloty at 10:36 a.m. in Warsaw, after falling as much as 2.3
percent today. Warsaw’s benchmark WIG20 Index declined 0.9
percent, extending its decline to 4.7 percent in 2013.  Euro finance ministers reached an agreement on March 16
forcing depositors in Cypriot banks to share in the cost of the
latest euro-zone bailout. Moody’s Investors Service said today
the levy is negative for bank depositors across Europe, while
 Bill Gross  at Pacific Investment Management Co. said it moves
“risk-on” trades to the back seat.  The offering comes two months after sales of stakes in PKO
Bank Polski SA and  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , Poland’s largest lenders. The
government and state-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego sold a
5.24 billion-zloty stake in PKO Bank while Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
sold a 3.7 billion-zloty holding in Pekao in January.  Banks in Poland boosted their combined profit 4.5 percent
to a record 16.2 billion zloty last year as lending continued to
grow even as the country’s economy slowed, according to data
from the country’s financial regulator.  KBC is seeking to sell its entire 16.2 percent stake in
Zachodni in the deal, while Santander is offering as much as 5.2
percent, Zachodni said. KBC has cut risk-weighted assets by at
least 34 percent since the end of 2008 and sold more than 20
entities as part of a disposal program agreed with EU regulators
in exchange for approval of state aid.  Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley, Bank of
America, Credit Suisse Group AG, KBC Securities NV, Santander
Investment, Dom Maklerski  WBK SA, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
UBS AG help manage Zachodni’s sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  