-- King Says Central Banks May Need Bigger Rate Role After Libor
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-03-18T13:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/king-says-central-banks-may-need-bigger-rate-role-after-libor.html
Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said central banks may need to play a bigger role in the
setting of benchmark interest rates after lenders including
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and UBS AG were fined for rate-rigging.  King made the comment in a statement accompanying a Bank
for International Settlements report published today. A working
group at the Basel-based institution said there is an “urgent”
need to strengthen the reliability of benchmarks such as Libor
and Euribor and improve the choice of rates.  “Central banks must play an important role in supporting
the development of alternative reference rates,” said King, who
is also the chairman of the BIS. The report “makes a
significant contribution to the ongoing examination of reference
rates used in financial markets.”  The report said central banks can help by promoting
“better governance and oversight.” The rate-rigging scandal
has seen Barclays, UBS and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
fined more than $2.5 billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators, while
other firms are still being probed.  The BIS report said financial resilience could be improved
by having a choice among a number of “reliable” rates and that
central banks could help market partipants with any transition
to a new rate. It also said that in some cases, central banks or
supervisory authorities “could become more actively involved in
producing reference rates.”  “The decisions to do so would depend on the mandate of the
individual central bank and the evolution of money markets in
each jurisdiction,” the group said.  The group, led by  Bank of Japan (8301)  Assistant Governor Hiroshi Nakaso and made up of officials from 13 central banks and
monetary authorities, examines the possible risks to monetary-
policy transmission and financial stability from deficiencies in
the design of reference rates or market abuse.  “The group identifies an urgent need to strengthen the
reliability and robustness of existing reference rates and a
strong case for enhancing reference rate choice,” the BIS said.
“Both call for prompt action by the private and the public
sector.”  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Jennifer M. Freedman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  