-- Kiwi Over-Valued by 15% as Global Investors Park Money, IMF Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-03-18T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/kiwi-over-valued-by-15-as-global-investors-park-money-imf-says.html
New Zealand’s exchange rate is
over-valued by about 15 percent and attempts to lower it through
intervention would be futile against rising demand from global
investors, the International Monetary Fund said.  “What’s driving a lot of the strength of the exchange rate
is the fact that New Zealand is relatively well positioned
compared to the global situation and New Zealand is a relatively
safe place to park your money,” said Brian Aitken, IMF Mission
Chief to New Zealand, in a Wellington media briefing yesterday.  New Zealand’s dollar, the second-best performing of the
Group of 10 currencies over the past year, is likely to remain
elevated as long as loose monetary conditions exist around the
world, said Aitken. Along with the Australian, Canadian, Swedish
and other currencies, the kiwi has strengthened as nations such
as the U.S.,  Japan  and the U.K. maintain interest rates to near-
zero and undertake quantitative easing to boost their economies.  Targeting a lower New Zealand dollar through intervention
would be expensive and largely ineffective as the currency is
one of the most widely traded relative to the nation’s size,
said Aitken. It could also cause long-term damage to what the
IMF regards as a solid monetary policy framework, he said.  “The ability to pick the price through intervention is
probably very limited without causing all other kinds of
distortions,” he said. “Ultimately, taxpayers of New Zealand
would be paying a very high price.”  Rates Buffer  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler last
month warned investors that the kiwi wasn’t a “one-way bet”
and that, while the central bank was prepared to intervene and
influence the currency, it could only attempt to “smooth the
peaks” given the strength of capital inflows.  Wheeler left the official cash rate at a record low 2.5
percent last week and signaled he may reduce borrowing costs if
the kiwi rises more than the economy justifies. That scope to
lower rates provides New Zealand with a buffer against any near-
term shocks, with monetary policy “serving as the first line of
defense,” the IMF said in a separate statement.  While the IMF regards the central bank’s policy stance as
appropriate, new challenges have emerged including inflation
pressures from the Christchurch rebuild, rising house prices and
the economic impact of the nation’s worst drought in 30 years.  “With expected inflation within the target range, the
strong New Zealand dollar, and efforts to reduce the budget
deficit, monetary policy should remain accommodative,” the IMF
said in the statement.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  