-- Neurologists Say Possible Concussion Should Ban Player From Game
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-03-18T18:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/neurologists-say-possible-concussion-should-ban-player-from-game.html
The  American Academy of Neurology 
recommended that any athlete suspected of suffering a concussion
be immediately removed from play and not allowed to return until
seen by a doctor trained in treating such injuries.  The association of more than 25,000 neurologists and
neuroscience professionals said in a news release that it had
issued new concussion procedures for the first time since 1997
amid increased scrutiny into the dangers of blows to the head in
sports.  “We’ve moved away from the concussion grading systems we
first established in 1997 and are now recommending concussion
and return to play be assessed in each athlete individually,”
said Christopher Giza, an AAN member from the Geffen School of
Medicine and Mattel Children’s Hospital at UCLA, who was a co-
lead author of the new guideline. “There is no set timeline for
safe return to play.”  The new parameters, included in the March issue of the
medical journal Neurology, took into account all available
evidence published through June 2012, according to the
Minneapolis-based academy, which was started in 1948.  Among the sports evaluated, concussion risk is greatest in
football and rugby, followed by hockey and soccer, according to
the study, with the greatest risks for young women and girls
occurring in soccer and basketball.  About 4,000 former National Football League players have
sued the league seeking damages for head injuries they say were
sustained on the field. Chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a
brain disease caused by repeated head hits, has been found in
the autopsies of at least three former NFL players who killed
themselves, including 12-time Pro Bowl linebacker Junior Seau.  The new guideline was endorsed by the NFL Players
Association and the American Football Coaches Association.  The NFL joined  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Under Armour Inc. (UA) 
this month in a four-year, $60 million effort to develop imaging
technology for detecting, treating and preventing brain
injuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  