-- New Jersey Allows Casinos to Operate Fantasy Sports Contests
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-18T21:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/new-jersey-allows-casinos-to-operate-fantasy-sports-tournaments.html
New Jersey  will allow casinos in
 Atlantic City  to run fantasy sports tournaments this year after
an attempt to legalize betting on professional and college games
in the state was blocked by a federal judge.  New Jersey’s  Division of Gaming Enforcement  today announced
temporary regulations that will allow the casinos to accept
entry fees and pay out winnings for fantasy sports games. The
regulations will run for 270 days starting on April 22 with the
intention of becoming permanent, according to the release.  “The casinos’ vast customer base and the ability to have
contest winners utilize the casino cage to accept entry fees for
fantasy sports tournaments and pay out winnings resulting from
those tournaments provides an exciting opportunity to bring
fantasy sports tournaments to Atlantic City,” Division Director
David Rebuck said in the release. “We see this as an added
amenity and beneficial to the casinos and their customers.”  Governor  Chris Christie  signed a bill last month allowing
casinos to take online bets in an attempt to help Atlantic City
casino business.  A fantasy sports tournament, as defined by the regulations,
is a simulated game involving athletic events in which a patron
manages an imaginary sports team and competes for a prize
against teams put together by other patrons. This includes the
traditional season-long leagues or single-day tournaments.  There were 33 million fantasy sports participants in the
U.S. last year, roughly 10 percent of the country’s population,
according to the  Fantasy Sports Trade Association . That number
has more than doubled since 2007, according to the
organization’s data.  Not Gambling  The fantasy sports tournaments won’t be considered
“gaming” or “gambling” as defined by state laws, and entry
fees won’t result in revenue for the state, according to the
regulations. The main purpose of the regulations will be to help
casinos expand their customer base and draw more people to
Atlantic City.  The city’s 12 casinos generated $3.05 billion in revenue
last year, down from a peak of $5.2 billion in 2006.  Paul Charchian, president of the trade association, said
the regulations will benefit the entire industry, including
daily fantasy sports operators like  FanDuel  and  DraftStreet , and
the casinos.  “It’s going to give a great boost to casinos as it gives
an opportunity for sports participation in casinos that can’t
offer traditional sports betting,” Charchian said in a
telephone interview.  Today’s announcement comes less than three weeks after a
federal judge in New Jersey threw out a law signed by Christie
to legalize sports gambling at racetracks and Atlantic City
casinos.  Gambling Opposition  That law was opposed by a group including the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  and the four major North
American professional sports leagues. They sued to block the
legislation, saying it undermined the integrity of professional
sports and contradicted a 1992 federal law requiring states to
restrict sports betting. New Jersey has said it will appeal.  Tony Rodio, president of the Casino Association of New
Jersey, was unavailable to comment on the new regulations,
according to spokesman Jon Bombardieri.  National Football League spokesman  Greg Aiello , National
Basketball Association spokesman  Mike Bass , Major League
Baseball spokesman Pat Courtney and National Hockey League
spokesman Gary Meagher declined in separate e-mails to comment
on the regulations or whether their leagues would oppose the
changes.  NCAA spokesman Erik Christianson didn’t immediately respond
to similar attempts for comment via e-mail and a message left at
his office.  League Opposition  Charchian said he didn’t expect there to be similar
opposition from leagues because it isn’t gambling and the
leagues recognize the value of fantasy sports. Some run fantasy
leagues on their own websites.  Under the regulations announced today, casinos will be
allowed to run fantasy contests either by themselves or through
fantasy sports providers, according to the release. The minimum
age for participation will be 21 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  