-- New York Police Stop-and-Frisk Targets Tell Judge of Fear
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-18T23:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/new-york-police-stop-and-frisk-targets-tell-judge-of-fear.html
A black teenager told a judge in
New York that he was confused, frightened and angry when two
plain-clothes police stopped him in 2010 near his home in
 Manhattan , then questioned and frisked him.  Devin Almonor, 16, testified today that he had only a few
dollars and a cell phone in his pockets when he was stopped in
March 2010 after walking a friend to a bus stop, then handcuffed
and arrested. Almonor, whose father is a retired New York police
officer, was freed several hours later without being charged.  “I told them that I was just a couple of blocks from
home,” Almonor told U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin today.
Almonor is the first of 12 people who are scheduled to testify
they were targeted by police because of their race.  The trial challenges the legality of the  New York  Police
Department’s stop and frisk practices, which the plaintiffs
allege are unconstitutional.  Earlier today, Scheindlin, who
will decide the case without a jury, heard opening statements.
As the two sides outlined their cases, the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson Sr., the civil rights leader, watched from the back of the 
packed courtroom.  The city rejects claims that its policies are illegal.  “The evidence will show that the NYPD is fully committed
to policing the city within the bounds of the law,” Heidi
Grossman, a lawyer for the city, said in her opening statement.  The lawsuit was filed in 2008 by four black men who said
they were stopped and questioned or frisked by New York police
without reasonable suspicion. They represent a citywide class of
New Yorkers who claim they were illegally stopped since January
2005. New York police made more than 500,000 such stops in 2012.  Blacks, Latinos  David Floyd, Lalit Clarkson, Deon Dennis and David
Ourlicht, who represent the citywide class, claim the  New York
City Police Department  has a widespread, illegal practice of
stopping people in the street that disproportionately targets
black and Latino residents. They claim the department fails to
train officers in proper procedures and imposes quotas that
encourage illegal stops.  They are seeking an order from Scheindlin barring the
practice and ordering changes to the department’s training and
policies. They’re also asking that Scheindlin appoint a monitor
to ensure the department complies with any orders she makes.  The police department has “laid siege to black and Latino
neighborhoods in the last eight years,” said Darius Charney, a
lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights, the
organization that filed the suit. He told the judge that being
stopped and frisked isn’t a mere inconvenience but “a
frightening and degrading experience and a serious deprivation
of liberty.”  Reasonable Suspicion  The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that police officers must
have reasonable suspicion of criminal activity before stopping
and frisking people in the street. Of those stopped in New York,
80 percent were black or Latino, the plaintiffs claim.  Grossman told Scheindlin that 83 percent of crime suspects
and 90 percent of violent-crime suspects are black or Hispanic.
Most crime victims are members of racial minorities, she said.
Grossman denied that the police disproportionately target blacks
and Latinos.  “Crime drives where police officers go, not race,” she
said.  During a break in the hearing, Jackson criticized the
city’s opening statement.  “Rather than offering an explanation, they’re offering
rationalizations and justifications,” Jackson said. He said
race-based stops by police are only part of a larger problem
that includes racially biased lending and foreclosure practices.  Parents Arrested  Almonor and his family separately sued New York in 2011,
claiming police illegally arrested him, then assaulted and
arrested his mother and father when they tried to take him home.
The family settled last year for $320,000, according to court
records.  Floyd also testified today, telling Scheindlin that he was
stopped by police in the Bronx in 2008 while he was helping an
acquaintance get into his apartment with a spare set of keys.
Floyd claims police searched him and asked him questions without
any reasonable suspicion he had committed a crime.  In a ruling last year that Floyd and the other men may 
represent a citywide class of people illegally stopped by police, 
Scheindlin criticized the department’s “cavalier” attitude toward 
a “widespread practice of suspicionless stops,” saying it shows
a “deeply troubling apathy towards  New Yorkers ’ most fundamental 
constitutional rights.”  100 Witnesses  On their list of more than 100 witnesses, the Floyd
plaintiffs included dozens of current and former police officers
and people who allegedly observed illegal stops.  Much of the case against the NYPD stop-and-frisk policies
will focus on  Jeffrey Fagan , a professor of law and public
health at  Columbia University , who will discuss his statistical
analysis of police stop-and-frisk data for 2003 through the
first half of 2012.  The plaintiffs said they will also present experts on
police practices and remedial measures to curb illegal stops.
The plaintiffs estimate they will need as many as 30 trial days
to present their evidence.  Brenda Cook, a lawyer for the city, spent almost half an
hour of the opening statement criticizing Fagan’s work, which
she called “flawed and unreliable.”  The city said it has a political scientist,  Dennis Smith ,
and a finance professor, Robert Purtell, to counter Fagan. The
city said it may take an additional five days to mount its
defense.  ‘Trespass Stops’  The Floyd case is one of three federal court challenges to
the department’s “stop and frisk” practices. In Ligon v. City
of New York, Scheindlin in January ordered that police cease
making suspicionless “trespass” stops outside privately owned
buildings in the borough of the Bronx.  She suspended that order while the city appeals. Davis v.
City of New York, also in Scheindlin’s court, challenges police
stops in public housing.  The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that police must have
“reasonable suspicion” of crime to justify such stops. New
York state appeals courts last year threw out at least two
convictions of teenagers who were found with guns in stop-and-
frisk searches.  The New York Civil Liberties Union said in a statement last
week that police made 97,296 street stops in 2002, New York
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s first year in office.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  The number of stops grew to 685,724 in 2011, the group
said. The police made 533,042 stops last year, according to the
NYCLU. Of the stops last year, 89 percent resulted in no arrest
or ticket, the group said.  The case is Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  