-- NFL’s Stallworth Says He’s Lucky to Be Alive After Balloon Crash
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-03-18T04:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/nfl-s-stallworth-says-he-s-lucky-to-be-alive-after-balloon-crash.html
Donte’ Stallworth said he feels
lucky to be alive after suffering severe burns when a hot-air
balloon the free-agent wide receiver was riding in with his
girlfriend struck power lines two days ago in Florida.  Stallworth and Soleil Guerrero, are in stable condition in
Jackson Memorial Hospital Burn Center, Stallworth’s attorney,
Christopher Lyons, said yesterday.  The hot-air balloon basket was carrying three adults when
it crashed into power lines while landing on March 16 in
Homestead, Florida, Detective Roy Rutland of the Miami-Dade
Police Department said. The third passenger wasn’t hurt.  “I appreciate all the prayers and well wishes more than
you know,” Stallworth, 32, said on  Twitter . “I feel lucky to
be alive.”  Drew Rosenhaus , Stallworth’s agent, said the injuries
shouldn’t interfere with the player’s  National Football League 
career, according to the  Associated Press . Stallworth is looking
for a job in the free-agent market after playing last season
with the  New England Patriots .  “He’s going to be OK,” added Rosenhaus, who is at the NFL
owners’ meetings in Phoenix according to his Twitter feed. “He
will be able to continue his NFL career. The injuries are not to
the extent they will jeopardize his career.”  The Patriots said they didn’t have any communication with
Stallworth since he’s no longer a member of the team.  DUI Conviction  The accident occurred almost four years to the day after
Stallworth killed a pedestrian while driving drunk after leaving
a hotel bar near Miami Beach. He spent 24 days in jail.  Stallworth, who was playing for the  Cleveland Browns  at the
time, was suspended for the 2009 NFL season by Commissioner
 Roger Goodell  for violating both the league’s substance-abuse
and personal-conduct policies.  Stallworth, driving his Bentley on March 14, 2009, killed
59-year-old construction worker Mario Reyes, police said. Tests
showed Stallworth had a blood-alcohol level of .126 after the
crash, above Florida’s legal limit of .08.  Three months later, Stallworth pleaded guilty to
manslaughter while driving under the influence of alcohol and
received a 30-day jail term. He also was sentenced to two years
of house arrest, eight years of probation and 1,000 hours of
community service. Attorneys for Reyes’s family reached an
undisclosed financial settlement with Stallworth, who signed a
seven-year, $35 million contract with the Browns before the 2008
season.  Stallworth joined the  Baltimore Ravens  after he was
reinstated following the Feb. 7, 2010,  Super Bowl  and his
contract with the Browns was voided. He also played for the
 Washington Redskins  before joining the Patriots.  The Federal Aviation Administration is investigating the
balloon accident, Keith Holloway, a spokesman for the National
Transportation Safety Board, said in an e-mail.  A preliminary report of the findings can be expected in
about 10 days, while the complete investigation may take as long
as 18 months, Holloway said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  