-- NFL Retirees Reach Accord With League Over Image Rights
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/nfl-retirees-reach-settlement-with-league-over-image-rights.html
The National Football League and
retired players who sued over the uncompensated use of their
likenesses for promotions asked a U.S. judge for preliminary
approval of a $50 million settlement.  The accord provides for $42 million to be paid over eight
years into a fund for the benefit of retired players, according
to papers filed yesterday in federal court in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , where the case was brought. U.S. District Judge Paul Magnuson has scheduled a hearing on the proposal for March 22 in
federal court in  Fort Myers ,  Florida .  A complaint accusing the league of trading on the “glory
days” of the NFL was filed in 2009 by six players including
former Los Angeles Ram Fred Dryer, Houston Oilers Dante “Dan” Pastorini and Elvin Bethea and the  Minnesota Vikings ’ Jim Marshall, on behalf of all of their retired colleagues.  “The retired players who created these glory days,
however, have gone almost completely uncompensated for this use
of their identities,” the players alleged in a revised
complaint submitted to the court yesterday.  The new fund will be overseen by a panel of retired players
approved by the court and run separately from the 32-team league
and the NFL Players’ Association.  While the bulk of the settlement will be go toward medical
research, housing assistance and career transition programs, $8
million will be devoted to the initial operations of the new
licensing agency and to litigation costs, according to a
settlement information website.  The accord comes at a time when the league faces lawsuits
from more than 4,000 former players claiming the NFL concealed
the threat to players’ health of repeated and often concussive
blows to the head.  The league has asked a Philadelphia federal court judge to
dismiss a consolidated complaint pending there, arguing that
player health issues must be decided by arbitration under the
league’s collective bargaining agreements and are not subject to
litigation.  Brian McCarthy , a league spokesman, confirmed details of
yesterday’s licensing case settlement in an e-mailed statement.
The preliminary approval hearing will be held in Fort Myers
because Magnuson is on temporary assignment there, McCarthy
said.  “We look forward to building an unprecedented new
relationship with retired players that will benefit everybody,
especially those who need extra medical or financial
assistance,” NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said in the same e-
mailed statement.  Players’ lawyer Michael Hausfeld called the accord the
start of a new relations between the league and “the people who
made the game of football what it is today,”  “For the first time, retired NFL players will be able to
speak with one voice to advocate for the health and welfare of
themselves and their teammates,” Hausfeld said.  The case is Dryer v.  National Football League , 09-cv-2182,
U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  