-- Nigerian President Says Some Foreign Hostages May Still Be Alive
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-03-18T16:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/nigerian-president-says-some-foreign-hostages-may-still-be-alive.html
Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan said some of the seven foreigners kidnapped last month
may still be alive.  The Islamist group known as Ansaru, which claimed
responsibility for the abduction, said in a March 9 statement
that it killed the hostages after British and Nigerian security
forces were deployed to rescue them.  The Italian and Greek governments said on March 10 that the
hostages had been killed, while the U.K. said they were probably
dead.  “We really suspect that some probably have died either
from health or other related causes or direct killing,”
Jonathan told reporters today in Abuja, the capital, after
meeting Lebanese President Michel Sleiman. “But we still
believe that not all the seven have died.”  Three Lebanese, including a woman, were seized along with a
Greek, an Italian, a Briton and a Filipino in a Feb. 16 attack
on a residential compound of Setraco  Nigeria  Ltd., a
construction company, in the northern state of Bauchi, according
to the Nigerian authorities. A local security guard was killed
in the raid.  The group, which is called Jama’atu Ansarul Muslimina Fi
Biladissudan, or “Group of Supporters of Muslims in the Land of
the Blacks,” posted a video on Youtube that showed bodies on
the ground and a masked man standing next to them, followed by
close ups of the faces of three men who appear to have been
shot.  “Even the release in the social media did not really show
all the seven, so we are still working on it,” Jonathan said.  The government of Africa’s top oil producer has been
battling another militant Islamist group, Boko Haram, which has
carried out gun and bomb attacks in the north and killed
hundreds of people since 2009.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous country with more than 160
million people, is roughly split between the largely Muslim
north and the predominantly Christian south.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  