-- Nigerian Central Bank Set to Keep Key Rate at Record High
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-03-18T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/nigerian-central-bank-set-to-keep-key-rate-at-record-high.html
The Central Bank of Nigeria will
probably keep its benchmark lending rate at a record high after
President Goodluck Jonathan approved a budget that boosts
spending in  Africa ’s largest oil producer.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, will hold its  policy rate  at 12 percent for a ninth
consecutive meeting today, according to 10 of the 11
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. Alan Cameron of CSL
Stockbrokers Ltd. in London predicts a 50 basis-point cut.  Jonathan last month approved a budget that raises the
benchmark oil price by $4 to $79 a barrel, a move that Finance
Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and Sanusi warned could stoke
inflation as it gives the government more funds to spend.
Inflation accelerated to 9.5 percent in February from a 17-month
low of 9 percent in the previous month.  “The key point for the central bank will be that fiscal
policy is still loose,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender,
said in a phone interview from London.  Sanusi is scheduled to announce the decision in a televised
press conference that begins at 3 p.m. in Abuja, the capital.  Inflation in Africa’s most populous country eased below 10
percent for the first time since August 2011, meeting the
central bank’s target. Consumer prices will probably increase an
average 12.9 percent this year, according to the budget office.  Naira Weakens  Sanusi said on Jan. 25 it will be “very difficult” to
keep the inflation rate below 10 percent for the rest of the
year. The MPC may hold off on lowering borrowing costs while it
monitors government spending “and until we actually believe
that inflation is coming down and lowering rates will not in any
way undermine the tremendous achievements we’ve had,” he said.  Policy makers may also want to keep rates unchanged as the
currency comes under pressure after foreign inflows slowed,
Gadio said.  The naira has dropped 1.8 percent against the dollar this
year and was trading as low as 159.64 yesterday. Since reaching
a record low on Feb. 20, the yield on the 2022 bond has
increased 104 basis points to 11.46 percent by March 15,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  “These dynamics will probably prevent the cut,” Gadio
said. “You’re not going to have the same kind of large inflows
that materialized in 2012 when the rates were very, very
attractive.”  CSL’s Cameron said the central bank may respond to calls
from the finance ministry and businesses to cut borrowing costs,
though the higher benchmark oil price will limit the amount of
easing.  “What they’re trying to tell the market right now is that
we’re going to cut at some point,” he said in a phone interview
from  London . “We’re under pressure from the finance ministry
and some other quarters to cut rates, so we’re going to begin to
do that but we’re not going to do that very quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  