-- TNK-BP Billionaires Plan Global Oil, Telecom Deals After Sale
-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2013-03-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/tnk-bp-billionaires-plan-global-oil-telecom-deals-after-sale.html
With $14 billion from selling out
of TNK-BP, Mikhail Fridman and German Khan’s Alfa Group is
planning to return to the oil industry and expand worldwide,
according to  Stan Polovets , chief executive officer of the Alfa-
Access-Renova Consortium, which owned the Russian oil venture
50:50 with  BP Plc. (BP/)   The Alfa billionaires are setting up a global investment
company for oil and gas and telecommunications projects, with
offices in Moscow and  London , said Polovets by phone from New
York.  Alfa Group is forming a team of international oil and gas
professionals, interviewing several senior executives from
global investment banks and private equity firms, according to
Polovets. The company may also bring in managers from TNK-BP, BP
and other international oil companies, he said.  Alfa,  Viktor Vekselberg ’s Renova Group and Len Blavatnik’s
Access Industries Holdings agreed to sell their half of TNK-BP to
state-run OAO Rosneft for $28 billion last year after BP said it
was looking to exit the venture,  Russia ’s third-largest oil
producer. BP will get $12.3 billion and an 18.5 percent stake in
Rosneft in its deal for its stake.  Khan held more than 15 meetings in London last month, 
Polovets said. Among them were BP chiefs John Browne, who 
oversaw the formation of TNK-BP, and Tony Hayward, Reuters 
reported last week. The meetings were exploratory, not focused 
on any specific opportunities, according to Polovets.  New York Meetings  The Alfa billionaires are exploring potential investment
opportunities and aren’t seeking additional shareholders in its
investment company, Polovets said.  More meetings are planned for New York and possibly Houston
in April, Polovets said. The billionaires are meeting with oil
companies, oilfield service providers, private equity funds and
investment banks, he said.  Fridman had said Alfa planned to remain invested in oil
before BP’s decision to sell to Russia’s biggest crude producer,
which is run by Igor Sechin, a former deputy of President
Vladimir Putin.  Alfa is a shareholder, via its Altimo division, in
 VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , which was formed with  Telenor ASA (TEL)  from Russian
wireless holdings of the same name and Ukrainian assets and has
since completed a merger with Italy’s Wind Telecom SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  