-- Novozymes to Boost R&D in Bioagriculture, Biofuel Race, CEO Says
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2013-03-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/novozymes-to-boost-r-d-in-bioagriculture-biofuel-race-ceo-says.html
Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s largest
industrial enzymes maker, will increase research and development
spending on products aimed at boosting sales to the agriculture
and biofuel industries, the company’s next chief said.  Novozymes now has 10 percent of the $1 billion global
bioagriculture market, selling microorganisms that improve crop
yields or act like pesticides, according to Peder Holk Nielsen,
who on April 1 takes the job of chief executive officer from
retiring Steen Riisgaard.  “The way to get more is to understand how microorganisms
interact with plants and signal to each other,” Holk Nielsen
said yesterday in an interview at the company’s headquarters in
Bagsvaerd,  Denmark . “The company that understands that first
stands to really develop and innovate new products that will do
better. And that’s all about research and development.”  Novozymes spent 1.53 billion kroner ($270 million) on R&D
last year, or 14 percent of its revenue. It holds 47 percent of
the global market for industrial enzymes, with DuPont Co. its
closest competitor at 21 percent, according to Holk Nielsen.
Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont spent $2.1 billion on R&D in
2012, or 5.9 percent of its revenue, according to its full-year
report.  Novozymes in November bought Natural Industries Inc., a
U.S. company selling microorganisms that fight diseases in
fruits and vegetables. While not ruling out buying more
competitors, the 56 year-old executive said the company will bet
on research advancements.  Wood Chips  “There’s been so much M&A in this field recently and
prices are pretty steep, so it’s more likely that we’ll give it
a blast in trying to understand these things and organically
develop the proper opportunities,” he said.  Research advancements are also needed to reduce the cost of
making cellulosic ethanol, a fuel derived from waste, wood chips
and inedible crops and which is more expensive than conventional
ethanol made from corn.  “When you look at cellulosic fuel and biomass conversion,
that world can go really big,” Holk Nielsen said. “It can
really transform the industrial enzyme business.”  The first plant to produce cellulosic ethanol on a
commercial scale at a price competitive with corn ethanol and
gasoline will be Beta Renewables SpA’s factory in Crescentino,
 Italy , this year, he said. Novozymes owns 10 percent of Beta
Renewables.  ‘More Generations’  “There’s at least a couple more generations of enzymes
that we know will improve it further,” Holk Nielsen said. “We
have the best enzymes technology and we can build production
capacity as quickly as the industry can build plants.”  Novozymes expects to supply advanced enzymes to 20 to 25
cellulosic ethanol plants in the period 2015-2017, he said.  As for conventional corn ethanol, the company sees no
growth in the U.S. market this year, followed by “a bit of
growth” in the next two years, Holk Nielsen said. Novozymes has
60 percent of the market for ethanol enzymes, he said.  “The majority of the growth in our business is going to
come by offering better enzymes solutions that can get more
ethanol per bushel of corn,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  