-- Novo Nordisk Says Trial Shows Victoza Helps Patients Lose Weight
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-03-18T13:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/novo-nordisk-says-trial-shows-victoza-helps-patients-lose-weight.html
Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the Danish maker
of the Victoza diabetes treatment, said the medicine was
successful in helping patients lose weight when used to fight
obesity in a late-stage clinical trial.  People suffering from type 2 diabetes, the most common form
of the disease, lost 6 percent of their weight when treated with
a three-milligram dose of Victoza, a diabetes drug already on
the market that isn’t yet approved for weight management, Novo
Nordisk said in an e-mailed statement today.  The results show it’s “possible to achieve both clinically
significant  weight loss  and excellent glucose level control with
a single treatment,” Novo Chief Scientific Officer Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen said in the statement.  Victoza, also known as liraglutide, is Novo’s biggest
growth engine. Sales of the medicine, which mimics a hormone
called GLP-1 to stimulate natural insulin production, jumped 58
percent in 2012. Diabetes is often associated with weigh gain, a
condition which makes it harder for the body to maintain proper
blood-sugar levels. Weight gain is also common in people taking
insulin, another anti-diabetic.  The 56-week trial was conducted on 846 overweight or obese
diabetics taking either a three-milligram dose, a 1.8-milligram
dose, or a placebo, Novo said. Patients taking the 1.8-milligram
dose lost 5 percent of weight, and those on placebo lost 2
percent, the company said. The trial participants also achieved
blood-glucose level control, it said.  Regulatory Uncertainty  Novo, based in Bagsvaerd, outside of Copenhagen, expects to
complete the two remaining late-stage trials for Victoza used as
an obesity medicine by mid-2013, the company said today.  “We see limited commercial upside from liraglutide in
obesity, as well as significant regulatory uncertainty,”
Richard Vosser, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a
note to clients today. He cut the stock’s recommendation to
underweight from neutral.  Novo fell as much as 4.4 percent, the most since Feb. 11.
The stock retreated 3.5 percent to 964 kroner at 2:20 p.m. in
the Danish capital.  Victoza is among the diabetes treatments being scrutinized
by U.S. regulators for a potential link to pancreatic cancer,
the  Food and Drug Administration  said in a March 14 statement.  The FDA is reviewing unpublished findings by a group of
academic researchers that suggest pre-cancerous cellular changes
may be associated with  type 2 diabetes  drugs called incretin
mimetics, including Victoza, the agency said. The findings
suggest the class of medicines may be linked to the risk of
developing an inflammation of the pancreas tied to cancer and
kidney failure that was previously reported in some of the
medicines.  The agency said the same day it hasn’t reached any new
conclusions about the safety risks associated with the drugs and
hasn’t determined whether they may cause or contribute to
pancreatic cancer.  Novo “is not aware of any new data suggesting a causal
link between our product and the adverse events discussed in the
statement from the FDA,” Katrine Rud von Sperling, a Novo
spokeswoman, said in e-mailed comments on March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  