-- Police Stop-and-Frisk Called ‘Degrading’ to New Yorkers
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-18T18:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/nyc-police-stop-and-frisk-policies-face-racial-bias-trial.html
A lawyer for a citywide class of
New Yorkers who say they were targeted with racially biased,
unconstitutional police stops asked a  Manhattan  federal judge to
order a halt to the practice.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin heard opening
statements today in the case of four black men who say they were
stopped and questioned or frisked by  New York  police without
reasonable suspicion. Sitting in the back of the packed
courtroom was the Reverend Jesse L. Jackson Sr., the civil
rights leader.  The police department has “laid siege to black and Latino
neighborhoods in the last eight years,” said Darius Charney, a
lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights, the
organization that filed the suit. He told the judge that being
stopped and frisked isn’t a mere inconvenience but “a
frightening and degrading experience and a serious deprivation
of liberty.”  David Floyd, Lalit Clarkson, Deon Dennis and David
Ourlicht, who represent the citywide class, claim the  New York
City Police Department  has a widespread, illegal practice of
stopping people in the street that disproportionately targets
black and Latino New Yorkers. They claim the department fails to
train officers in proper procedures and imposes quotas that
encourage illegal stops.  The city denies that its policies are illegal.  ‘Fully Committed’  “The evidence will show that the NYPD is fully committed
to policing the city within the bounds of the law,” Heidi
Grossman, a lawyer for the city, argued in her opening
statement. Grossman denied that the police disproportionately
target blacks and Latinos. “Crime drives where police officers
go, not race,” she said.  Police officers are required to have reasonable suspicion
of criminal activity before stopping and frisking people in the
street. The men say police have made more than 4 million stops
and frisks in the past nine years. Of those stopped, 80 percent
were black or Latino, according to court papers.  “Rather than offering an explanation, they’re offering
rationalizations and justifications,” Jackson said during a
break in the trial, after hearing the city’s opening statements.
Jackson said race-based stops by police are only part of a
larger problem that includes racially biased lending and
foreclosure practices.  Nonjury Trial  The four men represent  New Yorkers  who have been illegally
stopped or frisked by city police since January 2005. They are
seeking an order from Scheindlin, who is trying the case without
a jury, barring the practice and ordering changes to the
department’s policies. They’re also asking that Scheindlin
appoint a monitor to ensure the department complies with any
orders she makes.  In ruling last year that the men may represent a citywide
class of people illegally stopped by police, Scheindlin
criticized the department’s “cavalier” attitude toward a
“widespread practice of suspicionless stops,” saying it shows
a “deeply troubling apathy towards New Yorkers’ most
fundamental constitutional rights.”  On their list of more than 100 witnesses, the Floyd
plaintiffs included dozens of current and former police officers
and people who allegedly observed illegal stops.  The plaintiffs will present testimony from experts
including  Jeffrey Fagan , a professor of law and public health at
 Columbia University , who will discuss his statistical analysis
of police stop-and-frisk data for 2003 through the first half of
2012.  City Experts  They said they will also present experts on police
practices and remedial measures necessary to curb illegal stops.
The plaintiffs estimate they will need as many as 30 trial days
to present their evidence.  The city said it has a political scientist,  Dennis Smith ,
and a finance professor, Robert Purtell, to counter Fagan. The
city said it may take an additional five days to mount a
defense.  The Floyd case is one of three federal court challenges to
the department’s “stop and frisk” practices. In Ligon v. City
of New York, Scheindlin in January ordered that police cease
making suspicionless “trespass” stops outside privately owned
buildings in the borough of the Bronx.  She suspended that order while the city appeals. Davis v.
City of New York, also in Scheindlin’s court, challenges police
stops in public housing.  ‘Reasonable Suspicion’  The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that police must have
“reasonable suspicion” that crime is afoot to justify such
stops. New York state appeals courts last year threw out at
least two convictions of teenagers who were found with guns in
stop-and-frisk searches.  The New York Civil Liberties Union said in a statement last
week that police made 97,296 street stops in 2002, New York
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s first year in office. The number grew
to 685,724 in 2011, the group said. The police made 533,042
stops last year, according to the NYCLU. Of the stops last year,
89 percent resulted in no arrest or ticket, the group said.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  The case is Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  