-- Obama Chooses Perez as Labor Secretary to Replace Solis
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-03-18T18:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/obama-chooses-perez-as-labor-secretary-to-replace-solis.html
President  Barack Obama  named  Thomas Perez , an assistant U.S. attorney general, as his choice for
labor secretary in his second term.  Perez would replace Hilda Solis, ensuring that the Labor
Department is led again by a Hispanic, helping the president
maintain diversity in his cabinet. Solis resigned in January.  “Like so many Americans, Tom knows what it’s like to climb
the ladder of opportunity,” Obama said today in announcing his
plan to nominate Perez, the son of immigrants from the Dominican
Republic. Perez will work to promote economic growth and will
“make sure that growth is broad-based,” the president said.  If confirmed by the Senate, Perez would probably play a
prominent part in pushing Obama’s agenda on items including an
immigration overhaul and raising the nation’s minimum wage to $9
an hour from $7.25. Perez might be pressed on both fronts, such
as by a proposal to issue visas for guest workers, by Senate
Republicans, said  Gary Chaison , a labor-relations professor at
 Clark University  in Worcester, Massachusetts.  “I don’t think that he’s really committed himself one way
or another toward a guest-worker program,” Chaison said in an
interview. “These are going to be the hearings from hell.”  Civil Rights  Perez, 51, has led the Justice Department’s civil rights
unit since 2009. He has pursued discriminatory job postings at a
Florida health-care company, charges of sex discrimination in
hiring by the city of Corpus Christie, Texas, and lawsuits
against Georgia for failing to ensure overseas  voting rights .  In May, Perez accused Arizona’s Maricopa County and Sheriff
Joseph Arpaio of discriminating against Latinos in a lawsuit.
Arpaio, who has reinstituted jailhouse chain gangs, said the
Obama administration targeted him in an election-year maneuver.  Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, said he will
block the nomination until the Justice Department answers a 2011
letter about what he said was selective enforcement by the
agency of the voter registration act in Louisiana.  “Thomas Perez’s record should be met with great suspicion
by my colleagues,” Vitter said today in a statement.  Labor groups applauded Obama’s choice of Perez to run the
17,000-employee department.  Richard Trumka , president of the
AFL-CIO labor federation, said the lawyer has been a champion
for working people who sought to eliminate discrimination in
housing, provide access to education and health care, and crack
down on employers who try to avoid paying fair wages.  ‘Strong Advocate’  Perez is a “strong advocate for working Americans,
particularly low-wage, and immigrant workers,” Liz Cattaneo.
spokeswoman for Jobs with Justice-American Rights at Work, a
Washington-based group that advocates for worker’s rights, said
by e-mail. “We urge Congress to pursue a swift confirmation
process so the agency can move forward with its agenda.”  Perez was the first Hispanic elected to the Montgomery
County Council in the Maryland suburb of Washington. He served
from 2002 to 2005, including one year as president.  Perez graduated from  Harvard University ’s law school and
holds degrees in international relations and political science
from  Brown University .  Before taking his  Justice Department  post, Perez was
secretary of the Maryland Labor, Licensing and Regulation
Department, which oversees workplace safety laws, wage-and-hour
regulations and the state’s consumer-protection statutes.  Obama’s Cabinet  White House officials said the president is making cabinet
choices to ensure that the heads of departments and agencies
reflect the political coalition of Latinos, blacks and women
that helped him win re-election over Republican Mitt Romney.  Obama chose three white men for the Central Intelligence
Agency, State Department and Defense Department. They have been
balanced by the nomination of Sylvia Mathews Burwell, of the
Wal-Mart Foundation, as budget chief; scientist Ernest Moniz as
head of the Energy Department; and Gina McCarthy to lead the
Environmental Protection Agency.  Obama’s choice of Perez has drawn opposition from
Republicans. Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama  called  it a
“needlessly divisive nomination,” saying that at the Justice
Department, Perez took a “political approach to the law.”  Perez “has aggressively sought ways to allow the hiring of
more illegal workers,” Sessions said in a statement. “His
views on illegal immigration are far outside the mainstream.”  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, is among
lawmakers looking at Perez’s role in a decision by  St. Paul ,
Minnesota, to drop a Supreme Court appeal in a case that fair-
lending advocates said would have harmed a central enforcement
tenet in housing discrimination cases.  Appeal Dropped  The Justice Department declined to join two whistle-blower
lawsuits against St. Paul in exchange for the city dropping the
appeal, Grassley said in a September letter to U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder. As a result, the nation didn’t get as much
as $180 million from a settlement, he said. The letter was also
signed by Republican Representatives Darrell Issa of California,
 Lamar Smith  of Texas and  Patrick McHenry  of  North Carolina .  Justice Department officials said at the time that Perez’s
involvement in the discussions was deemed appropriate by ethics
officials.  “If Mr. Perez is nominated, he should face a lot of tough
questions about this quid-pro-quo deal he appears to have put
together,” Grassley has said. “I shudder to think how whistle-
blowers will be treated in the Labor Department if this quid pro
quo with St. Paul is any indication of Mr. Perez’s approach to
this important area of law.”  Remaining vacancies in Obama’s cabinet include secretaries
of commerce and transportation, the U.S. Trade Representative
and leader of the  Small Business Administration .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  