-- Lockheed Names Aeronautics Chief Amid Tensions Over F-35
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-19T17:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/lockheed-names-aeronautics-chief-amid-tensions-over-f-35.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  named new
leaders for its aeronautics business and its F-35 fighter jet
program, the Pentagon’s costliest weapons system, as the company
faces Defense Department pressure to cut the plane’s costs.  Orlando Carvalho, 54, becomes executive vice president in
charge of aeronautics, Lockheed said yesterday in a statement.
Carvalho, who has run the F-35 program since 2012, replaced
Larry Lawson, 55, who is retiring. Lawson will take over as the
president and chief executive officer of  Spirit AeroSystems
Inc. (SPR) , the Wichita, Kansas-based company said today in a
statement.  Lorraine Martin, 50, who was Carvalho’s deputy, takes over
responsibility for the fighter jet, becoming the fourth manager
of the program since President  Barack Obama  took office.  The estimated cost for a fleet of 2,443 of the fighters has
climbed to $395.7 billion, a 70 percent increase since 2001, and
Pentagon officials have been critical of Bethesda, Maryland-
based Lockheed’s management of the program.  Air Force Lieutenant General Christopher Bogdan, the top
defense official overseeing the F-35, said at an appearance at
an Australian air show last month that the company was trying to
“squeeze every nickel” out of the Defense Department. In
subsequent comments, Bogdan said Lockheed got the message.  “What you should have inferred from my comments” was that
“I need everybody” connected with the program “to worry about
affordability,” Bogdan said March 5 at a defense industry
conference in Arlington, Virginia. “That was a shot across the
now because I have been slightly frustrated with real results,
real actions that need to happen to reduce costs.”  Pentagon Negotiations  Carvalho, who will head the  aeronautics unit  that also
makes F-16 jets and C-130 cargo planes, is well-regarded by the
Pentagon’s F-35 program office, according to a defense official
close to the program who asked not to be named discussing
relations with a supplier. He is seen as someone outside the
company’s traditional aeronautics unit background who will
instill disciplined business processes in the program, the
official said.  The official also said Carvalho brings a more personable
approach to negotiations with the Pentagon.  Asked if Lawson, who has worked at Lockheed for 26 years,
left because of differences with the Pentagon, Jennifer Allen, a
spokeswoman for the company, said he departed for personal
reasons.  Spirit AeroSystems, Lawson’s new employer, said in its
statement that he is “a well-known and highly respected
leader” in the  aerospace industry . The company makes fuselage
sections and components for airplanes made by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
Airbus SAS, a subsidiary of European Aeronautic Defence and
Space Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  