-- Office Depot Activist Starboard Nominates Board Slate
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-03-18T20:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/office-depot-activist-starboard-nominates-board-slate.html
Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  shareholder
Starboard Value LP, which has pressured the retailer to improve
operations, nominated six people to the chain’s board as it
works to complete its merger with  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)   The nominees include Starboard Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Smith ;  Robert Nardelli , the former CEO of  Home Depot
Inc. (HD) ; and James Fogarty, CEO of Orchard Brands Corp., according
to a letter New York-based Starboard sent to the board today.
The board currently has 10 members.  The board should be revamped whether Office Depot remains a
standalone company or completes the merger with OfficeMax, said
Starboard, which owns 14.8 percent of Office Depot’s outstanding
shares. Office Depot, the second-largest U.S. office-supplies
chain, said last month that it would acquire OfficeMax in a
stock deal valued at $1.17 billion.  Starboard said Office Depot should have a vote on the
nominees before it completes the merger. Office Depot hasn’t
provided a date for its annual shareholder meeting. It was held
in April last year. A date also hasn’t been set for a
shareholder vote on the OfficeMax deal.  Office Depot, based in  Boca Raton , Florida, rose 1.5
percent to $4.07 at the close in  New York . Naperville, Illinois-
based OfficeMax gained 1.5 percent to $11.95. Office Depot
declined 11 percent from Feb. 15, the trading day before details
of the deal were first reported, through today. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has gained 2.1 percent during that time.  Brian Levine, a spokesman for Office Depot, declined to
comment. Representatives of Starboard didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  CEO Selection  The chains said during the deal announcement that the new
company’s board, which will have equal representation from each
retailer, will select a new CEO once the merger is completed.
Starboard supports the merger and wants to influence that choice
by getting its candidates on the board, said a person familiar
with the situation.  While Starboard’s nominees weren’t picked to be potential
candidates for CEO of the merged company, that doesn’t mean one
of the nominees couldn’t pursue the job, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  Starboard began pushing for changes at Office Depot last
year after the retailer posted losses while businesses cut back
on supply purchases. In October, Office Depot approved a
takeover defense, known as a poison pill, that would give its
investors additional shares if one entity surpasses 15 percent
ownership.  The two sides had been engaged in discussions this year,
and Office Depot said on Feb. 22 that its board had amended
company bylaws to change the deadline for shareholders to
nominate board candidates for the annual meeting.  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  is the largest U.S. office-supplies chain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  