-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Unexpectedly Fell in March
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-03-18T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-unexpectedly-fell-in-march.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
unexpectedly fell for a second month in March, a sign the
residential real-estate market will take time to strengthen.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index
of builder confidence dropped by 2 points to 44 this month, due
to a decrease in the measure of current sales, a report from the
Washington-based group showed today. The  median  forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for a gain to 47. Readings below 50 mean
more respondents said conditions were poor.  “In addition to tight credit and below-price appraisals,
homebuilding is beginning to suffer growth pains as the
infrastructure that supports it tries to re-establish itself,”
 David Crowe , chief economist at the builders association, said
in a statement. “The road to a housing recovery will be a bumpy
one until these issues are addressed, but in the meantime,
builders are much more optimistic today than they were at this
time last year.”  The group’s gauges of the sales outlook for the next six
months and traffic of prospective buyers improved this month,
reflecting stable property values,  mortgage rates  close to all-
time lows and job gains. Limited inventories and resilient sales
are benefiting builders including PulteGroup Inc. and Lennar
Corp., showing housing will contribute to economic growth this
year after emerging as a bright spot in 2012.  The builders’ index compares with a reading of 28 in March
2012. Estimates of the 41 economists in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 46 to 49. The index, first published in January
1985, averaged 54 in the five years leading to the recession
that began in December 2007. It reached a record low of 8 in
January 2009.  Current Sales  The builders group’s index of  present  single-family home
sales fell to a five-month low of 47 in March from 51. A measure
of sales  expectations  for the next six months climbed to 51 from
50. The gauge of buyer  traffic  advanced to 35 from 32.  “Although many of our members are reporting increased
demand for new homes in their markets, their enthusiasm is being
tempered by frustrating bottlenecks in the supply chain for
developed lots, along with rising costs for building materials
and labor,” Rick Judson, the association’s chairman and a
builder from  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said in a statement.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize sales
as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  By Region  Confidence eased among builders in three of the four U.S.
regions. Builders in the Midwest reported an increase in
sentiment. Confidence fell to 2 points in March to 57 in the
West, dropped 2 points in the Northeast to 39 and decreased 2
points in the South to 42. Sentiment in the Midwest climbed by 5
points to 50.  Builders began work on about 780,000 homes last year, a
28.1 percent increase from 2011 and the most in four years. Even
with the gain, housing starts remain well below the 2.07 million
in 2005 at the peak of the housing boom.  Cheaper borrowing costs are attracting home buyers who have
adequate credit. The  average rate  on a 30-year fixed purchase
loan was 3.63 percent last week, compared with 3.92 percent a
year ago, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac . The
30-year rate reached a record low of 3.31 percent in November.  Some areas of the country continue to struggle.  New York ,
 New Jersey ,  Florida  and  Nevada  are among 16 states that reported
an increase in foreclosure starts in February, according to
RealtyTrac Inc., a data company based in  Irvine ,  California .  Florida, Arizona  AV Homes Inc. (AVHI) , a developer based in Poinciana, Florida,
that specializes in adult communities, reported a fourth-quarter
loss driven by falling property values in Florida and  Arizona .
Still, the company is purchasing land for new developments as
buyers return to the market, President and Chief Executive
Officer Roger Cregg said.  “The value of their largest asset, their home, has
diminished and that has caused them to lose confidence and delay
their move and purchase of another home,” Cregg said on a March
15 earnings call. “We believe that as home values continue to
rise, they will regain their confidence and be returning to the
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 