-- London Home Prices Jump as Pound Drop Aids Foreign Buyers
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-03-18T11:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/london-home-prices-jump-as-pound-drop-boosts-foreign-buyer-power.html
London home sellers raised  asking
prices  this month as the weakness of the pound fueled interest
from overseas buyers during the spring selling season, according
to  Rightmove Plc. (RMV)   Prices sought rose 1.9 percent from February to an average
496,298 pounds ($750,400), the property-website operator said in
a report published today. Asking prices in the capital have
surged more than 41,000 pounds in the past year and are now
pushing close to 500,000 pounds. Nationally, average prices rose
1.7 percent in March from February.  The pound has dropped against both the euro and the dollar
this year and is the second-worst performing developed market
currency, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For foreign
buyers, Rightmove said the decline has wiped out the 9 percent
increase in property prices in the past year and that
“sterling’s loss is London sellers’ gain.”  The report “looks encouraging for the U.K. housing
market,” Annalisa Piazza, analyst at Newedge Strategy, said in
an e-mailed note. “However, the U.K. economy is still far from
benefiting from a solid rebound and house prices are unlikely to
continue to surge near term.”  Gains in  London  this month were led by a 6.2 percent surge
to a 2.3 million-pound average in Kensington and Chelsea, the
city’s most expensive district. Lambeth rose 6 percent, while
Westminster increased 5.8 percent.  Pound Jumps  The pound jumped to its strongest level in more than a
month against the euro today after the imposition of a levy on
 bank deposits  in Cyprus threatened to throw  Europe  back into
crisis, fueling demand for U.K. assets as a haven.  Part of the increase in London was due to supply failing to
keep up with demand, according to Rightmove. It said that 16,349
new properties were put on the market this month, 12 percent
lower than the same period a year ago.  “Overseas buyers transferring their dollars or euros into
sterling have found their buying power boosted,” said  Miles Shipside , director at Rightmove. “Many new-build developers
have been mining this rich seam of overseas cash very
successfully.”  Nationally,  asking prices  for homes have risen 1.2 percent
in the past year, today’s report showed. The average price in
March was 239,710 pounds and Rightmove said “growing belief in
 price stability ” means transaction volumes may increase this
year.  Consumer Spending  While cautious lending may limit the housing recovery,
Shipside said there is “now a bedrock upon which confidence and
momentum appear to be building.” The  Royal Institution  of
Chartered Surveyors said earlier this month that its gauges on
the outlook for the property market improved in February.  Consumers’ discretionary spending power shrank 1.1 percent
in February after falling 1.2 percent in January, Lloyds TSB
said in a separate report. Britons don’t expect Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  to announce measures to provide
assistance when he makes his budget statement in Parliament on
March 20, according to the report.  “Consumers don’t expect any relief from the budget, and
the recent fall in the  exchange rate  is likely to add to
pressures,” Patrick Foley, chief economist at Lloyds, said in
the statement. “ Consumer spending  is therefore likely to remain
weak through the first half of 2013 at least, keeping recovery
in the wider economy far from assured.”  ‘Self-Imposed Revolution’  Elsewhere, Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged to open the
economy to more market forces and strip power from the
government to achieve 7.5 percent annual growth through 2020 and
spread the benefits of the nation’s expansion.  “It’s about cutting power, it’s a self-imposed
revolution,” Li, 57, said at a briefing yesterday at Beijing’s
Great Hall of the People, his first after being named premier on
March 15. “It will be very painful and even feel like cutting
one’s wrist.”  Li talked of a “hand” mistakenly attached to the state
that needed to be returned to the market. He added that 7.5
percent growth is needed to meet targets for 2020, which include
doubling per capita income. Gross domestic product last year
expanded 7.8 percent, the least in 13 years.  The Shanghai Composite Index is down about 7 percent from
this year’s Feb. 6 peak on concerns that an economic recovery
will falter as officials cool the  property market  and counter
risks for banks from an expansion in credit.  Property Curbs  New home prices climbed in 62 cities of the 70 the
government tracks in February from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said today.  China  on March 1 imposed its
toughest property curbs in a year, including ordering the
central bank to raise some down-payment requirements and
mortgage rates and enforcing a property sales tax.  In  Singapore , exports fell almost twice as much as
economists estimated in February from a year ago as shipments to
Europe and the U.S. plunged. Data published in Europe show the
region’s trade surplus narrowed in January from the previous
month.  A U.S. report from the  National Association of Home
Builders  and Wells Fargo is projected to show an increase in
confidence in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  