-- Too-Big-to-Fail Danish Bank Plan Is Positive, Fitch Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-18T13:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/too-big-to-fail-danish-bank-plan-is-positive-fitch-says-1-.html
Fitch Ratings  said a proposal last
week identifying Denmark’s six biggest banks as too big to fail
will support the lenders’ credit grades.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s Danish unit,  Jyske Bank
A/S (JYSK) ,  Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  and mortgage lenders Nykredit A/S and BRFkredit
A/S were all designated as systemically important financial
institutions in a report published March 14 by a government-
appointed committee. The banks face as much as 5 percentage
points in additional  capital requirements .  “More and better capital is clearly positive,” Fitch
analyst Jens Hallen said in a phone interview. “We believe
there is a high probability that support would be provided.”  Lawmakers now need to negotiate the Sifi recommendations,
with the opposition  Conservative Party  already signaling it will
fight to reduce the additional capital buffer. The nation is
imposing stricter standards on its biggest banks after a
property crisis wiped out more than 12 regional lenders since
2008, plunging the economy into a recession.  Denmark’s largest lender, Danske Bank, has “capital that
is very solid at this time,” Hallen said. “Having more
capital, by making the bank safer, should result in cheaper
funding costs, all else being equal.”  Yield Eases  The yield on Danske Bank’s five-year senior unsecured debt
maturing Feb. 28, 2017, eased four basis points to 1.56 percent
as of 1:48 p.m. in Copenhagen, its lowest since Jan. 9,
according to composite Bloomberg bond trader prices.  The note’s yield has fallen by almost two-thirds in the
past 12 months, after the bank raised more than $2 billion in
capital through a new share sale and bond issuance. That’s
narrowed the spread to similar notes issued by the Nordic
region’s five other large banks, including Nordea.  Denmark ’s committee on too-big-to-fail banks also
recommended creating a so-called stability fund, financed by the
Sifis, to enable bailouts of troubled lenders. The measure would
also give the Financial Supervisory Authority more powers to
intervene earlier after identifying banks with dwindling capital
buffers.  Bail-In Talks  Though the Sifi committee said its proposals won’t preclude
bail-ins, the framework it recommends addresses the potential
economic risks entailed should a large bank face failure.
Denmark’s bail-in legislation, the first of its kind in  Europe 
and the model for European laws still being discussed, is
inadequate and risks hurting the economy if a Sifi is wound
down, the committee said.  “To protect the  economy , it will be necessary to allow
systemic functions of a Sifi in distress to keep operating,
rather than winding up the entire institution,” it said. The
alternative of finding a buyer is “very uncertain,” it said.  Excluding individual solvency requirements, Denmark’s
biggest Sifis should hold at least 10.5 percent in equity and
all capital should total at least 15.5 percent. Sweden, by
comparison, will require its four biggest banks to hold 12
percent core Tier 1 capital by 2015.  “These are most likely to be minimum levels,” Hallen
said. “Banks may add a buffer to that, so we don’t think it
will be a disadvantage. We also look at what capital levels they
have and what their targets are and what they have said in
public.”  Excess Cash  All six banks already hold core capital that exceeds
proposed levels, some by as much as 3 percentage points. Danske
Bank Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding said in an interview
today he has no plans to issue additional capital to meet the
Sifi rules. Sweden’s four biggest banks also exceed their
regulator’s minimum capital targets and are using the extra
funds to raise dividend payments to shareholders.  “That Sweden has a requirement of 12 percent -- does that
make Sweden better than Denmark? No,” said Per Tornqvist, a
director of European financial services at  Standard & Poor’s .
“You have to get into the intricacies of what models are
applied, what risk weights are applied.”  Banks may still have to raise more capital depending on the
outcome of negotiations over deductions they must make from
their capital bases, Hallen said. These include deductions for
counterparty risk and insurance subsidiaries and could damp
profitability as well as investor returns, he said.  “When we have the full view on the deductions and how
they’re accounted for, that’s likely to have a negative impact
on the reported  capital ratios  that we have today,” Hallen
said. “I would expect that the banks would probably still
retain some more earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  