-- Morgan Stanley Raises Japan’s Topix Target, Cuts Emerging Stocks
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-03-18T02:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/morgan-stanley-raises-japan-s-topix-target-cuts-emerging-stocks.html
Morgan Stanley is raising its
forecast for  Japan ’s Topix Index on the prospect the yen will
continue to weaken, while cutting its target for the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   The brokerage increased its Topix forecast this year to
1,270 from 1,200, saying Japanese cyclical stocks will benefit
from a depreciating yen. The Japanese currency may reach 105 to
the dollar by the end of this year, analysts led by  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a report dated today. Financial stocks such as
banks and real-estate companies will outperform in Japan as well
as Asian countries excluding Japan, they wrote.  Morgan Stanley has a “bullish outlook” on Japan in 2013
“due to considerable policy stimulus from the incoming
government and  Bank of Japan  leadership,” the report said. The
Topix rallied 46 percent from Nov. 14 through March 15, when
elections were announced that returned Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
to power, fueling optimism the new government will do more to
beat deflation.  The Topix slumped 1.7 percent to 1,033.71 at the morning
break in Tokyo amid concern an unprecedented levy on  bank
deposits  in Cyprus will plunge Europe back into crisis. The yen
gained 0.5 percent to 94.76 per dollar. The  emerging-markets 
index fell 1 percent to 1,032.25.  Morgan Stanley reduced its estimate for the developing
nation gauge to 1,220 from 1,230, reflecting a “moderate
downgrade” in earnings forecasts. It lowered its earnings-per-
share forecast to $100 from $101.  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades bowed to demands by
euro-area finance ministers to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5
billion) to help fund a bailout by taking a piece of every bank
account in Cyprus. Anastasiades delayed a vote on the measure in
parliament until today, a day later than planned, as he seeks
more time to convince lawmakers to back him.  Garner is overweight equities in Japan, China, Australia
and Russia, according to the report. The brokerage is
underweight on Taiwan, Brazil, Mexico and  South Africa . Among
the Chinese equity indexes, the brokerage prefers the MSCI China
index and the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index over Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  