-- Osborne Mutes Stimulus Calls as He Sticks With U.K. Austerity
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/osborne-mutes-stimulus-calls-as-he-sticks-with-u-k-austerity.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  promised another austere budget and policies designed to
mute calls for a fiscal stimulus for the U.K. economy.  Osborne said the pressures facing Cyprus are a reminder of
what financial markets will do to nations that fail to act and
suggested that he will resist calls in the March 20 annual
budget to borrow money to fund giveaways. Instead, he promised
measures to help the British retirees, military and diplomatic
staff in Cyprus who are affected by the tax on  bank deposits 
dictated by the island’s bailout, and he said he’d support plans
to stimulate economic growth in Britain’s regions.  “There is no easy answer, there is no miracle cure,”
Osborne, 41, told BBC1 Television in  London  yesterday. “We have
to go on confronting the very difficult economic problems.”  Calls for greater action to aid growth from both his
Conservative Party and the Liberal Democrats in the coalition
government have subsided in recent days, suggesting Osborne’s
budget will include measures to appease cabinet critics such as
Business Secretary Vince Cable. Osborne will have to fund such
actions with cuts elsewhere to stay the course on austerity.  The opposition  Labour Party  repeated its call for Osborne
to cut value-added tax, reduce  National Insurance (ANAT)  contributions
for small companies and reintroduce the 10 percent starting rate
of income tax. The party’s Treasury spokesman, lawmaker  Ed Balls , suggested he would back an income-tax cut.  “If he wants to cut the basic rate, we will support him in
that,” Balls told the same BBC program yesterday.  Cable’s Demands  Ministerial discipline this year contrasts with a year ago,
when details of the budget were leaked as both political parties
in the coalition sought to shape its policies. Cable’s demands
that Osborne deliver a more expansionary budget have dwindled,
suggesting he may have won concessions.  Last week, Cable said the “balance of risks has changed”
and that “the priority has now to be to get the economy
going,” aligning himself closer to Labour than the Tories.  “Once the economy does get going, you generate more  tax
revenue , there are less people dependent on public spending, and
the budget then tends to improve itself,” he told  BBC  Radio 4
on March 11.  Osborne said today the government will back 81 of the 89
recommendations made by former deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine that seek to channel money from London to Britain’s
regions to spur growth. Aside from cutting red tape, the
government will create a Local Growth Fund in 2015. Regions will
compete with one another for money for funding.  Airport Expansion  “The plans will boost the U.K.’s competitiveness
nationally and drive local growth,” Cable said in a statement
today.  Still, Osborne didn’t adopt some of Heseltine’s more
controversial initiatives such as spelling out policy on airport
expansion in the southeast of  England  and forcing local councils
to merge services. He also rejected Heseltine’s call for a
public-interest test to be applied to foreign takeovers of U.K.
companies.  Former Defense Secretary  Liam Fox , a Tory, last week
advocated tax cuts to be paid for by a freeze in  government
spending . In a speech last week, Home Secretary Theresa May
opened with an allusion to reports she was a possible challenger
to Prime Minister  David Cameron . The Tories are consistently
trailing Labour by about 10 percentage points in national polls.  Growth Weak  Still, Osborne is constrained by the weaker-than-expected
economy, which the Ernst & Young ITEM Club says will push
Osborne to borrow 8 billion pounds ($12 billion) more in the
fiscal year that ends this month. Growth this year will be
revised down to about 1 percent from a 1.2 percent forecast in
December, said the ITEM Club, an economic forecaster.  Osborne said yesterday help is on the way. He pointed to an
increase in the tax-free allowance announced last year and that
starts in April, giving households an extra 3.3 billion pounds.  “This country has got to pay its way,” he told the BBC.
“We can’t just keep on thinking the answer to our problem is
more borrowing. You can’t get out of a debt crisis by borrowing
more and more.”  While Osborne normally saves his biggest announcement for
his presentation of the budget in Parliament, he said yesterday
that he will bring forward to 2016 the 72,000-pound limit that
the elderly will have to pay for retirement care. He also
promised the early adoption of a flat-rate state pension.  Osborne has also been considering an overhaul of the  Bank
of England ’s mandate to give it greater freedom to support
demand. Bank of England Governor-designate  Mark Carney  earlier
this month met the U.K. Treasury’s top civil servant, Nicholas Macpherson, to discuss possible changes to Britain’s monetary
policy making, said a person with knowledge of the talks.  Osborne suggested he may offer more help to first-time home
buyers by expanding the First Buy Scheme and other programs to
support house building.  Gilts Decline  Investors are losing confidence in Osborne’s promises as
budget austerity fails to generate economic growth, leading to
the world’s worst performance for  government bonds .  Gilts have fallen 1 percent this year in currency-adjusted
terms, the biggest loss among 26 indexes tracked by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The
yield on the benchmark 1.75 percent 10-year government note will
rise to 2.45 percent by year-end from 1.95 percent two days ago,
according to the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2012, leaving it 3 percentage points below its pre-
recession peak, Office for National Statistics data show. Only
 Italy , where output was 8 points below, is further behind among
Group of Seven countries.  Conservatives Trailing  The lack of growth isn’t only turning investors away from
U.K. assets. It’s also stoking concern among  Conservative Party 
members that the economy may cost them the next general
election, set for 2015.  A ComRes Ltd. poll in the Independent on Sunday yesterday
showed support for the Tories was at 28 percent, compared with
37 percent for Labour. The Liberal Democrats were fourth with 9
percent, behind the U.K. Independence Party, which had 17
percent. ComRes interviewed 2,015 adults online on March 13-14.  Osborne “needs to communicate a plan,” Michael Ashcroft,
a former Tory treasurer who now conducts political polls, said
in an e-mail sent to the media yesterday. “He needs to be clear
about how his policies are aimed at creating jobs and wealth,
and to focus on competitiveness as much as cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  