-- Hospitals Beating Market Buoy $110 Million NYC Issue: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-03-18T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/hospitals-beating-market-buoy-110-million-nyc-issue-muni-deals.html
New York City Health and Hospitals
Corp.  is selling $110.3 million of bonds as hospital debt ranks
as the municipal market’s second-best performer over the past
six months.  Proceeds from the tax-exempt sale, which may occur as soon
as tomorrow, will refund debt, including bonds that currently
yield 4 percent and 5 percent, deal documents say. Bonds with a
5 percent coupon and maturing in October 2020 traded March 14 at
an average yield of 1.79 percent, 36 basis points over a
 benchmark  of the same maturity, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The hospitals corporation dominates among health providers
in the New York metropolitan area, serving 28 percent of
emergency department visits and 18 percent of inpatient
discharges in the city, bond documents say. It operates 11
acute-care hospitals, six trauma centers and five long-term care
facilities.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the debt Aa3, fourth-
highest, reflecting the “essential city services” the agency
provides.  New York  is also obligated to restore the
corporation’s capital reserves if necessary, and revenue flows
first to debt service before operations, the company said.  New York has committed $1.7 billion in city general-
obligation debt for the corporation’s capital projects over the
next 10 years,  Standard & Poor’s  said. The city gave the
hospitals $2.1 billion over the past 14 years for modernization
efforts. S&P rates the corporation’s debt A+, its fifth-highest
level.  Hospital debt returned 2.45 percent over the past six
months, the second-highest return among revenue debt in Barclays
Capital indexes. Industrial-development debt ranked first, at
3.73 percent, while the index for the $3.7 trillion muni market
increased 1.75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  