-- Total Sells Stake in Italy’s Tempa Rossa Oil Field to Mitsui
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-03-18T17:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/total-sells-stake-in-italy-s-tempa-rossa-oil-field-to-mitsui-1-.html
Total SA (FP)  agreed to sell a 25
percent stake in the Tempa Rossa oil field in southern  Italy  to
Mitsui & Co. as part of a series of asset sales to raise as much
as $20 billion.  Europe ’s third-largest oil company will retain a 50 percent
interest and continue to operate the Gorgoglione concession,
where Tempa Rossa is located, according to a statement today.
Royal Dutch Shell Plc holds the remaining 25 percent. The sale
price wasn’t disclosed.  “It is another big step toward achieving the asset
disposal objectives announced by Total for the period
2012-2014,” Olivier de Langavant, senior vice-president of
strategy at Total’s exploration and production division, said in
the statement.  Total was advised by Jefferies Group LLC.  With an estimated original 6 billion to 10 billion barrels
of oil in place, the Tempa Rossa field is the largest
undeveloped onshore oil field in western Europe, Mitsui said.
Located in the Potenza province of the southern state of
Basilicata, the field is scheduled to start production in 2016,
pumping 50,000 barrels of oil a day at peak capacity. The
field’s development is estimated to cost about 1.6 billion euros
($2 billion).  The purchase, which hinges on approval from the Italian
government, is part of Mitsui’s plan to “acquire crude oil and
natural gas assets in the European region,” according to the
Japanese company. Mitsui already explores for shale gas in
 Poland  and acquired production assets in the U.K.  North Sea  in
2012.  “Given its huge original oil in place, there is also
upside potential in reserves by improving the oil recovery rate
further in the future,” Mitsui said. Recoverable reserves are
estimated at 440 million barrels oil equivalent.  Italian Probe  Development of Tempa Rossa was delayed following an Italian
probe into contracts at the field that led to the arrest of a
local Total executive. The investigation has dragged on for more
than four years.  Lionel Levha, head of Total’s Italian unit, was arrested by
police as part of the investigation in 2008 and the company’s
offices searched, Total said at the time. An Italian judge also
suspended Total’s exploration concession for a year.  The original partners in the project, including Eni SpA and
Exxon Mobil Corp., had expected production to begin as early as
2010.  Six exploratory wells have been drilled so far followed by
production tests and “all confirmed good level of
productivity,” according to Mitsui. Tempa Rossa’s underground
oil is located in a 2,000-meter layer, one of the thickest in
the world, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  