-- Total, Abengoa See Mideast Solar Boom as Largest Generator Opens
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-03-18T13:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/total-abengoa-see-mideast-solar-boom-as-largest-generator-opens.html
Total SA (FP)  and  Abengoa SA (ABG) , the
European energy producers behind the Middle East’s largest
concentrated-solar plant, intend to expand further in the region
as governments promote renewables to free up oil for export.  The execution of solar programs in the Middle East would
bring “thousands of megawatts and billions of dollars in
investment,” Santiago Seage, the head of Abengoa’s solar unit,
said at yesterday’s inauguration of the plant in Abu Dhabi. The
unit plans to bid on more projects in the region, he said.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa are
developing renewables to meet the growing energy demands of
burgeoning populations and economies. Adding clean-power
generators may help oil-rich nations in the region to conserve
more of their crude and gas for export, reducing their use of
the fuels to generate power that’s sold at subsidized prices.  “The number of countries that want solar power is
accelerating,” said Philippe Boisseau, president of new
energies at Total. The Paris-based company plans to increase
investments in Middle Eastern renewable energy, he said.  The new $750 million concentrated-solar plant, which Total
and Abengoa developed with Abu Dhabi’s Masdar, will produce 100
megawatts of power by harnessing the sun to heat liquids and
create steam to turn turbines. That differentiates the facility,
called Shams 1, from a photovoltaic plant, which uses panels to
convert sunlight directly into electricity.  Saudi Solar  The Middle East’s most extensive renewable-energy program
is in Saudi Arabia. The country is seeking about $100 billion in
investments to generate about 41,000 megawatts, or a third of
its power, from solar by 2032. That compares with about 3
megawatts now, which puts it behind  Egypt ,  Morocco , Tunisia,
 Algeria  and the United Arab Emirates in capacity, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Total will study concentrated-solar power, or CSP, and
photovoltaic projects in Saudi Arabia and neighboring Qatar,
Boisseau said. While PV is “probably the most economical
technology for solar generation,” CSP allows energy to be
stored because operators can stockpile heated liquids for use
when the sun isn’t shining, he said.  The new Abu Dhabi plant, at a desert site west of the
U.A.E. capital, uses so-called solar troughs, which contain 20-
foot mirrors, to reflect the sun’s heat onto tubes holding oil.
The tubes could span the 120-kilometer (75-mile) distance to the
city of Abu Dhabi. The facility, which doesn’t yet have storage
facilities, can still run 24 hours a day using natural gas to
drive turbines when there’s no sun, Boisseau said.  Masdar, Abu Dhabi’s state-owned renewable-energy company,
will also seek to take part in solar-plant tenders in Saudi
Arabia, Chief Executive Officer Sultan al Jaber said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at   rrajendran4@bloomberg.net . 