-- Paul Ryan’s Budget Won’t Help Republicans Win
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-03-18T22:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/paul-ryan-s-budget-won-t-help-republicans-win.html
Some of  Paul Ryan ’s biggest fans
are disappointed in his latest budget.  Take  New York  Times columnist Ross Douthat. He credits
Ryan, the Republican House Budget Committee chairman, for trying
to give Medicare recipients the power and the incentive to make
health spending more efficient, and getting his party to take up
this reform. He also credits Ryan for revising his Medicare plan
between 2011 and 2012 to respond to the smartest criticisms. But
Douthat says that the 2013 version of the budget is “ a step
backward ” -- and I’m inclined to agree.  My own list of the pros and cons is slightly different from
Douthat’s. I would have preferred that Republicans rein in the
growth of  Social Security , especially for people with high
lifetime earnings. That way younger and poorer Americans would
have to bear less of the burden of budgetary restraint.  For the same reason, the  budget  should find savings from
Medicare faster. Ryan’s 2011 plan would have created a
competitive structure only for people younger than 55. Now that
he’s advancing a version of Medicare reform with fewer risks for
seniors, that slow phase-in makes less sense. And the plan
should raise co-pays, especially for the affluent, which would
also lighten the burden on younger people.  A budget that reduced spending on those older than 55 would
make it possible to bring the government’s long-term debt to a
manageable level while allowing for a higher (and more
realistic) level of Medicaid spending than the Ryan budget
includes.  The House Republicans should have been bolder on health
care, too. Their new budget envisions the repeal of President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care law but outlines no replacement for
it, which is rather odd for a document that purports to provide
a Republican vision for the future of the welfare state.  Political Liability  The Ryan budget keeps the level of revenue that resulted
from the tax increases that came at the start of the year, but
it aims to raise that revenue with a new  tax code  that features
a top rate of 25 percent. A 25 percent rate would mean a big  tax
cut  for the highest earners in the country: Someone who makes $1
million a year isn’t going to have enough tax breaks to make up
for a 14.6 percentage-point reduction in rates. The middle class
would almost certainly have to pay higher average tax rates to
make the numbers work. A similar plan seems to have been a
serious political liability for  Mitt Romney  in last fall’s
presidential election.  And it is a little strange for the Republicans to leave the
recent tax increases in place. Some House Republicans voted to
limit the tax increases that were taking place, and some voted
against any deal to register their opposition to any increase.
None of them favored the new taxes. So why aren’t they calling
for a rollback? Because it’s a dead issue? It’s no deader than
the promise to repeal the health-care law, a promise they
renewed.  Or is it because it helps them reach their new goal of
balancing the budget in 10 years? Just a few months ago, though,
Republicans didn’t think higher taxes for a smaller deficit was
a good trade.  Whatever their reasons, the 10-year deadline is the real
innovation in the 2013 budget. Yet there’s no particular reason
to think eliminating the fiscal shortfall in 10 years is an
urgent goal. The country isn’t going to look appreciably
different if it takes 15 years, or if we shrink deficits to a
modest size and keep running them.  Ryan’s Regrets  I suspect that Ryan himself shares some of these regrets
about his budget. He has sponsored legislation to reform Social
Security and health care in the past, but he did so on his own
and not in the name of  House Republicans . He has always been
more interested in structural reform of the federal government
than in ending deficits.  Another thing I suspect Ryan appreciates is that different
budget choices would have come at a political cost. Hitting zero
in 10 years was a way to get House conservatives to accept a
budget strategy that didn’t involve a debt-ceiling showdown in
February. A lot of conservatives would have complained if he had
abandoned the 25 percent tax rate, too.  Democrats would certainly have said the Republicans had
become “even more extreme” if they had limited spending on
those over 55, and House Republicans -- including some of the
conservatives who say Ryan is being too soft -- would have
gotten very nervous about public opinion.  Still, the risks would have been worth taking. The choices
that Ryan made have kept Republicans unified but also reinforced
the impression that they are too attuned to the interests of the
rich, and more concerned with their own obsessions than what the
public wants. House Republicans are in danger of becoming like
the House Democrats of the early 1980s: secure and comfortable
in their power base, and not oriented toward achieving a
governing majority.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 