-- Payrolls Rise in 34 U.S. States Led by Michigan, Washington
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-03-18T14:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/payrolls-increase-in-34-u-s-states-led-by-michigan-washington.html
Payrolls grew in 34 U.S. states in
January, a month before employment gains accelerated nationally.  Michigan led with a 26,500 hiring increase, followed by
Washington with 24,100, according to figures from the Labor
Department today in Washington. The jobless rate climbed in 25
states and fell in eight.  Broad-based progress in employment even amid fiscal policy
changes indicates the consumer spending that makes up about 70
percent of the economy may continue to help sustain the
expansion. Payrolls grew by 236,000 workers in February, almost
twice the 119,000 increase a month earlier, figures from the
Labor Department showed earlier this month.  “We’re making a little bit of progress,” Stephen Stanley,
chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said before the report. Stanley is the second-best
forecaster of the national unemployment rate for the past two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The pace of
layoffs seems to have abated somewhat from where it was six
months ago” while hiring is “starting to get a little bit of
improvement,” he said.  Massachusetts showed the third-biggest increase in
employment for January, with a 16,100 gain.  Illinois and  Mississippi  showed the biggest increases in
their jobless rate for the month, each rising by 0.4 percentage
point.  California  and Rhode Island had the highest unemployment
rates in the nation at 9.8 percent.  Colorado and  Vermont  were the only two states that showed
significant declines in joblessness.  Least Joblessness  North Dakota had the lowest unemployment in the nation with
a reading of 3.3 percent, which was up from the prior month’s
3.2 percent.  Louisiana showed the biggest loss in hiring, as employment
dropped by 12,500.  Wisconsin  registered a 6,000 decrease and
 Missouri  had a 4,700 drop.  Nationally, the  unemployment rate  fell to 7.7 percent in
February, a four-year low, from 7.9 percent in the prior month,
a Labor Department report showed earlier this month. The
February state data are due on March 29.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Fed’s View  Federal Reserve officials have said they are waiting for
“substantial” improvement in the labor market before they put
the brakes on unprecedented monetary easing measures. The policy
makers have pledged to keep their benchmark lending rate near
zero as long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and
inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent. They also
said during a January meeting they would keep buying $40 billion
per month in mortgage bonds and $45 billion in Treasuries.  “Consistent with the moderate pace of economic growth,
conditions in the labor market have been improving gradually,”
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told lawmakers Feb. 26 during his
semiannual testimony on monetary policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  