-- Penn State Must Wait to Learn Fate of Ex-Coach's Lawsuit
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   R o n   M u s s e l m a n
-- 2013-03-18T17:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/penn-state-must-wait-to-learn-fate-of-ex-coach-s-lawsuit.html
Pennsylvania  State University must
wait until next month for an answer to its request to dismiss a
lawsuit brought by a former coach tied to the Jerry Sandusky
sex-abuse case, a state court judge said.  Lawyers for the school today laid out arguments for
dismissing the case brought by the ex-coach,  Mike McQueary , at a
hearing in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. Judge Thomas Gavin said he
will rule in late April. McQueary claims he was fired for
cooperating in the state’s probe of Sandusky.  McQueary was a key witness for the prosecution in a June
trial against Sandusky. His testimony is at the heart of a
related case against three ex-Penn State officials: President
 Graham Spanier , Vice President  Gary Schultz  and Athletic
Director Tim Curley.  Sandusky, a defensive assistant football coach under the
late Joe Paterno, was sentenced in October to at least 30 years
in prison for sexually abusing 10 boys over a 15-year period.  McQueary was placed on administrative leave in November
2011 and terminated in July. He alleged in his lawsuit that he
was ostracized and defamed by school officials including
Spanier.  Spanier came out in support of Curley and Schultz when
charges against the men were first announced saying the
allegations were groundless. An attorney for the school said
today that the former president was stating an opinion and
couldn’t have defamed McQueary, who was not mentioned in any of
his comments.  The case is McQueary v.  Pennsylvania State University ,
2012-1804, Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas, Centre County
(Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Musselman in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania,
at  ronniemuss@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 