-- Peru Sol Falls to One-Week Low as Central Bank Purchases Dollars
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-03-18T20:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/peru-sol-falls-to-one-week-low-as-central-bank-purchases-dollars.html
Peru ’s sol fell to the lowest level
in a week after the central bank bought dollars to stem
appreciation as companies paid income tax in the local currency.  The sol depreciated 0.1 percent to 2.5960 per  U.S. dollar 
at the close of trading in Lima, according to prices from
Datatec. It has fallen 1.7 percent this year after a 5.4 percent
gain in 2012.  Banco Central de Reserva del Peru said on its website that
it bought $20 million today and $3.8 billion this year. The sol
had initially showed “resilience” amid a sell-off in emerging-
market assets as European finance ministers forced depositors in
Cypriot banks to share in the cost of a bailout, said Gonzalo Navarro, head trader at Banco Santander Peru SA.  “It was the purchases by the central bank, when the market
had barely traded $10 million, that caused the market to react”
and led the sol to decline, Navarro said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  The monetary authority stepped up its purchases since the
start of the year and increased dollar reserve requirements
three times on concern that the sol was appreciating beyond its
fundamental value, central bank President Julio Velarde said in
a March 16 interview in Panama City.  The bank has reduced the frequency of its interventions
after buying dollars every day from Sept. 7 to Feb. 19.  “We’re not predictable,” Velarde said. “There’ve been
times when we’ve left the market completely dry.”  Peru will capitalize the central bank to give it more
leeway to intervene in the foreign exchange market, Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla said yesterday.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol bond due
August 2020 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
3.77 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price
rose 0.14 centimo to 125.95 centimos per sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  