-- Petrobras Voting Shares Decline on Dividend Concerns: Rio Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-03-18T21:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/petrobras-voting-shares-decline-on-dividend-concerns-rio-mover.html
Voting shares of  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the most indebted publicly traded oil company,
fell the most in a week amid concern a $237 billion spending
plan will undermine dividend payments.  Voting shares of Petrobras, as the state-run producer is
known, dropped 0.9 percent to 17.64 reais at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo , the most since March 12. The shares are
down 9.8 percent this year, compared with a 1.6 percent drop in
non-voting shares and a 6.5 percent loss in the benchmark
Bovespa index.  Petrobras maintained the size of its five-year investment
plan, the oil industry’s biggest, to develop the world’s largest
discoveries over the past decade and build new refineries,
according a statement on March 15. The Rio de Janeiro-based
company said Feb. 4 it would pay lower dividends on voting
shares for an indefinite period to preserve cash.  “Dividends will probably continue to be low and this will
have an impact on the voting shares,” Joao Brugger, who helps
manage 220 million reais ($110 million) at Leme Investimentos
Ltda. in Florianopolis,  Brazil , said by phone. “In the short
term, it’s difficult to raise money in the market.”  The world’s biggest oil producer in deep waters is
struggling with the dual priorities of expanding production and
keeping debt low enough to maintain its investment-grade rating.
The five-year plan calls for $61.3 billion in borrowing to
finance investments and service its debt.  Cash flow  will total $164.7 billion over the period and an
additional $9.9 billion will come from asset sales and financial
restructuring, Petrobras said in the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  