-- Pimco’s Kiesel Says Corporate Bondholders ‘Wake Up’ to Risks
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-03-18T17:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/pimco-s-kiesel-says-corporate-bondholders-wake-up-to-risks.html
Investors are “finally”
acknowledging the risks of holding corporate bonds with yields
hovering at about record lows as the  Federal Reserve  holds
benchmark  interest rates  at close to zero for a fifth year,
according to Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Bondholders are finally starting to wake up to the fact
that easy monetary policy for an extended period can also have
adverse consequences,”  Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate
bond portfolios at the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund,
 wrote  today on the firm’s website. “This trend has helped
reignite shareholder activism and corporate animal spirits.”  The central bank has held its target rate at between zero
and 0.25 percent since December 2008, sending corporate bond
yields to a record low of 3.52 percent on Jan. 23, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield
Index. Companies issued the most debt on record last year at
$3.96 trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco has been “cautious” in industries that may add debt
or that are paying out cash to shareholders, such as technology,
retail and pharmaceuticals, Kiesel wrote. The Newport Beach,
California-based bond fund manager is also avoiding companies in
the defense, gold mining and supermarket segments, given their
weak outlook.  ‘Irrational Exuberance’  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer at Pimco, warned
investors last month that credit was “somewhat exuberantly and
irrationally priced.” Former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  coined
the phrase “irrational exuberance” in a December 1996 speech,
in which he asked, “How do we know when irrational exuberance
has unduly escalated asset values, which then become subject to
unexpected and prolonged contractions?”  Pimco is favoring companies that have “solid” revenue
growth, such as those related to U.S. housing, pipelines and
gaming. Low mortgage rates and a limited housing inventory are
pushing up demand for properties, leading to higher prices.
Pipelines have benefited from increases to natural gas
production and the rise in disposable income in Asia is helping
fuel growth in gaming, Kiesel wrote. The company has recommended
those sectors since at least August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  