-- Poland Won’t Join Currency War Amid Slowdown, Cichon Says
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-03-18T08:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/poland-won-t-join-currency-war-amid-slowdown-cichon-says.html
Poland won’t seek a weaker currency
to boost growth as the economy is set to benefit from the
government’s investment program and easier access to credit,
Deputy Finance Minister Janusz Cichon said.  The zloty is “quite stable” and its current exchange rate
is “favorable” for the competitiveness of Polish exporters, he
said in a March 14 interview. The currency has weakened almost
1.6 percent against the euro this year, less than the Czech
koruna and Hungarian forint.  The three eastern European countries are seeking ways to
spur expansion after the recession in the euro area, their main
trading partner, curbed demand for exports. The room to
stimulate growth through government spending is limited as they
all pledged to narrow their budget deficits to 3 percent of
economic output, in line with European Union requirements.  “Poland doesn’t want to get into currency wars,” Cichon,
a lawmaker from the ruling Civic Platform who joined the
ministry in January, said at his Warsaw office. “Every attempt
to intervene or manipulate the exchange rate runs the risk of
creating volatility.”  The $515 billion economy is now enduring its toughest
period since emerging from the financial crisis as rising
unemployment hurts consumer spending and the impact fades from a
construction boom before co-hosting last year’s European soccer
championship. The EU predicts growth will slow to 1.2 percent,
the worst in 12 years. That contrasts with the government’s 2013
budget assumption of 2.2 percent growth.  “We can say that our growth forecast is very, very
optimistic,” Cichon said. “We cannot yet say, though, that
it’s unrealistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  