-- Pound Climbs to Five-Week High Versus Euro on Cyprus; Gilts Gain
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-18T16:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/pound-jumps-against-euro-as-cyprus-turmoil-reignites-debt-crisis.html
The pound strengthened to a five-
week high against the euro after the imposition of a levy on
bank deposits in Cyprus threatened to throw Europe back into
crisis, fueling demand for U.K. assets as a haven.  Sterling rose versus all but three of its 16 major
counterparts as a vote on the tax championed by Cypriot
President Nicos Anastasiades to help secure rescue loans for the
indebted Mediterranean nation was delayed for a second day. U.K.
government bonds gained, pushing down 10-year yields to the
lowest this year. The pound has still weakened 5.5 percent
versus the euro this year as British policy makers consider
further stimulus to boost the economy.  “This is basically a euro story and something that
explains the move in sterling,” said Ulrich Leuchtmann, head of
currency strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Euro-
sterling is a choice between a rock and a hard place.”  The pound advanced 0.8 percent to 85.83 pence against the
euro at 4:30 p.m. London time, after jumping by as much as 1.4
percent to 85.31 pence, the strongest level since Feb. 11. It
was little changed at $1.5121.  Scenes of Cypriots lining up at cash machines raised the
specter of capital flight elsewhere and threatened to disrupt a
market calm since the European Central Bank’s pledge in
September to backstop troubled nations’ debt. Cyprus’s banks may
not reopen tomorrow after a holiday today, state-run broadcaster
CYBC reported.  House Prices  The U.K. currency also gained after Rightmove Plc said
house prices rose for a third consecutive month in March.  The pound has advanced 1.3 percent in the past week, the
best performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro fell 0.8
percent and the dollar was little changed.  Sterling has weakened 7 percent against the greenback this
year amid speculation the Bank of England will boost its asset-
purchase program to revive the economy and counter the impact of
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s austerity program.
The central bank last increased the target in July, boosting it
by 50 billion pounds to 375 billion pounds.  “There is no easy answer, there is no miracle cure,”
Osborne told BBC1 Television in London yesterday, defending
spending cuts before his March 20 budget. “We have to go on
confronting the very difficult economic problems.”  Futures Bets  The  yield  on the 10-year gilt fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 1.89 percent, after being as low as
1.86 percent, the least since Dec. 31. The 1.75 percent security
maturing September 2022 gained 0.4, or 4 pounds per 1,000-pound
face amount, to 98.79.  Futures traders increased bets the pound will weaken
against the dollar, figures from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers on a
decline compared with those on a gain, so-called net shorts, was
49,800 on March 12, the most since October 2011.  Morgan Stanley lowered its year-end forecast for the pound
to $1.43 from $1.57, citing economic weakness that “has
developed far more quickly than we had initially envisaged,”
analysts led by Hans Redeker in London wrote in a note to
clients.  German bonds and U.S. Treasuries also rose as investors
sought safer assets. Italian and Spanish bonds slid and the euro
weakened against all of its 16 major peers, slumping 1 percent
versus the South African rand. Germany’s two-year note yields
fell below zero for the first time in more than two months.  U.K. government bonds earned 0.2 percent this month through
March 15, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 