-- Foreclosure Processor Prommis Holdings Files Chapter 11
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-03-18T19:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/prommis-holdings-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-in-delaware.html
Prommis Holdings LLC , which
provides processing services for defaults and foreclosures in
the residential mortgage industry, sought  bankruptcy protection 
from creditors without citing a reason.  The company, based in Atlanta, listed debt of more than
$50 million and assets of as much as $50 million in Chapter 11
documents filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
Delaware. Ten affiliates also filed for bankruptcy.  Prommis officials determined that it’s “in the best
interests of the company, its creditors, and other parties in
interest,” to seek court protection under Chapter 11 of the
U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , according to court documents.  The company said in the filing that it plans to sell
virtually all its assets in a court-supervised auction. No terms
were disclosed.  Prommis is also seeking to implement retention and
incentive plans for key employees, singling out those “who are
essential to both the company’s ongoing business operations and
their sale and wind-down efforts.”  The company helps mortgage servicers and law firms with
foreclosure proceedings in 19 states and provides bankruptcy and
loss-mitigation services throughout the U.S., according to its
website.  Ares Capital  Ares Capital Corp. (ARCC) , a New York-based investment firm, owns
17.3 percent of the Prommis’ common stock and 43.2 percent of
its Class B units, according to court papers.  Steven K. Kortanek, a lawyer representing Prommis, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the
bankruptcy filing.  The 30 largest unsecured creditors of the company and its
affiliates are owed about $3.3 million, according to court
filings.  The case is In re Prommis Holdings LLC, 13-10551, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  