-- Providence Gets 30% Bonus Curbing $109,000 Retirees: Muni Credit
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-03-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/providence-gets-30-bonus-curbing-109-000-retirees-muni-credit.html
Providence was so close to running
out of cash a year ago that it couldn’t pay for tires on police
cars. This month,  Wall Street   lined up  to lend to  Rhode Island ’s
capital, shrinking its yield penalty 30 percent.  Providence’s path toward fiscal health went through the
bank accounts of about 1,600 pensioners. They voted to freeze
cost-of-living raises for a decade, a move that may be
unprecedented, said Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center
for Retirement Research at  Boston College  in Chestnut Hill,
 Massachusetts . The deal helped Providence avoid the fate of
neighboring Central Falls, which in 2011 became the first city
in Rhode Island’s 222-year history to go bankrupt.  City leaders have “done what they are supposed to do,”
said Dennis Derby, a senior analyst who manages $31 billion in
municipal assets at Wells Capital Management in  Menomonee Falls ,
 Wisconsin , and owns Providence bonds. “They’ve been very
astute.”  Cities and states nationwide are grappling with public
pension benefits more generous than their budgets can
accommodate. To make up for the shortfalls, elected leaders have
raised taxes, sold assets, borrowed from Wall Street and
rewritten pension laws. There’s a $217 billion gap between what
localities have promised retirees and what they’ve saved toward
those obligations, according to a survey of 61 cities released
in January by the Pew Charitable Trusts in Philadelphia.  Taveras Time  When Mayor Angel Taveras, a 42-year-old Democrat, took
office in January 2011, he faced a $110 million projected
shortfall in the city’s $613 million budget for the fiscal year
through June 2012.  He closed schools, raised taxes, boosted parking rates and
obtained payments from nonprofit institutions, including  Brown
University  and the Rhode Island School of Design. The city of
178,000 put millions of dollars of payments to vendors on hold.  About 20 percent of city spending cuts came from changes to
a  retirement plan  that had allowed some workers to earn twice as
much annually as they did when they were employed. Twenty-five
retirees  made more than $109,000 , Providence data show. Average
fire and police retirees receive about $40,000 a year, according
to city figures. While the checks will keep coming, the annual
boosts of 3 percent to 6 percent won’t.  ‘Best Deal’  “I don’t think anyone thinks this is a fair settlement
compared to what they were getting,” Bob Jarvis, president of
the Providence Retired Police and Firefighters Association, said
at a public hearing this month. “It was the best deal we could
get.”  The city’s annual required pension contribution was about
$20 million in 1996, or about 13 percent of the municipal
budget, according to city data. By 2012, it had risen to $58
million, or 19 percent of the budget. Had Providence failed to
make changes, the payment would have reached $94 million by
2022, according to city estimates.  Providence’s pension funds have been only about 35 percent
funded the last five fiscal years on average,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  In 2011, Rhode Island Treasurer Gina Raimondo, a Democrat,
spearheaded an overhaul of the state’s pensions. The revamp
included measures such as delaying retirement and offering
workers 401(k)-type plans that don’t guarantee returns. A
handful of states instituted similar changes. Unions are
challenging Raimondo’s steps in court.  Avoiding Litigation  Wrangling retirees into a settlement outside of contentious
litigation, which Providence did, is practically unheard of,
said  Keith Brainard , Georgetown, Texas-based research director
at the National Association of State Retirement Administrators.  Taveras said his strategy involved patience.  “You need to listen; you need to be flexible,” he said in
a telephone interview. “You can’t take a ‘my-way-or-the-
highway’ attitude with this. Did we get everything we wanted in
the settlement? No. But neither did they.”  Just as importantly, Taveras used the city’s financial
distress as a strength: He threatened bankruptcy, a tool only
available to cities in the 28 states that have some provision
for municipalities to file.  Neighbor’s Experience  That was the route taken by Central Falls, about seven
miles (11 kilometers) north, which entered Chapter 9 bankruptcy
in August 2011 and exited last year. A judge approved a plan to
cut pension payments for retirees in the city of 19,000 as much
as 55 percent and ordered them to pay 20 percent of health-care
costs until they turn 65.  “In the back of people’s minds was the thought that this
could be another  Central Falls , where the pensions were
reduced,” said Jarvis, the Providence retirees’ representative.
“A lot of people didn’t want that to happen.”  His members voted 716 to 177 to freeze cost-of-living
increases in May. On March 11, a Rhode Island judge declared the
deal “fair.”  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market rewarded
Providence’s efforts in a debt sale this month. In some
maturities, the city received more bids than there were bonds
available.  The city sold $39 million of tax-free general-obligation
bonds for road repairs March 7. A portion maturing in 10 years
and insured by Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. priced to yield
3.08 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was about
1.24 percentage points more than benchmark munis.  Lower Cost  That was down from the 1.76 percentage-point premium
demanded when the city issued comparable debt in December 2010.
Those securities were also backed by Assured, which had its
rating cut two levels by Moody’s Investors Service in January.  The spreads on the March deal were “pretty attractive,”
said Matt Fabian, managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-
based Municipal Market Advisors, an independent research firm.  “Their ability to at least begin to resolve their pension
systems has helped,” he said.  Providence retirees have until April 1 to opt out of the
plan. If they do, they’ll have to either fight the city as
individuals or accept harsher measures approved last year by the
city council. The final court hearing is set for April 12.  While the city still lacks cash reserves, vendors are being
paid again, said  David Ortiz , a mayoral spokesman. They include
a $16,500 delinquent payment for tires.  Market Outlook  The municipal market is set to begin the week with
benchmark yields close to the highest since April as local
governments led by the New Jersey Turnpike Authority have
scheduled  $12.5 billion  of issuance in the next 30 days,
Bloomberg data show. That calendar is about 40 percent busier
than the six-month average.  Ten-year benchmark munis start the week yielding 2.06
percent, according to Bloomberg Valuation data, compared with
about 2 percent for Treasuries with a similar maturity. The
 ratio  of the two yields is the highest since October, signaling
munis have become relatively cheaper than federal debt after the
biggest weekly slump this year for local securities.  Local debt has lost 0.9 percent this month, a steeper loss
than both Treasuries and corporate bonds, data from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch show.  Munis tend to decline in March as bondholders sell to pay
tax bills before the April 15 filing deadline, Bloomberg data
show. Local debt had negative returns in March the past four
years.  Investors pulled about $113 million from muni mutual funds
last week, the largest outflow this year, Lipper US Fund Flows
data show. The $3.6 billion iShares S&P National AMT-Free
Municipal Bond Fund, the largest exchange-traded fund tracking
U.S. munis, is trading at a  discount  to its underlying assets
for the longest stretch since 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Such a phenomenon “has been a precursor to longer-lasting
municipal bond fund outflows,” Citigroup Inc. said in a report
last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  