-- Puerto Rico Ousts Two-Time Champ Japan at World Baseball Classic
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-18T05:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/puerto-rico-beats-two-time-champ-japan-at-world-baseball-classic.html
Puerto Rico defeated Japan 3-1 in
the semifinals of the  World Baseball Classic  to eliminate the
two-time defending champion from the tournament.  Mike Aviles, a shortstop for Major League Baseball’s
Cleveland Indians, had a run-scoring single in the first inning
for Puerto Rico and Chicago White Sox outfielder Alex Rios added
a two-run home run in the seventh inning. Six Puerto Rican
pitchers limited Japan to six hits and one run last night at
AT&T Park in San Francisco.  Puerto Rico, which ousted the U.S. in the second round,
will face the winner of today’s semifinal between the Dominican
Republic and the Netherlands in the championship game tomorrow.  “We’re pretty confident and we’re optimistic,” Rios, who
went 2-for-4, said in a televised interview. “When we play for
our country a lot of good things happen. We’ve come a long way
and there’s no way we’re going to stop.”  Japan  won the first two WBC titles in 2006 and 2010. After
last night’s game, the Japanese players lined up along the third
base line, removed their hats and bowed to the Puerto Rican team
and the fans at AT&T Park.  Japan had been held scoreless until Takashi Toritani hit a
one-out triple in the bottom of the eighth inning and scored on
a single by Hirokazu Ibata. Japan, playing without any current
major-leaguers, also had a base-running mistake in the inning.
With two runners on base and Japan’s cleanup hitter at bat,
Seiichi Uchikawa broke from first base on a double steal while
Ibata started to run and then retreated to second base. Uchikawa
was caught between first and second base and tagged out by
Puerto Rico catcher Yadier Molina.  Aviles said he’d “love to play” the Dominican Republic
for the championship after the Puerto Ricans lost the teams’
meetings in the first and second rounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  