-- Putin Says Cyprus Bank-Deposit Levy Is Dangerous, Unfair
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-03-18T13:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/putin-says-cyprus-bank-levy-unfair-unprofessional-dangerous-.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
criticized a proposed penalty on Cypriot bank deposits, imposed
as part of an international bailout, saying it would set a
dangerous precedent.  “Such a decision, if it’s adopted, will be unfair,
unprofessional and dangerous,” Putin told a government meeting
today, according to a statement posted on the Kremlin website.  The levy will probably provoke an outflow of Russian money
toward other jurisdictions, according to Moody’s Investors
Services and Monument Securities. Russian companies and
individuals have $31 billion of deposits in Cyprus, according to
Moody’s.  A double-tax avoidance treaty and low tax rates have made
Cyprus the conduit of choice for Russians moving money into and
out of their country. Including loans to companies registered in
Cyprus,  Russia ’s exposure is about $60 billion, Moody’s
estimates.  “We have already been seeing Russian banks shifting money
to  Switzerland , Luxembourg and the Baltic states,” Eugene Tarzimanov, a senior analyst at Moody’s in Moscow, said by phone
today.  “That trend will likely accelerate.”  Reconsidering Role  There’s a 50-50 chance the Cypriot bailout will fail
because of “massive danger” that large amounts of Russian cash
will flee Cyprus due to the plans,  Marc Ostwald , strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in  London , said in an interview. Ninety
percent of Russian deposits will be free to leave the country if
the levy is approved, he added.  Russia may reconsider its role in the Cyprus bailout
because it wasn’t consulted over the bank tax, state news
service RIA Novosti reported, citing Finance Minister Anton Siluanov. He said last month that Russia was willing to
restructure a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.24 billion) loan it provided
in 2011 and possibly agree to a lower  interest rate .  The Cypriot move casts doubts on the banking system not
only in that country but “in the countries of the European
Union,” said Russian Deputy Economy Minister Sergei Belyakov.  Cyprus’s President Nicos Anastasiades is trying to persuade
lawmakers to back the plan to impose losses on the island
nation’s depositors as part of a 10 billion-euro bailout aimed
at preventing a financial collapse and a possible departure from
the euro area.  Smaller Bailout  The one-time levy, designed to raise 5.8 billion euros,
means a smaller bailout for the east Mediterranean country than
the 17.5 billion euros envisaged at one point. Under the EU
plan, Cyprus will impose a levy of 6.75 percent on deposits of
less than 100,000 euros and 9.9 percent for 100,000 euros or
more.  Cyprus is seeking to soften the impact for most account
holders including by making depositors with more than 500,000
euros pay 12 percent and taxing deposits of less than 100,000
euros at a 3 percent rate, Antenna TV reported.  “This is the same as Stalinist confiscations,” Russian
newspaper tycoon  Alexander Lebedev  said by phone today. “That’s
the end of Russians using Cyprus in my view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  