-- Putin’s Banker Seen Cutting Rates After Ignatiev: Russia Credit
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o ,   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-03-18T09:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/putin-s-banker-seen-cutting-rates-after-ignatiev-russia-credit.html
Russia’s next central bank chairman
will have scope to meet Vladimir Putin’s call for lower
borrowing costs as yields on the shortest-maturity debt fall and
economists predict the fastest inflation in 18 months will ease.  The yield on government ruble bonds due in March 2014 fell
eight basis points since Putin’s March 12 nomination of Elvira Nabiullina, an aide and former economy minister, to replace Bank
Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev when his term expires in June.
The rate on a gauge of emerging-market government  debt  compiled
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. increased two basis points in the
period.  Nabiullina, 49, will take over after Ignatiev resisted
government pressure to cut rates as inflation surpassed the
central bank’s 5 percent to 6 percent target for six straight
months. The steepest economic slowdown in three years coupled
with central bank forecasts that consumer-price growth will slow
in the second half and may free her to lower borrowing costs
without damaging the central bank’s credibility.  “As inflation will come down in the second half, they will
have the opportunity to be more dovish, irrespective of the
central bank head,” Viktor Szabo, who helps oversee $11.8
billion at Aberdeen Investment Management Ltd. in London, said
March 15 by e-mail.  Rates Unchanged  Bank Rossii kept its main interest rates unchanged on March
15. The refinancing rate, which is currently at 8.25 percent,
will fall to 7.88 percent in the fourth quarter, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
auction-based repurchase rate and overnight deposit rate will be
cut by a quarter of a percentage point in the third quarter,
surveys show.  Putin picked Nabiullina, who graduated from Moscow State
University with an economics degree in 1986, as the $2 trillion
economy grows at the weakest pace since a 2009 contraction.
Should lawmakers endorse her nomination, Nabiullina will become
Russia’s first new central bank chief in more than a decade.
After serving as the country’s  economy  minister from 2007 to
2012, she left to become an aide to Putin in the Kremlin
following his election to a third term in May.  While investors are concerned Nabiullina won’t be free in
her decisions, her move to appoint Ignatiev as an adviser means
no radical policy changes should be expected, said Konstantin Artemov, who helps oversee about $180 million in Russian bonds
at Raiffeisen Capital in Moscow.  “Given the current rates in the economy, including
investment growth rates, there are few tools to stimulate growth
other than rate cuts,” he said by phone on March 15.  Slowing Inflation  Ignatiev said Feb. 15 that he hopes inflation will
decelerate in the coming months, making rate cuts possible.
Inflation, which accelerated to 7.3 percent in February, will
slow to 5.8 percent in December, according to a median forecast
from a Bloomberg survey of 10 economists.  Gross domestic product increased 1.6 percent from a year
earlier in January, compared with 2.4 percent in December,
missing Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev’s 5 percent long-term
growth goal. The central bank said March 15 that it will monitor
“inflationary risks and risks of the economy cooling,” while
omitting a phrase in the statement after February’s meeting that
the economy was expanding at its potential.  Inflation has been stoked by a bad harvest and higher
excise taxes and transport costs. It will probably start slowing
in May or June, according to Vladimir Osakovskiy, the Moscow-
based chief economist at Bank of America Corp.  “As soon as such concerns will start fading, the central
bank will be ready to provide stimulus,” Osakovskiy said March
15. He expects cumulative cuts of 75 basis points this year.  ‘Dovish Side’  The tone of the central bank’s March 15  statement  was “a
bit more dovish,” and the shift in rhetoric may mean the
central bank will start cutting rates as early as next month,
Maxim Oreshkin and Daria Isakova, analysts at VTB Capital in
Moscow, said in a note after the meeting.  At the start, Nabiullina will be as focused on inflation
targeting as Ignatiev, according to Luis Costa, a London-based
strategist at Citigroup Inc. While it’s unlikely Nabiullina will
depart radically from Ignatiev’s path, there may be changes
toward “the dovish side,” he said by phone on March 15.  The ruble weakened 0.6 percent against the dollar to
30.8255 by 1:23 p.m. in Moscow. The country’s dollar bond due in
April 2042 gained, lowering the yield two basis points to 4.72
percent.  Cost Protection  Russia is ranked BBB by Fitch Ratings, the second-lowest
investment grade. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries gained five basis
points to 190, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The
difference compares with 181 for debt of similarly-rated Mexico
and 183 for Brazil.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose three basis points to
142 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
swaps cost 13 basis points more than Turkey, which is rated one
step lower by Fitch at BBB-. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a government or company fails to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Nabiullina was born in Ufa, the capital of the republic of
Bashkortostan in the southern Urals Mountains, nearly 1,200
kilometers (750 miles) east of Moscow. In the early 1990s she
worked at the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs,
a lobby group for the country’s biggest businesses.  Surprise Candidate  Putin said March 7 that he was planning a surprise
candidate for the post. Former finance minister Alexei Kudrin,
Alexei Ulyukayev, a Bank Rossii first deputy chairman, and VTB24
President Mikhail Zadornov were among candidates considered to
succeed Ignatiev, three officials with knowledge of the talks
said in January.  Nabiullina was a first deputy to then-Economy and Trade
Minister Herman Gref, now chief of OAO Sberbank, from 2000 to
2003 before becoming head of the Center for Strategic Research,
which helped develop Putin’s economic policy during his first
two terms. In her role as a minister for almost five years, she
helped Russia conclude almost two decades of talks on joining
the World Trade Organization last year.  “As an economy minister, Nabiullina proved herself as a
person with individual views and as a serious debater,”
Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist for Russia and the CIS at
Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit in Moscow, said by phone
March 15. “Rates will most likely only be cut in September”
when inflation approaches 6 percent, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net 
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  