-- Putnam’s Reynolds Fights Customer Flight With Six Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-03-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/putnam-s-reynolds-fights-customer-flight-with-six-funds.html
Putnam Investments LLC, the asset
manager in its fifth year of a turnaround effort by Chief
Executive Officer Robert L. Reynolds, introduced six new mutual
funds, including two aimed at investors weary of stock swings.  Putnam is backing the products with a marketing campaign
designed to persuade investors to diversify their holdings and
prepare for more market swings, higher taxes and rising interest
rates, the Boston-based company said today in a statement. The
other new products are an emerging-markets bond fund, a global
dividend-oriented stock fund and two municipal-bond funds.  “Conventional wisdom shaped by decades of high-return
investing -- first in equities from 1982 to 2002, then in fixed-
income markets over most of this young century -- needs to be
re-examined, revised or even scrapped,” Reynolds said last week
in a speech to financial advisers in  Orlando .  Putnam, one of the oldest U.S. mutual-fund firms, has
brought out 26 new funds since Reynolds took over in 2008. The
CEO has reorganized the company’s equity division, attracted new
talent and won accolades for fund performance in its best years,
without being able to stop a decline in assets or make the firm
profitable for its parent, Montreal-based  Power Corp. (POW) , owned by
 Canada ’s Desmarais family.  Putnam, with $133 billion in assets as of Feb. 28, hadn’t
rolled out a new fund in more than four years when Reynolds
joined, according to Jon Goldstein, a spokesman.  Long-Term View  “One advantage of working for a family-owned firm is that
we can make investments that have a five or ten-year time
horizon,” Reynolds said in a March 14 interview. “We’re
approximately break-even right now and we feel very confident
about the future.”  Fee income for Putnam in 2012 dropped 5.1 percent from the
previous year to $731 million, the company reported in fourth-
quarter earnings presentations for Great West Lifeco Inc.,
Power’s insurance unit under which Putnam is organized. Revenue
at the top publicly traded U.S. asset managers increased an
average of 4.4 percent in 2012, according to a March 14 paper
published by consulting firm Casey Quirk in Darien,  Connecticut .  Putnam lost $22 million in 2012, excluding financing
expenses charged by its parent to recover the original purchase
price. Assets rose 10 percent to $128.3 billion, driven by a 13
percent rise in global stocks as measured by the MSCI AC World
Index.  The firm had net deposits in 2011 for the first time in a
decade. Investors pulled money again in 2012 when net
withdrawals totaled $1.79 billion.  The company was No. 1 in Barron’s ranking of U.S. fund
families last year and in 2009, based on asset-weighted
performance across asset types. The firm ranked at the middle of
the pack over the past five years, placing 27th.  Institutional Strategies  The funds opened since Reynolds took over hold a combined
$6.1 billion. The  Capital Spectrum Fund (PVSAX) , which invests in stocks
and bonds, has grown to $2.3 billion since starting in May 2009.
A lineup of four so-called absolute return funds opened in
January 2009, totals $2.8 billion. Absolute return funds use a
variety of investment techniques to try to generate profits or
limit losses regardless of market conditions.  The firm’s newest funds, including those opening today, are
part of a drive to offer retail investors access to investment
strategies previously limited to institutions, Reynolds said in
the interview.  The Putnam  Low Volatility Equity Fund (PLVEX)  will seek returns
matching the U.S. equity market, with reduced price swings. A
second, the  Strategic Volatility Equity Fund (PSVEX) , will target above-
average returns, with volatility comparable to the market.  Low Correlation  Fund companies have been adding products designed to offer
lower volatility since the financial crisis that caused the 2008
stock plunge. Denver-based  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  opened its
Diversified Alternatives Fund in December.  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  started
its $3.5 billion Powershares S&P 500 Low Volatility Portfolio,
an exchange-traded fund, in May 2011.  Both of Putnam’s new volatility-themed funds will focus on
stocks with low correlation to the aggregate U.S. equity market,
a strategy that historically comes with tempered risk, said
Robert J. Schoen, who will manage the portfolios. Schoen will
use call and put options to protect against significant losses.
Calls and puts give investors the right, respectively, to buy
and sell securities in the future at an agreed price.  Reynolds, 61, began his fund career at Boston-based
 Fidelity Investments  in 1984, and was once considered a possible
successor to Fidelity Chairman and CEO Edward “Ned” Johnson III before leaving that company in April 2007.  He took over Putnam four years after the company paid $110
million to settle claims by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and Massachusetts regulators that it allowed improper
trading by some money managers and favored investors that may
have hurt other mutual-fund customers.  The scandal and poor performance reduced assets to about
$166 billion by the time Reynolds joined from a peak of $420
billion in 2000. Power acquired Putnam in 2007 from Marsh &
McLennan Cos. for $3.9 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  