-- Qatar’s CBQ Agrees to Buy 70.8% Stake in Turkey’s Alternatifbank
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-03-18T14:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/qatar-s-cbq-agrees-to-buy-70-8-stake-in-turkey-s-alternatifbank.html
Commercial Bank of Qatar QSC, the
Persian Gulf country’s second-largest bank, said it agreed to
acquire a 70.8 percent stake in  Turkey ’s  Alternatifbank AS (ALNTF)  from
Anadolu Group for two times the book value.  Alternatif’s book value was 585.1 million liras ($323
million) at the end of 2012,  CBQ (CBQK)  said in a statement today. The
sale price will be based on the book value of Istanbul-based
Alternatif at the end of this June, CBQ said.  “ABank operates in a dynamic economy with good long-term
growth prospects, in a country that is strategically and
culturally aligned,” said Hussain Al Fardan, CBQ’s managing
director. “We believe this represents the logical next step in
the execution of our international expansion strategy.”  Investors from the Middle East,  Russia  and  Asia  are seeking
to boost their presence in Turkey with acquisitions and
licenses. The  Middle East ’s biggest lender, Qatar National Bank
SAQ, said this month it may target stakes in Turkey’s major
banks. Dubai-based Emirates NBD PJSC has also expressed interest
in acquisitions. Qatar-based Doha Bank QSC is also interested in
entering Turkey, Anatoila News Agency reported today.  Alternatifbank  shares  jumped 6 percent to 2.63 liras at
3:30 p.m. in Istanbul today, the largest increase since Jan. 8
and giving it a market value of 1.1 billion liras. CBQ was up 1
percent at 67.6 riyals.  The acquisition is expected to be completed in the second
half of this year after regulatory approvals, CBQ said in the
statement. Alternatif is almost 96 percent-owned by Anadolu
Group and 4.2 percent of the shares trade on the exchange.  Anadolu Endustri Holding, which has a 77.7 percent stake in
Alternatifbank, will retain 25 percent after the sale. Other
group companies won’t have any stake left in the lender, Anadolu
Group said in a statement to the  Istanbul Stock Exchange  today.  “The transaction is in line with Anadolu’s strategy to
focus its resources on its core businesses of food and
beverages, power and automotives,” Tuncay Ozilhan, the group’s
chairman, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  