-- Quest 5-in-1 Demential Test May Help Rule Out Alzheimer’s
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-03-18T20:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/quest-5-in-1-demential-test-may-help-rule-out-alzheimer-s.html
As  Baby Boomers  age, those everyday
questions of life -- Where are the car keys? What was her name
again? -- are increasingly followed by another: Can this be
Alzheimer’s disease?  Today,  Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX) , in the midst of a company
reorganization that seeks to cut costs and boost revenue with
improved service, will introduce a panel of tests at the
American Academy of Neurology meeting that combines five screens
into one to pinpoint potentially treatable conditions.  The concept is that, by simplifying the process and making
it more accessible, an increasing number of family doctors will
use the test and, in some rare cases, ease the mind of patients
by ruling out Alzheimer’s.  “It’s sort of a simple idea, but dementia is a common
presentation to primary-care doctors,” said Joseph Higgins,
medical director for Quest’s neurology unit, in a telephone
interview. “Sometimes they’re at a loss for what type of blood
test to perform. This panel puts them all together in one place,
with one report.”  Quest, the biggest U.S. operator of medical labs, could use
a boost. Its sales have come under pressure as hospitals have
sought fewer tests and reimbursement has become more stringent,
said Frank Morgan, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets .  Quest’s stock has dropped 7.1 percent in the past 12
months,  compared  with a gain of 21 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Health Care Index. The company declined 1.2 percent
to $55.52 at the close today in New York.  Swelling Numbers  More than 5 million people in the U.S. have Alzheimer’s, an
incurable, mind-robbing disease that worsens over time,
according to the  Alzheimer’s Association . It’s estimated that
may swell by 10 million as Baby Boomers enter old age.  Yet, while rare, there are other causes of memory and focus
loss that are reversible, including low levels of vitamin B12,
thyroid problems and undiagnosed metabolic disorders, according
to Madison, New Jersey-based Quest.  “The number of times a doctor will see an Alzheimer’s
patient is going to go up,” Higgins said. “Primary-care
doctors are going to be the ones usually doing the first
screening. This makes it convenient.”  The test suite is based on guidelines recommended by the
 American Academy  of Neurology and the American Academy of Family
Physicians. It includes a complete blood count, a comprehensive
metabolic panel and tests for levels of vitamin B12, thyroid-
stimulating hormones and folate, Higgins said.  Revenue Decline  The company’s push into neurology testing comes as Quest’s
revenue has declined 1 percent since 2009, to $7.38 billion last
year, and is expected to be unchanged in 2013, according to the
average of 22 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Of 24
 analysts  covering the company, just two recommend buying. Twenty
have a hold rating while two say sell.  “They’re looking to reduce their cost structure and at the
same time looking at ways to grow their top-line longer term,”
RBC’s Morgan, who has a sector perform rating on the shares,
said in a telephone interview. “A lot of focus has been spent
on retooling the internal culture of the company and being more
customer-focused.”  Quest offers blood and genetic testing for everything from
allergies to women’s health.  Competitor  Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings , based in
Burlington,  North Carolina , has faced similar pressures, said
Sandy Draper, an analyst with  Raymond James in  Atlanta with a
sell recommendation for both stocks.  Neurology Expansion  Quest expanded into neurology testing in 2011 with its $740
million purchase of Athena Diagnostics from  Thermo Fisher
Scientific Inc. (TMO)  The tests included in the new panel are
available individually as well, and the $330 cost of the sum of
them is the same as the full suite, said Stephen Becker,
executive director of Quest’s neurology segment. The company
expects insurers to reimburse patients for some of the cost.  Quest’s testing panel may not turn up a huge number of
treatable cases of dementia. Reversible forms are much less
common than  Alzheimer’s disease  and others such as vascular
dementia, said  David Knopman , a member of the American Academy
of Neurology and a professor of neurology at the  Mayo Clinic  in
Rochester,  Minnesota .  “Unfortunately and disappointingly, it is exceedingly
rare” to find cases of treatable dementia, he said in a
telephone interview. Knopman was part of the group that wrote
practice guidelines in 2001 for screening tests.  Still, Quest aims to be an important part of ruling out
those possibilities before family practitioners refer patients
to neurology specialists, and also for neurologists themselves,
Higgins said.  ‘More Aware’  Charles Cutler, a general internist in Norristown,
 Pennsylvania , near Philadelphia, said he uses the individual
tests now, and the number of positive results are low.  The number of patients Cutler’s seeing who come in worried
about Alzheimer’s, though, is on the rise, he said.  “We are more aware of dementia than we were 10 years
ago,” Cutler said in a telephone interview. “In the trenches,
where I am, the conversations are coming up much more
frequently. The interesting thing is patients who don’t even
have dementia begin to worry about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  