-- Racism Helps Create Fiscal Distress, Ex-Harrisburg Receiver Says
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-03-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/racism-helps-create-fiscal-distress-ex-harrisburg-receiver-says.html
Segregation of minorities and the
poor fosters municipal fiscal distress, said David Unkovic, the
former receiver of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania’s capital.  Harrisburg and Detroit, which received a state-appointed
emergency manager last week, have majority black populations, as
do many other distressed communities, Unkovic wrote in a paper
he was to present today during the Bond Buyer Symposium on
Distressed Municipalities in Providence,  Rhode Island .  “Racial separateness and isolation of the poor” drive
financial woes as much as ‘obvious’ factors such as escalating
pension costs and declining tax revenue, according to the piece.  Putting an unelected receiver in charge of municipalities
should be the last solution, he said. Critics have said
installing such officials results in citizens losing their say
in the governments closest to them. In  Michigan , state-appointed
officials in six cities will make decisions affecting the lives
of almost half of the state’s black population.  Unkovic, a white, 58-year-old former bond lawyer who was
Harrisburg’s first receiver before his resignation last year,
said he was “disturbed” by comments from public officials and
residents outside the city that its crisis was caused by “those
people.”  Separately Unequal  He wrote that while in a meeting of about 30 white people
from a  Pennsylvania  chamber of commerce, Unkovic heard
complaints that Harrisburg officials weren’t listening to their
suggestions on the need for business-tax rebates. Perhaps they
would have a better reception, Unkovic suggested, if they worked
harder to include minorities in committees or developed
economic-development initiatives important to blacks and
Latinos.  “Our American way of life continues to largely separate
African-Americans from equal opportunity and equal education,”
Unkovic wrote. “That separation is easier to maintain thanks to
our system of local governments which tend to isolate the poor,
including many minorities, in defined political subdivisions
where they receive substandard education, substandard services
and substandard opportunities.”  In Harrisburg, a city of about 50,000, whites make up a
just a third of its population, compared with 82 percent
statewide. About 32 percent of residents  live  in poverty,
according to U.S. census data. The city has a “limited ability
to raise additional revenues,” considering half of its property
exempt from taxes, Unkovic said.  Bankruptcy’s Edge  The situation is “more stark” in  Detroit , he said, where
almost half of property owners fail to pay real-estate taxes. In
the city of about 700,000 people, of whom 83 percent are
African-American, 36 percent  live  in poverty, according to
Census data.  Detroit, which suffered with the decline of the automotive
industry, faces more than $14 billion in long-term obligations.
It would be the largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy if the new
emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, fails to stabilize its finances.  Harrisburg’s crisis stemmed from an overhaul of a trash-to-
energy incinerator that failed to generate enough revenue to pay
off its debt, which is more than five times the city’s general-
fund budget. The city also struggles to meet expenses and had
for years engaged in gimmicks to close gaps. Unkovic ended its
previous practice of overcharging sewer fees paid by surrounding
towns to cover general fund expenses.  Unkovic’s successor, William B. Lynch, is implementing
Unkovic’s court-approved recovery plan for the city, which
includes asset sales and higher income taxes on residents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  