-- Traders Short Junk-Bond ETFs as Gains Top 100%: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-03-18T12:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/traders-short-junk-bond-etfs-as-gains-top-100-credit-markets.html
Wall Street’s biggest credit
brokers are for the first time using exchange-traded funds as a
way to wager that junk bonds are overvalued.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  traders who helped dealers move $1.5
trillion of credit-default swaps index contracts last year began
offering clients the ability to trade blocks of bond  ETF (HYG)  shares
in February, according to three people familiar with the trading
and an e-mail sent to customers. Shares borrowed to make  bearish
bets  on  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s $12 billion speculative-grade bond
ETF soared to a record 11.5 percent of the total outstanding on
March 1, up from 4 percent at year-end.  Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  warned last month
that he was seeing “a fairly significant pattern of reaching-
for-yield behavior emerging in corporate credit,” with four
years of central bank stimulus pushing investors toward the
riskiest securities and compressing junk-bond yields to a record
low 6.4 percent on March 15. Buyers who reaped gains of 125
percent the past four years are now souring on the debt.  “As the high-yield ETF market has grown, we’ve seen
institutional investors using high-yield ETFs to build
portfolios and manage risk,” said Matthew Tucker, head of
iShares fixed-income strategy for  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s
biggest money manager, in  San Francisco . “They’ve been looking
for ways to both go long the high-yield market and hedge against
losses.”  Rate Bets  As the number of borrowed shares in the two biggest
speculative-grade bond ETFs almost doubled last month, the net
amount of credit swaps tied to a benchmark index of junk-rated
companies increased 10 percent, Markit Group Ltd. and Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp.  data  show.  Unlike credit swaps, which typically only allow investors
to wager on corporate creditworthiness and trade off exchanges
in privately negotiated transactions, ETFs also fluctuate with
interest rates and trade like stocks.  “To the extent that investors want to hedge both their
credit risk and their interest-rate risk, selling the ETFs can
make sense,” said Eric Gross, a credit strategist at  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  in  New York . Swap indexes are “still the most liquid way to
hedge high-yield credit, but it has essentially zero exposure to
rates,” he said.  BlackRock Fund  The volume of  shares on loan  from BlackRock’s $15.4 billion
junk-bond ETF, the biggest of its kind, soared to 20.9 million
on March 7, or 13 percent of the total outstanding that day,
according to Markit and Bloomberg data. That’s up from 0.3
percent on March 9, 2012, and 7 percent at year-end.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of insuring European
bank bonds against default jumped to the highest in two weeks
after Cyprus imposed an unprecedented levy on bank savings to
help finance its international bailout.  Traders are betting the tax makes it more likely European
authorities will force senior bank bondholders, who rank
alongside depositors as the last to lose out when debt is
impaired, to share the burden of financial-system rescues.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
insuring the senior bonds of 25 lenders and insurers climbed 15
basis points to 158, the biggest jump in cost since Italy’s
inconclusive election three weeks ago.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Spread Narrows  The extra yield investors demand to hold corporate bonds
globally rather than government debentures declined for the
second week.  Spreads on bonds from the U.S. to  Europe  and  Asia  tightened
1 basis point to 143 basis points, or 1.43 percentage points, in
the period ended March 15, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Corporate index, which reached 142 on Jan. 10,
the least since April 2010. Yields fell to 2.62 percent from
2.68 percent on March 8.  The Barclays Global Aggregate Corporate Index has lost 0.2
percent this month, bringing the decline this year to 1.19
percent.  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE) 
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers last week, accounting for 3.6 percent of
the volume of trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Bond Sales  A $3 billion offering by GlaxoSmithKline Plc led $104.4
billion of corporate bond  sales  worldwide last week, following
$93.6 billion in the period ended March 8, Bloomberg data show.  In its first dollar-denominated sale since May, Glaxo, the
U.K.’s largest drugmaker, sold bonds that included $1.25 billion
each of 0.7 percent, three-year notes yielding 35 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries and 2.8 percent, 10-year
securities at a relative yield of 90 basis points, Bloomberg
data show.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 8.6 basis
points to 287.5 basis points, according to  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index . The measure reached 245 on Jan. 3, the
least since April 2010.  Relative  yields  on dollar-denominated  junk bonds  have
contracted 13.4 percentage points since 2008, when the Fed began
purchasing bonds and holding benchmark borrowing costs from zero
to 0.25 percent to rescue the world’s biggest economy from the
credit crisis.  Facing Erosion  The notes have declined 0.5 cent to an average 105.4 cents
on the dollar from the record high of 105.9 cents in January,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. They traded as
low as 58.8 cents in March 2009.  “Most bonds are trading at a pretty high premium and could
face significant price erosion,” Natalie Trevithick, who
oversees $35 billion as head of investment-grade debt at Los
Angeles-based Payden & Rygel, said in a telephone interview.  Average modified duration, a gauge of debt’s sensitivity to
increasing  interest rates , climbed to 4.98 on Jan. 3, the
highest level since October 2007. Investors yanked $418 million
from high-yield bond funds last week, JPMorgan data show.  The Fed’s Stein warned that the junk-debt market may be
overheating in a Feb. 7  speech  in  St. Louis . If so, “it does
not bode well for the expected returns to junk-bond and
leveraged-loan investors,” he said. Rising rates are a “medium
risk” to corporate-bond ETFs, Fitch Ratings analysts wrote in a
Dec. 19 report.  ETF Trades  U.S. life insurance companies, which hold $2.1 trillion of
corporate bonds, and  hedge funds , which may experience magnified
losses because of their use of leverage, or borrowed money, face
similar potential challenges, the analysts wrote.  Bank of America’s Kavi Gupta offered trades of about $30
million in BlackRock’s junk-bond ETF shares in an e-mail listing
securities available for sale to clients last month, according
to a copy of the message obtained by  Bloomberg News . The credit-
swaps index trader also offered trades in about $20 million of
shares from State Street’s fund, according to the note.  February was the first time that Bank of America’s swaps
traders started trading blocks of ETF shares, according to the
three people familiar with trading in the market, who asked not
to be identified since the trades aren’t public. Zia Ahmed, a
spokesman for Bank of America, declined to comment.  ‘More Volatile’  “High-yield ETFs tend to be more volatile than the
underlying broad market,” said Jason Rosiak, head of  portfolio
management  at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Asset
Management, the Pacific Life Insurance Co. affiliate that
oversees about $3.2 billion. “It’s a new tool due to their size
and liquidity.”  In the two weeks after junk-bond yields reached a record
low on Jan. 25, prices on BlackRock’s iShares iBoxx High Yield
ETF shares declined 1.95 percent. That’s 0.8 percentage point
more than the 1.18 percent loss on the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. High Yield Index during the same period and 1.14
percentage points more than the 0.8 percent decline in the price
of the Markit CDX North American High Yield credit-swaps index,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The ETF rose 0.81 percent in the next two weeks, compared
with a 0.18 percent return on bonds in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index and a 0.56 percent price gain on the swaps
benchmark.  Option Surge  The net amount of credit swaps outstanding on the most
recent version of the Markit CDX high-yield index increased
about 10 percent in the month ended March 1 to $25.5 billion,
according to Depository Trust & Clearing data. That compares
with a 135 percent increase in shares on loan for State Street’s
junk-bond ETF in the period and a 62 percent rise in borrowed
shares for BlackRock’s fund, Markit data show.  The number of  bearish options  on BlackRock’s $15.4 billion
junk-bond fund rose to a record after yields dropped to an all-
time low and companies sold more of the debt than ever before.  Outstanding puts giving the right to sell the iShares iBoxx
High Yield Corporate Bond Fund rose to 456,910 on March 7,
almost 10 times the total of calls to buy. The number of bearish
contracts has more than doubled since the Jan. 18 options
expiration and reached an all-time high last month.  “We’ve seen increasing availability of ETF shares for
borrowing and selling short as a hedging vehicle,” BlackRock’s
Tucker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  