-- Rand Falls for Second Day as Cyprus Bailout Sparks Risk Aversion
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-03-18T08:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/rand-falls-for-second-day-as-cyprus-bailout-sparks-risk-aversion.html
The rand weakened for a second day
as stocks and commodities slumped after an unprecedented levy on
Cyprus’ bank savings threatened to spark a new round in  Europe ’s
debt crisis, prompting investors to sell riskier assets.  South Africa’s currency slipped as much as 0.8 percent
before paring its loss to 0.5 percent at 9.2284 per dollar by
9:14 a.m. in Johannesburg. The rand depreciated 1 percent last
week. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026
climbed three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.43
percent.  The 17-nation euro declined by the most in three weeks
against the yen as investors sought haven assets after Cypriot
President Nicos Anastasiades bowed to demands by euro-area
finance ministers to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) by
taking a piece of every bank account in Cyprus. The euro area is
South Africa’s biggest regional trading partner.  “The rand is under renewed pressure as the euro tumbles
after the Cyprus bailout,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist
at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. South Africa’s currency could weaken as far as 9.28
per dollar, he added.  Scenes of Cypriots lining up at cash machines raised the
specter of capital flight elsewhere and threatened to disrupt a
market calm that settled over the 17-member currency bloc since
the  European Central Bank ’s pledge in September to backstop
troubled nations’ debt.  Emerging-market stocks  slumped the most in more than three
months and Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials tumbled
more than 1 percent. South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  fell
to a two-week low, led by declines in shares of commodity
exporters including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)   Mining and commodities accounted for 53 percent of South
Africa’s exports in 2012, according to government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  