-- Rand Set to Plunge as Risks of Power Cuts Rises, Nomura Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-03-18T10:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/rand-set-to-plunge-as-risks-of-power-cuts-rises-nomura-says.html
South Africa’s rand is set to
extend declines as the risk of forced blackouts by Eskom
Holdings SOC Ltd., the state-owned electricity company, rises,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  The currency may drop to 9.95 per dollar, with past
experience as a guide, Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based
emerging-markets economist at Nomura, wrote in a research note
e-mailed to clients today. A “more conservative” target for
the currency is 9.52 per dollar, he said. It traded 0.2 percent
weaker at 9.2031 per dollar by 12:29 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The rand fell 15 percent against the dollar in the first
quarter of 2008, when coal shortages and maintenance at power
plants forced Eskom to cut electricity to the nation’s mines, a
program known as load shedding. The risk of a repeat this
quarter and next year is “very high” after strikes at mines
owned by  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , the nation’s second-biggest coal
producer, cut supplies to plants, Montalto said.  “The electricity supply situation is extremely tight,” he
said. “The risk of load-shedding is the highest since start
2008. The system can easily be tripped over into load-
shedding.”  A fault at Koeberg, South Africa’s only nuclear power
plant, damaged transmission lines from the Cahora Bassa
hydropower site in  Mozambique , and maintenance at other plants
have cut generating capacity by 22 percent, Eskom said on March
11. The company supplies 95 percent of the nation’s power.  The rand also faces risks from labor disputes, a current-
account deficit near a four-year high, concern about a widening
budget shortfall and a potential downgrade of South Africa’s
credit rating, Montalto wrote.  The South African currency has weakened 8 percent this
year, the most out of 25 emerging-market currencies monitored by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  