-- RBA’s Lowe Says Strong Currency, High Savings Stabilize Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-18T22:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/rba-s-lowe-says-strong-currency-high-savings-stabilize-economy.html
Reserve Bank of  Australia  Deputy
Governor  Philip Lowe  said a stronger currency and higher savings
rate have helped contain inflation and allowed lower interest
rates even as the  mining industry  boomed.  “Somewhat ironically, two of the factors that have created
difficult challenges for many businesses over recent years --
the high exchange rate and increased household savings -- are
the very same factors that have been critical to Australia’s
good macroeconomic performance,” Lowe said in the  text  of a
speech to be delivered today in Sydney. “These factors have
helped Australia to digest a huge investment boom without
generating substantial imbalances in the economy.”  Australia’s dollar averaged $1.0380 in the past two years,
compared with 72.3 cents in the prior two decades, spurred by
near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and  Japan . Australia’s
savings ratio soared as consumers turned cautious after the
financial crisis: it was 10.1 percent in the final three months
of 2012, from minus 0.1 percent in the first quarter of 2006.  Lowe’s analysis of the higher  exchange rate  and savings
level contrasts with complaints from manufacturers and retailers
that have struggled to compete with cheaper imported products
and consumers unwilling to spend. The RBA’s No. 2 official
repeated that 1.75 percentage points of  rate cuts  in the 14
months through December are designed to help alleviate pressure
from the exchange rate, and added that the currency’s strength
was now driving productivity gains in the economy.  ‘Quite Persistent’  “Nowadays, there is a greater recognition that the high
exchange rate is likely to be quite persistent and firms,
including in the manufacturing sector, are adjusting to this,”
Lowe told the  Australian Industry Group  that represents more
than 60,000 firms. “This adjustment in business processes and
models is often painful. But the fact that it is occurring is
one reason why the  Reserve Bank  has been tentatively optimistic
for some time that productivity growth would pick-up from the
low rates experienced over much of the previous decade.”  The RBA has left the cash rate unchanged this year at 3
percent, matching a half century low, as what Lowe called a
“once-in-a-century investment boom” in the resources industry
is predicted to peak. It is aiming to manage an economy where
mining regions in the north and west thrive while manufacturers,
builders and retailers in the south and east struggle.  Best Performer  The local dollar’s 53 percent climb in the past four years,
the best performance among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, has hurt exporters.  Lowe today addressed the question of whether the six rate
cuts since November 2011 are having the impact expected from
such a reduction. He said each easing cycle is different.  “The available evidence does suggest that lower  interest
rates  are doing their work broadly as expected,” he said. “The
initial responses to a loosening of monetary policy would be
expected to include stronger asset prices, improved conditions
in the housing market, a lift in  consumer confidence  and a lower
exchange rate.” He said these appear to be occurring -- noting
labor market indicators have been slightly firmer -- with the
“notable exception” of the exchange rate, reflecting low
global rates and quantitative easing.  Lowe said an improvement in consumer sentiment and higher
asset prices should lead to higher household spending. He said
the RBA is monitoring non-mining business investment, which is
traditionally among the last areas to respond to an easing.  Non-Mining Investment  “A critical question for the outlook is the strength of
this expected pick-up in non-mining investment,” Lowe said.
“There are some tentative signs of a lift in investment
intentions outside the resources sector.” He said whether the
increases are enough to offset lower mining investment is
something policy makers “will be watching very carefully over
the months ahead.”  Lowe said the Australian economy has “adjusted pretty
well” to the shocks in the global economy and monetary policy
has played an important role by keeping inflation “low and
stable.” It is committed to continuing that role, he said.  Without the appreciation of the exchange rate, “it is
highly likely that the economy would have overheated and that we
would have had substantially higher inflation and substantially
higher interest rates,” Lowe said. “It is also worth adding
that, in any case, it is unlikely that we would have avoided a
substantial real exchange rate appreciation, with it coming
through the more costly route of higher inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  