-- Congo Rebel Wanted for War Crimes Surrenders for Trial
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-03-19T09:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/rebel-wanted-for-war-crimes-surrenders-to-u-s-embassy-in-rwanda.html
Bosco Ntaganda, a rebel leader in
the  Democratic Republic  of Congo wanted for war crimes,
surrendered to the U.S. Embassy in Rwanda and asked to be sent
to the  International Criminal Court , the State Department said.  “He specifically asked to be transferred to the ICC in The
Hague,” spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  told reporters in
 Washington  yesterday. “We are currently consulting with a
number of governments, including the Rwandan government, in
order to facilitate his request.”  Ntaganda, the head of the M23 rebel group, is wanted by the
ICC for war crimes in eastern Congo in 2002 and 2003. He left
Congo’s national army last year amid fears he would be arrested
and started M23. Last month, M23 split with a faction controlled
by Sultani Makenga, which has vowed to capture Ntaganda.  Congo accuses neighboring Rwanda of supporting M23, a
charge the country denies. Several Western nations have cut aid
to Rwanda because of the accusations. Rwanda’s government had
“nothing to do with Bosco Ntaganda” handing himself over to
the U.S. authorities, Foreign Minister Louise Mushikiwabo said
in a phone interview today from the capital, Kigali.  “He is on U.S. territory and now the issue is between the
U.S., Congo and the ICC,” she said. “The U.S. is a partner
state and we commit to give them any support they want.”  Murder, Rape  An ethnic Tutsi who was born in Rwanda, Ntaganda is facing
seven counts of  war crimes  and three counts of crimes against
humanity, according to the ICC’s  website . Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda’s office accuses him of using child soldiers and
“murder, attacks against civilians, rape and sexual slavery,
and pillage” in Congo’s Ituri region in 2002 and 2003.  “For over 10 years now, Ntaganda has left a trail of
atrocities across eastern Congo, leading his troops to murder,
rape, and pillage,” Ida Sawyer, Human Rights Watch researcher
on Congo, said in a statement on the New York-based group’s
website. “The U.S. now needs to make sure he faces justice for
these alleged crimes by immediately sending him to the ICC.”  The U.S. is “helping to facilitate” Ntaganda’s transfer
to the ICC, Ambassador-at-Large for War Crimes Issues Stephen
Rapp said on his Twitter feed yesterday. Neither  Rwanda  nor the
U.S. has ratified the Rome Statute that established the court.  ‘Swift Transfer’  The ICC is liaising with relevant states about the
transfer, Pascal Turlan, international cooperation adviser at
the ICC’s prosecutor’s office, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “We look forward to a swift transfer,” he said.  Congo, almost the size of Western Europe, produces about
half the world’s cobalt, used in rechargeable batteries, and
about 3 percent of its copper. It has struggled to control its
border regions since the official end of conflict in 2003.  Ntaganda controlled the trade in minerals from eastern
Congo, according to a series of annual reports by the UN
independent group of experts on Congo. Eastern Congo is rich in
tin, gold and coltan, an ore used in electronics.  “Now we are seeing the end of impunity for warlords,”
Congolese Media Minister Lambert Mende said yesterday by phone
from Kinshasa, the capital. Ntaganda crossed the border into
neighboring Rwanda on March 16, he said.  Congo is negotiating a peace deal with M23 in  Uganda ’s
capital, Kampala, that could see most of its members
reintegrated into the national army.  Last month in the Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa , Congo
signed a framework agreement with the  United Nations , African
regional organizations and 10 African countries to promote a
lasting peace. Yesterday, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
appointed former Irish President Mary Robinson as special envoy
to oversee the implementation of the agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  