-- Reindeer Heart to Funky Cocktails: Oslo Dine & Deal
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-03-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/reindeer-heart-to-funky-cocktails-oslo-dine-deal.html
The Nordic region was a culinary
backwater before Noma won World’s Best Restaurant in 2010.  Oslo reminds you why.  The prices are scary and you can eat better for less in
other European capitals. Yet Oslo is a beautiful city and well
worth a trip. You might also find yourself visiting for work.  Here are 10 establishments to consider for business dining .  1: Alex Sushi, 2 Cort Adelers Gate, 0254. Information:
 http://www.alexsushi.no/  or +47-22-43 99-99.  What: Popular and informal Japanese restaurant with a
takeaway service next door. Locals may tell you it’s the best
sushi in Oslo. There is a choice of set menus or a la carte.  Why: It’s lively and fun with a good atmosphere. While it’s
not cheap, few places are in in Oslo. Many residents are fans,
so will be happy to go.  Where: Near the U.S. Embassy.  When: It’s an evening place and gets very busy. It’s wise
to book well ahead.  Bar: Yes.  Private room: Yes, for about 14 guests.  Sound level: Buzzy, 70 decibels.  2: Bagatelle, 1 Bygdoe Alle, 0257. Information:
 http://www.bagatelle.no/  or +47-22-44-40-40.  What: It’s one of the finest restaurants in Oslo. Chef
Derrick Styczek, who won a Michelin star last March, seeks out
Nordic ingredients for his modern French dishes. He has just
returned to the U.S., so you may prefer to eat at the brasserie
next door. Lille B, which is served by the same kitchen, is
known for its burger on brioche, which comes with truffle
cheese, truffle dressing and fries for 185 kroner ($32).  Why: The food is fabulous and it costs a fabulous price:
The minimum seven-course tasting menu costs 1,250 kroner. Dishes
such as surf & turf with smoked wagyu carpaccio, langoustine and
caviar don’t come cheap. The wine list is epic and you can
request a tour of the cellars. The art is also exceptional, with
a Gilbert & George work dominating the dining room.  Where: It’s to the west of the city center, within walking
distance of Slottsparken.  When: Bagatelle is open all day.  Bar: No.  Private room: Yes, for 16-20 guests.  Sound level: The good news is that it’s very quiet, at 60
decibels. The bad news is that’s because I was the only diner.  3: Fru K, 1 Landgangen, Thief Hotel, 0252. Information:
 http://thethief.com/en/restaurant-bar/  or +47-24-00-40-00.  What: A new restaurant in the Thief Hotel. Fru K (meaning
Madam K) opened in January. Chef Kari Innera serves innovative
dishes based on Norwegian traditions, using local ingredients.  Why: It’s one of the most exciting restaurants in Oslo and
(strictly in local terms) it is not particularly expensive. The
modern dining room features comfortable chairs and overlooks the
fjord. The set lunch is 199 kroner. The cooking is good and for
such a cool restaurant, the service is reasonably warm. There is
a separate menu for children, who may like this place.  Where: In the Thief Hotel in Tjuvholmen, near the  Astrup
Fearnley Museum .  When: Lunchtime is good because you get the view in winter.  Bar: Yes.  Private room: Yes, seats 12-16.  Sound level: Quiet, 65-70 decibels.  4: Hanami, Tjuholmen, Kanalen 1, 0252. Information:
 http://hanami.no/  or +47-22-83-10-90.  What: It’s a Japanese fusion restaurant that appears
inspired by places like Zuma in  London . It’s open all day.  Why: For the cocktails, which are inventive and very good.
You might also go for the buzz. The menu is tempting but the
execution can be hit-and-miss and the wine list is limited.  Where: Tjuvholmen, a neighborhood that is worth a visit for
the architecture alone.  When: The later the better. It can be quiet during the day.  Bar: Yes. It’s good. The cocktail guy says he used to work
in London at Shoreditch House.  Private room: No.  Sound level:  5: Maaemo, 15 Schweigaards Gate, 0191. Information:
 http://maaemo.no/  or +47-91-99-48-05.  What: A top-priced restaurant serving some of the finest
food in  Europe . (Dinner with matching wines costs 3,250 kroner
($589), plus tax and optional tip.) Chef Esben Holmboe Bang
creates a seasonal menu of Nordic dishes, focusing on Norwegian
ingredients.  Why: The food is sublime. The wine pairings are inventive.
The service is faultless. More than that, you are eating the
food of the region rather than some pan-European mishmash of
truffles and foie gras. If you want a taste of Norway and you’re
not on a budget, this is the place to get it. Anyone for
reindeer heart with brown butter?  Where: In a modern office block, on the wrong side of the
tracks, near Oslo’s central railway station. Maaemo is very
difficult to find, so if you are on foot, leave plenty of time.
It is also very difficult to get a table, so book weeks ahead.  When: Dinner only.  Bar: No.  Private room: No.  Sound level: Seventy decibels.  6: Olympen, Gronlandsleiret 15, 0190. Information:
 http://www.olympen.no/  or +47-24-10-19-99.  What: This is a well-known pub-restaurant serving a range
of more than 150 beers and traditional Norwegian fare.  Why: For the beer. The range is astonishing and includes
local options such as Funky Geyser Sour Ale (99 kroner a liter)
and Bridge Road Brewers Beechworth, from  Australia  (135 kroner).
It’s an atmospheric place, with high ceilings and lots of dark
wood.  Where: It’s within walking distance of the main train
station. If you’re asking for directions, Olympen is
colloquially known as “Lompa” in Oslo.  When: Nighttime is best.  Bar: Let me get back to you on that.  Private room: It’s best to check. A refurbishment is
planned for the summer and there may not be one.  Sound level: About 75 decibels late on a quiet Wednesday.  7: Onda, 30 Stranden, 0250. Information:  http://www.onda.no/  or
+47-45-50-20--00.  What: A new seafood brasserie which juts out on Oslo’s
fjord. There’s also a fine-dining restaurant, an Asian dining
room and an outdoor terrace.  Why: The views out over the fjord and across to the
Akershus Fortress are spectacular. The modern dining room is
spacious, with plenty of light thanks to the floor-to-ceiling
windows. The food can be disappointing. The bread was cold and
the sashimi was bafflingly short on flavor.  When: Lunchtime or early evening for the views.  Bar: Yes.  Private room: Yes, for 14 to 16 in Onda Mezzanine.  Sound level: Very quiet: 60 decibels during a midweek
lunch.  8: Statholdergaarden, 11 Radhusgaten, 0151. Information:
 http://www.statholdergaarden.no/  or +47-22-41-88-00.  What: An Oslo institution. There has been a restaurant on
this site since 1914. The current restaurant dates back to 1994.
Statholdergaarden holds a Michelin star.  Why: If you’re looking for fine French food, this may be
the place for you. Bent Stiansen was the first chef from  Norway 
to win the Bocuse d’Or world culinary championship in 1993.  He
worked in  France  for many years and you can taste that
experience in his food, which is classic without ever being old-
fashioned. The only caveat: If you are on a short visit to Oslo,
you may not want to eat French food, even when it is this good.  Where: Kvadraturen, in the old city center.  When: Statholdergaarden is beautiful for dinner but it
might also be a treat to try the salad and sandwiches at lunch.  Bar: No. There are various rooms available.  Sound level: About 60 to 65 decibels. The dining room is
very serious and quiet. This is a place for whispered
conversations, not for raucous conviviality.  9: Theatercafeen, 24 Stortingsgaten, Hotel Continental, 0117.
Info:  http://www.hotelcontinental.no/theatercafeen.aspx?ID=33  or
+47-22-82-40-00.  What: A large and historic brasserie right in the city
center that has been a favorite in Oslo since 1900. (There’s
more on the venue’s fascinating history  here .) It’s open all day
and gets very busy.  Why: You feel like you are at the epicenter of Norway. You
could imagine Henrik Ibsen wandering in for coffee and cakes.
(He died more than a century ago, so it’s highly improbable, but
you get the point.) The beautiful detail in the decor is
fascinating. That’s just as well because the food is of another
age and it wasn’t a gastronomic one.  Where: Opposite the  National Theater , in the city center.  When: Another time, I’d go for afternoon tea and cakes.
Theatercafeen is in the tradition of grand Viennese cafes.  Bar: Yes.  Private room: Yes. It seats about 20.  Sound level: Approaching 80 decibels yet it feels more
buzzy than loud.  10: Von Porat, Mathallen, Maridalsveien 17, 0175. Information:
 http://www.vonporat.no/  or +47-21-64-12-43.  What: A very casual venue overlooking the Mathallen food
hall. The food is mainly local produce from the market. I’m
grateful to the  Nordic Nibbler  website for highlighting Von
Porat. I’d never have found it on my own and it was the best-
value place I visited in Oslo. I recommend it highly.  Why: I didn’t find anywhere else that served inexpensive
and delicious food made with local ingredients. The service was
friendly and engaging, the wine list good value by Oslo’s scary
standards.  Where: The Mathallen is north of the city center and a bit
of a trek. But it is worth the effort if you are interested in
looking round and sampling local produce.  When: Lunchtime is good.  Bar: Yes  Private room: Yes.  Sound level: Quiet. 65 decibels.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeffrey Burke  on books,  John
Mariani  on wine,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts and  Greg Evans 
on U.S. television.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Oslo on 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 