-- Republican U.S. Senate Economist Said to Be Vetted for SEC
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-03-18T18:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/republican-u-s-senate-economist-said-to-be-vetted-for-sec-1-.html
Michael Piwowar, the chief
Republican economist for the U.S. Senate Banking Committee, is
being vetted for an appointment to the Securities and Exchange
Commission when a slot opens later this year, according to four
people briefed on the matter.  Piwowar would be nominated for the seat held by Republican
Commissioner Troy Paredes, whose term ends in June, according to
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions aren’t public. Paredes, who was a professor at the
 Washington  University School of Law before he joined the SEC in
2008, has told people he is eager to return to academia.  If Piwowar were nominated and confirmed he would be the
only economist on a five-member commission that historically is
made up of lawyers.  Having an economist as a member can bring “an overall
appreciation of economic analysis in developing and implementing
rules, and more specifically, an understanding of robust cost-
benefit analysis,” said Cynthia A. Glassman, who was a
Republican commissioner at the agency from 2002 to 2006 and the
last economist appointed to the SEC.  Earlier in his career, Piwowar was a staff member in the
SEC’s office of economic analysis. The people said he could help
sharpen Republicans’ focus on measuring the costs of new
regulations as the agency completes rules from the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act.  Lost Cases  The SEC has lost a number of challenges in federal court on
rules that opponents argued didn’t properly take into account
the regulatory costs. Business groups are making similar
arguments in other cases that are pending, including Dodd-Frank
requirements that companies disclose whether they use metals
from the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, and that oil, gas and
mining firms report payments made to foreign governments.  As President  Barack Obama ’s second term gets under way, the
commission is changing. Mary Jo White, a former U.S. attorney
and Wall Street defense lawyer, is poised to take over as
chairman pending Senate confirmation. In addition, the term of
Elisse Walter, who has been holding down the chairmanship since
the departure of  Mary Schapiro  in December, is already expired;
the White House is expected to make a nomination for her seat
soon.  By tradition, the president’s party picks three of the five
SEC members, and the opposing party chooses two. The search for
a replacement for Paredes is being handled by the Senate
Republican leadership.  Former Professor  Piwowar referred questions to Amanda Critchfield, a
spokeswoman for Republicans on the banking committee, who
declined to comment.  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, also
declined to comment.  Before going to work for the Senate Banking Committee,
Piwowar was a senior economist on the President’s Council of
Economic Advisers staff in both the  George W. Bush  and Obama
administrations, according to the website of the College of
Business at  Iowa State University , where Piwowar was an
assistant professor from 1998 to 2004.  During part of that time, he was also a visiting academic
scholar in the SEC’s office of economic analysis, where he co-
authored a study on municipal bond pricing, according to a
resume posted online from a previous employer, Securities
Litigation and Consulting Group, Inc.  Piwowar became a senior financial economist at the SEC in
2004, according to the resume. His research has involved some of
the central issues the agency is now confronting, including
market structure and computerized trading.  He also analyzed ill-gotten gains and investor harm in
securities fraud enforcement matters, inadequate disclosure and
best-execution stock pricing violations. He left the agency in
2006.  A 1990 graduate of  Pennsylvania State University , Piwowar
has an MBA from  Georgetown University  and a Ph.D in Finance,
also from  Penn State .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 