-- Romania Yields Fall on Local Demand; Leu Drops to 11-Week low
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-03-18T15:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/romania-yields-fall-on-local-demand-leu-drops-to-11-week-low.html
Romania ’s yields fell at auctions
today as unrestricted liquidity offered by the central bank for
a third week supported local demand for the nation’s debt. The
leu weakened to its lowest level in almost 11 weeks.  Romania raised 500 million lei ($147 million) each in one-
year treasury bills and seven-year local bonds, the central bank
said in a statement on its website. The average yield slipped to
5.02 percent for the 2014 bills and to 5.61 percent for the 2020
bonds. Demand for the bills was 1.7 billion lei and bids for the
bonds were at 697 million, according to the central bank,
exceeding the planned sale amount for both securities.  “Demand for leu bonds has picked up recently and should
exert downward pressures on yields,” Mihai Patrulescu, a
Bucharest-based senior economist at UniCredit Tiriac Bank SA,
wrote in a note today before the auction.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei extended its policy of
lending without capping the size of its repurchase agreements
auction. The central bank lent 247 million lei to two commercial
banks at it repo auction today, in line with bids. It has met
the commercial lenders’ demand for the currency at each of the
last two weekly sales.  Romania’s interbank offered rate, known as ROBOR, fell to a
three-week low of 1.52 percent on March 15. The rate stood at
1.56 percent today, below the central bank’s main interest rate
of 5.25 percent.  Analysts at Piraeus Bank Romania SA and ING Bank Romania SA
estimated yields of between 5.07 percent and 5.15 percent for
the bills at the sale today and to between 5.45 percent and 5.6
percent for the bonds.  Leu Depreciates  The leu weakened 0.5 percent to 4.4149 per euro by 4 p.m.
in Bucharest, the lowest level on a closing basis since Jan. 4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro depreciated the most against the dollar in more
than a month, while stocks and commodities slumped, as an
unprecedented levy on Cyprus’s bank savings threatened to throw
 Europe  back into crisis. Euro finance ministers reached an
agreement on March 16 forcing depositors in Cypriot banks to
share in the cost of the latest euro-zone bailout.  “The leu depreciation was driven by the deterioration of
investors’ sentiment worldwide after euro-area finance ministers
agreed to apply a tax on Cypriot bank deposits,” Florentina Cozmanca, a Bucharest-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, wrote in a note today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  