-- MRPL Said to Buy Oil From Shell on Possible Iran Disruptions
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-03-18T06:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/mrpl-said-to-buy-oil-from-shell-on-possible-iran-disruptions-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  sold two
high-sulfur oil cargoes to  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals
Ltd. (MRPL) , the biggest state-run Indian buyer of Iranian crude, as
supplies from the Persian Gulf state may be disrupted because of
global sanctions.  Mangalore, a unit of Oil and Natural Gas Corp., bought
650,000 barrels each of Oman and Banaco Arab Medium crude from
Shell for loading next month, according to four traders who
asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential. The grades are similar to Mangalore’s imports from
Iran, the traders said.  Indian refiners may halt Iranian crude purchases as local
insurers refuse to cover the risks for using the oil, P.P.
Upadhya, the managing director at Mangalore, said March 8. The
company, known as MRPL, has an contract to buy 5 million metric
tons a year from the Islamic Republic.  The insurance difficulties are a result of sanctions
enacted by the U.S. and its allies in July to restrict  Iran ’s
oil exports, the nation’s largest source of revenue. The
countries are trying to pressure Iran to curb its nuclear
program, which they say is designed to develop an atomic weapon.
It says the program is for civilian purposes including
electricity production and medical research.  Masila Crude  MRPL bought the Oman crude for loading from April 16 to
April 30 at a premium of about $1.70 a barrel to Dubai crude on
a cost and freight basis, the traders said. Shell received about
$1.50 a barrel more than Dubai for Bahrain’s Banaco, which will
be loaded in the first half of next month, they said.  The company also purchased 650,000 barrels of  Yemen ’s low-
sulfur Masila crude from Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. for loading in
the second half of April, the traders said.  The Masila was purchased as a part of the company’s regular
crude requirements and isn’t related to the difficulty in
receiving Iranian oil, two of the traders said.  MRPL may import 3.8 million tons of Iranian crude during
the year ending March 31, down from its term contract for 5
million, Managing Director Upadhya said on Jan. 31. Shipments of
“even 3.8 million tons in the next financial year may be
difficult,” he said.  Iran slid four places to become  India ’s seventh-largest
crude supplier from April to December as the South Asian nation
reduced imports, according to data given to parliament on March
15 by P. Lakshmi, the Indian junior oil minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  