-- Rupee Drops Most in Two Weeks on Cyprus Concerns; Bonds Decline
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-18T12:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/rupee-drops-most-in-two-weeks-on-cyprus-concerns-bonds-steady.html
India ’s rupee dropped the most in
two weeks as an unprecedented levy on Cyprus’s bank savings
threatens to throw  Europe  back into crisis.  Euro-area finance ministers reached an agreement on March
16 forcing depositors in Cypriot banks to share in the cost of a
bailout. While Cyprus accounts for less than half a percent of
the 17-nation euro economy, the concern is that the one-time tax
could trigger runs on lenders across Europe and further
destabilize the financial system. India’s bonds declined before
the central bank’s interest-rate review tomorrow.  “Currently, the global scenario is weighing on the
rupee,” said Ashtosh Raina, Mumbai-based head of foreign-
exchange trading at  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , India’s largest lender by
market capitalization. “A quarter-percentage-point cut from the
Reserve Bank of India has been factored in, and anything away
from consensus will move the market dramatically.”  The rupee declined 0.3 percent to 54.1750 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest drop since March 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, rose
25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 9.22 percent. The
Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six trading
partners, climbed 0.5 percent.  Indian companies are “quite happy” with the rupee at its
current level of 54 to 55 per dollar, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said in a March 15 interview in New
Delhi.  Policy Rates  Chidambaram also said the government may ease restrictions
on foreign direct investment and that a narrower budget deficit
has created space for a rate cut. India aims to achieve a fiscal
gap of 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year through
March 2014, compared with a projected 5.2 percent this year.
Inflation continues to be “a worry,” he said, as  consumer
prices  are rising almost 11 percent.  “We have argued on the government’s side that there is a
case for lowering the policy rates,” Chidambaram said. “We
express our view but the governor has to take the call.”  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will lower the
benchmark  repurchase rate  to 7.50 percent from 7.75 percent,
according to 30 of 35 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Five
predict no change. The finance ministry will borrow 3.49
trillion rupees, or 58 percent of its borrowing target for the
year starting April 1, in the first six months, Economic Affairs
Secretary Arvind Mayaram said in New Delhi today after the
market had shut. The government will open the fiscal year with a
cash balance of 800 billion rupees, he said.  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 rose two
basis points to 7.88 percent, according to the central bank’s
trading system, as traders awaited the borrowing schedule.  Cyprus Concern  About 4 percent, or $6.8 billion, of foreign investment to
India in the 12 years through December came  through Cyprus ,
government data show. The data lists Cyprus as the route for the
seventh-largest fund flow into India, as Asia’s third-largest
economy has tax treaties with the island, Mauritius and
 Singapore , to eliminate duplicate levies on goods and capital.  European policy makers today signaled flexibility on the
application of the bank tax. While demanding that the levy raise
the targeted 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion), finance officials
said easing the cost to smaller savers was up to Cyprus. A vote
on the tax, needed to secure 10 billion euros in rescue loans,
was delayed for a second day. Banks may not reopen tomorrow
after a holiday today, state-run broadcaster CYBC reported.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.26 per
dollar, compared with 55.10 on March 15, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.18 versus 55.09. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  