-- Russia February Industrial Output Down More Than Forecast
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-03-18T13:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/russia-february-industrial-output-down-more-than-forecast.html
(Corrects December GDP figure in sixth paragraph.)  Russian  industrial output  shrank in
February, contracting by the most in more than three years as
mining and utilities production weakened.  Output dropped 2.1 percent from a year earlier, when
February had 29 days, after a 0.8 percent contraction in
January, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in
an e-mailed statement. The median estimate of 19 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey  was a for a 1 percent contraction.  The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter  expanded 
last year at the lowest pace since 2009 as  Europe ’s debt crisis
and a slowdown in  China  sapped demand for its commodities. Bank
Rossii, faced with the fastest inflation in 18 months, left
borrowing costs unchanged for a sixth month last week, saying
market rates were acceptable.  “We would expect industry to be close to stagnation even
without the calendar factor,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief
economist for Russia at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said by
e-mail before the release. “Export and investment demand is
weak, which constrains any existing potential for growth.”  The Micex Index of 50 stocks fell 2.4 percent to 1,458.70
as of 3:16 p.m. in Moscow, heading for the weakest close since
Dec. 11. The ruble weakened 0.7 percent against the dollar to
30.8710 amid speculation over risks from a plan to force losses
on Cyprus bank depositors.  Earlier Easing  Mining contracted 2.2 percent after a 1.2 percent drop in
January, the statistics service said. Output at utilities fell
10 percent after a 1.8 percent gain the previous month, while
manufacturing fell 0.1 percent, improving from a 0.3 percent
decline. Gross domestic product increased 1.6 percent from a
year earlier in January, compared with 2.4 percent in December.  “If overall economic growth starts approaching 2 percent a
year, this will likely tilt the central bank toward earlier
policy easing,” Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist at
Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit in Moscow, said by phone
before the release. “With lending growth in double digits, it’s
hard to argue that monetary policy serves as a limiting
factor.”  President  Vladimir Putin ’s economic aide  Elvira Nabiullina ,
a former economy minister, is set to take charge of the central
bank in June, replacing Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, who’s
frustrated calls by Putin’s government to ease borrowing costs.
Putin has made economic expansion a priority for his third term,
with Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  setting a long-term growth
target of 5 percent a year.  “The weaker reading could be a factor of concern” for the
central bank, though it doesn’t yet threaten full-year economic
growth forecasts, Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia and
 Kazakhstan  at ING Groep NV in Moscow, said by e-mail before the
release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  