-- South Africa’s ANC Disbands Internal Opponents in ‘Purge’
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-03-18T14:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/s-africa-s-anc-disbands-limpopo-youth-league-executives.html
South  Africa ’s ruling African
National Congress removed leaders from its youth wing and the
Limpopo province as President Jacob Zuma moved against opponents
a year ahead of elections, according to the Centre for Politics
and Research.  The party will put an interim committee in charge of the
Youth League, which had showed  “continued ill-disciplined
behavior,” Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe told reporters in
Johannesburg today. Limpopo’s leadership “has been dissolved
for displaying totally un-ANC behavior and institutionalized
factional conduct,” Mantashe said.  ANC members in Limpopo and the Youth League were Zuma’s
most-vocal critics when he stood for a second term as party
leader in December. A stronger hand for Zuma may allow him to
unite the party ahead of elections next year in Africa’s biggest
economy.  “This is a purge,” Prince Mashele, executive director at
the Johannesburg-based Centre for Politics and Research, said in
an interview. The ANC executive committee “will do anything in
its power to defend Zuma and to project a united face,” he
said.  Limpopo is the home province of  Julius Malema , the former
ANC Youth League leader expelled from the ruling party in
February last year. Malema campaigned for the nationalization of
the nation’s mines and for Zuma to be replaced.  ‘Not Revenge’  The ANC leadership in Limpopo removed mayors in the
country’s northern province for “political” reasons, Mantashe
said. Cassel Mathale, who leads the party in the region, won’t
automatically be removed as head of the provincial government,
he said.  Limpopo will be headed by an interim leadership committee,
which has nine months to arrange a new party vote, said
Mantashe. The decision follows demands made by delegates at the
ANC’s national conference in December, he said.  “This is not revenge,” Mantashe said of the decisions
taken over the weekend by the 80-member National Executive
Committee, the party’s main decision-making body. “You can’t be
flat-footed and do nothing when things are going wrong because
you may fear it will be perceived as a purge.”  The National Treasury took over some government departments
in Limpopo in January last year because of mismanagement and
over-spending. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said at the time
that the province was “bankrupt.”  Zuma won the backing of 75 percent of the delegates at
December’s conference, beating Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe. Candidates he favored were elected to the other top
five party posts as well as to most of the positions on the NEC.  Coordinate Voting  Zuma opponents, including Human Settlements Minister Tokyo Sexwale and former ANC treasurer Mathews Phosa, lost positions
on the executive committee after some party leaders handed out
printed lists so that delegates could coordinate voting.
Motlanthe declined to stand for the NEC.  The ANC-allied Congress of South African Trade Unions
appointed a commission to hear internal disputes last week,
after newspapers including Johannesburg-based Business Day
reported the group was probing its General Secretary Zwelinzima Vavi for possible corruption in relation to property deals.  Vavi has been critical of Zuma and in October called for
the president to clarify whether the government was paying for
renovations to his rural home in KwaZulu-Natal province.  “The anti-Zuma faction in the ANC is very weak at the
moment,” Mashele said. “In order for them to be vocal they
would need serious champions in the ANC and they’re not there at
the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  