-- Naimi Says $100 Crude Oil Is Reasonable Price
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-03-18T16:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/saudi-arabia-s-naimi-says-100-crude-oil-is-reasonable-price.html
Oil at $100 a barrel is a
“reasonable” price that won’t choke global economic growth,
 Saudi Arabia ’s Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said.  “Prices will stay at these current levels in the
foreseeable future,” he said today in a speech in  Hong Kong ,
according to the text reported by the official Saudi Press
Agency. “Current  price levels  will not affect economic growth
in Asia,” he said.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, increased
oil production and sales in January, according to figures from
the Joint Organizations Data Initiative yesterday. The kingdom
produced 9.25 million barrels a day in February, estimates from
the International Energy Agency show.  Oil prices have fluctuated over the past 15 years more than
any time in history and the definition of reasonable prices have
changed over this period, Naimi said.  “My first speech in  Asia  as minister was in  Singapore  in
1996. Oil was just over $20 a barrel and I told the audience
that the price, at the time, seemed reasonable,” he said. Four
years later, the price was about $27, and was still seen as
reasonable, according to Naimi. “Today, it’s up around $100 and
it seems reasonable,” said the minister.  Domestic Spending  U.S. crude for April delivery declined 26 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $93.19 a barrel at 11 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange after falling to $91.76. European Brent for
May settlement dropped 57 cents to $109.25 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Saudi Arabia is concerned about global economic growth, not
about maintaining  oil prices  at any specific level, Naimi said.
Any suggestion that the nation is trying to keep prices high to
finance domestic spending is “not realistic,” he said.  The kingdom will remain a reliable seller of crude to Asia
and to the world even as domestic use is on the rise, Naimi
said. The country’s export capacity won’t be affected as demand
in future will not keep growing at the same pace, while it will
seek to meet demand with other sources such as renewable energy
and natural gas, he said.  “Current levels of domestic oil consumption growth are
temporary. Our position as long-term, reliable suppliers of oil
to Asia, and the world, is not in doubt,” Naimi said.  The kingdom’s oil exports to Asia have grown by 50 percent
since 1997, he said. Exports to  China  alone went from zero in
1999 to one million barrels a day currently.  JODI, supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy
Forum, uses statistics supplied by national governments to
compile data on imports, exports and output for oil-producing
and consuming nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  