-- Saudi Arabia to Drill Seven Shale Gas Wells: Al-Naimi
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-03-18T12:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/saudi-arabia-to-drill-seven-shale-gas-test-wells-al-naimi-says.html
Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest
oil exporter, will drill about seven test wells for shale gas
this year, according to Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi .  “We know where the areas are,” Al-Naimi said at the Credit 
Suisse Asian Investment conference in Hong Kong today. “We 
have rough estimates of over 600 trillion cubic feet of 
unconventional and shale gas, so the potential is very huge 
and we plan to exploit it.”  Saudi Arabia is seeking to develop its natural gas
resources to meet rising domestic energy demand. Saudi Arabian
Oil Co., or Saudi Aramco, is searching for shale gas in the
northwest of the country and exploring for unconventional
resources such as sour gas in the oil-rich eastern region and in
the Empty Quarter deserts, Senior Vice President of Upstream
Amin Nasser told a conference March 10 in Manama.  The nation may hold as much as 645 trillion cubic feet of
technically recoverable shale gas, the world’s fifth-largest
deposits behind China, the U.S., Argentina and Mexico, according
to estimates by  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  The kingdom also has about
282.6 trillion cubic feet of proven conventional gas reserves,
according to Aramco’s 2011 annual report.  Water Scarcity  Finding the necessary amount of water in the regions where
Aramco is exploring will be difficult, Nasser said at the Manama
conference. Shale gas is produced by a technique known as
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which massive amounts of
water, chemicals and sand are blasted underground to free
trapped hydrocarbons.  A lack of infrastructure in these areas presents a related
challenge, said Sadad al-Husseini, founder of consultants
Husseini Energy and a former executive vice president for
production at Aramco.  “It would take at least five to six years to start seeing
the development of shale gas on a commercial scale,” he said by
phone from Dhahran in eastern Saudi Arabia. “The deposits are
in remote areas far from contractor centers, and mobilizing the
required manpower and equipment will take time.”  Domestic gas prices are also too low to make developing the
deposits economically feasible, Khalid al-Falih, Aramco’s chief
executive, said Jan. 14 in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. The country
sells the fuel locally at a subsidized price of 75 cents per
million British thermal units. Gas traded on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange rose to $3.943 per million Btu today, the
highest level in 17 months.  Shale gas production in the U.S., which has about 862
trillion cubic feet of recoverable reserves, is forecast to grow
to 16.7 trillion cubic feet in 2040 from 7.8 trillion cubic feet
in 2011, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  A steep decrease in crude prices to less than $40 a barrel
would have a negative impact on development of unconventional
oil and gas, Al-Naimi said in his speech. North Sea Brent crude
futures, a benchmark for half the world’s oil, were trading
today in London at about $108 a barrel and have declined 14
percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  