-- HSBC to Standard Chartered Drop as Moody’s Warns on Cyprus
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-03-18T06:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/hsbc-leads-drop-in-asia-bank-stocks-as-moody-s-warns-on-cyprus.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest
bank by assets, and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  fell in Hong Kong
trading after Moody’s Investors Service said the turmoil in
Cyprus may have negative implications for European bank ratings.  HSBC declined 2.6 percent, the most in almost six weeks, at
1:44 p.m. in Hong Kong. Standard Chartered, Britain’s second-
largest lender by market value, slid 1.5 percent. The  MSCI Asia
Pacific Financial Index (MXAP0FN)  lost 2.1 percent, heading for the
biggest drop since July, as JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended
betting against  China ’s biggest lenders.  European finance ministers reached an unprecedented
agreement on March 16 forcing depositors in Cypriot banks to
share in the cost of the latest euro-zone bailout. Moody’s said
the decision is negative for depositors in  Europe  and marks a
significant step toward limiting systemic support for bank
creditors in the region.  “From the social planning point of view and the idea of
keeping depositor confidence in general, this is a terrible
precedent to set,” said Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “People in Europe are probably
going to think hard about how much money they should put in a
tin can and bury in the back yard.”  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades, who bowed to demands
by euro-area finance ministers to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5
billion) by taking a piece of every bank account in Cyprus,
appealed to the country’s lawmakers to ratify the levy today.  Deposit Volatility  “It is reasonable to expect that the deposit volatility in
stressed sovereigns could rise,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts led by Jernej Omahen wrote in a note to investors.
Still, any response from depositors in  Italy , Ireland,  Spain  and
 Portugal  will probably be limited as their “perception of banks
has improved,” the analysts wrote.  Gareth Hewett, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for HSBC,
declined to comment on its Cyprus operations.  Standard Chartered 
has no presence in the country and no direct sovereign exposure
to  Greece , Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, said Doris Fan, a
Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for the London-based bank.  HSBC’s gross on-balance sheet exposure to Cyprus was $0.3
billion as of the end of 2012, consisting primarily of loans to
other financial institutions and companies, the London-based
lender said in its latest annual report.  Bond Yields  The bank’s $2 billion of March 2022 securities offered a
132 basis-point spread, little changed from the previous trading
day, Maxim Group LLC prices show. Standard Chartered’s $2
billion of 3.95 percent bonds due January 2023 yielded 202 basis
points more than Treasuries as of 11:35 a.m. in  Hong Kong ,
little changed from March 15, ING Groep NV prices show.  Moody’s said the support package for Cyprus reduces the
immediate risk of a restructuring of its sovereign debt.
European banks had $39 billion in  claims  in Cyprus as of Sept.
30, according to Bank for International Settlements data.  “While raising the risk of deposit flight out of
peripheral banking systems, the agreement reflects euro area
policymakers’ desire to avoid sovereign defaults in addition to
Greece’s,” the ratings company wrote in its credit outlook.  China’s banks declined as JPMorgan downgraded the country’s
stock market to underweight and recommended bearish derivatives
tied to its four biggest banks.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the country’s biggest lender by market value,
dropped 3.1 percent in Hong Kong trading.  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939) , the third largest, fell 2.9 percent.  Rapid credit expansion, elevated property prices and a
decline in potential growth have increased risks of a financial
crisis in China, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a March 15 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  