-- Schlumberger to Reduce Venezuela Work on Unpaid Bills
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-03-18T21:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/schlumberger-to-reduce-venezuela-work-on-unpaid-bills.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oil-services company, is reducing work in  Venezuela 
because of trouble getting paid by state-owned  Petroleos de
Venezuela  SA.  “We are temporarily reducing activity due to our
previously highlighted collection issues,” Chief Executive
Officer Paal Kibsgaard said at the Howard Weil Energy Conference
in New Orleans today. “We have decided to only recognize
revenue in line with our collections in the first quarter.’  Kibsgaard said in January that there was a ‘‘significant
slowdown in the rates of payment’’ during the Houston and Paris-
based company’s fourth quarter. The state-owned company known as
PDVSA may owe Schlumberger $565 million to $1.14 billion, said
 Kurt Hallead , an Austin, Texas-based analyst for RBC Capital
Markets.  PDVSA has slowed payments off and on for years, depending
on oil prices and the government’s use of company funds for
other purposes. Its debt to service suppliers rose to $12.3
billion at the end of 2011, the latest year available. Venezuela
accounted for 5 to 10 percent of Schlumberger’s outstanding
invoices at the end of last year, the company said in a Jan. 31
regulatory filing.  Raising Output  Schlumberger’s decision to reduce its activity may hurt
South America’s largest oil exporter’s plans to increase output.
Venezuela has said it plans to raise production by 330,000
barrels a day this year.  ‘‘This certainly could have a tangible effect on Venezuelan
production - just as the 2007 pullout of several international
operators damaged Venezuela’s oil industry as well,” Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. said in
an e-mail today. “Anything that reduces PDVSA’s access to
international technology is ultimately negative.”  Exxon Mobil Inc. and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  left Venezuela in 2007
after refusing to transfer their assets to joint ventures
controlled by Caracas-based PDVSA. Output declined 13 percent to
2.7 million barrels a day in 2011 from 1999 when President Hugo Chavez came to power, even as proven reserves almost quadrupled
in the period, according to the BP Statistical Review of World
Energy.  Schlumberger fell 3.9 percent to $76.34 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since Dec. 14. The yield on PDVSA’s
benchmark 8.5 percent securities due in 2017 rose 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 9.39 percent at 5:05 p.m.
in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s
price fell 0.61 cent to 96.72 cents on the dollar.  Seized Rigs  In 2010, Venezuela seized 11 rigs belonging to  Helmerich &
Payne Inc. (HP)  after the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based oil-services company
idled equipment because of payment dispute. H&P has been trying
to receive compensation in court since.  PDVSA didn’t respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment. The company is studying different options to pay its
providers, including paying them with bonds, PDVSA Vice
President Eulogio Del Pino said in September.  The nation, holder of the world’s largest oil reserves, is
holding elections on April 14 after Chavez died this month after
14 years in office.  “Most service companies have been dealing with payment
issues in Venezuela ever since Hugo Chavez came to power,”
Hallead said in a phone interview today. “Now you have a
situation of uncertainty, which drove Schlumberger to make this
comment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  