-- Scrapping Export Subsidies Would Cut Poverty, Lamy Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-03-18T13:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/scrapping-export-subsidies-would-cut-poverty-lamy-says.html
Eliminating subsidies on exports of
commodities such as cotton would contribute to a fairer
international trading system, boost economic growth and reduce
poverty, said World Trade Organization chief Pascal Lamy.  Export subsidies, “the most egregious form of trade
support,” keep prices artificially low, hurting the world’s
poorest countries, Lamy said today in a speech at the Global
Commodities Forum in Geneva. While trade is not a “magic
bullet,” it is “one necessary part of a comprehensive policy
package” to help fight poverty, he said.  Food-security concerns haven’t eased even as prices of
agricultural commodities have gained and are forecast to climb
in the coming decade. Wheat and corn prices climbed over the
past year on drought from the U.S. to  Russia , while lean hogs
gained on higher feed costs.  Domestic support for cotton producers is a case in point,
Lamy said. The May contract for cotton futures fell 1.8 percent
today on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , heading for the biggest
drop in seven weeks.  “A number of poor countries are dependent on cotton
exports,” Lamy said. “However, the cotton sector remains
highly subsidized, especially in some developed countries, and
these subsidies depress prices and increase the difficulties
faced by countries such as  Benin ,  Burkina Faso ,  Mali ,  Chad .”  While some progress has been made, “obviously more remains
to be done, in particular to address the trade-distorting
subsidies that remain,” Lamy said.  Brazil has threatened to retaliate with sanctions against
the U.S. over subsidies to American cotton farmers. The WTO said
in 2010 that U.S. aid to farmers are so “considerable” they
can affect market prices and distort commerce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  