-- Serb Two-Month Budget Gap Expands Five-Fold to 35 Billion Dinars
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-18T08:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/serb-two-month-budget-gap-expands-five-fold-to-35-billion-dinars.html
Serbia’s budget deficit expanded
five-fold by the end of February on weaker than planned revenue
collections.  The two-month budget shortfall widened to 35.3 billion
dinars ($413.3 million) from 6.98 billion dinars in January,
according to data published by the  Finance Ministry  late
yesterday. Revenue from the value-added tax fell to 18.6 billion
dinars from 36.4 billion dinars the previous month. Collections
from excise duties fell 13.2 percent on month.  “February is usually the weakest month for revenue in the
year,” the Belgrade-based ministry said on its website.  Serbia wants a precautionary loan deal with the
 International Monetary Fund  and needs to convince the
Washington-based lender that fiscal consolidation measures
remain on track. The IMF will examine the 2012 budget and the
implementation of fiscal measures in 2013 before discussing a
new loan. The IMF plans no loan talks if no agreement is reached
with the authorities on policy goals.  Fiscal Deficit  The widening two-month budget gap translated into a two-
month consolidated fiscal deficit of 22.7 billion dinars. This
deficit, calculated according to IMF standards, includes
spending by local governments and state-controlled pension and
health funds.  Fiscal developments in the first two months of the year are
“to great extent in line with the plan and show that the full-
year consolidated fiscal gap should be very close to the target
set by the budget law for this year of 132 billion dinars or 3.6
percent of GDP,” the ministry said. The 2012 fiscal gap was 6.7
percent of GDP.  This year’s fiscal gap will be at least 4.5 percent of
gross domestic product and may be as high as 5 percent if
unbudgeted aid to unprofitable steelworks or subsidies to
information technology companies are included, Pavle Petrovic,
the head of the Fiscal Council said March 11.  The council, a three-member body, is  appointed by
Parliament to oversee government compliance to self-imposed
fiscal rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  