-- Serbia Won’t Take U.S. Pressure on Kosovo, President Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-18T16:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/serbia-won-t-take-u-s-pressure-on-kosovo-president-says.html
Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic
said he won’t accept any pressure from the U.S. as the Balkan
nation seeks to normalize relations with  Kosovo  and begin talks
to join the European Union.  Serbia “has made great progress and is open to doing even
more” and “rightfully expects to start talks with the EU,”
Nikolic said in Belgrade before a meeting tomorrow with U.S.
Vice President Joe Biden in  Rome , where both will attend the
inauguration Mass of Pope Francis.  “The meeting with Biden comes at the U.S.’s request,”
Nikolic told reporters today after meeting with EU Enlargement
Commissioner Stefan Fule. “I would treat any pressure as an
indecent form of discussion.”  Fule is in Belgrade to meet with Serbian leaders and will
travel to Kosovo’s capital of Pristina as part of his Balkan
tour. It comes less than a month before EU foreign policy chief
Catherine Ashton is due to report on Belgrade’s bid to improve
Kosovo ties that will decide whether  Serbia  gets a start date
for EU entry talks.  “I know the question on your mind at this moment is will
Serbia really get the date for starting the negotiations in
June” to join the EU, Fule said. “The answer depends on the
efforts in delivering on reforms and on the one key priority:
progress toward a visible and sustainable improvement of
relations with Kosovo.”  Kosovo Pressure  Serbia has asked for international diplomatic pressure on
Kosovo to make concessions. Premiers Ivica Dacic and Hashim Thaci of Kosovo will meet in Brussels March 20 for a new round
of EU-mediated talks.  “Obviously, we are facing the weeks when we will have to
make very important and major political decisions,” Dacic told
reporters in Belgrade after meeting with Fule, adding that
Belgrade is also hosting a delegation of  Germany ’s Bundestag
“which has its own conditions for Serbia to get a date for the
start of talks.  Serbia wants Thaci to grant Serbs in Kosovo ‘‘political and
other rights’’ including in education, the judiciary and police
in Serbian-dominated municipalities.  To obtain a date for EU entry talks, Fule said Serbia must
show improvements on the judiciary, fighting corruption and
discrimination, media freedom and helping vulnerable groups.  Dacic, who took office in July, has said that he wants to
achieve a long-term solution on Kosovo, the breakaway province
that declared independence in 2008. Kosovo has been recognized
by more than 90 nations, including 22 of the EU’s 27 members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  