-- Serbia Approves Early Part Repayment of London Club Debt by May
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-18T07:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/serbia-approves-early-part-repayment-of-london-club-debt-by-may.html
Serbia  will repay early half of its
debt to the London Club of commercial lenders by the end of
April and reduce domestic borrowing to make its public-finance
deficit more sustainable.  The government will repay $435.8 million to commercial
banks, the  Finance Ministry  in Belgrade said in an e-mailed
statement late yesterday.  “At present, Serbia’s debt to the London Club amounts to
$860 million,” the ministry said, adding that the early
repayment will lead to savings of 1.1 billion dinars ($12.9
million) in this year’s budget.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s eight-month-old Cabinet wants
to keep public debt below 65 percent of gross domestic product
this year and lower it next year. According to fiscal rules,
public debt should not exceed 45 percent of GDP. Public debt
stood at 57.7 percent of GDP at the end of February, it said.  Junk-rated Serbia borrowed $3.25 billion in three Eurobond
sales since September, taking advantage of optimism about global
economic recovery while extra liquidity from central banks push
investors to higher-yielding assets.  Debt Writedown  The London Club wrote down 62 percent of Serbia’s $2.7
billion debt in 2004, agreeing to a 20-year repayment, with
interest at 3.75 percent for the first five years and 6.75
percent for the remaining 15 years. The debt matures in 2024.  Serbia can afford the early debt repayment due to
“significant liquidity in the budget secured over the past few
months, considering that fiscal policy measures have given very
good results in bringing down public debt yields,” the ministry
said.  The  Finance Ministry  also wants to reduce borrowing in the
local market to make more cash available for corporate clients,
as the economy struggles with its second recession in three
years, according to the statement.  Serbia will sell dinar and euro-denominated debt equivalent
to $1.3 billion between April and June, compared with $1.5
billion in the first three months of the year, according to Debt
Management Agency’s borrowing calendar.  The government has also amended its request to  Russia  for
budgetary support and is now looking for $500 million instead of
$1 billion, only under terms more favorable than those Serbia is
currently getting through Eurobond sales in international
 capital markets , the Belgrade newspaper Blic reported, citing
Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  