-- Sharp Says Second Qualcomm Investment Delayed After Terms
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-03-18T01:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/sharp-says-second-qualcomm-investment-delayed-after-terms.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the unprofitable
Japanese TV maker, said a second investment of about 5 billion
yen ($53 million) from  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  has been delayed because
the companies failed to meet terms of their original agreement.  Sharp couldn’t develop production technology for its Micro
Electro Mechanical System displays, so the payment scheduled to
be made March 29 will be delayed, spokeswoman  Miyuki Nakayama 
said by phone today. Sharp won’t have a liquidity problem
because of the postponement, and the companies now are working
toward a June 30 deadline, she said.  Qualcomm, the largest seller of semiconductors for mobile
phones, agreed in December to invest 9.9 billion yen in Osaka-
based Sharp, which is trying to restore its balance sheet amid
record losses and dwindling demand for its TVs. The investment
also is  conditional  on developing a plan for mass producing the
displays and Sharp’s business becoming profitable, Nakayama
said.  Emily Kilpatrick , a spokeswoman for San Diego-based
Qualcomm, didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail message left
outside normal business hours. The company didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail to its corporate communications department.  Sharp  fell  1.6 percent to 310 yen as of 10:16 a.m. in Tokyo
trading.  The first share sale of about 4.94 billion yen was
 completed  Dec. 27.  Japan ’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays this month
agreed to sell a stake to Samsung Electronics Co. as the company
hasn’t concluded a proposed 67 billion-yen investment from
 Taiwan ’s Foxconn Technology Group after almost a year of talks.  Sharp is selling assets and has formed capital alliances
with Qualcomm and Samsung to raise funds after posting a 376
billion-yen net loss in the year ended March 2012 amid slumping
demand for its televisions and display panels. The company is
forecasting a 450 billion-yen loss for the year ending March 31
and has 200 billion yen in debt maturing Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  