-- Ship-Scrubbing Order Boom for Alfa, Waertsilae on Rules
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-03-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/ship-scrubbing-order-boom-for-alfa-waertsilae-on-rules.html
Alfa Laval AB (ALFA)  and  Waertsilae Oyj (WRT1V) ,
two Nordic makers of machines that remove sulfur from ship
fumes, are poised to benefit as the owners of some 2,000 vessels
race to comply with stricter rules for the Baltic Sea.  Finland’s Waertsilae in the last few weeks received about
20 orders for  scrubbers , which are attached to engines, bringing
its total to 55 on 27 ships, the company’s Environmental
Solutions head Juha Kytola said in an interview. Sweden’s Alfa
Laval forecasts “several new orders” in the first half after
booking its inaugural scrubber order in December, Chief
Executive Officer Lars Renstrom said.  While new rules to cut pollution in the Baltic and North
Sea will raise shipping costs for exporters, they’re set to
boost scrubber makers’ profits. Waertsilae, the biggest maker of
ship engines, predicts that as many as 2,000 ships must install
at least one scrubber. With the cheapest costing 1 million euros
($1.3 million), the market is worth more than 2 billion euros.  “The interest in scrubbers is high,” Renstrom of Alfa
Laval, which also makes gear for cleaning wastewater and
purifying ballast water and had annual sales of 29.8 billion
kronor ($4.6 billion) last year, said in an interview. “We are
in dialogue with several ship owners and we have in recent times
made a couple of hundred offers.”  Scrubbers remove sulfur from emissions by using alkaline in
the water to neutralize it. Tankers and container ships only
have one engine, and therefore only require one scrubber, while
ferries and cruise ships typically have between four and six
engines.  Picking Up  While Nordic shipping companies intially had been slow to
respond to the new regulation, betting that authorities would
give them more time to adapt, global orders for scrubbers are
now picking up quickly, according to Helsinki-based Wartsila.  “The market is now very active and we are currently in
discussions of projects including all together about 100
scrubbers more,” said Kytola.  Waertsilae has risen 9.4 percent since the start of this
year in Helsinki trading, valuing it at 7 billion euros. Lund,
Sweden-based Alfa, with a market value of 63 billion kronor,
added 11 percent. That compares to a 11 percent gain of the
 Stoxx Nordic 30 Index (DK5F) , the region’s benchmark measure.  Rules adopted by the International Maritime Organization
say the amount of sulfur used in fuel in the two European seas
and waters off North America must be cut to 0.1 percent from 1
percent by Jan. 1, 2015, versus 3.5 percent elsewhere.  Cleaning Wastewater  Nordic exporters including  Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAA) , Europe’s
top tissue producer, have been calling on their governments to
fight the rules, claiming they will make transport costs higher
than for rivals in regions where limits are lower.  While Alfa Laval said it’s focusing on as many as 2,000
ships that sail through the North Sea and Baltic Sea, the
company estimates that there are about 5,000 ships globally that
sail over 50 percent of their time in waters affected by the new
sulfur directive.  Alfa Laval charges between 2 million euros and 3 million
euros for its cleaning offering, which can handle both sea water
and fresh water. At Waertsilae, a scrubber for a small ship
costs between 1 million euros and 2 million euros, and for
bigger vessels the price is as much as 5 million euros,
according to Kytola. Rivals for Alfa Laval and Waertsilae
include Singapore’s Ecospec Global Technology and Belco in the
U.S.  Fuel Bills   Exporters face a 28 billion-krona increase in costs in
Sweden alone, including 13 billion kronor in higher fuel bills,
SCA Chief Executive Officer Jan Johansson estimates. To offset
some of the additional costs, Sweden’s Finance Minister Anders Borg has started to consider tax changes to lower expenses.  Complying with the rules either requires installing a
scrubber on the ship or using liquefied natural gas or buying
low-sulfur fuels such as diesel rather than using the bunker
fuel traditionally used to propel vessels. For companies such as
Danish shipping company  DFDS A/S (DFDS) , which operates all but one of
its routes in the affected areas, there are no options other
than to comply with the rules.  “This is a huge challenge to the shipping community and
it’s a huge challenge to us,” DFDS spokesman  Gert Jakobsen 
said, adding that the company has already worked with Alfa Laval
on testing a scrubber.  While powering vessels with liquefied natural gas is an
alternative, there are currently no terminals providing it in
the Baltic Sea.  Scrubber Alternatives  Still, ferry operator  Viking Line (VIK1V)  chose liquefied natural
gas as the fuel for its new passenger ferry Viking Grace, saying
that potential scrubber solutions haven’t been properly tested
yet. The operator now has to transport the gas by truck from
 Linde AG (LIN) ’s terminal in Nynaeshamn, about 50 kilometers (31
miles) south of Stockholm, and then fills the ferry from a
smaller boat at a terminal in Stockholm.  Ship operators may also be running out of time to comply
with the rules as the installation of a scrubber takes as long
as 10 months. As a result, some ship owners may decide to reduce
their routes in the Baltic Sea, meaning scrubber manufacturers
will have to wait longer before they can fully benefit.  “Some routes may come under pressure and it could cost
capacity at sea and move traffic to land,” said DFDS’s
Jakobsen. “There is always the the option of not sailing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  