-- SingTel Satellite Unit Worth as Much as $2 Billion, Nomura Says
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-03-18T07:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/singtel-satellite-unit-worth-as-much-as-2-billion-nomura-says.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
southeast Asia’s largest phone company, said it was reviewing
its Optus Satellite unit in  Australia , which Nomura Holdings
Inc. said may be worth A$2 billion ($2 billion) if sold.  SingTel, as the carrier is known, hired Credit Suisse Group
AG and Morgan Stanley as advisers, the Singapore-based company
said in a regulatory statement. The business had revenue of
A$319 million last financial year, it said.  Typical operating margins at satellite telecommunications
companies are 80 percent of sales, and the carriers are
typically valued at six times to eight times earnings, said
Sachin Gupta, an analyst at Nomura in Singapore. That would put
a price tag of as much A$2.04 billion on the Optus business
based on its sales, he said.  “It’s one of their more profitable businesses,” Gupta
said by phone today. “SingTel continuously reviews ways of
monetizing these assets at the right time and the right price.”  Takeovers of satellite companies globally over the past
five years have taken place at median multiples of 2.8 times
revenue and 6.1 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Comment on the value of the business is premature, Michele
Batchelor, a spokeswoman for SingTel, said by phone from
 Singapore . “We’re just reviewing it,” she said. “Possibly
nothing could actually happen.”  The Optus Satellite unit has five satellites in orbit with
a sixth to be launched this year, SingTel said today.  The business signed a five-year, A$200 million deal in 2011
to provide satellite support to NBN Co., a government-owned
company that’s building a A$37.4 billion national broadband
network in Australia, according to a July 2011 presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  