-- SNB Should Use Negative Rates If Franc Rises, IMF says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-03-18T13:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/snb-should-use-negative-rates-if-franc-rises-imf-says.html
The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  should
charge banks on excess reserves if the franc rises against the
euro, the  International Monetary Fund  said today.  “In case of renewed appreciation pressures, the IMF
believes that the SNB should introduce negative interest rates
on excess bank reserves at the SNB,” IMF Mission Chief Enrica Detragiache said at a news conference in Bern today. SNB
Alternate Governing Board Member  Thomas Moser  said this is an
option.  The franc erased gains against the euro on the news,
dropping to 1.2289. It recouped some of those losses and was
trading at 1.2220 at 2:15 p.m. in Zurich, a rise of 0.4 percent
on the day as the euro fell after a bailout of Cyprus.  The SNB imposed a ceiling on the franc of 1.20 per euro in
September 2011 to help exporters and fend off deflation after it
surged toward parity with the common currency. The central bank
last week confirmed the cap and also kept the band for its
benchmark interest rate at zero percent to 0.25 percent.  The IMF said the SNB’s cap should be maintained given risks
from the euro-area debt crisis and should be kept as long as
inflationary risks were not visible, according to a statement
today following its annual Article IV consultation.  SNB Credibility  “Negative  interest rates  as recommended by the IMF are
clearly one policy option that we consider,” SNB’s Moser said
at a joint briefing with the IMF, welcoming the  Washington-
based lender’s conclusions.  The IMF’s backing strengthens the central bank’s position,
said Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign exchange analyst at
Swissquote Bank. “The support from the IMF gives credibility
and even validates the current policy of the SNB,” he said.  The SNB spent 188 billion francs ($199 billion) last year
on interventions to defend the cap, and SNB President Thomas Jordan said last week the central bank was prepared to buy
foreign currencies in unlimited amounts to maintain it. The
SNB’s reserves now amount to nearly three quarters of the
country’s of annual output. About half of those reserves are
held in euros.  “If the SNB’s balance sheet risks grow, more aggressive
profit retention and capital building would be advisable” on
excess bank reserves at the SNB, IMF’s Detragiache said.  Because of the central bank’s loose monetary policy, Swiss
real estate prices have risen strongly in recent years, as has
mortgage lending. Last month, the Switzerland unveiled a capital 
buffer for banks to guard against risks in their mortgage books.  Low Debt  The IMF welcomed the steps Swiss authorities had taken to
try and cool the  property market , with Detragiache saying a
there was no bubble yet. “If the risks continue to build in
this area, the authorities should stand ready to implement
additional measures,” she said.  Switzerland managed to emerge from the 2008 financial
crisis less bruised than many other European countries in part
thanks to its low government debt. Federal government
expenditures are kept in check by a constitutional debt brake,
and the  federal budget  finished with a surplus last year.
Another is expected for this year. The State Secretariat for
Economics forecasts growth of 1.3 percent this year,
accelerating to 2.1 percent in 2014.  The IMF said it expects Swiss consumer prices, which have
been negative from 17 months, to turn positive at the start of
2014. As long as the debt brake allows it,  Switzerland  should
take a more accommodative fiscal stance in the current
environment, the IMF said.  Serge Gaillard, director of Switzerland’s federal finance
administration, said the country’s current fiscal policy is
appropriate.  “We think it’s not necessary to be more supportive,”
Gaillard said. “We expect a lower surplus than last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  