-- Spector’s Wall of Hair; Hunter’s Witch; Norman Bates: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-03-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/spector-s-wall-of-hair-hunter-s-witch-norman-bates-tv.html
“ Top of the Lake ” is every bit as
harsh, eccentric and spellbinding as G.J., the witch-haired
mystic-feminist that Holly Hunter plays in it.  Set in the lush, brutal backwoods of New Zealand, “Top of
the Lake” opens with a failed suicide attempt by 12-year-old
Tui (Jacqueline Joe), five months pregnant, possibly by her own
father.  By the end of the first episode, Tui has vanished and
visiting detective Robin Griffin (“Mad Men’s” Elisabeth Moss,
with a convincing accent) is drawn into the girl’s hard,
unforgiving world.  Particularly loathsome is Tui’s twisted father Matt Mitcham
(Peter Mullan), a grizzled, long-haired drug lord who seems to
have fathered half the population of this remote community.  Mitcham -- a creep given to self-flagellation -- has a cozy
relationship with the local cops, leaving the outsider Griffin
all but alone in caring about Tui’s whereabouts.  Well, not completely. The denizens of a local women’s
commune, headed by Hunter’s possibly psychic (or maybe just
crazy) G.J., seem to share Robin’s concern.  “What’s beyond the void that’s so frightening?” a
menacing Mitcham asks the visionary G.J.  Her reply: “A lost little girl, with a secret growing
inside.”  “Top of the Lake,” directed and co-written by Jane
Campion (“The Piano”) airs Monday, March 18 on Sundance
Channel at 9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ****  ‘Bates Motel’  “We own a motel, Norman Bates!”  Not exactly famous last words, but Mother Bates surely will
live (or not) to regret them.  And so, surely, would Alfred Hitchcock, whose 1960 horror
masterpiece “ Psycho ” has been grave-robbed for A&E’s silly
prequel series “ Bates Motel .”  Oddly set in the present day, “Bates Motel” chronicles
the teen years of nerdy mama’s boy Norman (Freddie Highmore) and
his nagging mother Norma (Vera Farmiga) as they build a new life
as motel owners in the aftermath of dad’s sudden death.  There will be blood (and a shower curtain) by the end of
the first episode, though the killer and motive might come as
some surprise. Let’s just say Norman comes by things honestly.  “Bates Motel” airs Monday, March 18, on A&E at 10 p.m.
New York time. Rating: **  ‘Phil Spector’  The wig arrives, inevitably and with no small build-up,
near the end of “ Phil Spector ,” David Mamet’s talky, forgiving
dramatization of the legendary pop music producer’s murder
trial.  Spector, played by Al Pacino on the HBO movie with more
eye-bulging gusto than anything he’s mustered since tackling Roy
Cohn in “ Angels in America ,” arrives for his big day on the
witness stand wearing a Wall of Hair.  “My hair is an homage to Jimi Hendrix, who suffered,”
Spector explains to his bewildered attorney, Helen Mirren,
holding firm against Pacino’s delectable scenery chewing.  Written and directed by Mamet, the 90-minute “Phil
Spector” will surely outrage friends and supporters of Lana
Clarkson, the failed actress and cocktail-lounge pick-up who
died in Spector’s California mansion after a boozy evening in
2003.  A jury would later convict Spector of putting a gun in
Clarkson’s mouth and pulling the trigger.  Mamet Speculates  Mamet, who calls “Phil Spector” a work of “conjecture,”
takes the possibility of suicide more seriously than just about
anyone not sitting at the mogul’s defense table.  The way he writes it, Spector’s real crime is being a
freak.  Mamet gives Pacino the ripest dialogue, as Spector rants
about the cost of celebrity, the public’s love-hate relationship
with the famous, and in the most vicious passage, his rage at
former wife and muse Ronnie Spector.  “Phil Spector” shouldn’t be confused with journalism.
Safer to view it as Mamet’s discourse on art, faded fame and
martyrdom. Given his recent high-profile flops, it’s no surprise
who he casts as victim.  “Phil Spector” airs Sunday, March 24 on HBO at 9 p.m. New
York time. Rating: ***  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and Jeffrey
Burke on  books .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 