-- Statoil, BG Plan LNG Plant to Develop Tanzania Natural-Gas Finds
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-03-18T13:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/statoil-bg-plan-lng-plant-to-develop-tanzania-natural-gas-finds.html
Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norway ’s largest
energy producer, said a third “high-impact” discovery in its
 Tanzania  offshore block added sufficient natural-gas volumes to
secure a joint development with BG Group’s neighboring license.  Statoil will recommend a site in the second quarter for the
country’s first liquefied natural-gas plant with at least two
trains to handle production from its Block 2, where recoverable
volumes are now seen at 10 trillion to 13 trillion cubic feet,
and BG-operated Block 1, the Stavanger-based company said today.  “We now have the gas we need to underpin a commercial
development,” Tim Dodson, executive vice-president for
exploration, said in a phone interview from Stavanger. “It’s
going to be a huge project: Big offshore element, pipelines to
land and a very large onshore development.”  Statoil is expanding abroad to raise production to 2.5
million barrels of oil equivalent a day from about 2 million
today. The 67 percent state-owned company will this year drill
as many as four more wells in Tanzania and  Mozambique , where
explorers including  Eni SpA (ENI)  have found more than 100 trillion
cubic feet of gas, enough to meet global demand for a year.  The facility that Statoil and BG are considering would have
at least twice the capacity of the Norwegian company’s only LNG
plant at Hammerfest in Arctic Northern Norway, Dodson said. That
site handles gas from the Snohvit field in the  Barents Sea  and
produces 90,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, he said.  Too Early  While it’s too early to give a cost or exact timeline,
Tanzanian authorities’ assessment last year that output could
start within seven years is “not unreasonable,” Dodson said.  “We’ll be moving this into the development phase very
shortly,” he said. “It will be both a costly and fairly
lengthy development.” The plans will be presented in the second
quarter to the authorities, which have asked Statoil and BG to
work on a joint development of blocks 1 and 2, Dodson said.  Statoil is the operator of Block 2 with a 65 percent share,
and  Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM)  has 35 percent. BG operates Block 1 with 60
percent, while partner  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  holds 40 percent.  Statoil said earlier it had made its fourth discovery in
Block 2 in a year, containing as much as 6 trillion cubic feet
of gas. That was the third “high-impact” find in the block,
defined as holding more than 250 million barrels of oil
equivalent or 100 million barrels net to Statoil.  Jodari Field  BG estimates gross recoverable resources from its Tanzania
Blocks 1, 3 and 4 at near 10 trillion cubic feet of gas “with
extensive further potential to be explored” and hasn’t got a
specific figure for Block 1, spokesman  Mark Todd  said by e-mail.  A stem test on BG’s Jodari field in Block 1 showed “better
than expected reservoir qualities” and reduced uncertainty as
the partners consider a potential LNG project, BG said today in
a separate statement. The company said last month plans for
exports would proceed more slowly than planned because Tanzania
lacks infrastructure and capacity to handle big investments.  “We have the gas now, and that’s the most important
thing,” Dodson said. “It will still be quite demanding to do
this, given the fact that this will be the first development of
its kind in Tanzania.”  The new discovery, called Tangawizi-1, is worth a net 1.3
kroner to 1.9 kroner a share for Statoil, Teodor Sveen Nilsen,
an analyst at Swedbank First Securities who has a buy
recommendation on the company, said in a note to clients.  Statoil fell 0.4 percent to 140.4 kroner by 1:49 p.m. in
Oslo.  High-Impact Opportunities  Statoil will drill two to four more wells in east  Africa 
this year and still sees opportunities for high-impact
discoveries in Tanzania and Mozambique, Dodson said.  The “Discoverer Americas” drillship sailing from the  Gulf
of Mexico  is scheduled to arrive in the first week of April in
Mozambique, where it will search mainly for oil in Blocks 2 and
5, Dodson said. “These are high-risk opportunities with the
potential to be fairly large,” he said.  The ship will then move north to Tanzania to test further
potential in Block 2, where Statoil has identified “two to
three other prospects” described as “quite sizeable,”
although not as big as the three high-impact finds already made,
he said. The company is interpreting new 3-D seismic material
that may show the presence of further prospects, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  