-- Steptoe, Fasken, Perkins Coie, Porzio: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-18T11:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/steptoe-fasken-perkins-coie-porzio-business-of-law.html
Steptoe & Johnson LLP hired Markham Erickson as a partner in the telecom, Internet and media
practice in the Washington office. He was previously at Holch &
Erickson LLP, a firm he co-founded in 2006.  Erickson has more than 20 years of experience in Internet
law and policy, including helping to form two Internet
coalitions, Steptoe said in a March 14 statement. He serves as
general counsel to the Internet Association, a trade group, and
as lead counsel to a coalition of Internet and technology firms
that promotes open Internet rules.  “Markham has devoted his legal career to representing
Internet and other technology companies, frequently in
coalitions formed to press their cause at the FCC, the FTC, or
on  Capitol Hill ,” Steptoe Chairman Roger Warin said in the
statement. “His depth of knowledge on Internet matters will
greatly complement our existing team.”  Steptoe, based in Washington, has more than 500 lawyers and
other professionals at nine offices in the U.S., Europe and
 Asia .  Ogletree Deakins Adds California Employment Attorney Raizman  Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC added David
Raizman as a shareholder in the Los Angeles office. He comes
from Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, where he was a partner.  Raizman is known for his disability-rights practice,
specifically for his work under Title III of the Americans with
Disabilities Act, the firm said in a statement.  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers at 43 offices
across the U.S. and in Europe.  Fasken Martineau Hires Mining Partner Alfonzo in Toronto  Fasken Martineau LLP announced that Samantha Alfonzo has
joined the firm’s Toronto office as a partner in the mining and
mergers-and-acquisitions groups. She was previously at Gowlings.  Alfonzo’s practice focuses on corporate matters and
transactions including the negotiation, review and preparation
of contracts and corporate governance issues. She has experience
in mergers and acquisitions, asset and share sales, business,
and tax-driven corporate reorganization in the  mining industry ,
the firm said.  Fasken Martineau has more than 770 lawyers at nine offices
in  Canada , Europe and  Africa .  Perkins Coie Hires IP Partner Fournier in Chicago Office  Perkins Coie  LLP added David B. Fournier to its Chicago
office as a partner in the intellectual property practice.
Fournier was most recently a partner at K&L Gates LLP, where his
practice included work with pharmaceutical clients.  Perkins Coie has more than 900 lawyers in 19 offices across
the U.S. and Asia.  Gardere Hires International Arbitration Attorney in Mexico City  International arbitration attorney Viviana Castro-Hurtado
joined the  Mexico  City office of  Gardere, Arena y Asociados SC 
as a member of the Mexico and Latin America practice. She was
previously at White & Case LLP.  Castro-Hurtado will focus on representing clients involved
in commercial and investment arbitrations. She has handled
arbitration matters under various international rules, including
the American Arbitration Association/International Centre for
Dispute Resolution,  International Chamber of Commerce ,
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes and
United Nations Commission on International Trade Law.  Gardere has 230 lawyers at three Texas offices and one
Mexican partnership office.  Duane Morris Adds Partners in San Francisco, Miami  Duane Morris LLP hired three partners at two U.S. offices.  In  San Francisco , James C. Krieg and Allison Lane Cooper,
formerly of Krieg, Keller, Sloan, Roman & Holland LLP, joined
the firm’s trial practice group. In Miami, Leslie J. Croland,
previously at Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP, joined the firm’s
corporate practice group.  Krieg and Cooper focus on commercial litigation,
particularly in the areas of professional liability defense,
fiduciary liability, legal ethics and commercial disputes.  Croland’s practice focuses on  venture capital , particularly
in the areas of technology and life-sciences transactions.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys in 24 offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Evain Joins McCarter & English’s IP Practice in Delaware  McCarter & English LLP announced that Eric J. Evain has
joined the firm as a partner in Wilmington,  Delaware . He was
previously with Novak Druce Connolly Bove & Quigg LLP.  Evain will focus on litigating complex intellectual
property infringement cases.  McCarter & English has 100 intellectual property and
information technology lawyers and patent agents. The firm has
more than 400 attorneys at seven U.S. offices.  News  French Lawyer Olivier Metzner Found Dead of Apparent Suicide  Olivier Metzner , one of France’s best-known lawyers, was
found dead from an apparent suicide, the prosecutor’s office in
the Brittany city of Vannes said.  Metzner’s body was found yesterday floating off an island
he owned in Brittany’s Bay of Morbihan, and he left behind a
note, a spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office said by
telephone. The results of an autopsy will be announced today,
she said.  Metzner, 63, represented former  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  trader
 Jerome Kerviel , heiress Francoise Bettencourt-Meyers, politician
Dominique de Villepin, businessmen Loik Le Floch-Prigent and
 Jean-Marie Messier , as well as Continental Airlines in the 2000
Concorde crash.  “He was one of the greatest case lawyers of our bar who
knew best how to make legal procedure a weapon in the service of
justice,” Christiane Feral-Schuhl, head of the Paris bar, said
in an interview with  Agence France-Presse .  The cigar-chomping, media-friendly Metzner started his
career defending gang members, making a name for himself by
freeing clients on technicalities. He developed an expertise in
financial law in the 1980s as he defended businessmen and
politicians caught in political party financing cases.  “Olivier Metzner was totally devoted to his clients to
whom he consecrated his extreme intelligence,” Georges Kiejman,
a Paris lawyer he often faced in court, told BFM TV. “His death
leaves a big loss in the Paris bar.”  There was no answer yesterday outside of normal business
hours at the Paris offices of his firm, Metzner & Associes.  Ex-Mercury Attorney Settles SEC Backdating Case for $853,037  Susan Skaer, former general counsel for Mercury Interactive
LLC, settled a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit
over stock-option backdating for $853,037, according to a court
filing.  Skaer didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing, according to an
agreement she signed March 5 that was filed today in federal
court in San Francisco. She was ordered to disgorge $628,037 in
profit and interest, pay a $225,000 fine and refrain from
breaking securities laws.  The SEC sued Skaer and other former executives at  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s Mercury Interactive unit in 2007, alleging they
participated in a scheme to backdate employee stock options
without accounting for the resulting compensation expenses. The
other executives already settled with the SEC.  The final judgment in the case is subject to a judge’s
approval.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Mercury
Interactive LLC, 07-cv-02822, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Francisco).  Firm News  Porzio Bromberg Expands Real Estate Practice in New York  Porzio, Bromberg & Newman PC absorbed the real estate law
firm Wagner Davis PC, adding four lawyers.  Steven R. Wagner, who founded Wagner Davis in 1984, joins
Porzio as a principal, along with two of counsel and an
associate. All will be based in Porzio’s New York office.  “The Wagner group’s core area of real estate transactions
and litigation is an area that we have been looking to further
develop in our New York office,” D. Jeffrey Campbell, Porzio’s
managing principal, said in a statement.  Steven Wagner concentrates his practice in co-op and
condominium law, real estate litigation,  land use , and overall
real estate in the New York area. His litigation background
includes disputes for control of partnerships, corporations and
limited liability companies, and disputes between adjacent
landowners.  “With the collaborative strength this union provides, we
look forward to providing the same high-quality legal services,
with the advantage of the additional resources and geographic
reach that a larger firm provides,” Wagner said in a statement.  Porzio has more than 90 lawyers at four U.S. offices.  Litigation  Carrillo Huettel, Gibraltar Global Sued by SEC for Fraud  Carrillo Huettel LLP, a San Diego law firm, and Gibraltar
Global Securities were sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for allegedly taking part in an international “pump
and dump” stock-selling scheme.  The SEC said the defendants were part of a group that used
a boiler-room operation to promote and artificially inflate two
publicly traded U.S.-based companies,  Tradeshow Marketing Co. (TSHO) 
and  Pacific Blue Energy Corp. (PBEC)   The defendants allegedly secretly took control of the
companies and inflated the stock prices with false and
misleading promotions. They also allegedly hired a group of
salespeople who called U.S. investors to tout the stocks,
falsely claiming the information was based on independent
research.  The commission alleges that the defendants sent out
investors from two stock-touting websites they controlled --
Skymark Research and Emerging Stock Report. U.S-based attorneys
Luis Carrillo and Wade Huettel were described as “central
participants” in the scheme by helping promoters acquire
control of Pacific Blue through offshore nominee entities.
Gibraltar is an unregistered broker-dealer incorporated and
located in the Bahamas, the SEC said.  The defendants earned at least $11 million by “scalping”
Pacific Blue and Tradeshow shares, secretly selling the stock
while simultaneously promoting it to investors.  Nicholas De Feis, a lawyer for Gibraltar, and William
Fleming, a lawyer for Wade Huettel, didn’t immediately return
voice-mail messages left at their offices seeking comment on the
suit.  The case is SEC v. Carrillo Huettel, 13-cv-01735, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Video  Consultant: BigLaw Growth is NOT Dead!  Despite challenges, professional-services consultant John
Grimley is optimistic about the prospects for law firm growth.  “I’m bullish about the law because law firms in the future
are going to adopt sophisticated business development systems,”
he tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia  Grimley reasons that U.S. law firms are in a unique
position because the fastest-growing global economies want
access to the country’s markets. To get new work, firms will
need to significantly increase their marketing and business-
development staffs.  “They need sophisticated divisions devoted to generating
revenue,” he says.  Grimley disagrees with law-firm consultant Bruce MacEwen,
who said in a Feb. 28 interview with Bloomberg Law that growth
is a thing of the past and that large firms are now finding
themselves “in a battle for market share.”  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  