-- STMicroelectronics, Ericsson End Venture After Failed Sale
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-03-18T09:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/stmicroelectronics-ericsson-split-up-venture-after-failed-sale.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  and  Ericsson
AB (ERICB)  agreed to split up their unprofitable ST-Ericsson chip
venture after failing to find a buyer for the business, cutting
about 1,600 jobs as they divide the assets.  Ericsson said today it plans to assume about 1,800 of the
venture’s 4,350 employees and contractors in countries including
Sweden and  Germany , and will continue developing ST-Ericsson’s
modem technology. STMicroelectronics will take on the venture’s
existing products and 950 employees, mainly in France and in
 Italy , and incur costs of as much as $450 million.  STMicroelectronics and Ericsson are winding down the 50-50
partnership, which designs chips used in mobile phones, after a
three-month search for a buyer failed to produce results. The
partnership has accumulated $2.7 billion in net losses since it
started in 2009 as it struggled to introduce higher-powered
chipsets and platforms while the low-end handset business at
customer  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  shrank.  “In 2009 the situation was different, we started with a
great base of European customers,” STMicroelectronics Chief
Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said on a conference call.
“Unfortunately this customer base has changed.”  Ericsson  fell  1.4 percent to 84.25 kronor at 10:30 a.m. in
 Stockholm . It had advanced 31 percent this year before today.
STMicroelectronics, which had gained 9.6 percent this year,
climbed 3 percent to 6.06 euros in Paris. The stock lost 4.4
percent on March 12 after Bloomberg reported that ST-Ericsson
failed to find a buyer.  Modem Losses  Potential buyers that were approached, including customer
Samsung Electronics Co., declined to make an offer, people
familiar with the matter said last week. Samsung is “a great
customer for us and we continue to work for a lot of products
with this company,” Bozotti said today, declining to comment on
any talks for Samsung taking over the venture.  The modem business will become a standalone unit at
Ericsson and will probably report an operating loss of 500
million kronor ($77 million) in the fourth quarter, Ericsson
said. Ericsson already set aside 3.3 billion kronor in the
fourth quarter last year to cover costs related to strategic
changes at ST-Ericsson.  “We want to be top three in modems,” CEO Officer  Hans Vestberg  said in a phone interview today. “This is our ambition
and I think we have the right capacity, competencies , slimmed-
down organization and product for it.”  Losses from the business to be integrated are “worrisome”
and could weigh on Ericsson stock, Erik Paulsson, an analyst at
Pareto Securities in Stockholm, said in a note to clients.  New Chief  ST-Ericsson Chief Operating Officer Carlo Ferro was named
chief executive officer to oversee the transition. Previous CEO
Didier Lamouche quit last week. The formal transfer of the ST-
Ericsson assets to the parents will probably be completed in the
third quarter, the companies said.  Reintegrating workers into the parent companies could help
minimize job cuts at ST-Ericsson as some European governments,
especially Socialist President Francois Hollande-led  France , are
against firings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  