-- Swiss Stocks Drop From Five-Year High on Cyprus Concern
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-03-18T17:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/swiss-stocks-drop-from-five-year-high-on-cyprus-concern.html
Swiss stocks  declined from the
highest level in five years amid concern an unprecedented levy
on  bank deposits  in Cyprus will deepen the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest
lenders, slid at least 2 percent.  Mikron Holding AG (MIKN)  shares
jumped the most in more than two months after the company
forecast improved profitability.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  fell 0.4 percent to 7,830.37 at the
close in Zurich, paring an earlier drop of as much as 1.2
percent. The gauge last week climbed to the highest level since
January 2008, as data pointed to a strengthening global economy
and amid speculation that central banks will maintain economic
support. The broader Swiss Performance Index also lost 0.4
percent today.  “Insecurity is back in the markets and it is a reminder
that the euro crisis is not a topic you can put in a drawer,”
said Alessandro Fezzi, senior market analyst at LGT Bank Schweiz
AG in Zurich. “The levy, in particular, is a difficult thing as
it might spread and increase insecurity in other countries,
mainly in the periphery. For today’s trading session, it’s
clearly negative, especially for financials.”  The number of shares changing hands in companies on the SMI
was 6.8 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cyprus Aid  Euro-area finance ministers reached an agreement on March
16, forcing bank depositors in Cyprus to share the cost of the
latest euro-zone bailout. The plan reduced the cost of the
rescue by 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) to 10 billion euros.  While Cyprus accounts for less than half a percent of the
currency bloc’s economy, the raid on bank accounts has fueled
concern the precedent may re-ignite a financial crisis that
began in 2009 in  Greece .  Cypriot lawmakers will meet tomorrow to ratify the levy.
The vote was delayed from today due to the need to examine
changes to legislation, Speaker Yiannakis Omirou told reporters
in Nicosia, in comments broadcast on state-run CYBC. The
nation’s banks will remain shut through March 20 after a holiday
today, a government official said.  UBS lost 2 percent to 15.19 Swiss francs and Credit Suisse
retreated 2.4 percent to 26.24 francs, for the biggest declines
in the SMI. A gauge of banks was the  worst performer  among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , Switzerland’s third-largest wealth
manager, declined 1.6 percent to 37.46 francs.  Mikron jumped 7.3 percent to 5.76 francs, the biggest gain
since Jan. 9. The Swiss maker of machinery for fuel injectors
and medical devices forecast an improvement in its 2013 earnings
margin, based on a stronger order backlog for its automation
unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  