-- Syrian Warplanes Attack Areas in Lebanon, NNA Reports
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-03-18T15:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/syrian-warplanes-attack-areas-in-lebanon-nna-reports.html
Syrian warplanes struck targets on
the outskirts of the Lebanese town of Ersal days after telling
the Lebanese government it was exercising “the utmost degree of
self-restraint” not to hit armed groups infiltrating into its
territory.  Lebanon’s state National News Agency reported the attack,
the second since September, without providing details. Last
week,  Syria ’s Foreign Ministry sent a letter to its Lebanese
counterpart complaining about an increase in the number of
“armed terrorist groups” infiltrating into Syria from Lebanon.  “The crowds of those terrorist groups are still present
inside the Lebanese lands, they are seen by the naked eye by our
forces who are showing the utmost degrees of self-restraint”
not to hit them, the communication said, according to Syria’s
state-run SANA news agency.  Syria’s two-year civil war has spread into neighboring
countries several times, most recently on March 4 when at least
48 Syrian troops were killed by insurgents inside  Iraq . Turkey
has attacked targets inside Syria after shells landed on its
territory last year and pro- and anti-Assad groups have fought
in Lebanon’s capital  Beirut  and the northern city of Tripoli.  The Syrians last week asked Lebanon to “exert efforts to
control the borders with Syria” and prevent those groups from
using the borders as a “corridor to target” Syria, SANA said.  Syria regularly reports infiltrations of armed groups from
Lebanon seeking to help rebels fighting to overthrow the
government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The opposition
has said the Iranian-backed Hezbollah group, Assad’s closest
ally, is assisting Assad’s clampdown on the rebels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  