-- U.K. Inflation Quickens to Fastest in Nine Months
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-19T11:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/u-k-inflation-seen-accelerating-on-pressure-from-pound-slump.html
U.K. inflation  accelerated to the
fastest pace in nine months in February and factory-gate prices
increased twice as much as forecast as energy costs surged.  Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 2.7 percent in January, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London today. That matched the median of 35
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Producer prices  increased
0.8 percent from the previous month, the most since April 2011.  Higher energy bills and a weaker pound have fueled price
pressures in recent months. That’s adding to the squeeze on
consumers as they brace for another austerity budget by
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  tomorrow. With price
gains above the  Bank of England ’s 2 percent target, Osborne may
also flag changes to the central bank’s mandate to give policy
makers more flexibility to stimulate growth.  “The economy is going nowhere fast and the BOE has said it
will essentially look through above-target inflation,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “Whether of its
own volition, or because the chancellor tweaks its inflation
remit in the budget, we continue to expect the BOE to add more
monetary stimulus this year.”  The pound erased its decline against the dollar after the
data were published. It was trading at $1.5125 as of 11:28 a.m.
in  London , up 0.1 percent from yesterday.  Retail Prices  Housing, water, electricity and gas added 0.11 percentage
point to annual inflation in February -- the biggest upward
impact. That reflects increases in utility bills, the statistics
office said.  Today’s report also showed that  retail-price inflation , a
measure used in wage negotiations, cooled to 3.2 percent in
February from 3.3 percent in January. The retail-price index
excluding mortgage-interest payments was at 3.2 percent.  Today’s inflation data are the first since the Statistics
Authority stripped RPI of its designation as a “National
Statistic” after a review found it fell short of international
best practice. Two new experimental indexes were introduced
today. A variant of the RPI, known as RPIJ, was at 2.6 percent
in February. CPIH, which includes a measure of housing costs,
was also at 2.6 percent.  BOE Policy  The February data mark the 39th month that consumer-price
inflation has been above the Bank of England’s target. Still,
policy makers have said it’s right to “look through” the
current price surge to  aid the economy .  With the BOE signaling openness to more stimulus, that’s
put pressure on the pound. Sterling has weakened against 14 of
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg this year.  Governor  Mervyn King  said in an ITV News interview last
week that the BOE isn’t trying to talk down the currency and
it’s now “broadly stable.” Minutes of the Monetary Policy
Committee’s March meeting to be published tomorrow will show if
he kept up his push for more bond purchases after he was
defeated in a vote in February.  Separate data today showed pipeline price pressures may be
building in the economy. Input prices surged 3.2 percent in
February from January, the most since March 2011. The increase
was led by a 7.1 percent surge in crude-oil costs. From a year
earlier, input prices were up 2.5 percent.  “In manufacturing, it is evident that the weaker pound is
also hurting producers through increased import costs,” said
 Chris Williamson , an economist at Markit Economics Ltd. in
London. That’s a “worrying side-effect of sterling’s
depreciation.”  The 0.8 percent monthly increase in output prices compared
with economists’ forecast for a gain of 0.4 percent. The rise
was led by petroleum products, which were up 3.7 percent.  Investor Confidence  In another report, the ONS said annual  U.K. house-price
gains  slowed to 2.2 percent in January from 3.3 percent in
December. In London, prices rose an annual 5.5 percent.  While the euro area, the U.K.’s main trading partner, is in
the grip of a recession, a report in  Germany  today showed
confidence in the region’s largest economy is improving. The ZEW
Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said its index
of  investor confidence  unexpectedly rose to a three-year high of
48.5 in March from 48.2 in February. Economists forecast a
decline to 48.1, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Still, political turmoil in  Italy  and the specter of a bank
run in Cyprus are spooking financial markets and threatening to
derail an economic recovery. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell for
a third day.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the
“disruptive effects of severe fragmentation in the single
financial market have tangible consequences, such as diverging
funding costs for banks.” In a speech in  Frankfurt , he said the
ECB had to identify the most effective tools for repairing these
disruptions, “while remaining within its mandate.”  Other data in  Europe  today were less positive than the ZEW.
A contraction in car sales accelerated in February as a
steepening decline in Germany, the region’s biggest market, hurt
previously resilient  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Bayerische Motoren Werke AG
and Daimler AG. Registrations dropped 10 percent from a year
earlier to 829,359 vehicles, the Brussels-based European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  