-- U.K. to Rule on EDF Proposals for First Atomic Plant in 20 Years
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-03-18T18:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/u-k-to-rule-on-edf-proposals-for-first-atomic-plant-in-20-years.html
The U.K. will announce its decision
tomorrow on whether to approve  Electricite de France SA ’s plan
to build the nation’s first nuclear power station in 20 years.  The U.K. is ruling on whether construction at the Hinkley
Point C plant in Somerset can proceed, three months after the
country’s planning inspectorate handed its recommendation on the
project to Energy Secretary Ed Davey on Dec. 19. The schedule is
set out under the U.K. planning system for infrastructure. A
ministry spokesman reaffirmed tomorrow is the deadline.  The power station would generate 7 percent of the U.K.’s
power, enough for 5 million homes, for at least 60 years, EDF
says. Revamping the nuclear industry is central to U.K. plans
for 110 billion pounds ($166 billion) of investment in low-
carbon electricity. Energy regulator Ofgem has warned of higher
consumer bills as aging oil and coal-fired plants close.  EDF, the biggest nuclear operator, and the U.K. are trying
to agree on a so-called contract for difference and strike price
per megawatt-hour of power produced. The government has sought
to introduce changes to the power market that ensure investors
get a stable return regardless of prevailing prices.  No commitment has been made on the strike price, while
talks to find a fair and affordable deal for power at the 3.2
gigawatt plant continue, the ministry spokesman said by e-mail.  “Planning approval will be a great step forward for EDF
but the key issue for the project moving forward is agreement on
a contract for differences and the strike price,” said Fiona Reilly, Norton Rose LLP nuclear services chief. “That would be
a truly positive step and a signal to other developers and the
market that nuclear new build in the U.K. is going to happen.”  Environmental groups such as Greenpeace say an agreement
between EDF and the U.K. may lock consumers into higher bills.  Construction at the last new nuclear station, Sizewell B in
Suffolk, started in 1988 and generation began in 1995. While
Britain has no specific target for new nuclear, industry has set
out plans to build 16 gigawatts of new reactors by 2025.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ; 