-- U.K. Political Parties Reach Deal on Newspaper Regulation
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-18T17:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/u-k-political-parties-reach-deal-on-newspaper-regulation.html
Britain’s main political parties
agreed on measures to regulate newspapers after Prime Minister
David Cameron and his coalition partners split over the issue
last week.  Cameron’s Conservatives reached a deal in late-night talks
with Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg’s Liberal Democrats and
the opposition Labour Party to introduce a Royal Charter
creating a new newspaper complaints body, backed by a clause in
a bill passing through Parliament today that will make it
difficult for the nature of the charter to be changed.  The parties have been negotiating since November on how to
implement recommendations by Judge Brian Leveson, who was asked
by Cameron to conduct an inquiry into the press after the  News
Corp. (NWSA)  hacking scandal. Cameron pulled out of negotiations last
week, saying they’d reached an impasse, and proposed introducing
his preferred measures to Parliament today. The premier, who
said he was opposed to any kind of law regulating the media,
faced defeat without Liberal Democrat support.  “There was a real danger that if we pursued a detailed
Leveson approach that we would have been part of an exercise in
grandstanding, something of a charade, rather than something
that would actually deliver for victims,” Cameron told
Parliament in a debate on the compromise plan today. “This is
not by any stretch statutory regulation of the press.”  ‘Working Together’  Clegg accused Cameron last week of “party-political point
scoring” after the talks broke down. Today, replying to the
prime minister, he said the outcome of the talks was “not a
victory for any one individual or any one team. It is a victory
for working together, for putting narrow interests to one
side.”  The Leveson inquiry was set up after the scandal at News
Corp.’s now defunct News of the World tabloid, which has led to
at least 36 arrests.  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) ’s Sunday Mirror was
dragged into the affair last week as London police arrested four
journalists connected to the newspaper.  News Corp. may face further phone-hacking claims as
hundreds more victims have been identified in a new police
investigation, a lawyer representing the victims said at a
London hearing today.  News International, one of News Corp.’s British arms, has
resolved hundreds of claims by victims through court-approved
settlements and an out-of-court process created by the company.  Labour lawmaker Tom Watson, who persisted in raising
questions about phone-hacking between 2009 and 2011, said that
in the past, ordinary people encountered “random acts of
malice” with politicians reluctant to act. “This was a dark
hour for our parliamentary democracy,” he told Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  