-- U.K. Inflation Triggers Anxiety as ONS Rejects Index Rejig
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-18T08:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/u-k-inflation-triggers-anxiety-after-ons-rejects-index-rejig.html
The U.K.’s  Office for National
Statistics  is making economists anxious about  inflation .  After an inquiry into its 57-year-old Retail  Price Index 
upended the 290 billion-pound ($440 billion) index-linked bond
market last year, the ONS won’t refurbish the gauge, and instead
will publish a new measure called RPIJ from tomorrow. Old RPI
will remain the benchmark for inflation-tied prices including
how much tax gamblers pay and what telephone calls cost, even
after a panel said it has “unsuitable” properties, and the ONS
said it “does not meet international best standards.”  “They’ve created a great deal of confusion and anxiety and
muddle and they’ve made it worse because it’s going to be a long
time before they come back to look at it sensibly,” said  Kate Barker , a former  Bank of England  policy maker and an adviser at
Credit Suisse Group AG in  London . “I felt really blindsided
that the national statistician could just reject that advice.”  U.K. National Statistician Jil Matheson headed a review by
the Consumer Prices Advisory Panel, which she chairs. It focused
on clothing prices, which account for 4.5 percent of the RPI,
after changes to collection methods skewed the data. One of the
conclusions was that the current Carli mathematical method,
which uses arithmetic averages and is used in 27 percent of the
inflation measure, is inferior to the Jevons calculation based
on geometric averages.  ‘Not Consistent’  “The RPI is misleading,” said Philip Turnbull, a member
of CPAC and the Royal Statistical Society. Continuing its
publication “is not consistent with the duty of the national
statistician to provide reliable and competent and meaningful
indicators following best professional standards and
international best practice.”  Matheson wasn’t available for comment. Derek Bird, head of
prices at the ONS, said while he acknowledges RPI’s flaws,
maintaining the index gives users the continuity they want.  “There’s the requirement that looks at  statistical
methodology , and there’s the user perspective,” he said.
“She’s required to look at both of those elements and to try to
find a solution that balances both.”  Unfit Index  After the inquiry into the RPI started in mid-2011,
investors in the inflation-linked bond market shied away from
the securities. The debt had its worst performance in a decade
last year, returning 0.8 percent according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. So far this year they’ve returned 4.2
percent, helped in part by a jump after Matheson’s announcement
sent the yield on the 10-year debt to a then record of minus
0.99 percent. Last week the yield dipped to minus 1.4 percent.  “There is broad agreement that the current RPI methodology
is not fit for purpose,” said  Paul Johnson , a director of the
 Institute for Fiscal Studies , who expected the review to
sanction a change. “Where they’ve ended up is that it’s better
to be consistent than right, which is kind of surprising.”  All 10 economists in a Bloomberg News survey had predicted
the ONS would change the RPI following its review.  Rejigging benchmarks is a sensitive issue in the wake of
revelations that traders around the world manipulated the suite
of  interest rates  known as the London Interbank Offered Rates,
which are tied to more than $300 trillion of securities
globally. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Britain’s biggest
publicly owned lender, said Feb. 28 it will recoup 302 million
pounds from its bonus pool and compensation clawbacks after it
was fined for rigging Libor.  Water Links  Bird at the ONS said it’s impossible to compile a
comprehensive list of all the uses of RPI, which include rail
fares and water charges, wage deals negotiated by unions, levies
on alcohol, tobacco, gambling and fuel, and some student loan
and corporation tax rates.  Paul McMahon, director of economic regulation at trade
group Water U.K. said the organization was “pleased” with the
decision to leave RPI alone, since its members’ income and debts
are in part tied to the index.  “Water is hard-wired to RPI,” he said. “The RPI has been
in there forever, but it’s been understood by investors.”  Nevertheless, the U.K. Statistics Authority has decided to
remove RPI’s “National Statistic,” designation, which it
assigns to economic indicators it deems to meet a quality
threshold. RPI, the only statistic the ONS has a statutory duty
to produce because of its role in the inflation-linked  bond
market , is the first non-experimental ONS statistic not to have
the stamp.  Potential Embarrassment  Speaking before the authority’s decision, Turnbull said the
loss of the quality mark “could be embarrassing for the ONS.”  The proposals the ONS set out in the consultation for
improving RPI, which was 3.3 percent in January, would have
delivered a lower inflation rate by between 0.4 and 0.7
percentage point. Estimates published last week of historical
data show the new RPIJ measure would have been 2.5 percent in
December, against an RPI reading of 3.1 percent. CPI has held at
2.7 percent since October. Tomorrow’s data for all three indexes
will be for February.  Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
London, estimates a change may save the government about 7
billion pounds a year by 2016-2017 at the expense of investors.  “There were some convincing arguments for updating the
RPI,” Tombs said. “Full-scale recalculation is unlikely now.”  All Flawed?  The U.K. has an alternative benchmark inflation indicator,
after introducing the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices, known
now as CPI, in 1996 to meet European Union legislation. In 2003
 Gordon Brown , then Chancellor of the Exchequer, changed the Bank
of England’s targeted measure of  price stability  to CPI from
RPI. Inflation-linked bonds were left tracking RPI, though in
2011 the government switched to CPI for benefits, tax credits
and public-sector pensions.  “There is no index that gives the right answer and all of
them are subject to one problem or another,” said Johnson at
the IFS.  From the mid-1990s, “the introduction of major
methodological improvements in the RPI stalled,” said David
Baran, who worked on price indexes at the ONS for 15 years and
is now a consultant. “At the same time use of the CPI has
increased to the point where it is the government’s and many
other users’ preferred measure of inflation, though CPAC
continues to provide advice on its development.”  Apparel Influence  CPI and RPI divergence due to their calculation mathematics
-- CPI doesn’t use the Carli formula and RPI doesn’t use the
Jevons formula, and other methods used have different weights --
was about half a point until early 2010. It ballooned to a full
point after the change in clothing-price collection methods was
introduced that year, an episode that taught the ONS some
lessons about altering indexes. The ONS didn’t publish the
difference between the CPI and RPIJ last week.  “We wouldn’t introduce a change in that way now,” Bird
said. “We’ve learned that were we to consider something
similar, we’d want to run it in parallel to assess its impact.”  To be sure, the ONS has introduced other inflation changes
that haven’t produced such market disruptions. Its annual update
of the basket of goods, announced last week, added e-books and
white rum, and removed champagne. It also introduced a measure
called the CPIH, which adds owner-occupiers’ housing costs to
the existing CPI.  ‘Sensible Option’  The eventual decision to leave RPI unaltered was a
“sensible option” for David Dyer, senior portfolio manager at
AXA Investment Managers in London, which oversees $1.4 billion.
“You could see it being a legal minefield that would have been
a real nightmare.” Still, the prospect that the RPI may lose
its designation as a National Statistic raises “reputational
issues for the U.K.,” he said.  “International investors in a market that has bonds
maturing after 50 years are going to want reassurance on how
that’s calculated,” Dyer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  