-- U.S. Treasury Calls for Responsible and Fair Cyprus Solution
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K e v i n   C o s t e l l o e
-- 2013-03-18T20:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/u-s-treasury-calls-for-responsible-and-fair-cyprus-solution-1-.html
The U.S. called for a “responsible
and fair” resolution to the financial crisis in Cyprus, where a
proposed tax on bank deposits roiled global markets.  The Treasury Department is “monitoring the situation in
Cyprus closely,” and Secretary Jacob J. Lew has been speaking
with his European counterparts, the department said in an e-
mailed statement today. “It is important that Cyprus and its
euro-area partners work to resolve the situation in a way that
is responsible and fair and ensures financial stability.”  The Treasury’s comments are the department’s first on
Cyprus since Lew’s counterparts in the euro area reached an
agreement March 16 forcing depositors to share in the cost of
the latest bailout. Lew, who was sworn into office Feb. 28, was
following the crisis while en route to his first foreign trip as
secretary, a two-day visit to Beijing to meet with leaders of
 China ’s new government starting tomorrow.  The Treasury’s statement shows “concern that the plan may
create instability beyond the borders of Cyprus to the rest of
euro zone and even beyond the euro zone,” said Domenico Lombardi, a senior fellow specializing in global economics at
the Brookings Institution in Washington. “You can read the
concern between the lines.”  Lombardi is a former member of the executive boards of the
International Monetary Fund and World Bank.  Market Reaction  The euro weakened to its lowest level this year as the levy
on Cyprus’s bank savings renewed concern about  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The 17-nation shared currency sank 1.1 percent to
$1.2930 at 4 p.m. in New York. The MSCI All-Country World Index
lost 1 percent, retreating from the highest level since June
2008. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.2 percent, trimming a
plunge of 1.2 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated
for a second day, losing 0.6 percent after dropping 1 percent
earlier.  “They’re communicating that Secretary Lew is not just
interested in what’s going on with the U.S. economy and fiscal
problems, but also following things in Europe,” said  Edwin Truman , a former assistant Treasury secretary for international
affairs during the Clinton administration.  “The use of a word like ‘fair’ does suggest that they’re a
little uneasy about the terms of this deal,” said Truman, a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington. The deal “is bit Draconian and smacks
people as unfair, and there’s some risk that it sets a precedent
for other countries because we don’t know who will be next.”  Contagion Threat  Scenes of Cypriots lining up at cash machines raised the
specter of capital flight elsewhere and threatened to disrupt a
market calm since the European Central Bank’s pledge in
September to backstop troubled nations’ debt. The terms of
Cyprus’s bailout are negative for depositors across Europe, and
may hurt bank ratings region-wide, Moody’s Investors Service
said in a Credit Outlook report today.  Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers today
called the levy on bank deposits a mistake.  “The fact that this could have been the product and could
have been endorsed by the International Monetary Fund on behalf
of the global community, that this could have been what the
European Union came up with, hardly gives confidence in their
crisis-fighting skills,” Summers said in an interview on CNBC.
“This was a tactical blunder alongside a strategy adrift.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Costelloe in Washington at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  