-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Increase as Cyprus Renews Levy
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-03-18T20:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/u-s-company-credit-swaps-increase-as-cyprus-levy-renews-concern.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose the most in three weeks amid concern a levy on Cypriot
bank deposits will reignite the region’s debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 1.5
basis points to a mid-price of 80.2 basis points at 4:08 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
biggest increase since gaining 3.8 basis points Feb. 25.  Euro-region finance ministers forced depositors in Cypriot
banks to share in the cost of rescuing the island nation,
reducing the cost of the bailout by 5.8 billion euros ($7.5
billion) to 10 billion euros. While Cyprus accounts for less
than half a percent of the 17-nation euro area’s economy,
investors are concerned the raid on bank accounts risks a
resumption of the financial crisis that began in 2009 in  Greece .  “It’s a hell of a precedent,” Mark Alexandridis, a
portfolio manager at First Principles Capital Management LLC,
said today in a telephone interview. “There’s concern about
contagion to smaller banks in some of the peripheral countries,
and a bank run would not be a good thing for the market right
now.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Chesapeake Refinancing  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-biggest U.S. natural
gas producer that’s selling as much as $7 billion in assets this
year to plug a cash shortfall, is planning to issue $2.3 billion
of bonds in three parts to fund a tender offer and to repay
debt.  The company may sell  senior notes  due in March 2016, June
2021 and March 2023 as soon as today, according to a person
familiar with the transaction who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t set. Proceeds will be used to fund a tender
offer for Chesapeake’s 7.625 percent securities due 2013 and its
6.875 percent debentures maturing in 2018, the Oklahoma City-
based company said today in a statement. It will also use
proceeds to redeem its 6.775 percent notes due 2019 and repay
its revolving bank credit facility.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index climbed 4.6 basis points to 397.6 basis points,
rising for a second day, Bloomberg prices show.  Jones Group  The cost to protect the debt of clothing company  Jones
Group Inc. (JNY)  rose by the most in a month as the company appointed
Greg Clark, previously the senior vice president of creative
marketing for J.C. Penney Co., as its chief marketing officer.  The five-year credit-default swaps on the New York-based
company added 10.7 basis points to 349.3 basis points as of 4:02
p.m., Bloomberg prices show. That’s the biggest jump since Feb.
18.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt rose 4.5 basis points to 493.3 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  