-- Pope Francis’s Inauguration Draws Thousands to Rome
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-03-19T12:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/mugabe-and-merkel-head-to-rome-as-pope-francis-prepares-debut.html
Pope Francis urged humanity to
respect all God’s creatures and the environment in a homily to a
crowd of some 200,000 people and a broader audience across the
world as he was inaugurated as the 266th bishop of  Rome .  The ceremony was held on the Feast of St. Joseph, the
father of Jesus who was entrusted by God to be a “protector”
of Mary and their son, Francis said from a stage overlooking
dozens of heads of state and government and a crowd that filled
St. Peter’s Square and streamed up the wide avenue of Via della
Conciliazione where many watched the proceedings on video
screens.  “I would like to ask all those who have positions of
responsibility in economic, political and social life, and all
men and women of goodwill: let us be protectors of creation,
protectors of God’s plan inscribed in nature, protectors of one
another and of the environment,” he told the crowd.  Francis inherits a church riven by intrigue and infighting
within its bureaucracy and weakened by the fallout from sexual
abuse scandals that have alienated many Catholics. With his
built-in appeal to the developing world, where Catholicism is
growing fastest, Francis may help rejuvenate a faith that’s in
decline in Europe and barely growing in the U.S.  In his homily, Pope Francis also warned about human
frailty.  “Whenever human beings fail to live up to this
responsibility, whenever we fail to care for creation and for
our brothers and sisters, the way is opened to destruction and
hearts are hardened,” he said.  Greeting Crowd  Francis began the morning by greeting the crowd, standing
in the back of a convertible as it slowly looped through St.
Peter’s Square. During the ceremony he received his new papal
ring, delivered a homily and received an oath of loyalty from
his cardinals, considered the princes of the church. Five
hundred priests then offered communion to a crowd the Vatican
estimated at as much as 200,000 people.  “He has a look of incredible peace,” said Laura Vives, a
doctor from La Plata, Argentina, whose vacation happened to
coincide with the inauguration, permitting her to attend. “He’s
humble and above all that’s what people in power need to be.
He’s merciful and that’s what he is asking of people, not just
Catholics, but everyone, that we be humble and merciful.”  One hundred and thirty two political and spiritual
delegations attended, with 31 heads of state and 11 heads of
government on hand, Vatican spokesman Father Federico Lombardi
said yesterday.  At Peace  The U.S., whose citizens are the biggest donors to church
coffers, was represented by Vice President Joe Biden, a Catholic
of Irish descent.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  was there for
 Germany , birthplace of Francis’s predecessor. Argentina’s
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, with whom the former Archbishop
of Buenos Aires clashed on gay marriages, attended after
yesterday seeking his backing on the Falklands Islands dispute.  He is “serene, I saw him sure of himself, at peace,
calm,” Fernandez said at a press conference yesterday after a
lunch with Francis, where she asked him to intervene to push for
negotiations on the territorial dispute with the U.K. “I also
saw someone concerned about the immense work of guiding the
Vatican with a commitment to change the things that he knows
must change.”  Fisherman’s Ring  The two-hour ceremony has been modernized and simplified
from when it was a coronation complete with a ruby and sapphire
studded tiara. Still, the service was steeped in tradition and
centuries-old rites, such as slipping a ring freshly engraved
with his name and embossed with St. Peter’s seal of a fisherman
casting his nets on the third finger of Francis’s right hand.
The new pope has chosen a silver ring with gold plate rather
than the traditional gold ring for his papacy.  The pontiff’s choice of ring is the latest manifestation of
the tone of humility and simplicity that Francis has set for his
papacy -- one that seeks to strip the scandal-plagued
institution of pomp and splendor with an emphasis on helping
those most in need.  Spokesman Lombardi, a fellow Jesuit, said last week that
Francis told bishops in  Argentina  to urge their flock not to
come to pay homage in person to the first Latin American pope.  His message, according to Lombardi, was “it’s too
expensive” and “use the money you would have spent on travel
to help the poor.”  After the inauguration, Pope Francis posted a message on
Twitter saying “true power is service. The pope must serve all
people, especially the poor, the weak, the vulnerable.”  Emeritus Pope  In what is a busy week for Francis, 76, his most
significant appointment may be his private lunch on March 23
with Benedict XVI, who set the papal transition in motion with
his surprise resignation.  There are no historic precedents of an emeritus pope and a
sitting pontiff, making the encounter a closely scrutinized
affair for Vatican watchers seeking to detect how much influence
the old pope may exert on the new. Benedict has vowed to
withdraw from the world and live out his days in a convent
inside the Vatican walls.  In the first days of his papacy, Francis has demonstrated a
common touch that may help him connect with the faithful in way
that his bookish predecessor failed to do.  Before giving his first Angelus prayer on March 17, he
offered a mass at a small chapel on the edge of the Vatican City
and then plunged into the crowd of surprised bystanders just
outside the walls to shake hands with the faithful.  From day one in office Francis has broken with protocol --
taking a bus with cardinals on his first papal outing to St.
Mary Major basilica -- and he’s deviated from prepared remarks
to show a deft touch in his interactions with people and the
media.  Francis of Assisi  He charmed a packed hall of journalists in his first formal
press encounter on March 16 by gently ribbing them about their
24-hour coverage: “You’ve been working hard, eh?”  The pope then described in intimate detail how he decided
to take his name after St. Francis of Assisi, who eschewed his
family’s wealth to dedicate himself to the poor. As the voting
in the secrete conclave to choose the new pope appeared to be
going his way, his close friend Cardinal Claudio Hummes of
 Brazil  approached him.  “He hugged me, he kissed me, he told me, ‘don’t forget
about the poor,’” Francis recalled in fluent Italian. Pointing
to his head, he said “that word -- the poor -- entered here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  