-- Lululemon Falls as Pants Deemed Too Transparent
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-03-19T20:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/lululemon-falls-after-lowering-forecast-on-pants-shortage.html
Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , the yoga-
wear retailer that blends fashion and lifestyle marketing,
declined after it was forced to withdraw women’s pants that
proved to be too transparent.  Fiscal first-quarter revenue will be lower than forecast
because of the shortage, Vancouver-based Lululemon said in a
statement yesterday.  Lululemon  fell  2.8 percent to $64.08 at the close in New
York. The shares dropped 16 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 8.6 percent.  Certain shipments of black Luon pants were too transparent
and didn’t  meet  the company’s standards, Lululemon said. The
affected items, which were made available March 1 before being
pulled, account for about 17 percent of all women’s pants in
stores, the company said. The error follows dye issues and
supply-chain problems in recent quarters, said  Edward Yruma , an
analyst at Keybanc Capital Markets in New York.  “We expect this most recent issue to further heighten the
scrutiny on the supply chain, which could distract from the
near-term seeding of international markets,” Yruma wrote in a
note today. He recommends buying the shares.  Lululemon’s Luon Straight to the Studio pants sell for $98
on the retailer’s  website .  Revenue in the current quarter will be as much as $343
million, down from a previous estimate of as much as $355
million, Lululemon said. Comparable-store sales will increase as
much as 8 percent, compared with a previous forecast of 11
percent. Lululemon’s revenue has expanded by at least 30 percent
for 13 quarters, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Significant Impact’  “We expect this issue will have a significant impact on
our  financial  results,” the company said in the statement. “We
have used the same manufacturing partner on key fabrics since
2004. This event is not the result of changing manufacturers or
quality of ingredients.”  Lululemon said it will offer full refunds or exchanges to
customers who bought the black Luon pants after March 1 either
online or in stores.  The yoga-wear maker is scheduled to report earnings for its
fiscal fourth quarter, which ended Feb. 3, on March 21.  Lululemon, which has more than 200 locations, in January
forecast sales for the final quarter of its year that trailed
analysts’ estimates, signaling a possible slowdown. Lululemon
has reported sales growth of at least 30 percent for the past 13
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  