-- UN Seeks Global Arms Trade Treaty Talks as NRA Objects
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-03-18T15:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/un-seeks-global-arms-trade-treaty-talks-as-nra-objects.html
Negotiations on an international
treaty to regulate the $70 billion arms trade began today at the
United Nations, bringing more than 150 countries together in New
York over objections from the National Rifle Association.  As the world’s biggest arms manufacturer, the U.S. position
will be watched as nine days of discussions unfold at the UN on
how to stop conventional weapons -- from small arms and missile
launchers to tanks, warships and attack helicopters -- from
falling in the wrong hands and fueling armed conflicts, such as
those in  Africa  and the Middle East.  While supporters including U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry say a treaty wouldn’t impinge on the U.S. Constitution’s
Second Amendment right to bear arms, the talk of arms regulation
has agitated American gun-rights advocates led by the National
Rifle Association, which claims more than 4 million members.  “Neither the United Nations, nor any other foreign
influence, has the authority to meddle with the freedoms
guaranteed by our Bill of Rights,” Wayne LaPierre, chief
executive officer of the NRA, said in a July 14 address to the
UN’s Arms Trade Treaty Conference. Calls and e-mails to the
Fairfax, Virginia-based NRA on this week’s debate weren’t
immediately returned.  The Obama administration has tried to prevent the UN debate
from undermining its push for domestic gun control measures
following the Newtown,  Connecticut , massacre that left 20
children and six adults dead at Sandy Hook Elementary School in
December.  Kerry’s Assurance  “The United States could only be party to an arms trade
treaty that addresses international transfers of conventional
arms solely, and does not impose any new requirements on the
U.S. domestic trade in firearms or on U.S. exporters,” Kerry
said in a March 15 statement.  “We will not support any treaty
that would be inconsistent with U.S. law and the rights of
American citizens under our Constitution.”  Separating the two issues has been difficult. At the last
round of arms negotiations at the UN, in July, the U.S. asked
for more time. Talks were delayed until after the November
election that President  Barack Obama  won.  The NRA has said its concern is that inclusion in such a
treaty of small arms -- such as AK-47 rifles, held by millions
of American gun owners -- would set a precedent that could be
used to sway the domestic gun-control argument. In his July
address, LaPierre decried “such intense focus on record-
keeping, oversight, inspections, supervision, tracking, tracing,
surveillance, documentation, verification, paper trails and data
banks.”  Syria, Mali  Among issues pending as the UN weighs the proposed treaty
is whether ammunition will be included in the broad push to set
standards and binding rules on cross-border transfers of light
and heavy weaponry.  “ Syria ,  Mali , the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Sri
Lanka are just a few recent examples where the world bore
witness to the horrific human cost of a reckless global arms
trade steeped in secrecy,” Salil Shetty, Amnesty
International’s secretary general, said in a statement.  Human-rights groups led by Amnesty and Oxfam say that the
five veto-wielding members of the UN Security Council –-  China ,
 France ,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. –- accounted for about 60
percent of an arms trade that will generate revenue of $100
billion a year in the next four years.  Arms Transfers  In Syria, where a two-year conflict has killed 70,000
people, the violence has been fueled by arms transfers to both
sides. It hasn’t been determined whether the treaty would cover
arms transfers and gifts along with sales, which are bound by
legal contracts. Russia has been supplying the Syrian
government, while Gulf monarchies such as Saudi Arabia have been
helping the opposition.  The treaty’s text “must introduce clear and strong rules
governing the movement of arms and ammunition, with a clear
obligation for states to refuse transfers where there is a
substantial risk that those arms would be misused,” Oxfam said
in a briefing paper ahead of the talks.  Discussions about a multilateral agreement governing
international arms sales have been going on for more than a
decade. It wasn’t until 2009, after Obama was inaugurated, that
the U.S. reversed its long-standing opposition to a treaty,
which would have little impact without the endorsement of the
the world’s largest global arms exporter.  The Obama administration has sought to keep the
international talks in New York separate from the discussions on
steps to reduce domestic gun violence in  Washington , where Vice
President Joe Biden is the point man for anti-firearms
initiatives.  For Related News and Information:
NRA Calls Policy Shots for Gunmakers That Help Pay Its Bills  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  