-- Hungary ‘Most Likely’ to Impose Haircut on FX Debt, Capital Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-03-18T17:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/hungary-most-likely-to-impose-haircut-on-fx-debt-capital-says.html
Hungary is “most likely” to
partially forgive foreign-currency household mortgages and some
foreign-currency corporate loans with the government taking a
bigger share of the resulting losses, analysts at  Capital
Economics  Plc said.  Hungary will probably use debt write-offs as part of the
government’s “unorthodox” policy kit,  Neil Shearing  and
 William Jackson , London-based economists at Capital Economics
said in an e-mailed report today. “It looks most likely that
haircuts will be imposed on foreign-currency mortgages (again)
as well as small- and medium-size enterprise debts.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  temporarily allowed the early
repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at below-market rates in
2011, forcing lenders to swallow losses and making the banking
system unprofitable for the first time in 13 years. The Cabinet
is considering further steps to help borrowers, Economy Minister
 Mihaly Varga  said March 4 without elaborating.  The forint slid as much as 1.1 percent before paring its
loss to 0.2 percent at 305.95 per euro by 3:10 p.m. in Budapest,
extending its slump this month to 3.5 percent.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) ,
the country’s largest lender, dropped as much as 4.5 percent and
was trading 3.8 percent lower at 4,474 forint, its weakest since
Jan. 16.  The central bank “could actually take the burden” for the
debt write-offs by selling foreign currency from its reserves to
commercial banks in return for forint assets of a lower value,
according to Capital Economics. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank could
use 4.5 billion euros ($5.8 billion ) from reserves of around 36
billion euros and still have enough to cover short-term external
debt maturing within the next 12 months, according to the note.  Hungarian households’ foreign-currency mortgages stood at
4.03 trillion forint on Jan. 31, of which 1.05 trillion forint
were more than 90 days overdue, according to data from the
financial market authority Pszaf. Hungarians borrowed
predominantly in Swiss francs to take advantage of lower
 interest rates  until a subsequent weakening of the forint sent
repayments soaring and boosted the ratio of bad debt.  The government wants banks to convert foreign-currency
mortgages to forint and forgive part of the debt for borrowers
with payments overdue more than 90 days, news website Nol said
March 6. News portal Hvg.hu reported March 7 that the Cabinet is
seeking to convert all foreign-currency loans to forint and may
use part of the central bank’s reserves for the plan. The
government and the central bank have refused to comment on the
reports.  Capital Economics estimates the central bank may use 9
billion euros from its reserves under a debt write-off plan,
according to the note. “But even with a write-off of this
scale, total foreign-currency debt would still come in at over
100 percent of gross domestic product,” the economists said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  