-- Up to 20% of Brazil Center-South Cane Mills May Be Shut or Sold
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-03-18T16:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/up-to-20-of-brazil-center-south-cane-mills-may-be-shut-or-sold.html
As much as a fifth of the sugar-
cane mills in  Brazil ’s center south, the world’s biggest
producing region, may close or get sold this year because they
are selling ethanol at a loss, according to a member of the
country’s lower house.  The government’s plan to raise the blend of ethanol in
gasoline to 25 percent from 20 percent in May won’t be enough to
make mills profitable and an anticipated  tax cut  for the
renewable fuel will probably reduce prices at the pump, Duarte
Nogueira, a deputy who represents Sao Paulo state for the
Brazilian Social Democracy Party, said today in a telephone
interview.  Rising production costs have made ethanol less competitive
at the pump with gasoline, which is sold at prices that are
fixed by the state-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4) , known as Petrobras. There are about 300 mills operating in
the center-south region, many of which are highly indebted.  Mills “are selling ethanol less than it costs to
produce,” he said. “The price of gasoline should be allowed to
float with the market like it does in other countries.”  Nogueira was secretary of agriculture and supply in  Sao
Paulo , the country’s biggest ethanol-producing state, from 2003
to 2006 and is a member of the Parliamentary Front for Farmers,
a lobby group.  Brazilian ethanol has been losing market share for the past
three years to gasoline, Salim Morsy, an analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance’s Sao Paulo office, said in a telephone
interview. More than 10 percent of gasoline used in Brazil is
imported and sold at a loss by Petrobras.  Ethanol sold at the pump in Brazil averaged 2.06 reais
($1.04) a liter for week ended March 13, according to the
website of fuel regulator Agencia Nacional do Petroleo, Gas
Natural e Biocombustiveis. Gasoline, which is generally more
expensive because of its higher energy content, sold for 2.89
reais a liter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  