-- Vale Says Suspended Argentina Project to Cost $11 Billion
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-03-18T21:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/vale-says-suspended-argentina-potash-project-to-cost-11-billion.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s biggest iron-
ore producer, said the cost to develop its suspended potash
project in Argentina had almost doubled to near $11 billion amid
a dispute with the nation.  Inflation and exchange rate fluctuations led the cost of
the Rio Colorado project in Mendoza province to surge from the
budgeted $5.9 billion, Murilo Ferreira, chief executive officer
of Rio de Janeiro-based Vale, said today at the Credit Suisse
Asian Investment Conference in Hong Kong.  Vale has joined  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group in
shelving projects or cutting spending on expectations a decade-
long mining boom has peaked as growth slows in  China . Vale said
March 12 it mothballed the potash project after the government
refused to give it tax breaks.  Argentina  said last week it will
strip Vale of licenses for the project if it fails to resume
work.  “We’ve tried to reach some agreement with the government
for many and many months, in fact, since the beginning of May
2012,” Ferreira said. “We didn’t receive until the end of 2012
any answer about our demand, and our demand was precisely
because of the gap we have in terms of the investment of the
project.”  Vale  gained  0.3 percent to 33.70 reais in Sao Paulo today,
its highest close since March 12.  Vale’s decision to shelve the potash project after the
government refused to grant $3 billion in tax breaks and other
benefits is a breach of concession rules, Julio De Vido, the
nation’s planning minister, said March 13. The presidents of
Argentina and  Brazil  will meet within 30 days to resolve the
dispute, Neuquen province Governor Jorge Sapag said in a March
15 interview in Buenos Aires.  Seeking Partners  Vale has been hindered by cost uncertainty in its efforts
to find partners to eventually buy a stake in the project,
Ferreira said today. Asked about the possibility that the
company had its project license stripped, he said he expects the
law to “prevail.”  Vale said Feb. 27 it had spent $2.23 billion on Rio
Colorado and completed 45 percent of the project. The venture
includes developing a mine in western Argentina, renovating 440
kilometers (273 miles) of railway tracks and building a 350
kilometer-long railway spur to transport the potash to a
terminal in the port of Bahia Blanca for export.  With the capacity to produce 4.3 million metric tons, the
project would make Argentina the world’s third-largest potash
exporter, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said in July
after signing agreements with Vale to proceed with the project.  Kirchner said Argentina will complete the project with or
without Vale, Mendoza Governor Francisco Perez said March 13.
Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co. is one of at least two
companies interested in investing in Rio Colorado even if Vale
decides to exit, Carlos Molina, Mendoza’s head of mining, said
last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  