-- Volkswagen to Recall Cars in China Over Gearbox Defects
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-18T06:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/volkswagen-to-recall-cars-in-china-over-gearbox-defects.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest
automaker, plans to recall vehicles in China after drawing
scrutiny from the nation’s quality inspector and state
broadcaster over defective gearbox systems.  The company will conduct a voluntary recall related to its
direct-shift gearbox system, Volkswagen said in March 16
statement, without providing details. The statement came after
China’s General Administration of Quality Supervision,
Inspection and Quarantine  said  it told the German automaker to
conduct a recall, and after Volkswagen was featured in  China
Central Television ’s annual show about anti-consumer practices -
- a program that also featured  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Anhui Jianghuai
Automobile Co. this year.  The Volkswagen case may test China’s recall laws introduced
this year, which give the watchdog broader powers to order
investigations and impose fines should manufacturers and
importers fail to recall faulty products in a timely manner. The
nation’s legislature approved plans last week to expand the
authority of the food and drug regulator amid growing public
discontent over quality and safety.  “Any manufacturer, under the new law, should be aware that
there’s an increase in the chances that they’ll be ordered to
recall,” said Paolo Beconcini, managing partner at Carroll,
Burdick & McDonough LLP in Beijing, whose firm advises European
and U.S. automakers on product liability and intellectual
property issues in  China .  ‘Iron Fist’  While Volkswagen, in its latest statement, declined to
specify how many vehicles would be recalled, the company said in
May last year that it had sold almost 1 million DSG-equipped
vehicles in China.  Chinese owners of VW vehicles fitted with the technology --
a system with two gearboxes that help enhance gear changes and
improve fuel economy -- have reported abnormal vibrations, loss
of power and sudden acceleration, according to CCTV’s report.  The Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker has addressed issues
with the system in China since last year. In May, it said its
Chinese division agreed to extend the warranty for the automatic
transmission technology to 10 years in response to customer
complaints. The standard warranty is two years.  Only a “few hundred” of DSG-fitted vehicles had faults
that prompted driver feedback, according to a Bloomberg News
interview with Harthmuth Hoffmann, a company spokesman, on 
May 31.  Companies operating in China, both domestic and foreign,
are increasingly bracing for the annual CCTV show, broadcast
every March 15 for World Consumer Rights Day, as the world’s
second-biggest economy continues to expand.  Annual Ritual  Last year,  France ’s  Carrefour SA (CA)  shut an outlet in central
China after being featured on CCTV. The year before, Henan
Shuanghui Investment & Development Co. shares tumbled 10 percent
after CCTV reported the company bought pigs that were fed an
illegal additive.  The broadcast comes as China ushers in new state leadership
for the first time in a decade, with Premier Li Keqiang
yesterday pledging to improve consumer safety by tackling food
problems and the environment with an “iron fist.”  In its March 16 statement, the Chinese quality watchdog
didn’t say how many Volkswagen vehicles would be involved in the
recall and calls to its news department seeking comment went
unanswered over the weekend. The regulator said it will compel
the automaker to call back the vehicles if it doesn’t comply.  Gearbox Problems  In its March 15 program, CCTV also investigated alleged
flaws in the after-sales service of Cupertino, California-based
Apple. Carolyn Wu, the company’s spokeswoman in Beijing, said
the company has established a network of more than 500
authorized service centers in 270 cities across China to provide
“unmatched” support to owners of its devices.  “Apple is dedicated to making the best products in the
world and delivering unmatched  customer service  everywhere we do
business,” Wu said in a phone interview today. “Our team is
always striving to exceed our customers’ expectations, and we
take any customer concerns very seriously.”  Apple slipped to sixth place from fourth in China’s
smartphone market in the third quarter of 2012. Samsung leads
the China smartphone market in share, and four domestic
suppliers also now outsell the iPhone in the nation, according
to market researcher IDC.  Even so, Apple’s sales in China in its fiscal first quarter
climbed 67 percent from a year earlier to $6.83 billion, the
company said in January.  Other Targets  CCTV said in its broadcast that Anhui Jianghuai Automobile
Co. sold cars with rusted chassis. The company said in a
 statement  on its website on March 16 that a “lack of
experience” resulted in the failure to ensure the body
structure was properly painted to put off rust. The company said
it has fixed the rust issue of 6,579 affected vehicles and will
work with the quality regulator to issue a recall.  The consumer program also reported on impure gold made in a
workshop in Shenzhen and sold in shops in Tianjin and Hebei, and
on some Chinese medical companies, including one in  Henan
province , who hired actors to masquerade as doctors to promote
products.  CCTV also investigated the use of substandard concrete by
some developers in the southern city of Shenzhen who used low-
quality sea sand instead of river sand. The Shenzhen Housing and
Construction Bureau found 31 concrete-mixing plants violated
industry rules, according to a statement posted on its  website 
on March 16.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  