-- Voter Proof-of-Citizenship Laws Questioned by High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-03-18T17:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/voter-proof-of-citizenship-laws-questioned-by-high-court.html
Several U.S. Supreme Court justices
questioned whether states can demand proof of citizenship from
people registering to vote, hearing arguments in a civil rights
clash with political implications.  The hour-long session today in  Washington  suggested the
justices will be divided in the case, which centers on an
Arizona law invalidated by a federal appeals court. The lower
court said states can’t impose registration requirements beyond
those set by federal law.  Arizona is one of four states -- along with Alabama, Kansas
and  Georgia  -- that require would-be voters to show evidence of
citizenship. The Obama administration is joining minority-rights
and voter-advocacy groups in arguing against the measures.  Justices Elena Kagan, Sonia Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg voiced skepticism about the Arizona law, which Kagan
said “essentially creates a new set of requirements.”  Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony Kennedy and Stephen Breyer
aimed questions at both sides in the case, leaving the outcome
in doubt.  The case presents legal issues different from those in the
voter-identification battles that garnered headlines in the
months before last year’s election.  Federal Role  The high court case doesn’t directly involve allegations of
racial or ethnic discrimination, though civil-rights groups
pressed those contentions earlier in the litigation. The dispute
now centers on the roles of the state and national governments
in overseeing elections and on a 1993 federal law designed to
increase voter registration.  The 1993 statute was informally known as the Motor Voter
Law because of a provision that lets people register when
applying for a driver’s license. The law also says states must
“accept and use” a standard registration form developed at the
federal level.  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
voted 9-2 to strike down the  Arizona  proof-of-citizenship
requirement. It said the Constitution’s elections clause gives
Congress the leading role to set the rules for federal voting.  Kennedy suggested the lower court was too quick to carve
out such a limited role for the states.  “The state has a very strong and vital interest in the
integrity of its elections, even when those, and perhaps
especially when those, are elections of federal officials,”
Kennedy said. “And it seems to me the 9th Circuit’s new test
did not give sufficient weight to that interest.”  Proof Required  The 9th Circuit upheld other parts of the Arizona law,
including its requirement that voters show identification at the
polls.  Under Arizona’s law, those seeking to register can prove
citizenship by presenting copies of a driver’s license or state-
issued identification, so long as it was issued after October
1996. The state also accepts a birth certificate, a passport or
naturalization papers. Arizona voters approved the measure in
2004.  Sotomayor told Arizona Attorney General Thomas Horne that
“many people don’t have the documents that Arizona requires.”  Scalia questioned that assessment, saying that most
citizens could meet the requirement by providing their driver’s
license number.  The lawyer challenging the Arizona law, Patricia Millett,
said that because the state doesn’t accept licenses issued
before October 1996, “you have to be about 33 years of age” to
use a driver’s license to prove citizenship.  ‘Anyone Older’  “Anyone older than that, their driver’s license isn’t
going to work,” she said.  Scalia said the number of people blocked from registering
would still be “relatively few.”  Horne told the justices that the so-called federal form
doesn’t do enough to keep non-citizens from voting. The federal
form requires applicants to attest, under penalty of perjury,
that they are citizens.  “It’s essentially an honor system,” Horne argued. “It
does not do the job.”  Deputy U.S. Solicitor General Sri Srinavasan told the
justices that the federal law was designed to “streamline the
process of registering to vote.” If each state could impose its
own additional requirements, “that would largely defeat the
entire purpose of the federal form.”  Law’s Challengers  The Arizona law is being challenged by groups including the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the League
of Women Voters of Arizona and the Inter Tribal Council of
Arizona.  The Supreme Court hasn’t considered an elections clause
case since 1997, when it struck down  Louisiana ’s system of
holding a nonpartisan congressional primary in October, followed
by a runoff in November if no candidate received a majority.  The Supreme Court said that system violated the federal law
that requires all congressional and presidential elections to be
held on a single November day.  The case is Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Arizona, 12-
71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  