-- Wheat Crop Seen Near Record as U.S. Drought Recedes: Commodities
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-03-19T21:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/wheat-crop-seen-near-record-as-u-s-drought-recedes-commodities.html
Farmers from Australia to Europe to
the U.S. are poised to reap the second-largest wheat crop on
record as fields recover from drought and heat waves, boosting
global stockpiles for the first time in four years.  Output will climb 4.3 percent to 690 million metric tons,
about 10 million tons short of the all-time high set two years
ago, the United Nations estimates. Global inventories will
increase by 2 million tons to 176 million tons, the Australian
Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences
predicts. Prices will probably drop 17 percent to $6 a bushel in
Chicago by the end of the year, according to the median of 16
analyst and trader estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Food supply is expanding, with the UN forecasting a record
rice harvest and the U.S. government the biggest-ever corn and
soybean crops. Wheat closed at $7.22 a bushel on the Chicago
Board of Trade today and last traded at $6 in May, before the
worst U.S. drought since the 1930s and heat waves in Europe
drove prices to a four-year high in July. Snowstorms in the U.S.
have since helped boost soil moisture, Joe Glauber, chief
economist at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, said March 6.  “The supply situation was compromised through some very
adverse weather events in the Northern Hemisphere,” said Steve
Mellington, the chief executive officer of the Australian Grain
Growers Cooperative, which has 350 members across three states.
“Growers are now responding to those price signals with the
increased area being planted this year.”  World Index  The supply outlook flipped wheat from being last year’s
best performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw
materials to the fifth worst in 2013. The grain has fallen 7.2
percent, while the S&P GSCI slid 0.5 percent and the MSCI All-
Country World Index of  equities  rallied 5.3 percent. Treasuries
lost 0.7 percent, according to data from Bank of America Corp.  Europe will lead the rebound, and yields are set to recover
in Russia, the third-biggest shipper last season, says the UN’s
Food & Agriculture Organization. That would boost inventories,
said Bangkok-based Hiroyuki Konuma, assistant director-general.
A recovery in reserves would follow three years of declines, FAO
data show. The world grain crop, including wheat and corn, will
probably rise 7.2 percent to 2.406 billion tons in the coming
season, estimates trader Alfred C. Toepfer International GmbH.  Higher production should make for more exports. India, the
third-largest grower after the European Union and China, may
boost shipments to a record 10 million tons to clear out state
stockpiles, according to the state-backed National Centre for
Agricultural Economics and Policy Research. Exports were 6.5
million tons this year, according to USDA data.  Domestic Harvest  The U.S. drought eased after snow from Texas to Wisconsin
combined with above-average rainfall east of the Mississippi
River, said AccuWeather Inc. The USDA still forecasts a 7.4
percent drop in the harvest to 57.2 million tons this year.  The Northern Hemisphere’s winter-wheat crops are off to a
poor start, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including New
York-based Damien Courvalin said in a report March 11. The bank
expects prices to rise to $7.80 in three months. A further drop
in global supplies in 2013 would mean inventories declining to
critically low levels, the analysts said.  Winter crops in the U.S., which accounted for about 74
percent of the area planted last year, were in the worst
condition since at least 1985 as they went into dormancy in
November, USDA data show. Plants should resume growth this month
and are harvested from May.  Weather Concerns  “You’re coming into a very critical window,” said Alan Winney, chairman of Emerald Group Australia Pty, which says it’s
the third-largest storage and handling network in eastern
Australia. “If you start to get some dry weather or weather
concerns you could see the market rebound quite quickly. If we
continue with the same generally stable weather around the
world, I think we’ll go lower.”  Changing weather can drive sudden changes in prices. Wheat
averaged about $6.41 in the first five months of 2012, before
surging more than 50 percent in about seven weeks as drought
emerged in the U.S. and Europe. The grain reached $9.4725 in
July, the highest in four years. While the $6 projected in the
Bloomberg survey is higher than the $5.58 average in the past
decade, it is less than half the record $12.825 close in 2008.  The ratio of global stockpiles to demand in 2013-2014 will
be 26.9 percent, according to Rabobank International. While up
from 25.8 percent in 2012-2013, it’s lower than the average of
27.6 percent in the five years to 2011-2012.  Hedge Funds  World food  costs  tracked by the Rome-based FAO dropped for
a fifth month in February and the 55-item index is 12 percent
below a record reached in February 2011. Glauber of the USDA
said last month that crop prices including soybeans and corn
should ease in 2013 as farmers expand supply. Both reached
records last year.  Hedge funds and other large speculators have been  betting 
on lower prices since December. They were net-short 41,519
futures and options in the week to March 12, from a net-long
80,827 contracts in August, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show.  Russia will produce 53 million tons of wheat this season,
39 percent more than last year, as output in Ukraine jumps 23
percent to 19.5 million tons and Kazakhstan’s crop surges 48
percent to 15.2 million tons, the FAO estimates. Toepfer, the
trader part-owned by  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , expects the
global crop to gain 4.3 percent to 682 million tons.  Farm Ministry  In Australia, last season’s second-largest exporter,
production may rise 13 percent in the year from July 1, the
government forecaster said. Shipments probably will advance 13
percent to 18 million tons in 2013-2014, according to CBH Group,
the country’s biggest grain handler. Canada’s Farm Ministry is
forecasting a 4.8 percent gain in output to 28.5 million tons.
The country was the fourth-largest shipper.  “We are expecting a rebound in wheat production in 2013,
mainly on expectations of a return to average yields,” said
Konuma. “We would expect a more comfortable supply and demand
situation at the global level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  