-- Wheelchair Patients Find Obstacles at Doctor’s Offices
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-03-18T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/wheelchair-patients-find-obstacles-at-doctor-s-offices.html
Almost one-fourth of doctors are
unable to accommodate and treat patients who use wheelchairs
more than 20 years after the passing of the Americans with
Disabilities Act, a study found.  About 22 percent of 256 doctor’s offices surveyed said they
couldn’t assist people in wheelchairs, with most of those saying
it was because they  weren’t able to safely transfer the patient
to an exam table, according to research published today in the
 Annals of  Internal Medicine . Lack of access to the building was
a secondary reason, the researchers said.  The  Americans with Disabilities Act , passed by the  U.S.
Congress  in 1990, is aimed at ending discrimination for people
with disabilities in everyday activities including access to
medical care facilities and the services provided there. Today’s
findings are one of the first to show where barriers to medical
services remain for wheelchair-bound patients, said Tara Lagu,
the study’s lead author.  “This is affecting a large number of patients, certainly
the 3 million who use a wheelchair, but many more than that who
have difficulty getting up to an exam table,” said  Lagu , an
academic hospitalist at Baystate Medical Center in Springfield,
 Massachusetts , and an assistant professor at Tufts University
School of Medicine, in a March 15 telephone interview. “The
point of the study is to help doctors realize what the problems
are and to help them become more aware of the Americans with
Disabilities Act and to identify what the difficulties patients
who use wheelchairs are having in accessing health care.”  Fictional Patient  Researchers in the study called the doctor’s offices in
four U.S. cities to make an appointment for a fictional patient
who was female, obese and had suffered a stroke and couldn’t use
half of her body. They also said the patient was unable to
transfer herself to an exam table.  They found that 56 practices said they couldn’t accommodate
the patient. Of those, 47 said it was because they weren’t able
to help the patient onto a table and nine said it was because of
their building.  Of the 200 practices that said they could accommodate the
patient, 103 said they would manually transfer the patient from
the wheelchair to a standard exam table that didn’t adjust its
height without the use of a lift. Only 22 said they had
accessible tables that lowered to the height of the wheelchair
or a lift to transfer the patient. Manually transferring a
patient to a table that’s unable to adjust its height is
considered unsafe, Lagu said.  Unsafe Practices  “It was troubling to us that many surveyed practices were
inaccessible, but it was equally problematic that few accessible
practices possessed equipment that would facilitate the safe
transfer, from chair to table, of our fictional patient,” Lagu
said in a statement. “A majority of accessible practices
reported that they planned to have practice staff manually lift
the patient from a wheelchair to an unadjustable, standard-
height exam table, a method that disability experts consider to
be unsafe for both the patient and those lifting her.”  An adjustable table costs about $5,500 while a standard
table costs $1,500, Lagu said. Tax credits are available for
doctors to purchase the adjustable tables. Also, doctors that
refuse to make appointments for patients in wheelchairs could
face lawsuits, she said.  “Approximately 16 percent of civilian, non-
institutionalized Americans aged 18 years or older have physical
functional limitations and these numbers will rise sharply in
the coming decades. Thus, all physicians can expect to see
numerous patients with impaired mobility,” wrote  Lisa Iezzoni ,
a professor of medicine at  Harvard Medical School  and director
of the Mongan Institute for Health Policy at  Massachusetts
General Hospital  in  Boston , in an accompanying editorial.  “That practices would decline to see patients with
disabilities raises troubling questions about their commitment
to the core tenet of professionalism: increasing access and
reducing barriers to equitable health care,” she said.
“Height-adjustable examination tables can improve physical
comfort, safety and access for many patients in addition to
persons with disabilities. These tables also offer important
benefits to physicians and practice staff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  