-- Williams in Plastics Talks as It Plans Alberta Plant
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-18T17:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/williams-in-plastics-talks-as-it-plans-alberta-plant.html
Williams Cos. (WMB) , the third-largest
U.S. pipeline company, plans to spend as much as C$900 million
($880 million) building a propane plant in Alberta and is in
talks with plastics makers who may build a factory in the
province.  Williams’ propane dehydrogenation plant will be the first
in  Canada  and produce as much as 1.1 billion pounds a year of
polymer-grade propylene, the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based company said
in a statement today. The factory is scheduled to begin
operating in the second quarter of 2016, it said.  Williams is talking with plastics manufacturers who may
take the entire propylene supply, said David Chappell, head of
the company’s Canadian operations.  “We are talking to these global polypropylene producers
about siting in  Alberta  and they’re very interested in building
something here to turn it into plastic pellets,” he said in a
phone interview today. Chappell declined to identify the
companies, which he said don’t yet operate in  North America . A
plastics plant may cost C$500 million to C$800 million, he said.  Williams is the only processor of gas produced as a
byproduct from Alberta’s oil sands. The propylene from its
planned plant may also be shipped by rail to the U.S. Gulf Coast
for use by petrochemical companies, Chappell said. Propylene
sells for 4.5 times the price of propane from Alberta, he said.  Polypropylene pellets are used to make food packaging and
auto parts including car bumpers and dashboards.  Williams currently produces 280 million pounds of propylene
a year in the province at a facility, which purifies gases from
plants that upgrade oil-sands bitumen into synthetic  crude oil .  Kinder Morgan Inc. and Enterprise Products Partners LP are
the two biggest U.S. pipeline companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  