-- Wind Energy Makers Thrown by Local Supply Rules in Brazil
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-03-18T20:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/wind-energy-makers-thrown-by-local-supply-rules-in-brazil.html
Brazil ’s requirement that wind-
turbine suppliers buy locally is increasing costs for providers
from  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  to  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , who say the
rule will probably drive away some companies.  Turbine makers must buy or make all of their main parts
domestically for their customers to be eligible for cheap loans
from state bank BNDES. To comply with regulations announced in
December, some companies will have to build factories that may
cost more than $100 million.  The turbine companies are reconsidering investments after
flocking to Brazil, poised to be the world’s fifth-largest
market for wind energy this year, after U.S. and European
government subsidies were withdrawn or revised. More than half
of the 13 suppliers that were operating in Brazil may opt out as
margins are squeezed, said Suzlon and developer  Renova Energia
SA. (RNEW11)   “Money is hard to come by -- you need a solid case to
justify what you’re doing here,” Paulo Fernando Gaspar Soares,
chief executive officer of Vestas’s Brazil unit, said in an
interview in  Sao Paulo . “There may be cases in which companies
make the decision not to come over here.”  Shares of Vestas, the world’s second-largest turbine maker,
rose 0.9 percent to 46.65 euros today. The company has declined
27 percent in the past year. Suzlon,  India ’s biggest turbine
company, was unchanged at 14.95 rupees after slumping 47 percent
in the past year.  Higher Prices  The stricter rules may drive up the price of turbines by as
much as 20 percent as makers are forced to choose local parts
over cheaper imports, said Renato Volponi, country  manager for
 EDP Renovaveis SA (EDPR) , a Spanish developer of wind farms.  EDP is “having trouble talking with companies because they
don’t know if they will stay or not,” he said in an interview
about negotiations with turbine suppliers.  The market is already over-supplied. Wind-farm developers
every year demand turbines able to produce as much as 2,000
megawatts of power, said Mathias Becker, president of Sao Paulo-
based Renova. That’s less than half the 5,000 megawatts in
capacity that companies showing interest in Brazil would be able
to supply if they all built factories, Soares said.  Suppliers “will try to test demand to see if it makes
sense to build a factory here.” Becker said in an interview.
“How long could that take? About two years I think for
companies to realize if it’s worth it. Some will go, some will
stay.”  Factory Costs  It costs a total of about $96 million to build factories to
produce towers, blades and nacelles, the car-sized units that
house the gears, electronics and gearboxes, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.  A facility to produce hubs, which connect to the blades,
may cost as much as 15 million reais, according to Brazil’s
wind-energy trade group Associacao Brasileira de Energia Eolica.  Argentina ’s Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona SA, or
Impsa, is the biggest supplier of turbines in Brazil with a 21
percent market share, according to data compiled by New Energy
Finance. Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE)  is
the world’s biggest supplier and the second in Brazil with 17
percent of the market, followed by  Denmark ’s Vestas with a 15
percent stake.  “Brazil’s local content requirements are a challenge for
the wind industry to meet,” Vestas Chief Operating Officer
Jean-Marc Lechene said in an e-mailed statement. The company is
studying how to comply with the new rules.  Doubling Capacity  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is promoting wind and
other renewable energy projects in a bid to diversify away from
hydroelectric plants, which account for 66 percent of the
nation’s installed capacity. Brazil aims to more than double its
capacity to generate wind power this year by harnessing the same
weather system that brought Portuguese and Spanish sailors to
the continent in the 1500s.  Brazil will be the fifth-biggest market for  wind turbines 
by installations this year after  China , the U.S.,  Germany  and
India, New Energy Finance forecasts.  Of the 13 turbine makers that were operating in Brazil
until recently, Germany’s Fuhrlaender AG filed for insolvency
and three others have lost interest, said Arthur Lavieri, former
CEO of Suzlon’s Brazil unit and now a member of the Pune, India-
based company’s supervisory board. He declined to name the
companies that have already scrapped plans.  Fierce Competition  “Many manufacturers just don’t have the cash for new
facilities in Brazil,” Eduardo Tabbush, an analyst at New
Energy Finance’s London office, said in a telephone interview.
“Those that have the cash may not see the point because
competition is already fierce.”  BNDES declined to comment on the possibility of suppliers
leaving the country due to the more stringent rules when
contacted by  Bloomberg News .  Brazil probably won’t see a “mass exodus” of turbine
suppliers because it’s one of the few countries in the world
where demand for wind energy is growing, Jose Luis Menghini,
vice president of Impsa, said by telephone from Sao Paulo. Impsa
plans to continue complying with BNDES’s rules.  “Imagine how high demand will be when GDP rises,” he
said. “Every day there’s another inauguration of another
factory here.”  Financing Blocked  Suzlon and  Acciona SA (ANA)  still need to invest in local
machinery to comply with BNDES’s previous local-content
requirement to fulfill some existing contracts. If they can’t
meet the rules, developers buying the equipment will be blocked
from tapping BNDES credit lines with  interest rates  as much as
50 percent below the market rate.  Suzlon intends to comply with the new rules, Lavieri said.
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA wants to play an “important” role
in Brazil, a press official said in an e-mail.  Acciona has a “long-term commitment” to Brazil, Rafael
Mateo, director general of Acciona Energia, a unit of the
Madrid-based renewable-energy company, said in an e-mail.  Fuhrlaender and General Electric didn’t reply to telephone
calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Renova’s Becker estimates that only five companies will
survive the shakeup, while Suzlon’s Lavieri is betting as few as
four will be left standing.  “All of us turbine makers are asking the question: Which
one of us will survive?” Lavieri said at a recent  wind-energy 
conference. “Certainly, it won’t be all 13 of us who were
prepared to supply the market last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  