-- Two Airlines May Have to Buy EU Carbon to Give Back to U.K.
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-03-18T17:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/two-airlines-may-have-to-buy-eu-carbon-to-give-back-to-u-k-.html
Two unspecified airlines regulated
by the U.K. may have to buy replacement European carbon
allowances so they can return them after they were granted free
of charge, the Department of Energy & Climate Change said today.  The department published draft rules that would apply to
airlines after the European Union decided to temporarily freeze
including flights to and from airports outside the bloc in its
carbon market. Those flights were previously meant to be
included starting last year.  Airlines taking advantage of the rule changes, known as a
derogation, will probably return the carbon permits they
received for free, cutting compliance costs, the department
known as DECC said in an  impact statement  published on its
website. The airlines that had already removed the allowances
from their registry accounts “may encounter some cost in
recovering an equivalent number of allowances,” it said.  At least 79 percent of 201 airlines covered by the U.K.
have said they plan to take advantage of the derogation,
according to the statement.  Should an airline choose not to take advantage of the new
rules, they must comply with the full scope of the carbon market
rules by “surrendering allowances for the emissions
corresponding to all their intra and extra EU routes,” DECC
said today in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Provided that they fulfill their compliance requirements
they are otherwise free to decide what to do with their free
allowances,” the department said.  Societal Costs  Total increased costs of the rule changes over the nine
years through 2020, including the societal costs of higher
emissions, would be 50.4 million pounds ($65.4 million), DECC
said. Benefits, including lower emissions-trading compliance
costs, would be 19.4 million pounds, it said.  The statement didn’t include lower revenue for the nation
from carbon permits that it sold, DECC said.  In December the U.K. said it would get 400 million pounds
from EU carbon permit sales in the year through March this year,
300 million pounds less than a March 2012 estimate, according to
an Office for Budget Responsibility report published  on its
website .  The report didn’t separate revenue from carbon sold to
airlines, factories and power stations. Carbon revenue in the
year to March 2017 would be 1 billion pounds, 800 million pounds
less than previously estimated, the report said.  EU carbon for December has fallen 57 percent in the past
year and was at 3.57 euros ($4.63) a metric ton today on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London at 4:48 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  