-- Korean Won Drops to Six-Month Low on Cyprus Concerns; Bonds Gain
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-18T06:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/won-near-6-month-low-as-investors-shun-riskier-assets-on-cyprus.html
South Korea’s won sank to its
weakest level in almost six months as overseas investors cut
their holdings of the nation’s stocks amid concern a levy on
bank deposits in Cyprus will worsen Europe’s debt crisis.  The Kospi index of shares fell 0.9 percent as the euro
dropped to its lowest level this year against the dollar after
Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades bowed to demands by euro-
area finance ministers to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion)
by taking a piece of every bank account in Cyprus. Government
bonds advanced, sending the three-year yield to a record low, as
overseas investors sold more Korean shares than they bought for
a third day.  “The European risk sparked by the turmoil in Cyprus is
spurring concern among investors and turning sentiment in favor
of safer assets,” said Son Eun Jeong, an analyst at Woori
Futures Co. in Seoul. “That’s having a negative impact on South
Korean stocks and currency. Still, exporters may look for
opportunities to sell dollars if the won keeps falling.”  The won fell 0.3 percent to close at 1,114.70 per dollar in
Seoul, extending to eight days the longest losing streak since
August 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency earlier touched 1,119.05 per dollar, the weakest since
Sept. 27. One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, rose
42 basis points, or 0.42 percentage point, to 9.46 percent.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due December 2015
declined one basis point to 2.6 percent, according to prices
from Korea Exchange Inc. That’s the lowest closing level on
record for a three-year note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  