-- Brent Falls to Shrink Premium to WTI Before Cyprus Vote
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-03-19T13:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/wti-trades-near-one-month-high-u-s-crude-supplies-seen-rising.html
Brent crude  fell, shrinking its
premium to U.S. oil to less than $15 a barrel for the first time
since January, as Cyprus prepared to vote on a bank levy amid
renewed concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  Futures lost as much as 0.8 percent in a second daily
decline, narrowing the premium to West Texas Intermediate to the
least since Jan. 18. Cypriot lawmakers are scheduled to vote
today on how to spread the burden of raising 5.8 billion euros
($7.5 billion) from bank depositors to unlock emergency loans. A
government report tomorrow may show U.S. crude supplies rose to
the highest level since June.  “The number one story in the markets is still about an
island in the Mediterranean with approximately 1 million
inhabitants,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middelfart,  Denmark , adding that  oil prices  will
probably remain “fairly balanced.”  Brent for May settlement slid as much as 88 cents to
$108.63 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, trading for $108.95 at 12:54 p.m. local time. Volumes
were 17 percent below the 100-day average. The European
benchmark was at a premium of $14.88 to WTI for the same month.  WTI for April delivery, which expires tomorrow, was at
$93.71 a barrel, down 3 cents, in electronic trading on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange. The more-active May future slipped 4
cents to $94.07. The volume of all futures traded in line with
the 100-day average. The front-month contract climbed 29 cents
to $93.74 yesterday, the highest close since Feb. 20.  Price Rebound  Finance chiefs from the 17 euro countries kept the pressure
on Cyprus as they signaled flexibility in applying the tax
announced three days ago. The levy sparked outrage in the island
nation and concern among investors about setting a precedent by
breaking a taboo against raiding bank accounts.  “The concern is that the Cyprus situation triggers a
response from Italian depositors,” said Guy Wolf, a strategist
at London-based commodities broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd.
“If Italians begin to fear the safety of their money and we get
bank runs, then the problem will escalate rapidly.”  Crude at about $100 a barrel is “reasonable” and won’t
choke global economic growth, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali Al- Naimi said yesterday.  “ Saudi Arabia  does not set the price” of oil, Al-Naimi
said in a speech in  Hong Kong . “The market sets the price. That
said, I’m sure current levels will not deter further economic
growth in  Asia .”  U.S. Inventories  U.S.  crude supplies  probably rose for a ninth week, the
longest run of increases since May, a Bloomberg News survey
showed before the Energy Department report.  Inventories climbed by 2 million barrels to 386 million in
the seven days ended March 15, according to the median estimate
of seven analysts in the Bloomberg survey. Gasoline stockpiles
probably fell by  2 million barrels , the survey shows. Supplies
of distillate fuel, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, probably fell 1 million barrels to 119 million, the
lowest level this year.  “We’re seeing supply in the U.S. increasing but we haven’t
seen any real positive move in demand,” said  David Lennox , an
analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “There hasn’t been any
significant change in the driving factors for the oil market.”  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  is
scheduled to release separate inventory data today. The API
collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Information Administration, the Energy Department’s statistics
unit, for its weekly survey.  Gasoline Prices  Retail gasoline prices in the U.S. slid to an average
$3.696 a gallon, a one-month low, according to data on the EIA’s
website yesterday. That compares with $3.71 a week earlier.  WTI has technical resistance along its middle Bollinger
Band, around $93.80 a barrel today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Futures have halted intraday advances near this
indicator the past two days, showing it’s where sell orders may
be clustered. A breach of chart resistance at settlement signals
further price increases may be sustained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  