-- Zambian Kwacha Falls to 6-Week Low as Ex-President Questioned
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-03-18T15:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/zambian-kwacha-falls-to-6-week-low-as-ex-president-questioned.html
Zambia’s kwacha fell to the lowest
level in six weeks on speculation the central bank’s ability to
support the currency is diminishing and as former President
President Rupiah Banda was questioned for corruption.  The kwacha weakened as much as 0.9 percent to 5.42 per
dollar, the lowest intraday level since Feb. 1. It was trading
0.3 percent down at 5.3850 per dollar by 5:20 p.m. in Lusaka,
the capital. The currency has dropped 3.6 percent this year.  “The kwacha is on a weakening trend due to fundamental
reasons such a growing current account deficit and political
uncertainty,” Mike Keenan, a currency strategist at Barclays
Plc’s Absa Capital unit in Johannesburg, said by phone. Absa
estimates the currency will drop to 6.20 per dollar by the end
of the year. “The central bank has spent a considerable amount
of its reserves to defend the kwacha and it may not be in a
position to do that aggressively.”  Africa’s largest copper producer reduced its foreign
currency reserves by $36 million this year to support the
kwacha, Emmanuel Pamu, the Bank of Zambia’s economic director,
said on Feb. 7. The central bank said it will continue to sell
dollars to bolster the currency, which should trade at 5 to 5.10
per dollar according to Finance Minister Alexander Chikwanda to
avoid inflationary pressures and an increase in government debt
costs.  Banda, who became president in 2008 after Levy Mwanawasa
died, faces questioning by a government task team investigating
alleged corruption after parliament removed his immunity from
prosecution.  Banda arrived at the offices of the Drug Enforcement
Commission in Lusaka with police in riot gear, para-military
officers and security guards blocking off the road. Police using
batons pushed back dozens of Banda’s supporters as they surged
forward when he entered. Banda was defeated in the 2011
presidential vote by  Michael Sata .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  