-- Ziggo Gets $1 Billion Loan to Refinance Debt Ahead of Bond Sale
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p
-- 2013-03-18T11:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-18/ziggo-gets-1-billion-loan-to-refinance-debt-ahead-of-bond-sale.html
Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , a Dutch cable television
operator, raised 800 million euros ($1 billion) of loans to
refinance debt and hired banks for a potential bond sale.  The company, whose biggest shareholders are Warburg Pincus
LLC and Cinven Ltd., received commitments for the five-year debt
from a group of 13 banks, according to a statement. The term
loan and credit line pay an interest rate of 200 basis points
more than benchmark rates, it said. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The Utrecht, Netherlands-based company said Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. has hired to arrange
investor meetings for a potential bond sale that may be used to
refinance debt. Investor meetings for the deal begin today, said
a person familiar with the transaction, who asked not to be
identified because the terms aren’t set.  Ziggo, with 2.9 million TV customers at the end of last
year, is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB by
Standard & Poor’s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Earlier this month it said Deutsche Telekom AG Chief Executive
Officer  Rene Obermann  will replace CEO Bernard Dijkhuizen, who
is set to retire.  The banks providing the loan are ABN Amro Bank NV, BNP
Paribas SA, Rabobank International, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Goldman Sachs, ING Groep NV, JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley and
Societe Generale SA, according to the statement.  The company, which has about 3 billion euros of  debt , got
approval from lenders in April 2011 to amend terms and extend
the maturities of its term loan B debt, part of a 4.35 billion-
euro financing signed in 2006. It also raised a 460 million-euro
term loan F paying a margin of 325 basis points more than
benchmarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  