-- Abbott Policy Test Looms After Labor’s Leadership Resolution
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-06-28T10:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/abbott-policy-test-looms-after-labor-s-leadership-resolution-1-.html
Tony Abbott ’s opposition was on
cruise control for a win in this year’s Australian election. In
the wake of the ruling  Labor Party ’s leadership resolution with
Kevin Rudd in command, Abbott’s ride has just got bumpier.  Abbott’s personal popularity wavered even as his Liberal-National coalition benefited from Labor’s woes, with polls
putting him behind former leader Julia Gillard as preferred
prime minister until five months ago. The task now for Abbott,
55, is to build out a policy platform that was left without
details during his focus on Labor’s leadership divisions.  While no party has come back from the deficit Labor faces
in opinion polls, any increased public focus on Abbott’s
negatives boosts the odds his coalition won’t win a majority in
parliament’s upper house. Such a result would test political
negotiating skills Abbott hasn’t had to hone while in
opposition.  “There’s now going to be quite a lot of pressure on Abbott
to actually present some policies -- Rudd has shown he’s adept
at campaigning,” said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst
and Griffith University professor of journalism and
communications in  Brisbane . “Whether or not Rudd’s resurgence
is a game changer comes down to Abbott’s response to the tougher
challenge he faces. With Labor’s internal problems, he’s had an
easy ride.”  Rudd’s Honeymoon  Rudd, 55, who was sworn in as prime minister yesterday,
will seek to capitalize on a honeymoon period after ousting
Gillard, 51, in a party-room vote the day before. One option is
bringing the election forward from Gillard’s announced date of
Sept. 14.  The Liberal-National coalition is already running
advertisements highlighting Rudd’s previous vows not to contest
Gillard for the job, and Labor lawmakers’ concerns about his
leadership style. The most recent Newspoll, published in The
Australian newspaper June 24, shows the coalition with a 14
percentage point advantage on a two-party preferred basis,
designed to gauge which party is most likely to form a
government.  “For just the second time in three years an incumbent
Labor government tore down a prime minister, an extraordinarily
grave event in the fabric of our national life,” Abbott told a
televised party room meeting in Canberra today. “ Kevin Rudd 
only had a plan to restore himself to the prime ministership.
Newsflash, Kevin: It is not all about you.”  Polling Gap  In a Newspoll conducted June 18-20, 2010, just days before
he was removed by Gillard in a backroom party coup, Rudd led
Abbott on the question of preferred prime minister by 46 percent
to 37 percent. Six months earlier, the gap had been 37
percentage points.  Labor has already received a fillip, a ReachTEL automated
phone  survey  conducted yesterday of 3,018 Australians indicated.
The coalition’s two-party preferred lead narrowed to 4
percentage points from 16 points in a survey conducted May 3.
Rudd led Abbott as preferred prime minister, 51.6 percent to
48.4 percent. Even so, 56.9 percent said Labor couldn’t win the
election, against 30.2 percent who said it could. No margin for
error was given.  With signs of a slowdown in the world’s 12th-largest
economy, momentum remains with Abbott. Rudd will have to rebut
opposition attacks on Labor’s economic stewardship after the
government failed to meet its pledge of a  budget surplus  in the
current fiscal year.  Cabinet Formation  While Rudd must contend with the exit of former Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  and other Gillard supporters, he will have one
advantage Gillard lacked. In contrast to Rudd, who maintained a
public presence even after losing to Gillard, the former prime
minister said she won’t seek re-election for her seat in Lalor -
- reducing the risk of further party infighting.  The new leader needs to build out a cabinet after the
departure of seven ministers. His treasurer,  Chris Bowen , little
known to the public, takes over at a time of slowing economic
growth. Speaking to reporters in Canberra today, Rudd said
policy changes would be announced after consultation with his
cabinet, to be sworn in on July 1.  Rudd must decide whether to support some of Gillard’s big-ticket policy items that she struggled to sell to voters,
including the nation’s first levy on greenhouse-gas emissions
and a tax on mining company profits that will reap A$1.8 billion
($1.7 billion) less in revenue for the year to June 30 than
previously forecast, according to budget documents released May
14.  Abbott vows to repeal the carbon and mining levies at a
time when government revenue from company taxes is slowing.  Policy Outlines  While he has advocated a longer period of paid parental
leave, some of his pledges lacked specifics, such as restoring
“balance” to an industrial relations policy he says has tipped
too far in favor of trade unions.  He has promised to “stop the boats” carrying asylum
seekers, seen by some citizens as unworthy of receiving welfare
benefits. Hundreds of illegal migrants, often from war-torn
Middle Eastern and South Asian nations, have drowned in the
waters between  Indonesia  and  Australia .  Rudd will visit Indonesia on July 4-5 for the annual
meeting of the two countries’ leaders, his office said in a
statement emailed to reporters today.  A plan to consider giving tax breaks to the nation’s
remote, sparsely-populated north in a bid to create a new “food
bowl” was declared unconstitutional by Gillard.  Rudd said today that he returned to the leadership to avoid
a “catastrophic” election defeat for Labor. “The government’s
about bringing the country together, not dividing it,” Rudd
said. He challenged Abbott to a public debate over the country’s
debt and deficit within the next two weeks.  Conscience Vote  Rudd also said he supported same-sex marriage and Abbott
should let coalition lawmakers vote in parliament according to
their views on the issue. Abbott in an interview with Fairfax
Media published May 4 dismissed the possibility of a conscience
vote after the election. “I am strongly opposed to any change
and I imagine that a strong majority in the coalition party room
will remain opposed to any change,” he said.  Abbott, a Rhodes Scholar and former amateur boxer who
studied for the priesthood, has been painted by Labor as a
social conservative with sexist views. Gillard last October
stood up in parliament and accused Abbott of “repulsive double
standards when it comes to misogyny and sexism.”  Health, Education  He is vulnerable in some policy areas, particularly health
and education, said  John Warhurst , a political analyst at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “He’s been
effective as an opposition leader but that also means he’s often
perceived as being too negative. People are now expecting to
find out how he would govern the country.”  “Our chances have improved” under Rudd, Employment
Minister  Bill Shorten  told 2UE radio yesterday. “He’s reflected
upon what’s happened, he’s learned lessons about consultation,
about listening.”  Rudd also signaled a new approach to his leadership.
“Political life is a very hard life, a very hard life indeed,”
he told parliament yesterday. “Occasionally it can be kind,
more often it is not. So let us try, just try to be a little
kinder and gentler with each other.”  Even as the task for Rudd looms large, his return has
injected an “X factor” into the race, said Warhurst from the
ANU. Abbott would “rather be fighting  Julia Gillard  than Kevin
Rudd.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  