-- Abbott Policy Test Looms After Labor’s Leadership Resolution
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-06-27T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/abbott-policy-test-looms-after-labor-s-leadership-resolution.html
Tony Abbott ’s opposition was on
cruise control for a win in this year’s Australian election. In
the wake of the ruling  Labor Party ’s leadership resolution with
Kevin Rudd in command, Abbott’s ride has just got bumpier.  Abbott’s personal popularity wavered even as his Liberal-National coalition benefited from Labor’s woes, with consistent
gaps in polls behind former leader  Julia Gillard  as preferred
prime minister, until five months ago. The task now for Abbott,
55, is to build out a policy platform that was left without
details during his focus on Labor’s leadership divisions.  While no party has come back from the deficit Labor faces
in opinion polls, any increased public focus on Abbott’s
negatives boosts the odds his coalition won’t win a majority in
parliament’s upper house. Such a result would test political
negotiating skills Abbott hasn’t had to hone while in opposition.  “There’s now going to be quite a lot of pressure on Abbott
to actually present some policies -- Rudd has shown he’s adept
at campaigning,” said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst and
Griffith University professor of journalism and communications
in  Brisbane . “Whether or not Rudd’s resurgence is a game changer
comes down to Abbott’s response to the tougher challenge he
faces. With Labor’s internal problems, he’s had an easy ride.”  Rudd, 55, who was sworn in as prime minister yesterday will
seek to capitalize on a honeymoon period after ousting Gillard,
51, in a party-room vote the day before. One option is bringing
the election forward from Gillard’s announced date of Sept. 14.  Polling Gap  The Liberal-Nationals are already running advertisements
highlighting Rudd’s previous vows not to contest Gillard for the
job, and Labor lawmakers’ concerns about his leadership style.
The most recent Newspoll, published in The Australian newspaper
June 24, shows the coalition with a 14 percentage point
advantage on a two-party preferred basis, designed to gauge
which party is most likely to form a government.  In a Newspoll conducted June 18-20, 2010, just days before
he was removed by Gillard in a backroom party coup, Rudd led
Abbott on the question of preferred prime minister by 46 percent
to 37 percent. Six months earlier, the gap had been 37
percentage points.  While Rudd must contend with the exit of former Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  and other Gillard supporters, he will have one
advantage Gillard lacked. In contrast to Rudd, who maintained a
public presence even after losing to Gillard, the former prime
minister said she won’t seek re-election for her seat of Lalor -
- reducing the risk of further party infighting.  Cabinet Formation  The new leader will need to build out a cabinet after the
departure of seven ministers. His treasurer,  Chris Bowen , little
known to the public, takes over at a time of slowing economic
growth.  Remaining unclear is whether Rudd will support some of
Gillard’s big-ticket policy items that she struggled to sell to
voters, including the nation’s first levy on greenhouse-gas
emissions and a tax on mining company profits that will reap
A$1.8 billion ($1.7 billion) less in revenue for the year to
June 30 than previously forecast, according to budget documents
released May 14.  Abbott vows to repeal the carbon and mining levies at a
time when government revenue from company taxes is slowing.  Policy Outlines  While he has advocated a longer period of paid parental
leave, some of his pledges lacked specifics, such as restoring
“balance” to an industrial relations policy he says has tipped
too far in favor of trade unions. He has promised to “stop the
boats” carrying asylum seekers, usually from war-torn Middle
East or South Asia nations, and seen by some citizens as
unworthy of receiving welfare benefits.  A plan to consider giving tax breaks to the nation’s remote,
sparsely-populated north in a bid to create a new “food bowl”
was declared unconstitutional by Gillard.  Speaking to reporters on June 26, Rudd said Abbott was “a
man steeped in the power of negative politics.”  Abbott, a Rhodes Scholar and former amateur boxer who
studied for the priesthood, has been painted by Labor as a
social conservative with sexist views. Gillard last October
stood up in parliament and accused Abbott of “repulsive double
standards when it comes to misogyny and sexism.”  Health, Education  He is vulnerable in some policy areas, particularly health
and education, said  John Warhurst , a political analyst at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “He’s been
effective as an opposition leader but that also means he’s often
perceived as being too negative. People are now expecting to
find out how he would govern the country.”  “Our chances have improved” under Rudd, Employment
Minister  Bill Shorten  told 2UE radio yesterday. “He’s reflected
upon what’s happened, he’s learned lessons about consultation,
about listening.”  Rudd also signaled a new approach to his leadership.
“Political life is a very hard life, a very hard life indeed,”
he told parliament yesterday. “Occasionally it can be kind,
more often it is not. So let us try, just try to be a little
kinder and gentler with each other.”  Repairing the damage of years of Labor infighting won’t be
easy. “I have been shocked, frankly, over the last three years,
to meet ugly  Australia ,” independent lower house lawmaker,  Rob Oakeshott , who isn’t contesting the next election, said in
parliament yesterday of the attacks on Gillard as leader.  Economic Challenge  With signs of a slowdown in the world’s 12th-largest
economy, momentum remains with Abbott. Rudd will have to rebut
opposition attacks on Labor’s economic stewardship after the
government failed to meet its pledge of a  budget surplus  in the
current fiscal year.  While the economy expanded in 2012 at its fastest pace in
five years, unemployment has risen in some areas, particularly
with the loss of manufacturing jobs in electorates with a track
record of voting Labor.  Even as the task for Rudd looms large, his return has
injected an “X factor” into the race, said Warhurst from the
ANU. Abbott would “rather be fighting Julia Gillard than  Kevin
Rudd .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  