-- Habitat Falls as Chile Pledges Changes in Pension
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-27T18:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/habitat-falls-as-chile-pledges-changes-in-pension.html
AFP Habitat SA,  Chile ’s second-largest pension fund manager, fell for a record eighth straight
day as the government’s pledge to change the industry spurred
speculation that the company’s profits will drop.  Habitat retreated 2.4 percent to 771 pesos at 2:22 p.m. in
Santiago, its lowest price since October 2012. The stock has
retreated 17 percent in eight days, its longest slump since
shares began trading in 1994.  President Sebastian Pinera said in an interview June 19
with Chile’s Radio Cooperativa that he will present before he
leaves office a bill that would increase competition among fund
managers and ensure higher pensions for retirees. Chile will
hold presidential elections Nov. 17, with the winner assuming
office in March 2014.  “Political noise is affecting the stock,” Christopher Disalvatore, an analyst at Santiago-based brokerage IM Trust,
said in a telephone interview. “We are considering in our
models a potential cut in the commissions that the pension funds
charge.”  AFP Provida SA, the largest pension fund manager, which New
York-based  MetLife Inc. (MET)  agreed to buy in February, advanced 0.1
percent to 2,889 pesos.  Workers in Chile transfer 10 percent of their monthly
salaries to individual savings accounts managed by the country’s
pension fund managers, which invest in local and foreign
securities and draw a commission from salaries, according to the
website of Chile’s pension fund regulator.  Chile’s pension fund system was developed in the 1980s by
Jose Pinera, a minister of dictator Augusto Pinochet and a
brother of President Pinera.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  