-- Accused Boston Bomber Indicted for ‘Senseless’ Acts
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-06-27T21:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/accused-boston-marathon-bomber-dzhokhar-tsarnaev-indicted.html
Accused  Boston  Marathon bomber
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was charged by a grand jury with setting off
homemade bombs that killed three spectators and shooting a
university police officer to death.  The indictment filed today in federal court in Boston
offers new details about the April 15 attack, including a list
of files related to al-Qaeda and jihad found on Tsarnaev’s
computer and notes he allegedly wrote saying he was motived by
the U.S. military’s killing of Muslim civilians.  “The defendant’s alleged conduct forever changed the lives
of the victims” and their families, U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz
said today at a press conference in Boston. “This community has
shown extraordinary resilience in the face of this senseless
violence.”  Tsarnaev, 19, is accused of carrying out the attack that
killed two women and a boy near the marathon’s finish line and
injured more than 260 with his brother Tamerlan, 26, who died
after a shootout with police.  About half the charges carry a maximum sentence of life in
prison or the death penalty, Ortiz said. Tsarnaev is scheduled
to appear in court for the first time July 10 for his
arraignment.  Federal Public Defender Miriam Conrad, one of Tsarnaev’s
lawyers, said she hadn’t read the indictment yet and couldn’t
comment.  Sworn Statement  Tsarnaev was initially charged on April 22, based on the
sworn statement of Daniel Genck, a special agent with the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation . The 30-count federal indictment
is based on the decisions of a citizen grand jury that heard
evidence from investigators in secret.  The indictment expands the U.S.’s case by charging Tsarnaev
in the death of Sean Collier, a 26-year-old police officer for
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge.
Collier’s shooting at point-blank range on the evening of April
18 set off an overnight manhunt that led to Tsarnaev’s capture
and the death of his brother.  Prosecutors for  Middlesex County , where the campus is
located, also investigated the attack and filed a separate 15-count indictment today against Tsarnaev over Collier’s death.
That case may be tried as a backup measure after the federal
case, since the federal indictment also covers Collier’s death.  Feds Lead  Suffolk County District Attorney Dan Conley, whose
jurisdiction covers Boston, also agreed to let federal
prosecutors lead.  “The most appropriate place to prosecute Dzhokhar Tsarnaev
is right here in the federal court,” Conley said at the press
conference today. “Any further potential prosecution on the
state level would be symbolic.”  Three days after the bombing, the FBI released pictures of
the Tsarnaev brothers taken near the scene of the blasts, though
authorities hadn’t yet identified the men. The images showed one
suspect wearing a black hat, and the other a white hat. Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev’s friends recognized him, prosecutors say.  That night, the brothers carjacked a Mercedes and stole
$800 from the driver while forcing him to drive them to a gas
station, according to the indictment.  Police later located the Tsarnaevs with the vehicle and
engaged in a shootout, during which the brothers threw four more
explosive devices at authorities, the U.S. said. Three officers
eventually tackled Tamerlan Tsarnaev after he was shot.  Brother Struck  “Dzhokhar Tsarnaev then re-entered the carjacked vehicle
and drove it directly at the officers, running over his brother
as he managed to escape,” the U.S. said. Tsarnaev almost hit an
officer who was attempting to drag Tamerlan to safety, according
to the indictment.  Tsarnaev eluded police during the ensuing citywide manhunt
by hiding in a dry-docked boat in the backyard of a suburban
Boston home. He wrote messages on the wall and beams of the
boat, the U.S. said.  “The U.S. government is killing our innocent civilians”
and “I can’t stand to see such evil go unpunished,” he wrote,
according to the indictment. He also wrote, “We Muslims are one
body, you hurt one you hurt us all” and “Now I don’t like
killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to said
[unintelligible] it is allowed,” the U.S. said.  Al-Qaeda Magazine  Tsarnaev downloaded to his computer a copy of the al-Qaeda
online magazine Inspire, which had detailed instructions for
building an explosive out of a pressure cooker or sections of
pipe, explosive powder from fireworks and shrapnel, according to
prosecutors.  He also downloaded a digital copy of a book with a foreword
by Anwar Al-Awlaki, the al-Qaeda propagandist killed by a U.S.
drone in Yemen in September 2011, and a publication called
“Defense of Muslim Lands, the First Obligation After Imam,” by
Abdullah Azzman, who is also known as the “Father of the Global
Jihad,” the U.S. said.  According to the indictment, Tamerlan Tsarnaev went to
Phantom Fireworks in Seabrook,  New Hampshire , around Feb. 6 and
purchased 48 mortars that held about eight pounds of low
explosive power.  The next month, the brothers traveled to a firing range in
Manchester, New Hampshire, where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev rented two
9mm handguns and bought 200 rounds of ammunition and engaged in
target practice for about an hour, the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-10200, U.S. District
Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  