-- Lagarde Says Fed Must Communicate to Quell Fear in Exit
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-27T14:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/lagarde-says-fed-must-communicate-to-quell-fear-in-exit.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who spurred market volatility by signaling the central
bank will scale back its unprecedented bond buying, must
communicate exit plans clearly to prevent future tumult, said
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde .  “Clearly what happened, it was an announcement that took
the markets by surprise,” Lagarde said in an interview on MSNBC
today. “What he’s probably doing is announcing, giving signals,
and giving expectations and managing expectations, which is
always extremely difficult when markets react so feverishly.”  Bernanke said June 19 the central bank may start dialing
down its bond-buying this year and end it in mid-2014 if the
economy achieves the sustainable growth the Fed seeks. He spoke
at a press conference after the  Federal Open Market Committee 
left the monthly pace of bond purchases unchanged at $85
billion.  The remarks prompted a surge in the dollar and a slump in
U.S. Treasuries. The Standard and Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  dropped 4.8
percent to a June 24 close of 1573.09 from 1651.81 on June 18.
It has since regained ground to close at 1603.26 yesterday.  “It’s not just last week -- it goes back to May 22, when
he started talking about the tapering,” Lagarde said. On that
day, Bernanke said in remarks to Congress that the Fed could
“step down” the pace of asset purchases if the labor market
improves and “we have confidence that that is going to be
sustained.” Bernanke also said a premature withdrawal from
easing would put the economic recovery at risk.  Downward Revision  Lagarde said “there has been some correction,” and the
Commerce Department’s downward revision of first-quarter gross
domestic product growth this week should help to reassure
investors that “tapering is not around the corner, as they had
feared.”  The IMF chief also said U.S. growth is outpacing  Europe ’s
despite political dysfunction in  Washington .  “The  United States  is in second gear, if you will, moving
on and out of the crisis better than the Europeans,” Lagarde
said. “There seems to be that disconnect between what happens
at a political level and what happens at an economic level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  