-- Aimia Soars as TD Signs Aeroplan Card Agreement: Montreal Mover
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-06-27T20:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/aimia-soars-as-td-signs-aeroplan-card-agreement-montreal-mover.html
Aimia Inc. (AIM)  gained the most in almost
four years after  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  agreed to replace
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce as the main credit-card
partner for the company’s Aeroplan loyalty program.  Aimia climbed 11 percent to close at C$15.40 in Toronto,
the biggest jump since July 2009. Under a conditional agreement,
Toronto-Dominion would become the primary card issuer for
Montreal-based Aimia’s Aeroplan program starting Jan. 1,
according to statements today from the companies.  “Investors don’t like uncertainty and there was a fear
that perhaps we’d end up with no banking relationship,” Aimia
Chief Executive Officer Rupert Duchesne said in a telephone
interview. “That has been completely assuaged because we
definitely have a deal, and it’s either with TD or CIBC.”  Canadian Imperial (CM) , whose partnership with Aimia expires at
the end of the year, has the right to match the terms of the new
agreement by Aug. 9.  “Upon legal review, we have concluded that the notice and
document provided by Aimia to CIBC appears to have been
intentionally structured in a way that attempts to nullify
CIBC’s right of first refusal and any ability to match,” the
Toronto-based bank said in a statement. “Given the structuring
of the document and our contractual rights, we are exploring our
options.”  Exploring Alternatives  CIBC, the country’s fifth-biggest bank by assets, said in
March that it’s exploring alternatives for its 22-year
partnership that has made the CIBC Aerogold Visa the bank’s most
popular credit card. Aimia, which owns and manages rewards
programs including Nectar in the U.K., counts CIBC as its
biggest partner.  Toronto-Dominion,  Canada ’s second-largest lender, would
commit C$100 million ($96 million) to the loyalty program and
agree to minimum annual miles purchases. Aeroplan’s loyalty
partners include Air Canada, the country’s biggest airline.  “TD announced that it did not anticipate that the
agreement would have a material impact on 2014 earnings,
however, it remains positive on the outlook for 2015,” John Aiken, an analyst with Barclays Plc, said in a note. “Signing
the agreement fits in quite well with TD’s strategy to focus on
assets and should complement the growth of the MBNA card
acquisition.”  TD agreed in August 2011 to pay C$7.5 billion to buy  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ’s MBNA Canada unit to gain its MasterCard
portfolio. That transaction was completed in December 2011.  Break Fee  Incremental spending from marketing and guaranteeing
minimum purchases from Aimia won’t be “overly disruptive” to
earnings, Aiken said.  Canadian Imperial rose 0.4 percent to C$75.31 and TD gained
0.6 percent to C$83.90. CIBC has slid 5.8 percent this year, the
 worst performer  on the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Banks
Index. TD shares have gained 0.2 percent and Aimia has climbed
3.6 percent.  TD is entitled to a C$80 million fee to cover costs if CIBC
agrees to match the terms by the deadline, the Toronto-based
lender said in a statement. Kevin Dove, a CIBC spokesman, and
TD’s Ali Duncan Martin declined further comment.  Aeroplan began in 1984 as a promotional tool for business
travelers on Air Canada. CIBC Aerogold Visa was started in 1991,
according to Aimia. The card allows users to collect Aeroplan
points for travel on Air Canada and get goods from retailers.  Cancels Policy  Aimia also has a pact with  American Express Co. (AXP) , and
negotiations with the credit-card company are “proceeding in
parallel,” the company said.  CIBC is Canada’s largest credit-card issuer based on total
outstanding balances, according to an April 2013 issue of the
Nilson Report, a credit-card industry publication. Toronto-Dominion is the second-largest.  Aimia also said it’s canceling a policy that put a seven-year expiry date on Aeroplan reward miles. The policy would have
removed unredeemed miles from customer accounts starting Jan. 1.  “People were worried that that was going to cause a big
run on Aimia’s cash flow at the end of the year,” Duchesne
said. “Getting rid of that policy has taken that off the
agenda, as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  