-- Thais Buy Record Local Stocks as Foreigners Exit: Southeast Asia
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-06-27T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/thais-buy-record-local-stocks-as-foreigners-exit-southeast-asia.html
Thai institutional  investors  are
picking up stocks at a record pace as an exodus of foreign money
sends valuations to a nine-month low.  Domestic  funds  bought a net 32 billion baht ($1.03 billion)
of Thai stocks this month through June 26, on course for the
biggest monthly inflow since Bloomberg began compiling exchange
data in 1999. Foreigners sold a net $2.15 billion of shares this
month, heading for a record outflow.  Thailand’s SET Index has dropped 12 percent since Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 that policy makers may
consider paring stimulus if the U.S. labor market improves,
prompting investors to wipe as much as $5.3 trillion in value
from global stocks. The slump drove the Thai gauge’s valuation
to 11.8 times projected 12-month earnings on June 24, the
cheapest since Sept. 5. The SET climbed 1.6 percent yesterday to
close at its highest level since June 17.  “With the current valuation and corporate earnings
outlook, equity investment may offer spectacular returns,”
Saharat Chudsuwan, senior vice president of Tisco Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees about $5.5 billion of assets,
said by phone on June 26. “This is a great opportunity because
the fund outflow hasn’t changed the fundamentals of the Thai
economy and companies.”  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy may expand 5.25
percent in 2014, accelerating from a forecast 4.75 percent
growth in 2013, the  International Monetary Fund  said on June 17.
Earnings of companies in the SET Index may climb 32 percent over
the next 12 months, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s double the 16 percent growth forecast for companies in
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  New Funds  Saharat recommended shares of banks, retailers and building
material producers whose revenue will benefit from domestic
consumption growth. He declined to specify which stocks his
funds bought or sold.  Saharat’s Tisco High-Dividend Equity Fund has jumped 20
percent this year, the best performer among 200 stock funds
domiciled in Thailand, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
His company, a unit of  Tisco Financial Group Pcl (TISCO) , has joined
others in Thailand trying to take advantage of a revival in
domestic appetite for shares.  Tisco earlier this month raised about 500 million baht
offering two new equity funds, according to Saharat. Tisco Asset
has offered about 1 billion baht in new funds since June 20,
according to a company statement on June 19.  Delayed Rebound  BBL Asset Management Ltd., a unit of Bangkok Bank Pcl,
Thailand’s biggest lender, plans to raise as much as 2.56
billion baht from a new equity fund offering between June 24 and
July 2, according to a June 20 statement from the firm. The
company was ranked as one of  Thailand ’s two top equity fund
managers this year by Morningstar Inc., a fund researcher.  Purchases by domestic institutional investors will help
bolster local shares, Vorapol Socatiyanurak, secretary general
of the Thai Securities & Exchange Commission, said on June 21.  Foreign outflows may delay any stock rebound, according to
Chakrit Puechpan, head of domestic equities at MFC Asset
Management Pcl. Overseas funds have offloaded a net $2.87
billion of Thai stocks this year, the second-biggest sales after
 South Korea  among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  “Domestic purchases are unlikely to help share prices
rebound,” Chakrit, whose firm oversees about $11 billion of
assets, said by phone from Bangkok. “The money is only a
fraction of sales by foreign investors, who want to unload
stocks here at any price.”  Volatile Stocks  The  SET Index (SET)  plunged on June 24 to the lowest level since
Dec. 18 before rallying for three days through yesterday. The
gauge has slid 7.4 percent this month, heading for the biggest
monthly loss since September 2011. That would be the first time
since May 2010 that the index has declined when monthly inflows
of domestic institutional investors into stocks topped 10
billion baht.  The index’s 30-day  volatility  measure rose to 32 yesterday,
the highest level since November 2011.  Mutual fund companies, pension funds and other
institutional investors accounted for about 8 percent of total
share trading on the Stock Exchange of Thailand this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Overseas investors’
share was about 20 percent, while individual investors accounted
for 59 percent of total turnover. The remainder came came from
brokerage investments, or so-called proprietary trade.  “Thai stocks may see further correction and more
volatility over the next three to six months as monetary policy
changes spur more overseas fund outflows,” Voravan Tarapoom,
chief executive officer of BBL Asset, which oversees about $12
billion of assets, wrote in an e-mail on June 20. “Still, we
expect foreign funds to return this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  