-- Taiwan Holds Rate for Longest Period on Record as Growth Slows
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2013-06-27T09:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/taiwan-holds-rate-for-longest-period-on-record-as-growth-slows.html
Taiwan  kept interest rates unchanged
for an eighth meeting after the government cut its growth
forecast for this year as a slowdown in  China  hurts the outlook.  The central bank held the  discount rate  on 10-day loans to
banks at 1.875 percent, it said in a statement in Taipei today,
as predicted by all 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
monetary authority has refrained from adjusting borrowing costs
since June 2011, the longest period of inaction, its data showed.  A cash squeeze in China, the island’s biggest trading
partner, has led to market selloffs in  Asia  and threatens to
slow the region’s expansion. Taiwan’s statistics bureau last
month cut the  gross domestic product  forecast for this year to
2.4 percent from 3.59 percent, and President Ma Ying-jeou has
unveiled measures to boost economic growth.  “ Interest rates  are already at ultra-low levels, cutting
rates would have a limited effect on the economy,” Ma Tieying,
a Singapore-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said
before the decision. The central bank “will need to balance the
goals of bolstering economic growth and safeguarding financial
stability. Staying put will be the best policy option.”  Global funds have sold almost $4 billion of Taiwanese
stocks this month. The Taiex index closed 1.3 percent higher
today before the announcement. The  Taiwan dollar  has slipped
about 3.5 percent this year against its U.S. counterpart.  President Ma, whose disapproval rating is at its highest
since he took office in May 2008, has sought closer trade and
investment ties with China to bolster the island’s economy. He
said last month he’ll let the island’s insurers invest in
infrastructure projects and create a NT$1 billion ($33 million)
fund to channel money to companies.  Biggest Squeeze  China’s biggest squeeze on credit in at least a decade
limits mainland companies’ financing abilities, fueling concern
a further slowdown will drag Taiwan’s economic growth.  Exports (TWTREXPY) , which make up about 60 percent of the island’s
 gross domestic product , slipped in two of five months this year.
HTC Corp., the Taiwanese smartphone maker which posted a record-low profit last quarter, said its revenue fell 3.4 percent in
May from a year earlier.  The economy grew 1.67 percent in the three months through
March from a year earlier, after expanding 3.97 percent in the
fourth quarter.  Consumer prices  rose 0.74 percent in May from a
year earlier, the slowest pace since February 2012.  Central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan, who was re-appointed
to a fourth term in February, said in a statement today
consumer-price growth is “modest,” and measures to cool
property prices have seen results. The economy will be better in
the third quarter from the preceding period, it said.  Perng has imposed selective credit controls on luxury
housing since June last year, with mortgages capped at 60
percent of the value of the property in Taipei and New Taipei
city for values of over NT$80 million, and NT$50 million in
other parts of Taiwan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  