-- John Malone Said to Explore Scenarios for Time Warner Cable Deal
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/malone-said-to-be-exploring-scenarios-for-time-warner-cable-deal.html
Billionaire  John Malone  is exploring
scenarios for how  Charter (CHTR)  Communications Inc. could acquire  Time
Warner Cable (TWC)  Inc., even after his initial overtures were
rebuffed, according to people familiar with the discussions.  Malone’s  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) , which owns  27 percent  of
Charter, is working on how to structure an offer with enough
cash to win over Time Warner Cable investors, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the deliberations are private.
Time Warner Cable isn’t interested in a deal and doesn’t think
Liberty and Charter can come up with an offer that’s attractive,
according to people familiar with management’s thinking.  Acquiring Time Warner Cable would be a challenge for
Charter, a much-smaller company whose debt exceeds its $12.5
billion market capitalization. Time Warner Cable, valued at
$31.5 billion, also would demand a hefty premium, said Bryan Kraft, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York .  “Charter would have much more to gain from a merger than
Time Warner Cable,” Kraft said in a note to clients.  Liberty Media is considering options such as borrowing
against its own balance sheet or Time Warner Cable’s assets to
raise the cash needed for an offer, two people said.  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  used a similar strategy to complete its purchase of NBC
Universal from General Electric Co. in 2011.  ‘Acquisition Machine’  Malone said this month at Liberty Media’s shareholder
meeting that he saw Charter becoming “a horizontal acquisition
machine.”  “The whole name of the game in the cable business is
scale,” the 72-year-old said.  Despite the resistance of Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable company, Liberty and Charter would like to
get a friendly deal done in the coming months, one person said.  In addition, Charter is considering acquiring  Cablevision
Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-largest provider, two other people
said. Such a deal faces its own challenges because it would
require support from the Dolan family, which has controlled the
company for 40 years. Kelly McAndrew, a spokeswoman for the
Bethpage, New York-based company, declined to comment.  Time Warner Cable shares  rose 4.4 percent to $108.22
yesterday after Bloomberg reported on the deliberations, while
Cablevision climbed 5.6 percent to $16.28. Charter, located in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , rose 4 percent to $123.81.  Premium Price?  A purchase of Time Warner Cable would probably include a
premium of at least 20 percent, one of the people said, pushing
a potential transaction to $37 billion or more. Charter ranks
fourth in the cable industry, and even if you include Liberty
Media’s market value of $15.3 billion, the two businesses are
smaller than Time Warner Cable.  Justin Venech, a spokesman for New York-based Time Warner
Cable, declined to comment, as did Charter’s  Alex Dudley .
Heather Lipp, a Liberty Media spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
request for comment. CNBC reported earlier this month that Time
Warner Cable discussed merging with Charter, pushing up the
stocks of both companies.  Malone -- who has a personal net worth of $6.2 billion,
according to  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  -- comes to the table
with decades of experience negotiating cable deals in the U.S.
and  Europe . He built Tele-Communications Inc. in the 1970s and
1980s into one of the largest pay-TV companies before selling it
to AT&T Corp. in 1999. That company later became part of Comcast 
after a $58.7 billion deal in 2002.  European Deals  Malone also is chairman of Liberty Global Plc, which has
become the world’s largest cable operator after recent
acquisitions of the U.K.’s Virgin Media Inc. and  Germany ’s Kabel
Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH. Liberty Global owns cable assets in 12
European countries and serves more than 25 million customers.  After buying his stake in Charter in May, Malone set out to
use the holding to rebuild a U.S. cable empire. He said earlier
this month he was interested in both large and small cable
acquisitions to give Charter more scale in negotiating
programming contracts with content providers such as  News Corp .,
Walt Disney Co. and  NBC Universal .  Charter is also “highly motivated” to pursue a merger
with Time Warner Cable because it would allow it to increase the
net present value of its net operating losses for tax-avoidance
purposes, Evercore’s Kraft said. Charter has  lost money  every
year since emerging from bankruptcy in 2009. Time Warner Cable,
meanwhile, earned $2.16 billion in net income last year.  New Strategy  Time Warner Cable also is retooling its strategy, something
it may not want Charter to disrupt, Kraft said. In a bid to
focus on more profitable customers, the company is scaling back
its promotions and charging more money for enhanced services
such as faster broadband and multiroom digital video recorders.
Time Warner Cable also is rolling out a cloud-based interface,
which lets people navigate programs using an online menu.  Even so, Charter has its own management skills to offer.
 Tom Rutledge , Charter’s CEO, is widely considered to be the most
skilled at handling operations among executives at the large
cable companies, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Moffett
Research LLC in New York. Rutledge was Cablevision’s chief
operating officer from 2004 to 2011.  Rob Marcus, Time Warner Cable’s COO, is expected to be the
heir apparent to run the company when current CEO Glenn Britt
retires at the end of the year, a person familiar with the
situation said in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  