-- Amedisys Faces U.S. Medicare Pay Cut for Home Health Care
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-28T20:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/amedisys-faces-1-5-u-s-medicare-pay-cut-for-home-health.html
Amedisys Inc. (AMED) ,  Gentiva Health
Services Inc. (GTIV)  and other in-home health-care providers tumbled in
 New York  trading after the U.S. Medicare program announced plans
to cut company payments by 1.5 percent on average in 2014.  Amedisys, the largest U.S. home-nursing provider, fell 13
percent to $11.60 at the close, the biggest single-day decline
in more than 13 months. Gentiva declined 13 percent to $9.96
and  LHC Group Inc. (LHCG)  lost 13 percent to $19.58, the largest falls
for both companies since October 2011.  Amedisys, which depends on Medicare for more than 80
percent of revenue, and other for-profit companies face deeper
reductions -- a net 1.7 percent -- than nonprofit and
government-run centers. The cuts, announced late yesterday and
ordered by the 2010 Affordable Care Act, exceeded investors’
expectations, said  Sheryl Skolnick , a CRT Capital analyst in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “This is as bad as it could have been,” Skolnick said in
a telephone interview. The home-health industry faces further
cuts through 2017 that are likely to be just as deep, she said.  “The challenge for these guys is they’ve got three more
years of this,” she said.  The government’s plan to trim payments to companies that
provide therapy at home for elderly and disabled patients would
save taxpayers $290 million in 2014, the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services said in a regulatory  proposal  made public
yesterday. The rule, which will be formally published July 3, is
subject to a 60-day comment period before being made final.  Earnings Effect  The agency said in a statement that the cuts “would foster
greater efficiency, flexibility, payment accuracy and improved
quality” for home health care.  Amedisys may lose $14 million in earnings next year, 21
percent of its profit before taxes and other costs, Skolnick
said today in a note to clients. She has kept a  sell rating  on
the  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based company’s shares since at least
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kendra Kimmons, a spokeswoman for Amedisys, declined to
comment on the proposed cuts. A message left yesterday with the
answering service for Atlanta-based Gentiva wasn’t returned.
Gentiva got more than  90 percent  of its sales in the first
quarter from Medicare, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Half of all home-health companies may not be able to
sustain a “break-even or better business” if Medicare enacts
the full cuts in each of the next four years, said Mark Anthony,
senior vice president of sales and marketing at Homecare
Homebase, a closely held company based in  Dallas  that makes
computer software for home health agencies.  “The non-profits will be hurt but could stay around due to
other funding sources,” he said in an e-mail. Publicly traded
companies, with average operating margins from about 7 percent
to 13 percent, will fare worse, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  