-- Anglo Said to Hire Banks for Sale of Brazil Project Stake
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-06-28T13:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/anglo-said-to-hire-banks-for-brazil-iron-mine-stake-sale.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  hired Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG to sell as much as
49.9 percent of its biggest development project, according to
two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The London-based company is seeking to sell at least a 30
percent stake in the Minas-Rio iron-ore project in Brazil, which
has suffered cost overruns and licensing delays, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the early-stage talks
aren’t public. Private-equity funds and Asian companies are
showing interest, they said.  While Anglo American values the project at as much as $6
billion, a deal for a 49.9 percent stake could be reached for
about $1 billion, the two people said. Anglo announced in
January that it sold 70 percent of the Amapa iron-ore operation
in  Brazil  to Zamin Ferrous Ltd., without providing terms. The
value of that transaction was $380 million, the people said.  “We have openly discussed the option to introduce a
minority investor into Minas-Rio on many occasions over the last
few years and we continue to be flexible in this regard and may
pursue that option if it makes economic sense to do so,” said
James Wyatt-Tilby, a spokesman for Anglo American.  He declined to comment on the hiring of advisers or a
possible sale price for Minas-Rio or Amapa. Zamin, based in
 London , also declined to comment on the Amapa purchase price
through an external media representative.  Cost Blowout  “Any buyer would take into account the consensus long-term
 iron ore  price forecast of $80 a ton, which would value half the
project at $1 billion,” said Paul Gait, a mining analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “But I don’t think Anglo is a seller
at that price. Anglo should sell the stake at no less than $2.25
billion so it can cover its part of the future capital
expenditure required to complete the project and $3 billion is
what they should aim for.”  Morgan Stanley and UBS declined to comment, according to
officials who asked not to be identified in keeping with the
companies’ policies.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman
Sachs, also declined to comment.  The plan to sell a stake in Minas-Rio follows the company’s
writedown in the value of the $8.8 billion mine, processing
plant, pipeline and port terminal by $4 billion. First shipments
are now scheduled to start late in 2014 after years of delays
and budget increases.  Forecast Earnings  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani , 55, pledged to
scrutinize every aspect of Anglo’s business after taking over
from Cynthia Carroll in April, saying in a June 26 interview
that he will announce the result of the review next month.  “The one word that will drive decisions we will make will
be value,” Cutifani told Bloomberg. “The word won’t be growth,
or takeover or development. It will be value.”  Anglo American bought Minas-Rio and a 70 percent stake in
Amapa in March 2008 for $5.5 billion. Minas-Rio was originally
forecast to cost $2.6 billion to build. The acquisition was
Carroll’s most expensive bet in the more than five years that
she ran the company. Carroll quit in October.  The mine will generate $2.5 billion of earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization with 26.5 million
metric tons of output, given a price of $120 a ton, or about $3
billion at a price of $150 a ton, Carroll said in January.  Iron ore for immediate delivery rose 1.3 percent to $115.30
a ton yesterday, according to a  price index  compiled by The
Steel Index Ltd. The index is down 20 percent this year.  Exame magazine reported on its website on June 24 that
Anglo American is trying to sell a stake in Minas-Rio, without
providing values.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  