-- Cavaliers Take Bennett From UNLV First in NBA Draft in Surprise
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-06-28T04:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/anthony-bennett-goes-no-1-in-nba-draft-to-cleveland-cavaliers.html
The Cleveland Cavaliers opened the
2013 National Basketball Association draft by making Anthony Bennett of the University of Nevada-Las Vegas the first 
pick, a move that surprised even the UNLV freshman forward.  Then came the real shocker -- ESPN reported that the  Boston
Celtics  had agreed in principle to trade veteran All-Stars Kevin Garnett and  Paul Pierce  to the Brooklyn Nets.  The 6-foot-8 (2.03-meter) Bennett is the first Canadian
selected top overall in the draft. Bennett, the fourth straight
freshman chosen with the No. 1 pick, is from Toronto.  “I’m just as surprised as everyone else,” said Bennett,
who averaged 16 points and eight rebounds a game in his only
season at UNLV. “I heard everything was up for grabs.”  The  New York Knicks  and Nets each had one pick last night.
The Knicks took Michigan guard Tim Hardaway Jr. with the 24th
selection and the Nets chose Duke University center Mason
Plumlee with the 22nd pick. Hardaway’s father was a five-time
NBA All-Star guard in the 1990s.  Many analysts had predicted  University of Kentucky  freshman
center Nerlens Noel would go first in the draft at the Barclays
Center in Brooklyn, New York. Noel ended up as the sixth pick,
and might be traded before his NBA career begins.  Indiana guard Victor Oladipo was the second pick, by the
Orlando Magic, and the Washington Wizards selected forward Otto
Porter Jr. of Georgetown next.  Indiana forward Cody Zeller went fourth to the  Charlotte 
Bobcats, followed by center Alex Len of Maryland going to the
Phoenix Suns.  Noel Picked  Noel, 19, went sixth to New Orleans. The Pelicans, who were
named the Hornets last year, picked Kentucky center  Anthony
Davis  with the No. 1 overall draft choice in 2012.  “It feels great to have an opportunity to play with
Anthony,” said Noel, who is recovering from left knee surgery.
“It’s going to be a shot-blocking party when I get down
there.”  That block party may never materialize. Yahoo Sports
reported, based on people within the league who were not
identified, that Noel will be traded to the  Philadelphia 76ers 
for point guard  Jrue Holiday .  Shooting guard Ben McLemore of Kansas went seventh to the
Sacramento Kings, followed by the  Detroit Pistons  picking
Georgia shooting guard Kentavious Caldwell-Pope. Michigan point
guard Trey Burke was the ninth overall pick of the  Minnesota
Timberwolves , and point guard C.J. McCollum of Lehigh went 10th
to the Portland Trail Blazers.  Burke did not stay a member of the Timberwolves for even
one night. He was traded to the Utah Jazz for the rights to 14th
pick Shabazz Muhammad, a guard from UCLA, and 21st pick Gorgui
Dieng, a center from national champion Louisville.  Blockbuster Trade  The entire draft, however, was overshadowed by reports of
the blockbuster trade between the Celtics and Nets.  ESPN, quoting unidentified people close to the process,
said the Celtics had agreed to send center Garnett, forward
Pierce and backup shooting guard  Jason Terry  to the Nets.  The trade cannot become official until July 10, when a
league-wide moratorium on signings and trades is lifted after
free agency begins July 1, the network reported.  ESPN reported that the Nets, who hired  Jason Kidd  as coach
two weeks ago, will send forward  Gerald Wallace  and first-round
draft picks in 2014, 2016 and 2018 to Boston. The Celtics also
will get Tornike Shengelia, Reggie Evans, Keith Bogans and
rights to the expiring contract of Kris Humphries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  