-- Maple Leaf Cheapest as Food Maker Peers Seek Deals
-- B y   L a u r e n   S .   M u r p h y   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-06-27T20:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/maple-leaf-cheapest-as-food-maker-peers-seek-deals.html
Maple Leaf Foods Inc. (MFI) , the Canadian
producer of foods from Black Forest ham to bagels, offers the
best value among North American peers as the acquisition of
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  fuels speculation of more deals.  Maple Leaf has surged 16 percent since Shuanghui
International Ltd. of Hong Kong announced a C$4.7 billion deal
to buy Smithfield Foods Inc. on May 29. The rise still leaves
Maple Leaf with a price to earnings ratio of 12.2, the lowest of
22 North American food producers with a market value of $500
million to $4 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If you want access to the Canadian market, which isn’t a
bad market, the cheapest way of doing it is probably through
Maple Leaf Foods,” said Michael Palmer, a Toronto-based analyst
at Veritas Investment Research. “They just spent a few hundred
million modernizing their plant, which would also make them more
competitive.”  Maple Leaf may be attractive to Austin, Minnesota-based
 Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL) , the maker of Spam lunch meat, because the
two companies have similar business models and products, Palmer
said in a June 20 interview.  Smithfield, the world’s largest hog producer, itself bid
for Maple Leaf before agreeing to the $4.7 billion Shuanghui
deal, according to a person familiar with the situation.
Smithfield disclosed in a June 18 proxy filing it bid for a
large packaged-meat business without naming the target.
 Thailand ’s  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF)  and  Brazil ’s JBS SA both
considered buying Smithfield, people familiar with the matter
told Bloomberg News last month.  Middle Class  Companies such as Shuanghui are searching for supply and
technological expertise to feed growing middle classes in
 emerging markets . Annual global protein consumption is expected
to increase to 52 kilograms (115 pounds) per capita by 2030 from
40 kilograms, according to a report from Bloomberg Industries.
 China ’s food industry has been plagued by scandals from the
illegal dumping of hogs in rivers to tainted milk.  “Chinese food companies need to go outside to learn
advanced technology and experiences on food safety,” Shuanghui
Chairman Wan Long said in an May 31 e-mail in response to
questions from Bloomberg regarding the company’s acquisition of
U.S.-based Smithfield Foods.  ‘The Excitement’  Smithfield Foods declined to comment on whether the company
made a bid for Maple Leaf, Keira Lombardo, a spokeswoman for the
Smithfield, Virginia-based company, said in a June 24 e-mail.
 JBS SA (JBSS3)  also declined to comment, Alexandre Inacio, a spokesman
for the company, said in a June 26 e-mail. Rick Williamson, a
Hormel spokesman, didn’t return a voicemail yesterday seeking
comment while Bangkok-based Charoen didn’t respond yesterday to
an e-mail outside regular business hours.  “The excitement near-term is driven by the Chinese bid for
Smithfield Foods which highlights the demand in Asia for
protein,” Brian Huen, Toronto-based managing partner at Red Sky
Capital Management Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “In the
longer term though, it’s a transformation and restructuring
story and my math suggests if they’re able to get it right, the
stock could be materially higher from here. It will take time.
It’s a 2015 story.” Huen doesn’t own Maple Leaf shares.  Maple Leaf rose 0.9 percent to C$14.45 at the close in
Toronto.  The shares  have gained 21 percent this year.  Plant Overhaul  The company planned to close eight plants and cut 1,550
jobs by 2014 while modernizing and expanding other Canadian
facilities in Winnipeg, Saskatoon and Brampton as part of a
five-year overhaul that began in 2010.  Construction is on schedule for “one of the most advanced
prepared meats facility in North America,” in Hamilton,
Ontario, Maple Leaf said in a June 20 statement. It will also
open a new eastern Canada distribution center in 2014,
consolidating operations from 19 company-owned and third-party
facilities.  Chief Executive Officer Michael McCain, part of the family
that owns Florenceville, New Brunswick-based french-fry producer
McCain Foods Ltd, has been remaking Maple Leaf after 23 people
died and 34 others were poisoned by contamination by listeriosis
in 2008 from meat processed at a Toronto plant.  McCain, the biggest shareholder in Maple Leaf with a 33
percent stake according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg, declined
to comment on whether the company may be a takeover target, Dave
Bauer, a Maple Leaf spokesman, said in a June 21 phone
interview.  Lunch Meats  Greg Boland, CEO of Toronto-based hedge fund West Face
Capital Inc., accelerated Maple Leaf’s overhaul after winning a
board seat at the company in 2011. West Face now owns 11 percent
of Maple Leaf. Boland didn’t return calls for comment on the
possibility the company is an acquisition target.  Maple Leaf’s strategy is focused on boosting profitability
and cutting expenses to reach a target earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization margin of 11.7 percent by
2015 from 7.9 percent in 2012, according to the June 20
statement.  The company is expected to increase profits by cutting 800
products while adding others in competitive markets, like
gluten-free bakery items and natural lunch meats, Kenneth Zaslow, a New-York-based analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in
June 24 note.  Productivity Gap  Maple Leaf should post a rebound in margins in the second
half of 2013, even after challenges like lower export sales to
Japan, weak pork and poultry processing margins, and increased
exposure to the challenging hog market from its acquisition of
Puratone Corp., said Christine Healy, a Toronto-based
agricultural analyst at Scotia Capital Inc.  Healy raised her one-year target for Maple Leaf shares to
C$15 from C$13.50 amid “increased confidence in Maple Leaf’s
ability to close the productivity gap with peers and improve
margins.” She currently rates Maple Leaf at sector perform, the
equivalent of a  hold .  Maple Leaf is expected to generate more than $400 million
in cash from operations following its restructuring plan, while
its capital expenditure is expected to drop to $200 million from
$350 million in 2015, according to Zaslow.  “Despite its well-defined strategy, MFI’s earnings remain
pressured by severe challenges,” including higher pork input
costs, uncertain volume outlook, limited fresh bread category
growth, and uneven and unpredictable transformation startup
costs, Zaslow said in a note to clients.  Earnings Leverage  Meat products, which include the company’s Schneiders and
Maple Leaf brands, accounted for 62 percent of its revenue last
year, the data show. Bakery products, which also include
packaged fresh pastas and sauces, represented 33 percent, and
sales from Maple Leaf’s rendering, biodiesel and hog production
unit made up the remaining 6 percent.  The restructuring plan could make the company more
attractive to buyers in a few years’ time, said Derek Dley, a
Vancouver-based analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp.  “On the other side of 2015, we could see substantial
earnings leverage coming out of the company,” Dley said. “We
may not see those returns this year, but it’s something long
term that the company is focused on, that is what makes Maple
Leaf more attractive.”  Still, Maple Leaf’s shift in focus to value-added
processing from primary manufacturing probably means it isn’t a
target at the moment, Dley said. Strong competition in the
Canadian market may also deter potential buyers, he said.  Mostly Chicken  There have been 13 deals of North American food companies
bigger than $100 million announced this year, with a total value
of about $46 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The average premium was about 29 percent and the biggest deal
was the $28 billion acquisition of HJ Heinz Co. by 3G Capital
Inc. and  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  There were 14
deals valued at about $22 billion in the same period of last
year, with an average premium of about 22 percent, the data
show.  “There’s JBS, there was always Smithfield, but they’re
dealing with the issue of being bought by the Chinese company,
there’s always Tyson Foods, they’re mostly just chicken,” said
Brian Yarbrough, a St.Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones, on
the topic of potential deals.  Gary Mickelson, a spokesman for  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , said the
company doesn’t comment on potential acquisitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  