-- Apple Can’t Add Galaxy S4 to Samsung Patent Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/apple-can-t-add-galaxy-s4-to-samsung-patent-lawsuit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost its bid in a lawsuit
to add  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.’s Galaxy S4 smartphone to a list
of products it alleges to infringe its patents.  The decision yesterday by U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal is part of a second patent case in  San Jose ,  California ,
between the companies covering technology in newer smartphones,
including Apple’s iPhone 5 and Samsung’s Galaxy S III.  Adding another product to the case is a “tax on the
court’s resources,” Grewal said in the ruling. “Each time
these parties appear in the courtroom, they consume considerable
amounts of the court’s time and energy, which takes time way
from other parties who also require and are entitled to the
court’s attention.”  In an earlier case, a jury awarded Cupertino, California-based Apple $1.05 billion in damages, finding Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung infringed six of the iPhone maker’s mobile-device patents. U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, correcting what
she said was the jury’s error, lowered the damages total to
$639.4 million and ordered a new damages trial in November for
some of the products at issue in that case.  Josh Krevitt, a lawyer for Apple, told Grewal that
excluding the Galaxy S4 “would require Apple to file a new
lawsuit” because the Samsung products covered by the case will
be out of date by trial next year.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the ruling.  The earlier case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-1846, and the second case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 12-cv-630, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  