-- Buffett Adds $1.75 Billion in Hartford Annuity Deal
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-27T20:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/hartford-to-sell-u-k-variable-annuity-business-to-berkshire-1-.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to take on  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG) ’s U.K. variable-annuity business, adding
$1.75 billion in assets under management.  Berkshire will pay $285 million in cash for Hartford Life
International Ltd., which sold the annuities from 2005 to 2009,
according to a statement today from Hartford, which is based in
the Connecticut city of the same name. The deal will cut second-quarter earnings by about $110 million, Hartford said.  Buffett, 82, has assumed obligation from insurers seeking
to cut risk or narrow their focus. In February, Cigna Corp.
agreed to give the Omaha, Nebraska-based company $2.2 billion to
take on liabilities tied to retirement products. The deals add
risks from market fluctuation and give Buffett funds to invest.  “We are always ready to trade increased volatility in
reported earnings in the short run for greater gains in net
worth in the long run,” Buffett said in a 2008  letter ,
referring to the company’s strategies in catastrophe insurance
businesses and derivatives.  Hartford Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee, 58, has sold a
life insurer to Prudential Financial Inc. and divested a broker-dealer as he  focuses  on property-casualty coverage. He’s used
hedges to guard against currency fluctuations and stock-market
declines on annuities issued in prior years after the company
retreated from the market. The insurer said yesterday it would
boost its plan for buybacks and lift its  dividend  by 50 percent.  McGee’s company climbed 4.1 percent to $31.23 at 4:03 p.m.,
the biggest gain since April. Hartford has rallied 39 percent
this year. Berkshire was little changed and is up about 26
percent since Dec. 31.  ‘Meaningful Step’  Hartford has made “significant progress” reducing the
size of its variable-annuity business unit, which is “now self-sufficient from a capital perspective,” Chief Financial Officer
Christopher Swift said in the statement. “Selling the U.K.
business is another meaningful step forward.”  The $285 million price is about the same as the unit’s
statutory surplus, a measure of assets minus liabilities, as
calculated under Irish accounting standards, Hartford said. The
Hartford Life Ltd. unit is based in Dublin.  Variable annuities can guarantee minimum returns for
clients, and results from the products have been pressured by
stock-market volatility and low interest rates. Leon Black’s
Apollo Global Management LLC and Guggenheim Partners LLC are
among firms betting they can make a windfall on annuities as
insurers scale back after being burned on the contracts.  ‘Very Pricey’  Offloading liabilities to Berkshire, where Ajit Jain helps
Buffett weigh insurance deals, can be expensive,  MetLife Inc. (MET) 
has said. MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, is researching
options to cut risks tied to retirement contracts sold before
the financial crisis, even as it continues to sell annuities.  “To our knowledge, there’s only one major player who has a
balance sheet large enough to offer variable-annuity
reinsurance, but it’s very pricey,” John Hele, MetLife’s chief
financial officer, said at a May 21 presentation to investors.
“Warren and Ajit do very high returns on their side, so it
really doesn’t make economical sense, from what we’ve seen.”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was Hartford’s financial adviser, and
Sidley Austin LLP provided legal advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  