-- Asian Stock Futures Advance on Signs U.S. Economy Improving
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-06-27T23:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/asian-stock-futures-advance-on-signs-u-s-economy-improving.html
Asian stock futures rose, indicating
the regional benchmark gauge will pare a second month of losses,
after signs the  U.S. economy  is improving and amid assurances on
stimulus efforts from the  Federal Reserve .  American Depositary Receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker, advanced 1.5 percent as the yen fell
against the dollar, boosting the earnings outlook for Japanese
exporters. ADRs of Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil
producer, gained 0.3 percent from the close in Hong Kong and
those of Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s second-largest oil
producer, added 0.8 percent as crude climbed for a fourth day.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 13,395 in Chicago, up from 13,270 at the
close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 13,370
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index advanced 0.5 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.5 percent. Futures on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index gained
0.7 percent. Today is the final trading day of the quarter.  “The Fed has moved to soothe markets and that has leveled
things out,” James Lindsay, who helps oversee about $23 billion
as a  fund manager  in Auckland at Tyndall Investment Management
Ltd., said by telephone. “There’s been some relatively OK
economic data, too, so that helps.  Emerging markets  and Asian
markets will do pretty well. China trying to stabilize  interest
rates  is also a driver.”  Global equities have lost more than $3 trillion this month
as the Fed said it may pare bond purchases and investors
speculated that rising Chinese funding costs will curb growth in
Asia’s largest economy.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  were little
changed. The gauge yesterday advanced 0.6 percent, completing
its biggest three-day rally since January.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. rebounded in May following
the largest drop in more than three years. Household purchases,
which account for about 70 percent of the economy, rose 0.3
percent after a 0.3 percent decline the prior month, Commerce
Department figures showed yesterday in Washington. Incomes
advanced 0.5 percent, more than projected.  More Americans signed contracts in May to buy previously
owned homes than at any time in more than six years. Claims for
 unemployment benefits  decreased by 9,000 to 346,000 last week,
indicating employers are slowing the pace of firings.  Fed Stimulus  Fed Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said in
New York yesterday that the central bank may prolong its asset-purchase program if the economy’s performance fails to meet its
forecasts. Fed Governor Jerome Powell said in Washington that
asset purchases may be scaled back later this year if growth
holds up, and any such trimming depends on economic data rather
than the calendar.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, fell 4.9 percent in June through yesterday and
is down 5.4 percent this quarter. The measure has declined 0.9
percent in 2013.  That left the gauge trading at 12.5 times average estimated
earnings compared with 14.6 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 12.7 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures contracts on the Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index
of mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong advanced 1.2
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 1.2 percent in New York
yesterday.  The yen fell 0.2 percent to 98.50 per dollar as of 8:07
a.m. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien in New York at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  