-- Aspen Pharmacare Agrees to Buy Merck Manufacturing Unit
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-06-27T20:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/aspen-pharmacare-to-buy-manufacturing-facilities-for-1-billion.html
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN) ,
Africa’s largest drugmaker, agreed to buy a pharmaceutical
manufacturing unit from  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and took an option to
purchase a products unit in a deal worth about $1 billion.  “The active pharmaceutical ingredients are hard to source
or replicate, and this allows us strong pipelines,” Aspen Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Saad said in a phone interview from
the Netherlands today. “With the products bought, this should
help accelerate our growth in  emerging markets , especially Latin
America and Asia Pacific.”  The products business consists of 11 branded finished
dosage form molecules, covering therapeutic treatments such as
hormone replacement therapy, oral contraception, anti-coagulant
and vitamin B, Durban, South Africa-based Aspen said in a
statement.  The deal brings Aspen more than 6 billion rand ($602
million) in annual sales, including $260 million from the
products unit and 280 million euros from the pharmaceutical
company, Saad said. The drugs unit is based in the Netherlands
and has a satellite office in the U.S., where Merck is based.  The sale is the biggest divestiture by Merck since 2009,
when the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based company sold its
stake in animal health unit Merial to partner Sanofi for $4
billion. Drugmakers including Pfizer Inc. and Abbott
Laboratories also have shed non-core units to focus more on
inventing new, brand-name drugs.  Strategic Relationship  Merck will continue to buy active pharmaceutical
ingredients from Aspen under a 10-year supply contract. “I hope
it’s the start of a broader strategic relationship,” Saad said.  Funding for the purchase is “all in place” and the money
will come from new debt facilities, sourced in  South Africa  and
abroad, he said. Deferred payments will be taken from the
company’s cash and no equity will be used, Saad said.  Merck gained 1.3 percent to $47.28 at 4 p.m.  New York  time.
Aspen’s shares rose 6.1 percent to 210.14 rand in Johannesburg.
The stock has gained 24 percent this year.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  received an offer from Aspen for
branded heart medicines Arixtra and Fraxiparine and a related
manufacturing site on June 18. In April Aspen agreed to buy
licenses to sell  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s infant formula in Australia and
southern African countries for $215 million.  The Merck transaction is subject to the approval of
antitrust authorities and the Financial Surveillance Department
of the South African Reserve Bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  