-- Aussie Gains for Fifth Day on Fed Stimulus Bets, Rudd Victory
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-06-27T06:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/aussie-holds-four-day-gain-on-fed-stimulus-bets-rudd-victory.html
Australia’s dollar rose for a fifth
day before Federal  Reserve Bank  of  New York  President William C.
Dudley speaks today as investors weigh whether the  U.S. economy 
is robust enough for the Fed to reduce stimulus.  The Aussie gained against all but one of its major peers as
 Kevin Rudd  was sworn in as Australia’s prime minister after
winning the leadership ballot for the nation’s ruling  Labor
party  over  Julia Gillard  yesterday. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar
rose after business confidence increased to the highest since
February 2010.  “We expect Dudley to sing from the same songbook as some
other Fed speakers this week to dampen the market’s reaction to
Fed tapering,” said  Andrew Salter , a currency strategist at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Sydney. “The
markets are positioned very, very short the Australian dollar
and very, very long the  U.S. dollar , so the news flow out of the
U.S. has to continue being positive to support that.” A short
position is a bet an asset will decline in value.  The Australian dollar rose 0.5 percent to 93.20 U.S. cents
as of 4:46 p.m. in Sydney, after having gained 0.9 percent in
the past four sessions. It has lost 2.6 percent this month.  Technical indicators suggest the Australian dollar’s 11
percent decline against the greenback so far this quarter, the
most among the 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, has
been too rapid, and is poised for a reversal. The Aussie pushed
through the lower limit of an indicator known as the Bollinger
band in the past week that analysts use to help identify the
turning point in an asset’s trajectory.  Too Optimistic  Dudley, who has a permanent vote on the Fed panel, said on
June 23 the central bank has been too optimistic about the
economy in the past.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled on June 19 the U.S.
central bank may “moderate” its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases, known as quantitative easing, later this year and end
it mid-2014 if economic improvement continues.  The core personal-consumption-expenditure price index, the
preferred measure of inflation for the Fed, probably climbed 1.1
percent in the 12 months through May, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
data. That would match the smallest increase since records began
in 1960.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.8 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter, lower than a prior reading
of 2.4 percent, Commerce Department data showed yesterday.  ‘Sluggish Growth’  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said yesterday in a
Bloomberg Television interview he expects “a couple more years
of sluggish growth” and that the central bank isn’t close to
reducing its bond holdings.  In Australia, Rudd won yesterday’s leadership ballot as the
ruling party seeks to revive its fortunes ahead of an election
that opinion polls show it will lose in a landslide.  The leadership change “has the potential to bring the
election forward, which would be a positive for the economy in
terms of sentiment,” said Hans Kunnen, chief economist in
Sydney at St. George Bank Ltd.  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year government bond fell two
basis points to 3.82 percent. The benchmark rate reached 4.04
percent on June 24, the highest since April 2012. The three-year
rate dropped seven basis points to 2.82 percent today.  In  New Zealand , a net 50.1 percent of companies polled
expect the economy will improve in the next 12 months, up from
41.8 percent in May, ANZ said in an e-mailed report today. The
net figures subtract pessimists from optimists.  Housing Boom  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Deputy Governor Grant Spencer
said it isn’t appropriate to raise  interest rates  at the moment
and the central bank is “seriously considering” using other
tools to curb a housing-market boom.  Policy makers are “well aware that any official cash rate
increases at this time would likely put unwanted pressure on the
 exchange rate ,” Spencer said in a speech in Wellington today.  The central bank bought a net NZ$90 million ($70.6 million)
in May, according to figures disclosed in its website today. Its
intervention capacity rose to NZ$8.83 billion last month, from
NZ$8.48 billion in April, the data show.  New Zealand’s dollar climbed 0.6 percent to 78.41 U.S.
cents from yesterday, when it gained 0.6 percent. For the month,
the kiwi slid 1.4 percent against the greenback.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive a floating rate, rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  