-- Bank of America Said to Send Property Reviews to India
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-06-28T20:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/bank-of-america-said-to-send-property-reviews-to-india.html
Bank of America Corp.  opened a unit
in  India  to review home-valuation reports as it seeks to rebuild
share in U.S. mortgages at a lower cost, said four people with
knowledge of the move.  Workers in the new Bangalore office follow checklists to
determine if appraisals are complete, said the people, who
requested anonymity because they weren’t authorized to comment.
The firm also eliminated jobs of licensed  U.S. workers  in its
LandSafe business, the appraisal division of the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based company, which made $78.7 billion in loans
last year, the people said.  “One of the biggest problems in the mortgage business is
all the paperwork involved, and how do you engineer it to reduce
the bottlenecks,” said Bert Ely, an independent banking
consultant in Alexandria, Virginia. “With offshoring, the
potential for problems is always there, but it’s hard to be
critical for trying to minimize costs.”  Lenders around the world have vowed to boost revenue and
curb spending to make up for sluggish loan growth and new
regulations. Bank of America, which spent more than $45 billion
to settle disputes tied to defective mortgages and foreclosures,
is among the most aggressive cost-cutters with Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  planning to save $8 billion a year.
The firm slipped from being the biggest U.S. mortgage lender in
2008 to fourth last year.  Other firms have added staff in lower-cost cities. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., the New York-based investment bank, saw
 headcount  in places including Bangalore and  Salt Lake City 
almost double since 2007 to 22 percent of employees, CEO  Lloyd Blankfein  said in November.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said today it planned
to move 4,000 more jobs overseas and to lower cost locations by
2015 to save as much as 250 million pounds ($381 million).  Staff Cuts  LandSafe has more than 2,000 associates in the U.S.,
according to the Plano, Texas-based firm’s website. In addition
to appraisals tied to new home loans, it also conducts
valuations on Bank of America’s portfolio of delinquent loans,
of which the company had 667,000 on March 31. In February, the
lender cut about 5 percent of LandSafe employees, saying they
weren’t needed as  overdue loans  fell.  Licensed reviewers, who check the accuracy of appraisal
valuations and can earn more than $100,000 a year, were among
those who lost their jobs, the people said.  Bank of America’s program prevents paperwork errors from
delaying loan applications, said  Terry Francisco , a spokesman
for the second-biggest lender by assets. The overseas
completeness checks, begun in August, don’t replace in-depth
reviews done by licensed U.S. staff, he said.  Overall Consideration  “The overall consideration isn’t necessarily cost,
although cost can be an element,” Francisco said. “What we’re
looking for is if there are patterns in certain areas where it
looks like the reviews aren’t necessarily needed anymore.”  The U.S.-based reviewers, who typically had at least five
years of experience as appraisers, are required to confirm
accuracy by doing independent assessments that conform to
industry  standards , the people said. The checklists in India
cover 17 items such as whether the appraiser remembered to sign
the report and include photographs of rooms, according to a copy
obtained by Bloomberg.  Relying more on checklists may increase the odds of
defective reports going undetected, said Karen Mann, a Discovery
Bay, California-based appraiser who testified for the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission’s 2011  report . The FCIC examined the
causes of the housing bubble and subsequent 2008 credit crunch.  Knowing Shortcuts  “Experienced, licensed appraisers know the shortcuts
people take, so those reviewers can be invaluable,” Mann said.
“With the checkboxes, they’re looking for things that don’t
really have anything to do with values.”  LandSafe workers complained last year about the decline in
review work and its impact on their pay and job security, said a
person with direct knowledge of the internal discussions. In
response, LandSafe executive Tracy Sanderson said management
couldn’t increase the number of reviews because of the expense,
the person said. Sanderson didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Bank of America was forced to pay the most of any U.S.
lender to put the housing mess behind it after Moynihan’s
processor  Kenneth D. Lewis  bought Countrywide Financial Corp. in
2008. The firm has finished paying the “lion’s share” of costs
tied to faulty mortgages, Moynihan said in March.  Under Moynihan, 53, the firm pulled back as it struggled to
fend off regulators and lawsuits. The company made $78.7 billion
in home loans last year, or about 4 percent of the market,
compared with $315 billion in 2008, when it had more than 20
percent, according to newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance.  Building Back  “We’ve been building that back up, and expect to be in the
5 percent area as we exit the second quarter,” Chief Financial
Officer  Bruce Thompson  told analysts on June 11, adding that he
expected market share would continue to rise. San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is ranked first, creating almost 1 in 3
U.S. mortgages last year.  Lenders are under pressure to reduce costs because demand
for refinancings, the biggest source of volume for the firms, is
falling amid surging  mortgage rates . The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan rose to 4.46 percent from 3.93 percent, the
biggest one-week increase since 1987, McLean, Virginia-based
 Freddie Mac  said yesterday in a statement.  Bank of America, which doesn’t disclose how many workers
are outside the U.S., had 262,812  employees  as of March 30, or
5.7 percent fewer than a year earlier. Its shares fell 1.2
percent at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  to $12.86 paring the gain in
the past 12 months to 66 percent. The bank has plunged from a
closing high of $54.90 in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  