-- Banks Sweeten Structured Note Terms as Rates, Volatility Surge
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-06-27T17:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/banks-sweeten-structured-note-terms-as-rates-volatility-surge.html
Banks from Morgan Stanley to  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  are offering higher than advertised rates on
structured notes and market-linked certificates of deposit this
month after Treasury  yields  and stock market volatility surged.  A wide range of U.S. securities may be affected, from those
where the return depends on how equities perform to others where
investors receive a coupon that floats above an interest rate
benchmark.  Issuers may be under pressure to sweeten terms because
falling market prices often make notes less valuable. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped almost 4 percent in two days
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced on June
19 that the central bank may begin reducing its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases intended to prop up the  U.S. economy .  “If the market conditions change, people sometimes make
updates to their offering,” Serge Troyanovsky, managing
director and head of retail distribution in  North America  at BNP
Paribas in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “In our
case, the change in interest rates allowed us to offer better
terms, and that’s what we did.”  Its Bank of the West unit increased the potential coupon on
two market-linked CDs, he said. One offering, a seven-year CD
sold June 24, initially yielded as much as 5.25 percent if a
basket of five stocks stays above its starting value, according
to an offering document. The bank increased the maximum  interest
rate  to 5.5 percent, Troyanovsky said.  Volatility Soars  Issuers of structured notes registered with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission typically file an initial
offering document, used in marketing, that includes either an
estimated number or range for such terms as the return and
amount of protection against losses. The final figures can
change because the value of the securities depends on factors
such as interest rates and volatility.  Price swings for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as
measured by the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index,
or the  VIX (VIX) , rose on June 20 to 20.49, the highest this year,
while 10-year Treasuries rose to 2.608 percent on June 25, the
highest level since August 2011.  “We’ve been trying to price some notes for the last four
days, and every day we’ve waited, the numbers have gotten a
little bit better” for buyers, Justin Capetola, managing
partner at Blue Bell Private Wealth Management LLC, said in a
telephone interview from his office in Blue Bell,  Pennsylvania ,
on June 24.  Rates Jump  Jim Kaiser, president of FMG Distributors Inc., said the
jump in Treasury rates was seen by most people as “a knee-jerk
reaction.” The 10-year Treasury note’s yield jumped to 2.53
percent on June 21, a surge of more than a third of a percentage
point from June 18.  “We thought they’d just as quickly go down and settle
somewhere, and they really haven’t,” said Kaiser, whose
securities brokerage is based in Norwalk,  Connecticut .  Morgan Stanley, the biggest U.S. structured note issuer by
sales, increased the maximum interest rate to 7.25 percent from
7.1 percent on a 15-year  note  tied to the lesser performing of
the Euro Stoxx 50 Index and the Russell 2000 Index, he said.  Lauren Bellmare, a spokeswoman for  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in New
York, declined to comment.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  