-- Mandiri Sees Slower Lending as Interest Rates Rise
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-06-28T05:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/bank-mandiri-sees-slower-lending-as-higher-rates-crimp-margins.html
PT Bank Mandiri,  Indonesia ’s largest
lender by assets, said profit and loan growth will be hurt by
higher  interest rates  and fuel prices, foreshadowing the
economic impact from this month’s policy tightening.  Lending may rise 19.5 percent to 20 percent in 2013, from
an earlier target of about 20 percent to 22 percent, President
Director Budi Gunadi Sadikin told reporters in Jakarta today.
The bank is lowering its 2013 profit target by 400 billion to
500 billion rupiah ($40 million to $50 million) because of the
higher cost of funds and plans to increase provisioning, he said,
without specifying the type of profit he was referring to. The
company hasn’t released a full-year net income target.  Indonesia raised domestic fuel prices this month for the
first time since 2008 to cut subsidy costs and stem energy
imports that have hurt the rupiah, while the central bank raised
its benchmark rate for the first time since 2011 to contain
inflation expectations. The measures may pose a further drag on
growth, already forecast by the central bank at as little as 5.9
percent this quarter as regional expansion slows.  “Banks can’t avoid raising rates and we know that with the
current conditions our consumers’ ability to pay debt may
decline,” Sadikin said. “That’s why we need to be conservative
by adding provisions to anticipate higher non-performing loans,
while lending demand may decline.”  Bank Mandiri plans to raise lending rates to some customers
next month, Sadikin said. The bank expects a “slight” margin
squeeze, he said, after  Bank Indonesia  raised the reference rate
by a quarter of a percentage point to 6 percent this month.  Growth Forecast  Growth in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy will be at the
lower end of a 5.9 percent-to-6.1 percent forecast range in the
second quarter, Bank Indonesia Governor Agus Martowardojo said
in a speech in Jakarta today. Gross domestic product rose 6.02
percent in the January-March period from a year earlier, the
10th consecutive quarter that growth exceeded 6 percent.  Indonesia needs lending growth of 20 percent to 21 percent
to meet its GDP estimate for this year, central bank Deputy
Governor Halim Alamsyah said in Jakarta today. The authority cut
its 2013 economic expansion forecast in April to between 6.2
percent and 6.6 percent from the previous estimate of 6.3
percent to 6.8 percent, citing the drag on exports caused by the
recession in  Europe .  The current-account deficit will probably widen this
quarter from the previous three months on lower-than-expected
non-oil exports, Martowardojo said.  The inflationary impact from the fuel-price increase will
be temporary and inflation will return to levels prior to the
price adjustment in the first quarter of 2014, Martowardojo said.
Consumer price gains can meet the government’s 7.2 percent 2013
target if transport and food costs are well-managed, he said.  “After the government increased fuel prices, we foresee
that the  reference rate  may rise 50 to 75 basis points this year
to manage inflation, which may accelerate above 7 percent,”
Sadikin said. “But we do believe that our economy is stronger
than in 2008 when the government also increased fuel prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  