-- Biggest Pension Gap Fails to Deter Illinois Buyers: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-27T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/biggest-pension-gap-fails-to-deter-illinois-buyers-muni-credit.html
Illinois  had to turn away buyers
from a $1.3 billion sale of general-obligation bonds even after
lawmakers failed twice in the past month to fix the nation’s
weakest state pension system.  The fifth-most-populous state lowered yields from initial
levels after receiving more than $9 billion in bids, said
Democratic Governor Pat Quinn. After the $3.7 trillion municipal
market lost about 5 percent this month in the biggest decline
since 2008, investors saw a buying opportunity, said Dan Toboja
at Ziegler Capital Markets.  “People were keeping their powder dry for Illinois,” said
Toboja, vice president of muni trading at the Chicago-based
broker. The state “got lucky with timing,” he said.  Illinois’s issue yesterday came at a cost: Uninsured debt
due in July 2023 was priced to yield 4.46 percent, or 1.53
percentage points more than benchmark munis, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That penalty is up 19 percent from an issue of
tax-free debt in April. Quinn said legislative inaction on
pension bills in sessions on May 31 and June 19 added
$130 million to borrowing costs.  Payment Confidence  Investors can have confidence that the lowest-rated U.S.
state won’t default for the first time since the 1840s, said
Marc Joffe, principal consultant at San Francisco-based Public
Sector Credit Solutions.  The probability of default is zero “under any plausible
budget scenario,” according to a report released yesterday by
Joffe, whose firm provides data and analysis related to
municipal securities.  Buyers still require a larger yield cushion to lend to
Illinois as lawmakers have let the state’s unfunded pension
liabilities swell to $97 billion. The funding level of 43
percent is the worst among U.S. states, Bloomberg data show.
Illinois also faces a backlog of $6 billion in unpaid bills.  After lawmakers left Springfield, the capital, May 31
without passing a pension fix, Fitch dropped Illinois on June 3
to A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade. Three days later
Moody’s cut it to A3, the equivalent rank.  Standard & Poor’s  has
the state at the same level.  Session Failure  Quinn, 64, called a special session for June 19 following
the Moody’s cut. No pension measures passed. The governor has
called a special session to deal with pensions -- the third in
less than a year -- for July 9.  “Legislative inertia has a price,” the governor said in a
statement. “As I’ve warned repeatedly, this is an emergency.”  A legislative conference committee is scheduled to hold its
first public hearing today in  Chicago  to fashion a compromise
pension bill. State Senator Kwame Raoul, the panel’s chairman,
said in a statement that “the final product won’t be anyone’s
ideal outcome.”  Investors have also penalized Illinois bonds in the
secondary market.  The extra yield on taxable Illinois pension debt maturing
in June 2033 relative to Treasuries has risen 0.54 percentage
point this month, Bloomberg data show. That’s the biggest
increase since August 2011.  Enticing Yield  The biggest portion of Illinois’s sale was $260 million of
uninsured bonds maturing in July 2038. The debt was priced at a
yield of 5.65 percent, equivalent to a 9.4 percent taxable yield
for buyers in the highest federal income-tax bracket.  “There was plenty of enticement in terms of yield for
those who were willing to take the risk,” said  Richard Ciccarone , chief research officer at  Oak Brook , Illinois-based
McDonnell Investment Management LLC, which oversees $8 billion
in munis. “These don’t happen very often, where you’re that
wide on a state G.O. to the rest of the marketplace.”  Proceeds from the sale will go toward projects such as
rebuilding the Chicago Transit Authority’s Red Line train. Some
segments of the sale were backed by  Assured Guaranty Municipal
Corp. (AGO)   Los Angeles  joined Illinois in selling yesterday. The city
issued $1.3 billion of notes maturing within a year, according
to a press release from the city administrative officer.  Even though 71 deals this week are listed as day-to-day,
states and cities are still poised to sell about $8.6 billion of
long-term debt, the most since April, Bloomberg  data  show.  Illinois’s sale came as 10-year AAA munis yield 2.93
percent, close to the highest since April 2011. The  interest
rate  compares with  2.54 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 115 percent, the highest since July. The greater the
figure, the cheaper munis are compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  