-- BlackBerry Short Interest Climbs to Record Before Results
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-27T20:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/blackberry-short-interest-climbs-to-record-on-eve-of-earnings.html
Bets against  BlackBerry (BBRY)  reached a
record high as the Canadian smartphone maker prepares to report
quarterly results tomorrow and give investors a clearer picture
of how its new BlackBerry 10 devices are selling.  The combined  short interest  in market value of BlackBerry
shares in New York and Toronto reached 33 percent of the market
value on June 20, according to data compiled by Markit, a
financial-services firm. Investors taking short positions bet
against a stock by borrowing shares they expect to fall, aiming
to profit by repaying the borrowed equities at a lower price.  Tomorrow’s results will include the first full quarter in
which the new touch-screen Z10 has been on sale, giving
investors an important indicator of whether BlackBerry’s
recovery and bid to claw back market share against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and Samsung Electronics Co. is on track.  The Waterloo, Ontario-based company’s share of the global
smartphone market shrank to 2.9 percent last quarter from 6.4
percent a year earlier, according to research firm IDC. Apple’s
iOS platform, combined with Google Inc.’s Android operating
system, which is used by Samsung, accounted for 92 percent of
the market in that period.  BlackBerry sales probably climbed 20 percent to $3.37
billion in fiscal first quarter from a year earlier, according
to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the
first year-on-year gain in eight quarters. BlackBerry is
predicted to report earnings of 8 cents a share excluding one-time items, compared with a loss of 37 cents a year earlier.  BlackBerry fell 2.9 percent to $14.48 at the close in  New
York , snapping three straight days of gains. The stock has
climbed 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  