-- BlackRock Sees Alberta Bond Sales on Flood Repairs
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/blackrock-sees-alberta-bond-sales-on-flood-repairs.html
Alberta will probably sell bonds to
pay for rebuilding of roads and bridges damaged by the worst
flooding in more than a century, according to investors
including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager.  Alberta’s government has committed C$1 billion ($955
million) so far to pay for relief from floods that overtook
Calgary and other communities last week. Toronto-Dominion Bank
and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  put initial damage estimates at as much as
C$5 billion.  “I think the preference would be to go to the markets to
fund it,” said Aubrey Basdeo, who oversees Canadian fixed
income including Alberta bonds at the Toronto unit of BlackRock.
“All we know at the moment is they’ve committed to spend C$1
billion,” he said yesterday in a phone interview, forecasting
 government spending  on repairs will rise.  Ratings companies may review their outlooks for Alberta if
the most “pessimistic” forecasts for destruction are accurate,
Jean-Francois Godin, vice-president of fixed income at
Desjardins Securities Inc. in  Montreal , said in a note
yesterday. Alberta, with C$17.9 billion of bonds outstanding, is
the only province with a stable, triple-A rating from all
agencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Alberta government will consider tapping debt markets
as it rebuilds from the flooding, though the first relief money
will come from cash reserves, Doug Horner, the provincial
finance minister, said in a phone interview yesterday. Spending
will increase from the initial C$1 billion “down payment” to
fix infrastructure such as sewage treatment plants, he said.  No Downgrade  “I feel comfortable and confident right now that our
rating is not going to be downgraded because of our capital
we’re going to have to put out,” Horner said. He predicted the
federal government may cover more than half of the total costs.  Alberta, home to the world’s third-largest crude reserves
in the  oil sands , announced plans in March to sell C$7.34
billion in debt in the fiscal year that began April 1, a 23
percent increase in issuance and the most in nominal terms since
1986, according to finance ministry data. Plunging oil and gas
revenue is pushing the province toward its sixth straight
deficit.  With the additional costs of flood relief and uncertainty
about the total damage, the province is “not focusing on”
meeting deficit-reduction targets, Horner said. The government
had planned shortfalls of around C$2 billion this fiscal year
and a surplus of about C$500 million in 2014-15.  Alberta bonds probably won’t suffer from the increased
spending or issuance triggered by the flooding,  Grant Williams ,
head of Canadian  government finance  at Bank of Montreal’s BMO
Capital Markets unit, said in a phone interview from Toronto
yesterday.  “The flood is a one-off thing and there will be some
expenses associated with that and some one-off borrowings or
increases in debt,” Williams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  