-- BlackRock Says Fed Tapering Isn’t Armageddon for Economy
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-27T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/blackrock-says-fed-tapering-isn-t-armageddon-for-economy.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, said the U.S. Federal Reserve would help the
economy by ending its bond buying program.  “A reduction in the Fed’s asset purchases is not
Armageddon -- it is actually healthy,” the New York-based firm
said today a midyear outlook titled “Exit, Entry and
Overshoot.” “Trillions of dollars of stimulus have failed to
spur much credit growth and economic activity. Money market
multipliers across the world have essentially collapsed.”  The Fed has been buying $85 billion of U.S. government debt
and mortgage securities every month to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs in the third round of its quantitative-easing
strategy. The purchase programs, which began in 2008, have
lifted the central bank’s assets to $3.5 trillion from less than
$1 trillion five years ago. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
week that policy makers may start phasing out the stimulus later
this year if the economy grows in line with their projections.  The job market appears better than it is because many
workers have stopped looking for employment and the housing
recovery is still fragile as first-time home buyers remain gun
shy and have difficulty getting credit, BlackRock said in the
presentation.  The nation’s jobless rate in May was  7.6 percent , according
to government data, compared with the 11.5 percent it would have
been had the labor participation rate stayed where it was before
the 2008 financial crisis, BlackRock said.  The Fed has to start reducing bond purchases because it’s
running out of securities to buy with the U.S. government
issuing less debt, according to the report.  “An eventual halt in Fed bond buying does not necessarily
equal a 1994-style bond market rout,” said BlackRock, which
manages $3.94 trillion in assets. “Given a mild outlook for
inflation, the Fed will likely err on the side of tapering
slowly.”  In 1994, U.S. Treasuries lost 3.35 percent as then-Fed
Chairman  Alan Greenspan  surprised the market by doubling
benchmark lending rates to 6 percent in 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  