-- Blank Slate Tax Code Becomes Senate Panel Starting Point
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-27T16:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/blank-slate-tax-code-becomes-senate-panel-starting-point.html
The chairman and top Republican on
the Senate Finance Committee have a request for their Senate
colleagues: Tell us the tax breaks you want to keep.  The “blank-slate” approach to revising the U.S. tax code
proposed by Democrat  Max Baucus  and Republican  Orrin Hatch  would
start the discussion by eliminating all individual and corporate
tax breaks, flipping a default setting in which most breaks have
continued without question.  The strategy will require lawmakers and companies to defend
widely used existing breaks such as the exclusion of employer-provided health insurance and preferential tax rates for  capital
gains  and dividends.  “This blank slate is not, of course, the end product, nor
the end of the discussion,” Baucus and Hatch wrote in a letter
to colleagues today. “Indeed, we both believe that some
existing tax expenditures should be preserved in some form. But
the tax code is also littered with preferences for special
interests.”  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, and Hatch, a Utah Republican,
are leaving major questions unresolved, sidestepping for now the
partisan divide over whether a revised  tax code  should raise
additional revenue.  The committee’s approach also will attach a price tag -- in
terms of higher tax rates -- to reinstalling tax breaks in the
code.  Corporate Breaks  Adding $2 trillion in individual tax breaks over 10 years
would raise tax rates by between 1.3 and 2.2 percentage points.
Each $200 billion in corporate tax breaks would raise the top
rate by 1.5 percentage points.  The Finance Committee didn’t say what the tax rates would
be under a zero-break plan, citing the difficulty of estimating
such fundamental changes. Changes outside the Joint Committee on
Taxation’s list of tax breaks also could be used toward rate
reduction, such as limits on the deductibility of business
interest.  President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 fiscal commission suggested a
zero-break plan.  Baucus and Hatch are asking senators to submit suggestions
by July 26. They haven’t set a time for committee action.  The process in the Senate is running parallel to what is
happening in the House.  Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, has said his panel will approve a bill this
year. He has released drafts of three sections of his plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  