-- BOCI Quadruples Yuan-Tied Note Sales Before Bearish Bets Emerge
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-06-27T01:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/boci-quadruples-yuan-tied-note-sales-before-bearish-bets-emerge.html
BOC International Holdings Ltd. has
quadrupled its sales of structured notes tied to the offshore
 yuan  to a record this year, capitalizing on demand before some
investment banks began betting against the currency.  The  investment-banking unit  of  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  has sold
about 1.1 billion yuan ($179 million) of notes this year through
May, based on exchange rates offered in Hong Kong, according to
Abby Ye, an  executive director  for fixed-income structured
products at BOCI. Offshore yuan-tied securities, mostly sold to
private banks in the city, now account for more than half of the
lender’s issuance in the currency, compared with less than 10
percent last year, Ye said.  The yuan has advanced 1.4 percent against the dollar this
year, making it the best performer among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Strategists from Barclays Plc
to Deutsche Bank AG are now advising investors sell the
currency, amid signs of slowing growth in the Chinese economy
and waning trade inflows. BOCI hasn’t offered any offshore yuan-linked notes since May 10, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Strong conviction held by investors that the offshore
yuan would further appreciate against the dollar in the
foreseeable future” drove the offerings through last month, Ye
said, responding from  Hong Kong  by e-mail to questions from
Bloomberg. “A good number of notes have been launched since the
end of 2012 to express this view.”  China’s Growth  The most popular products have one-year maturities and earn
coupons if the offshore yuan gains at the end of their tenor, Ye
said. BOCI has also issued longer maturity notes betting on
appreciation in the currency and rising interest rates, she
said. BOCI is the only Chinese issuer of structured securities
tied to the currency, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The jump in the company’s sales of yuan-tied products this
year was followed by data showing China’s slowing growth.  Yuan positions  at domestic lenders from foreign-exchange
transactions, a gauge of capital inflows, rose 67 billion yuan
in May, the smallest gain since November, figures released by
the People’s Bank of  China  on June 14 showed. Foreign-direct
 investment  rose 0.3 percent to $9.26 billion last month from a
year earlier, the smallest gain in four, the Ministry of
Commerce said on June 18.  Exports (CNFREXPY)  increased 1 percent in May, after gaining 15
percent the previous month, while industrial production rose 9.2
percent, trailing the median forecast of 9.4 percent among 39
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Currency Bets  That’s prompted currency strategists at Barclays and
Deutsche Bank to recommend investors sell the yuan this month.
HSBC Holdings Plc also cited spiking money-market rates amid a
cash squeeze in forecasting on June 25 the yuan may weaken to
6.16 per dollar by the end of 2013. The currency traded at
6.1501 as of 9:52 a.m. in  Shanghai  today.  Building on the growth in yuan-related investments, BOCI is
also looking to expand into other asset classes for its
structured-note business, Ye said. The company may resume
issuance of credit-linked notes halted by the financial crisis,
she said.  “We’ve seen growing and definitive demand for it,” Ye
said. “We’re in several discussions internally and externally
to re-launch this business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  