-- Boxer Gives EPA Ultimatium on Chemical Safety After Blast
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-06-27T21:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/boxer-gives-epa-ultimatium-on-chemical-safety-after-blast.html
A Senate committee chairman demanded
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency act within two weeks to
adopt a decade-old safety recommendation tied to the explosive
agents blamed for a fatal Texas fertilizer blast.  Senator  Barbara Boxer , in a clash today with the EPA
official overseeing the safety of chemical plants, said she
would demand the agency adopt the 2002 proposal issued by the
U.S. Chemical Safety Board and respond to her within two weeks.  “We are going to work with you and, if we have to, against
you, to make sure this happens,” Boxer, a California Democrat
and head of the Environment and Public Works Committee, told EPA
deputy assistant administrator Barry Breen after he testified.
“I am unsympathetic to the attitude I hear, which is a lack of
urgency.”  Ammonium nitrate, which caused the fatal April explosion at
a Texas fertilizer plant, is now regulated by local, state and
federal agencies in a “patchwork that has many large holes,”
U.S. Chemical Safety Board Chairman Rafael Moure-Eraso said at
the hearing. Those separate rules let companies store the
explosive fertilizer in wooden buildings and near homes and
schools, he said.  “This situation must be addressed,” Moure-Eraso said in
his testimony. “Regulations need to be modernized -- but more
inspection and prevention are needed as well.”  The Chemical Safety Board investigates industrial accidents
and issues recommendations to regulators, such as the EPA, which
has no obligation to act. The Washington-based board lacks the
authority to force action by other government regulators or
companies.  Potential Options  The EPA is “looking at a number of potential policy
options,” Breen told Boxer today.  The explosion at the Adair Grain Inc. plant in West,  Texas ,
killed 14 people has led to scrutiny of U.S. oversight of
chemical and fertilizer facilities, with lawmakers such as Boxer
urging the EPA to take more action to regulate explosive or
toxic chemicals. Investigators say pressure and heat from a fire
caused the ammonium nitrate stored in the Texas facility to
erupt into a large explosion.  The U.S. has about 90 facilities -- including chemical
factories, refineries, water-treatment plants and fertilizer
depots -- that in a worst-case scenario would pose risks to more
than 1 million people, according to a  Congressional Research
Service  report in November that analyzed reports submitted by
companies to the EPA.  Late today, the EPA issued a statement saying it “shares
concerns raised by Sen. Boxer.”  “EPA is actively examining actions to improve chemical
plant safety,” the agency said in an e-mailed statement. Boxer
“called further discussions in upcoming hearings and EPA looks
forward to participating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  