-- Brazil Swap Rates Drop on Central Bank GDP Outlook; Real Slips
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-06-27T16:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/brazil-swap-rates-drop-on-central-bank-gdp-outlook-real-slips.html
Brazil ’s swap rates fell after the
central bank reduced its economic growth forecast, spurring
speculation that policy makers will limit increases in borrowing
costs to avoid undermining the recovery.  Swap rates due in January 2015 dropped 10 basis points, or
0.10 percentage point, to 9.80 percent at 12:28 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo , paring their quarterly increase to 131 basis points. The
real depreciated 0.1 percent to 2.1878 per dollar, extending its
drop in the past month to 6 percent, the biggest among major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “It doesn’t seem like the central bank is open to
accelerating the borrowing-cost increases or having a bigger
tightening cycle,”  Jankiel Santos , the chief economist at Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimento in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview.  The central bank cut its 2013 economic growth forecast to
2.7 percent from 3.1 percent in a report today. Policy makers
cited “volatility as a risk factor and the tendency of the
dollar to appreciate.” They projected 6 percent annual
inflation, assuming the target lending rate remains unchanged,
compared with a March estimate of 5.7 percent, and 5.4 percent
next year, up from 5.3 percent.  While the inflation forecasts for this year rose, they
stayed below the 6.5 percent upper level of the target range,
Carlos Thadeu de Freitas Gomes Filho, a senior economist at
Franklin Templeton Investments, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Positive Side’  “Most importantly, projections for inflation show that if
the central bank doesn’t do anything, inflation will be 6
percent this year,” he said. “There are two possible readings.
The negative one is inflation is rigid and we need an enormous
rate increase. The positive one is inflation is on the rise this
year and, theoretically, would ease next year. The market chose
to look at the positive side.”  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.38
percent in the month through mid-June, the national statistics
agency reported June 21. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 0.36 percent.  “The worsening of family and business sentiment is
partially fueled by price increases in segments with high
visibility, such as food, fuel and public tariffs,” the central
bank said. “In the short term, annual inflation still has a
tendency to rise and the balance of risks in the prospective
outlook is unfavorable.”  The real rose yesterday after the central bank said it will
eliminate  reserve requirements  on short dollar positions held by
local banks to support the currency.  The Treasury sold all of the 2 million floating-rate
 government bonds  maturing in 2018 that were offered today after
canceling a planned auction of zero-coupon bonds.  The real has fallen 7.6 percent this quarter, poised for
its biggest loss since the second quarter of 2012, as stagnant
economic growth, violent street protests and speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will curtail its stimulus program trigger a
flight from emerging-market assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  