-- Brazil Sees Unfavorable Inflation Outlook, Slower Growth in 2013
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-06-27T12:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/brazil-sees-unfavorable-inflation-outlook-slower-growth-in-2013.html
Brazil ’s central bank cut its growth
forecast and said the outlook for inflation, already running
above target, is unfavorable as the real posts the largest
decline against the dollar among major currencies.  Policy makers, in their quarterly inflation report today,
said inflation will reach 6 percent this year should the
benchmark rate remain unchanged at 8 percent, up from a March
forecast of 5.7 percent. They also cut the 2013 growth
prediction to 2.7 percent, down from 3.1 percent.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is trying to
steer Brazil’s $2.5 trillion economy out of its second-worst
economic performance in 14 years without further stoking
inflation. Government efforts have been complicated by the
biggest street protests in more than a decade as 1 million
people took to the street to press authorities for less
corruption, lower prices and better public services. Rousseff
vowed to improve health care, public education and transport,
while maintaining fiscal austerity in the world’s second-largest
emerging market.  “The worsening of family and business sentiment is
partially fueled by price increases in segments with high
visibility, such as food, fuel and public tariffs,” the central
bank said. “In the short term, annual inflation still has a
tendency to rise and the balance of risks in the prospective
outlook is unfavorable.”  Weaker Real  The real weakened 5.6 percent in the past month, the worst
performance amid the 16 most traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The currency gained 0.4 percent to 2.1783 per  U.S.
dollar  at 9:04 a.m. local time. Swap rates on the contract due
in January 2014 fell four basis points to 8.89 percent.  Annual inflation through mid-June reached 6.67 percent, the
fastest pace since November 2011, even after officials cut
energy tariffs and raised the benchmark  interest rate  this year
to cool price increases. Brazil’s central bank targets annual
inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Inflation prompted central bankers to double the pace of
benchmark interest rate increases last month by raising the
Selic 50 basis points to 8 percent. Policy makers had lifted the
key rate by 25 basis points in April after holding it at a
record low since October.  A weaker currency can fuel inflation by increasing the
price of imported goods. The central bank said today the pass-through to consumer prices from a weaker currency has been
reduced in the past 10 years.  First-quarter  growth  decelerated to 0.55 percent from 0.64
percent during the last three months of 2012, as family
consumption dropped. Brazil’s economy expanded by 0.9 percent
last year, the slowest pace since the aftermath of the Lehman
Brothers collapse in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  