-- Brazil Millionaires Should Pay for Protest Demands, Party Says
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-06-27T18:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/brazil-millionaires-should-pay-for-protest-demands-party-says.html
Brazil’s ruling party is reviving a
proposal to tax millionaires’ wealth to help pay for measures
demanded by protesters staging the largest demonstrations in two
decades.  The move is part of a congressional rush to pass laws that
placate demands from protesters for cheaper transportation,
better education, and less corruption. Over the past three
weeks, more than 1 million Brazilians have taken to the streets.
The proposal, which has been considered for at least 25 years,
came back to life as pressure for more spending coincides with a
tighter budget. President  Dilma Rousseff ’s Workers Party, known
as the PT, agreed this week to push for the approval of the
bill.  “We need to offset the costs of new measures being
approved in response to the protests,” Candido Vaccarezza, a
Workers’ Party deputy in the lower house of Congress, said by
telephone. “We’ve granted businesses tax breaks to help
economic growth, now it’s time to get some of that back. The
U.S. and  Germany  have similar taxes.” Vaccarezza said specifics
of the proposal have not been decided.  In a period of just over 24 hours, the lower house approved
tax cuts for urban transportation and a 2007 bill that earmarks
oil royalties for education and health. As part of a marathon
session that may delay Congress’s July holidays, the Senate
classified corruption as a heinous crime, a bill that now moves
to the lower house.  The Cost  Three bills awaiting final approval by Congress to deal
with transportation, health and education issues would cost the
federal government 115 billion reais ($52.8 billion) per year,
Valor Economico newspaper reported today.  In an attempt to accelerate economic growth that slowed to
0.9 percent last year, the government in 2012 granted tax breaks
worth 44.5 billion reais to lower costs for businesses and help
stimulate consumer demand.  Brazil  had 165,300 millionaires in 2012, up 26.1 percent
from 2008, and their assets were worth a total $4 trillion,
according to the 2013 World Wealth Report by Capgemini SA and
RBC Wealth Management.  Legislators, including Senate chief Renan Calheiros, have
been the target of protests over corruption, and are now eager
to showcase results, said Ricardo Ribeiro, political analyst at
MCM Consultores Associados, a Sao Paulo-based business
consulting company.  10-Minute Vote  The Chamber of Deputies’ constitutional affairs committee
yesterday approved in less than 10 minutes, with no debate or
dissent, a six-year-old bill that bars secret voting when
legislators are being impeached. “That’s what the power of the
people does,” said Alvaro Dias, author of the bill and senator
of the opposition PSDB party.  “Congress is trying to do in a few days what they haven’t
done in 10 years,”Ribeiro said.  “The problem is they are
approving measures they’re not sure how to pay for.”  Six people have died and hundreds have been injured as
protesters battled police and attacked public buildings and
banks, even after authorities in dozens of cities reversed bus
fare increases that sparked the wave of marches.  Large Fortunes  Previous PT attempts to tax large fortunes, as allowed by
the 1988 Constitution, have been blocked in Congress. The PT’s
Vaccarezza said he was unsure what support the proposal would
have now.  The PT, which originally grew out of union demonstrations
that helped bring down the 1964-85 dictatorship, says there is
now more support to tax the rich, particularly businessmen,
according to a statement on their website.  “How should we finance the improvement of these services
if we don’t do it?” said Jose Guimaraes, leader of the Workers’
Party faction in the lower house of Congress, according to the
party’s website. “Entrepreneurs also have to help. Why only
public coffers?”  Public coffers are increasingly stretched. The country’s
primary  budget surplus , which excludes interest payments on
debt, fell to 1.89 percent of gross domestic product in the 12
months through April from 2.46 percent in January. Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said the government targets a primary
surplus of 2.3 percent of gross domestic product and will cut
spending to ensure the goal is met.  “It’s no use making all sorts of promises under pressure
from the streets,” Lindbergh Farias, a PT senator from  Rio de
Janeiro  said in an interview. “Promises that won’t be kept will
aggravate the mood.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  