-- Brazil Rides Uruguay Penalty Miss Into Confederations Cup Final
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-27T03:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/brazil-rides-uruguay-penalty-miss-into-confederations-cup-final.html
Diego Lugano got his way when he
called for strong refereeing in his team’s 2-1 Confederations
Cup soccer semifinal defeat to  Brazil . The Uruguay captain won a
penalty kick only to see teammate Diego Forlan miss.  Defender Lugano was jeered at the Mineirao Stadium in Belo
Horizonte last night after claiming in a press conference on the
eve of the game that Brazil’s star striker Neymar “can drop to
the ground and fool the referee.”  Lugano went down under a challenge from defender  David Luiz 
in the 14th minute and watched as Brazil goalkeeper Julio Cesar
dived to his left to turn Forlan’s spot kick around a post.  “A penalty is not a goal, it’s a very clear chance for a
goal, but until it materializes you cannot know if it will
become a goal or not,” Uruguay coach Oscar Tabarez told
reporters after his team’s defeat. “It had a huge effect on our
opponents who, up until then, had been dominated.”  Cesar described his stop as the “most important penalty I
was able to save” and credited his team for grinding out a
victory after easing into the semifinals with three straight
group-stage wins.  Luiz conceded that Chilean referee Enrique Osses was
correct in pointing to the spot.  “I saw the ball coming into the space where Lugano could
score and I pulled him,” Luiz said in an interview.  Fred put Brazil ahead shortly before halftime. Edinson Cavani tied it three minutes after the restart and Paulinho
secured the victory with a headed goal five minutes before the
end. Brazil will play Spain or  Italy , who meet in Fortaleza
today, in the June 30 final in  Rio de Janeiro .  ‘Growing Up’  Brazil, which celebrated by linking hands and bowing to all
sides of the stadium, came into the eight-team competition under
pressure to show that it could challenge for a record-extending
sixth World Cup title as host next year. Luiz Felipe Scolari,
who led Brazil to its last World Cup win in 2002, was rehired in
February amid a slump in form and growing public criticism.  “We did not play as we did in previous matches, yet what
we are always telling you is that we are still working on our
team,” Scolari told reporters. “This what we are doing in this
competition. We are growing up, the whole team is growing up.”  When he named his roster on May 14, Scolari left out
players such as  World Cup  winners Kaka and Ronaldinho in favor
of others with less international experience.  Physical Game  Uruguay, which reached the semifinals of the 2010 World Cup
and won  South America ’s Copa America the following year, had
several starters who have been in the national team for more
than five years.  Their experience told as they quieted the crowd by imposing
a physical game on Brazil. Three Brazilians and two Uruguayans
were yellow carded in the game, which also included several
confrontations between the players.  “Uruguay know when to put in a kick and to be physical,”
Luiz said. “The Brazilian team now is more mature because it
can play games that are open and ones like today which was so
difficult.”  Fred got his third goal in four tournament games after
goalkeeper Fernando Muslera’s save from Neymar fell to him in
front of the goal. A mistake from Brazil captain  Thiago Silva 
gifted Cavani the chance to level after halftime. Cavani
intercepted the Paris Saint-Germain defender’s attempted pass to
a teammate inside the penalty box and buried a shot into the
bottom corner.  With extra time looming, Paulinho headed in at the far post
from Neymar’s corner in the 85th minute.  “The team was so mature it waited for the exact moment to
score the second goal,” said Luiz. “I’m so happy now because I
saw on the pitch one thing -- fighting all the game. We didn’t
play a great game with the ball but we did a great game
mentally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at Minerao Stadium in  Belo Horizonte  at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at  celser@bloomberg.net  