-- California Gasoline Gains as Ships Chartered for Exports
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-06-27T21:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/california-gasoline-gains-as-ships-chartered-for-exports.html
Spot gasoline in  California  gained
as at least two tankers were chartered to load refined products
on the U.S. West Coast early next month for export to South and
Central America.  The Alpine Eternity is scheduled to load fuel off the West
Coast on July 6 for Central and  South America , according to
ship-fixture data compiled by Bloomberg. The tanker, anchored
off the coast of Baja California, was at  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s
Richmond refinery in Northern California on June 19, according
to  IHS Inc. (IHS)  data.  The Isola Corallo, traveling north off the coast of  Peru ,
was chartered by  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  to load clean products off
the West Coast on July 7 for delivery to  Chile , ship-fixture
data show. IHS data show the vessel is heading for Martinez,
California.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  San Francisco 
advanced 5 cents to a premium of 3 cents a gallon against
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg at 4:09 p.m. Prompt-delivery of the
fuel gained for the first time in six days, rising 6.03 cents to
$2.7581 a gallon.  Carbob in  Los Angeles  climbed 2 cents to a premium of 10
cents a gallon.  The  discount  for Carbob in San Francisco versus Los Angeles
narrowed 3 cents to 7 cents a gallon, the smallest differential
in three days.  Hydrogen Plant  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD)  restored operations late
yesterday at its Wilmington plant, which supplies hydrogen to
Los Angeles area refineries, after resolving an “issue with a
power supply module,” Art George, a spokesman based at the
company’s headquarters in Allentown, Pennsylvania, said by e-mail today.  Valero Energy Corp.’s 78,000-barrel-a-day Wilmington
refinery reported flaring yesterday related to the upset at the
Air Products plant,  Bill Day , a spokesman at Valero headquarters
in San Antonio, said by e-mail. The upset wasn’t expected to
affect output from the refinery, Day said.  California-blend, or Carbob, gasoline stockpiles gained 3.2
percent to 5.56 million barrels in the week ended June 21, the
most since April 5, the state Energy Commission said on its
website late yesterday. Output of the fuel climbed 1.1 percent
to 7.28 million barrels.  Retail Gasoline  Retail gasoline  in California dropped 1.3 cents to $4.041 a
gallon, Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring organization, said today on its website. Prices at the
pump rose above 2012 levels last week for the first time since
Feb. 25 as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Torrance refinery took down its
crude unit for unplanned repairs. Spot prices in Los Angeles
jumped to an eight-month high on the shutdown.  “Southern California motorists are amazingly being spared
from wholesale prices that spiked by 70 cents from June 3 to
June 19,” Jeffrey Spring, spokesman for the Los Angeles-based
Automobile Club of Southern California, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Southland Fourth of July travelers should be able
to gas up at or below $4 a gallon for their trips.”  The premium for spot, conventional gasoline in Portland,
Oregon, slipped 0.5 cent to a premium of 11 cents a gallon over
futures. Portland gasoline weakened 2.5 cents against Los
Angeles Carbob to a premium of 1 cent a gallon.  Motor gasoline stockpiles on the West Coast, known as the
PADD 5 region, added 833,000 barrels last week to 29.2 million,
the highest level since March, Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, said
yesterday.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles narrowed for the
sixth day, losing 3 cents to $13.89 a barrel at 4:11 p.m.  New
York  time, the lowest level since April 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  