-- Canadian Dollar Declines as Economic Growth Is Outpaced by U.S.
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-27T21:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/canadian-dollar-gains-as-european-confidence-fuels-risk-appetite.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for the ninth
time in 10 days as better-than-forecast U.S. economic data
highlighted the divergent growth prospects of the two nations.  The currency declined versus the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as more Americans signed contracts in May to buy
previously owned homes than at any time in more than six years
and U.S. jobless claims dropped. Federal Reserve Governor Jerome
Powell said the central bank’s asset purchases may be scaled
back later this year if growth holds up. A report tomorrow may
show Canada’s economic growth slowed in April.  “The market is still thinking the dollar is heading higher
in the medium term and trying to position for that,”  Greg Anderson , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of
Montreal, said by phone from  New York . “It’s just people
looking at the growth outlook for the U.S. and seeing the dollar
rallying across the board, not just against Canada.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.1 percent to
C$1.0477 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It earlier
touched C$1.0424, its strongest point since June 21. One loonie
buys 95.45 U.S. cents.  Canada’s dollar, headed for its second weekly decline, is
down 1.3 percent this month, 3.1 percent this quarter and 5.3
percent this year.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s 10-year government  bonds  rose, with yields falling
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.41 percent.
The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 added 71 cents to
C$92.02.  Futures on crude oil rose 1.3 percent to $96.78 per barrel
in New York and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
commodities rose 0.8 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
 rose  0.6 percent.  “The drop in GDP is a contributing factor to the market
sensing U.S. interest rates will rise before they do in
Canada,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada (NA) , said by phone from Toronto.  Canada’s gross domestic product grew 0.1 percent in April
compared to 0.2 percent growth the previous month, according to
a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.  The  Bank of Canada , whose key interest rate of 1 percent is
the highest among the Group of Seven nations, is the only
central bank among them with a leaning toward higher rates.
Governor Stephen Poloz reiterated that stance, even as he said
on June 19 that Canada’s economic recovery will take “stability
and patience.”  Data, Date  The index of U.S. pending  home sales  jumped 6.7 percent to
112.3, the highest since December 2006, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed in  Washington . The
increase exceeded all estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists and was the biggest since April 2010.  Initial jobless claims decreased by 9,000 to 346,000 in the
week ended June 22 from a revised 355,000 the prior period, the
Labor Department reported today in Washington.  “I want to emphasize the importance of data over date,”
Fed Reserve Governor Jerome Powell said today in Washington.
Large-scale asset purchases “may be moderated somewhat more
quickly” should the economy strengthen faster than officials
anticipate, he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said June 19 the U.S. central
bank may begin tapering its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases this year and end them in mid-2014. The program,
designed to put downward pressure on borrowing costs and spur
growth, tends to debase the currency.  Commodity Losers  “You get the typical dollar rally on better U.S.
numbers,” Matthew Perrier, director of foreign-exchange trading
at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto. “Dollar
weakens off on weak U.S. data as the market eases off their bets
of early QE tapering, and then you get a strong set of numbers
and dollar rallies as the market shifts back to the other side
of the boat.”  The cost to insure the Canadian dollar against declines in
its U.S. counterpart reached its lowest point in a week. The
one-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate fell to 1.6750,
the lowest since June 20. Risk reversals measure the premium on
options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S.
contracts that do the opposite.  Commodity currencies have been the biggest losers in the
past month among 10 developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The loonie has lost 0.7
percent, compared with the Australian dollar’s 3.8 percent fall,
the Norwegian Krone’s 2.7 percent drop, the New Zealand dollar’s
3.8 percent drop. The greenback is up 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  