-- Canada April Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-06-27T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/canada-april-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s employment, earnings, and hours report for April
released by  Statistics Canada .  Average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll employees rose
0.2% from the previous month to $910 in April. On a year-over-year basis, earnings increased 2.2%.  The 2.2% increase in earnings during the 12 months to April
reflected a number of factors, including wage growth, changes in
composition of employment by industry, occupation and level of
job experience, as well as average hours worked per week. In
April, non-farm payroll employees worked an average of 32.9
hours per week, unchanged from both the month and year before.  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings outpaced
the national average in six of the largest industrial sectors,
led by professional, scientific and technical services as well
as public administration.  In professional, scientific and technical services, average
weekly earnings rose by 3.7% to $1,291, led by growth in legal
services; computer systems design and related services; and
architectural, engineering and related services.  Compared with 12 months earlier, weekly earnings also rose
by 3.7% to $1,163 in public administration, mainly a result of
growth in local, municipal and regional public administration.  Average weekly earnings in educational services increased
3.0% to $1,010 in the 12 months to April, with notable growth in
universities and community colleges and CEGEPs.  Weekly earnings in health care and social assistance
increased 2.9% to $834, with the largest increases in social
assistance and in hospitals.  In the 12 months to April, average earnings in construction
rose 2.8% to $1,172, driven mostly by gains within heavy and
civil engineering construction.  Compared with April 2012, weekly earnings in administrative
and support services went up by 2.6% to $751, almost all a
result of earnings gains within employment services.  Weekly earnings in retail trade edged down 0.6% to $524 in
the 12 months to April, with the losses spread across a number
of retail industries. Earnings in retail trade have been
hovering around this level for a year, as small gains in hourly
earnings have been offset by declines in average weekly hours.  Average weekly earnings by province  Year-over-year earnings growth of non-farm payroll
employees was above the national average in six provinces, with
the highest growth in Saskatchewan and Prince  Edward Island .  New
Brunswick  had the lowest earnings growth over this period.  Average weekly earnings in Saskatchewan increased by 4.4%
to $944 in the 12 months to April, with the growth widespread
across a number of industries.  In Prince Edward Island, year-over-year earnings growth was
4.1%, bringing average earnings to $758 in April. There was
notable growth in professional, scientific and technical
services; educational services; retail trade; and public
administration.  Compared with April 2012, average weekly earnings in
 Alberta  rose 3.4% to $1,098, with growth across most sectors.  Over the same period, earnings in New Brunswick edged up
0.4% to $808. Year-over-year growth in this province has been at
or below the national average since September 2012.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  Total non-farm payroll employment edged up by 5,500 in
April after increasing by 29,800 in March.  In April, the number of payroll employees increased in
accommodation and food services; educational services; and
health care and social assistance. At the same time, there were
fewer jobs in construction; arts, entertainment and recreation;
retail and wholesale trade; and public administration.  On a year-over-year basis, the number of non-farm payroll
employees rose by 194,900 or 1.3%.  Among all sectors, real estate and rental and leasing
posted the highest 12-month growth rate in payroll employment at
5.6%, followed by construction (+4.8%), as well as accommodation
and food services (+3.2%). Over the same period, there were also
declines, primarily in information and cultural industries (-
3.2%) and public administration (-1.1%).  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is
produced by a combination of a census of payroll deductions,
provided by the  Canada  Revenue Agency, and the Business Payrolls
Survey, which collects data from a sample of 15,000
establishments. Its key objective is to provide a monthly
portrait of the level of earnings, the number of jobs and hours
worked by detailed industry at the national, provincial and
territorial level.  Estimates of average weekly earnings and hours are based on
a sample and are therefore subject to sampling variability.
Payroll employment estimates are based on a census of
administrative data and are not subject to sampling variability.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates from
its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household
survey, the main objective of which is to divide the working-age
population into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed
(including the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour
force. This survey is the official source for the  unemployment
rate  and collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics
of all those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=eng ) .  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the “other employees” category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses that could not be classified to a NAICS code.
Earnings data are based on gross taxable payroll before source
deductions. Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing
total weekly earnings by the number of employees.  With each release, data for the current reference month are
subject to revision. Data have been revised for the previous
month. Users are encouraged to request and use the most up-to-date data for each month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  