-- Canada Optimistic on Keystone Approval After Obama Climate Plan
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n ,   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-06-27T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/canada-optimistic-on-keystone-approval-after-obama-climate-plan.html
Canadian business leaders say
there’s growing optimism that President  Barack Obama  will
approve  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline because
thwarting it would cost U.S. consumers and won’t halt
development of  Alberta ’s  oil sands .  “From my perspective it’s 100 percent that he’s going to
approve it,” Scott Saxberg, chief executive officer of Calgary-based oil producer  Crescent Point Energy Corp. (CPG) , said in a phone
interview yesterday. “If it doesn’t go through, all it’s going
to do is increase the cost to the U.S. and to the consumer.”  Unveiling his  climate change  plan June 25, Obama said his
administration would approve the $5.3 billion cross-border
project if it “does not significantly exacerbate the problem of
carbon pollution.” The administration has said a decision on
Keystone will come in months.  The pipeline, which has been under review for almost five
years, would carry 830,000 barrels of diluted bitumen a day from
northern Alberta to Gulf Coast refineries. Environmentalists
have protested in front of the White House seeking to block the
project because of concerns about potential spills and the
greenhouse-gas emissions produced by mining oil sands.  Obama didn’t say in the climate speech at  Georgetown
University  whether he favored approval. A draft U.S. State
Department analysis, released March 1, said the pipeline would
have minimal impact on climate change because the oil sands
would be mined and developed with or without Keystone XL.  Obama ‘Vagaries’  “I think Keystone gets approved late in the year as there
is enough vagaries in the Obama language, plus the supportive
State Department report that makes it not a contributor to
greenhouse-gas emissions,” said Jennifer Stevenson, a Calgary-based vice president at Dynamic Funds who helps manage about
C$100 billion ($96 billion). “It will still be noisy, but I
think it gets done.”  TransCanada gained 0.4 percent to C$44.90 at the close in
Toronto yesterday. The price gap between Western  Canada  Select,
the country’s benchmark crude, and West Texas Intermediate
narrowed 1.5 percent to $16.75 yesterday.  “President Obama is taking shelter” under conclusions
reached in the U.S. State Department’s draft environmental
impact assessment, Judith Dwarkin, chief energy economist for
ITG Investment Research Inc. in Calgary, said in an e-mail.  Canadian companies and politicians are preparing for
alternatives even as they remain optimistic about approval.  Alternative Options  Projects to move oil by rail or through a natural  gas
pipeline  that TransCanada has proposed converting to oil
“should help make the case” for Keystone by showing that the
conduit won’t have an impact on oil-sands development, Steven Paget, director of institutional research at FirstEnergy Capital
Corp. in Calgary, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  While opponents said the president’s statements show he
won’t approve the project, Canadians continued to point to
economic reasons to support Keystone XL.  “The economic arguments are very strong in terms of
national security, jobs, economic growth and revenue on both
sides of the border,” Joe Oliver, Canada’s natural resources
minister, told reporters in  Vancouver  yesterday. “If the facts
and the science are taken into consideration, I’m comfortable
that it will be approved.”  Keystone XL can meet the standard President Obama set
because the oil it delivers will displace other heavy oil
imports into the  Gulf Coast  and the U.S.  ‘Additional Test’  “We remain optimistic on Keystone XL’s approval, even when
considering this latest additional test, as the pipeline is in
the best interests of the  United States ,” David Bouckhout, a
senior commodity strategist in Calgary for Toronto-Dominion
Bank, said in an e-mail.  For Canada, oil exports have grown in importance over the
past two decades. Energy products, whose largest component is
crude, have grown to become Canada’s largest export, and now
account for almost one-quarter of all outbound trade.  Canada’s oil trade rose 7 percent to about C$73 billion
last year and is set to grow faster than the total economy in
the coming years, according to Statistics Canada data.  Keystone XL will also help move crude stranded in the U.S.
as production booms from fields in  North Dakota  and Montana,
said James Bowzer, CEO of Calgary-based heavy oil producer
 Baytex Energy Corp. (BTE)   “It’s not just a Canadian problem,” he said. A shortage
of pipelines has forced producers in the Bakken shale to ship a
lot of crude by rail, he said.  The pipeline will allow for added output “whether that be
further expansions of the Bakken or further expansions and
increases in production and output from Canada.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  