-- McDonald’s Israel Licensee Rejects West Bank Restaurant
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-06-27T19:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/mcdonald-s-israel-licensee-rejects-west-bank-restaurant.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s licensee in
Israel rejected a proposal to open a restaurant in a mall in a
West Bank settlement, sparking criticism from pro-settler groups
and supermarket-chain owner Rami Levy.  The  closely held  company, owned by Omri Padan, declined to
add a store in Ariel because it is beyond the 1967 Israeli
border, Levy, who is developing the mall through a private
company, said by telephone. The licensee’s representatives said
in an e-mailed statement that Padan has always had a policy of
remaining within that border.  “They are making a mistake, and they shouldn’t mix
politics with business,” said Levy, who has signed on to a
group of 120 Israelis supporting a peace pact with Palestinians.
“Business serves the interest of both peoples because it gives
them jobs.”  The decision by Padan, a co-founder of the Israeli group
Peace Now, places a brand widely seen as a symbol of American
culture into one of the most contentious issues in the Jewish
state. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry is trying to revive
talks between Palestinians and Israelis even as  Israel  approved
plans for 69 new housing units in an eastern section of
 Jerusalem .  “Our partner in Israel has determined that this particular
location is not part of his growth plan,” Becca Hary, a company
spokesperson, said in an e-mail.  Padan’s move is a public-relations “disaster” for
McDonald’s in Israel, Dani Dayan, chief foreign envoy of the
Yesha Council, an organization that represents the Israeli
settler movement, said by telephone.  “McDonald’s Israel are entitled to their politics,” he
said. “I think the CEO of McDonald’s Israel didn’t ask himself
just how much of a consensus Ariel is for Israelis.”  Israel Boycott  Padan’s decision follows calls made by various groups to
boycott Israel because of its occupation of territories captured
from Jordan during the 1967 war. South Africa and the European
Union have sought to label Israeli imports from the territories,
and physicist Stephen Hawking decided in May to cancel his
participation in Israeli President Shimon Peres’s annual
conference.  “In a democratic state, everyone has the right to choose
where they want to live and where they want to open their
business,” Yariv Oppenheimer, director of Peace Now, said by
telephone. “You can’t force someone who disagrees with the
settler ideology to open a restaurant in the settlements. I
think it’s very positive that there are businesspeople that
don’t think just about their revenue.”  The Ariel mall, being built in partnership with  Mega Or
Holdings Ltd. (MGOR) , will cost about 150 million shekels ($41
million), Levy said. Levy, a Jerusalem native, is the chief
executive officer and controlling shareholder of supermarket
chain  Rami Levi Chain Stores Hashikma Marketing 2006 Ltd. (RMLI) , whose
shares have gained 33 percent on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  