-- Chief Who Built Biggest Arab Bank Takes Over Qatar Finances
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-06-27T11:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/chief-who-built-biggest-arab-bank-takes-over-qatar-finances.html
For Ali Shareef Al Emadi, managing
the finances of the world’s richest country is a job he’s
already been involved in for eight years.  During that time, the chief executive officer of Qatar
National Bank SAQ, who was appointed finance minister in a new
Qatari government late yesterday, helped build the company into
the  Middle East ’s biggest lender. QNB grew its assets to more
than $100 billion in the period, the only Arab bank to reach
that threshold, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Qatar National Bank closed some of the key acquisitions
outside Qatar and grew significantly in size under the
leadership of Ali Shareef Al Emadi,” Amol Shitole, a credit
analyst with SJS in Bangalore,  India , said by e-mail today.
“The bank has a clear strategy in place to expand
internationally by carefully selecting markets.”  The Doha-based bank mirrored the expansion of the energy-rich Gulf nation as it developed into a regional power and
worldwide investor. The emirate bought stakes in  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s
largest carmaker. It supported uprisings in Syria and Libya and
lent $8 billion to Egypt’s post- Hosni Mubarak  government.  QNB’s growth was fueled by expansion into 25 countries in
the Middle East, Asia and Europe. The  bank’s shares  jumped 1.9
percent to 159 riyals today, the highest on record.  Qatari Champion  “QNB has benefited significantly as the national champion
for Qatar,”  Giyas Gokkent , chief economist at the  National Bank
of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank, said in an e-mail.
“I would not expect a change in direction. They are clearly
committed to rapid international expansion and will remain a
core enabler for the Qatari diversification drive.”  Al Emadi replaces QNB’s Chairman Yousef Kamal as finance
minister. His appointment was part of the biggest leadership
shake-up in Qatar in 18 years after the emirate’s ruler, Sheikh
Hamad bin Khalifa  Al Thani , handed over power to his son Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. The new emir formed a government
headed by Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa Al Thani as
prime minister.  Al Emadi will take over the finances of a country whose
natural-gas exports gave it the largest per capita gross
domestic product in the world, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Qatar plans to spend $200 billion on
infrastructure before hosting the 2022 soccer  World Cup , the
most-watched sporting event.  A finance graduate from the  University of Arizona , Al Emadi
said his bank, ranked the world’s strongest this year by
Bloomberg Markets magazine, benefited from adversity. As
economic turmoil engulfed other lenders, Qatar National Bank
looked to expand, he said.  Iraq, Libya  During 2012, the bank purchased stakes in Iraqi and Libyan
lenders. In March 2013, it bought the Egyptian unit of France’s
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  for $2.45 billion. In April 2012, it sought
to acquire Turkey’s  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , eventually losing out to
Moscow-based OAO Sberbank. In 2011, QNB acquired a controlling
stake in Indonesia’s PT Bank Kesawan.  While the bank benefited from the government’s purchase of
its real estate investments after the onslaught of the financial
crisis in 2008, it didn’t need to receive government money.  “We always see good liquidity coming to us when things get
bad in the market,” Al Emadi said in a March interview at the
QNB’s headquarters. “That’s a very strong signal from customers
and investors that they view the bank as a safe haven.”  Qatar Growth  Fifty-percent government-owned, QNB grew on the back of
Qatar’s own economic expansion, which averaged 13 percent
annually in the five years ended 2012. The growth was driven by
rising exports of liquefied natural gas, with Qatar the source
of about 30 percent of the world’s supply.  Qatar National Bank didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
today seeking comment on Al Emadi’s successor, nor whether Kamal
will remain as chairman.  Al Emadi has worked for QNB since 2001, according to his
resume. Prior to that, he served in the banking control
department of Qatar Central Bank.  “It is always a blow when a long-standing CEO departs,
particularly after a period of tremendous growth,” Emad Mostaque, a London-based strategist at Noah Capital Markets EMEA
Ltd., said by e-mail. “QNB has strong ties to the government
across the board and remains a national champion and will
receive considerable government backing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  