-- Chinese and South Korean Leaders in Accord on North Korea
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   H e n r y   S a n d e r s o n
-- 2013-06-27T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/chinese-and-south-korean-leaders-in-accord-on-north-korea.html
South Korean President Park Geun Hye
and Chinese President  Xi Jinping  pledged closer diplomatic and
economic ties, called for resuming talks to quell North Korea’s
nuclear ambitions and vowed to expand bilateral trade by 140
percent in the next three years.  South Korea  and China agree that a nuclear North Korea is
“unacceptable under any circumstance” and will work together
toward denuclearization of the North and peace and stability on
the Korean peninsula, Park said in a joint press conference with
Xi yesterday after their summit meeting in Beijing.  Xi called for six-nation North Korean nuclear disarmament
talks to be resumed “as soon as possible,” while saying the
situation on the peninsula is “currently changing in a positive
direction.” The two leaders agreed to expedite the signing of a
 free-trade  accord and expand bilateral trade to $300 billion by
2015.  “The summit showed a change in Chinese attitude regarding
 North Korea ,” said Park Byung Kwang, senior research fellow at
the Institute for National Security Strategy in Seoul. “Xi
expressed through Park that China will never accept a nuclear
North Korea, which is a definite shift from its previous stance
of always stopping short of making such declarations and instead
repeating calls for dialogue.”  After triggering tougher United Nations sanctions by
testing a missile in December and a nuclear device in February,
the North threatened strikes against the U.S. and South Korea.
It then backtracked and proposed new talks this month, first
with South Korea and then with the U.S. The North later called
off the inter-Korean gathering, citing a protocol dispute.  Tighter Enforcement  China  tightened enforcement of United Nations sanctions on
the totalitarian regime, and Communist leaders have stressed the
need for a nuclear-free peninsula during two visits from North
Korean diplomats since late May. While Park campaigned on re-engagement with the North, she’s taken a tougher line since
becoming president.  China and South Korea are “really trying to design their
approach to North Korea,” said John Delury, assistant professor
of East Asian Studies at Yonsei University in Seoul. “Both of
them are groping a bit but they do have a good deal of common
ground.”  Park’s office has said economic ties would be a main focus
of the trip to the South’s biggest  trading  partner and the
world’s second-largest economy. The countries signed eight
agreements on cooperation in developing marine technology,
nuclear energy and green issues and streamlining customs
clearance processes for approved businesses. They also agreed to
extend their currency swap line, worth 360 billion  yuan  or 64
trillion won, by three years to October 2017.  Business Delegation  Park left Seoul yesterday leading the largest business
delegation to accompany a South Korean leader on a state visit.
This four-day visit is a chance to help South Korean
conglomerates such as Hyundai and  Samsung Group (005930)  better tap
China’s growing consumer class.  Such efforts may help her deliver on campaign promises to
boost employment to 70 percent by 2017 from 64.2 percent. Park
will hold a breakfast meeting today, joined by 71 South Korean
executives, including  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  Chairman  Chung Mong Koo .
More than 300 business leaders and government officials will
attend a business forum in Beijing, where Park will deliver a
speech.  “South Korea’s future is increasingly the China
relationship in terms of trade and investment,” Delury said.
“For a new South Korean president this is the top priority --
to get China right.”  China Interest  On her third day in China, Park will visit Xi’an, the
location of a factory that Samsung Electronics Co. started
constructing in 2012 to build memory chips. The facility is
expected to be finished in 2014.  Park’s interest in China may have helped her in enlisting
Xi’s support on North Korea. She taught herself Chinese in her
late 30s by watching language programs on public television,
according to her 2007 autobiography. She recommends Chinese
philosopher Feng Youlan’s “A History of Chinese Philosophy,”
which guided her through “times of difficulty,” she said in
May.  Park comes to China as it grapples with its own troubles. A
cash squeeze increases the chance that China will miss its
economic growth goal of 7.5 percent this year. Park’s economy --
about six times smaller than China’s with a population that’s
less than 4 percent of the larger country’s -- can’t compete on
issues such as  cheap labor  and cheap exports, said Han Jae Jin,
a research fellow at Hyundai Research Institute in  Seoul .  “We need to accept reality and work together with China,
and pick our battles,” Han said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  