-- China Allows Some Tibetans to Venerate Dalai Lama, RFA Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-27T07:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/china-allows-tibetans-to-openly-venerate-dalai-lama-rfa-reports.html
The Chinese government loosened
restrictions that kept Tibetan monks in two provinces from
openly revering the  Dalai Lama , the exiled Buddhist spiritual
leader,  Radio Free Asia  reported.  Authorities in Sichuan province announced people can
display pictures of the Dalai Lama and ordered officials not to
criticize him, the U.S.-funded RFA reported, citing a resident
in Sichuan’s Ganzi prefecture it didn’t identify. In the past,
monks had to keep pictures of the Dalai Lama hidden.  China  took control of Tibet in 1951 and has vilified the
Dalai Lama, 77, as a separatist since he fled to  India  in 1959,
where he leads a government in exile. Chinese officials
regularly levy diplomatic sanctions on countries that host him
for visits, including the U.K., and today Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying said the Dalai Lama has undermined
“social stability and national unity.”  RFA cited a resident of  Qinghai province  as saying
officials now aren’t under orders to criticize the Dalai Lama.
Monks may venerate the Dalai Lama as a spiritual leader, not as
a political leader, RFA reported.  Tibet policy has only become more aggressive since former
President  Hu Jintao  was party secretary of Tibet in the late
1980s, said Robbie Barnett, director of the Modern Tibet Studies
Program at  Columbia University  in  New York  City. While banning
photographs of the Dalai Lama was never a national-level policy
outside of Tibet, any hint of reversing a policy of attacking
him would be significant, he said.  ‘Very Volatile’  “Denigrating the Dalai Lama, insulting him, attacking him,
basing policy on accusations against him, that’s a national-level propaganda theme,” he said. “So reversing that is much
more significant than the question of photographs.”  The RFA report may not reflect conditions “in all the
regions in  Tibet  or all the regions in Qinghai or Sichuan,”
Tashi Phuntsok, secretary for information and international
relations of the Tibetan exiled administration, said by phone
from the Indian town of Dharamshala where it’s based.  Self-immolation protests by Tibetans mean the “situation
in Qinghai or the Tibet Autonomous Region is very severe and
very volatile,” Phuntsok said. “It may be possible that in
certain areas the Chinese leadership is trying to please people
by giving certain small concessions. But the basic situation in
Tibet remains very repressive, very suppressive and without
human rights.”  Tibetan Nun  A Tibetan nun died this month after setting herself on fire
near a monastery in eastern Tibet, the Washington-based
International Campaign for Tibet said June 20. There have been
120 self-immolations by Tibetans in China since February 27,
2009, the group said in a statement.  “The Chinese government’s position on the Dalai Lama is
very clear,” Hua said at a briefing today. “The Dalai Lama is
not a purely religious person but he has long been engaged in
anti-China separatist activities under the pretext of
religion.”  Tibetans’ reverence for the Dalai Lama hasn’t diminished
even as their  living standards  under Chinese control have
improved, an indication that the government should reassess its
approach toward the issue, Jin Wei, professor at the Central
Party School in Beijing, said in an interview with Hong Kong
magazine  Asia  Weekly published  June 9 .  She said talks between the Dalai Lama’s representatives and
the government are the best way to solve the Tibet problem.  Riots between ethnic Tibetans and Chinese security forces
in 2008 killed more than 200 protesters, according to the exiled
government. The U.S. and U.K. recognize China’s rule over the
area, though the U.S. State Department has called on Chinese
leaders to  relax controls  on Tibetan Buddhist religious
practices.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  