-- China Policy Bank Provides $100 Billion in Liquidity Since May
-- B y   L i z a   L i n
-- 2013-06-27T13:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/china-policy-bank-provides-100-billion-in-liquidity-since-may.html
Agricultural Development Bank of
 China  has provided 615.7 billion  yuan  ($100.1 billion) in
liquidity to the markets since late May, signaling efforts from
the nation’s largest lenders to ease a cash crunch.  The funds were distributed mainly through overnight money
market transactions and used to help institutions overcome
liquidity shortages, the bank said in a statement on its website
today. The capital was provided to members of its bond
underwriting syndicate, the lender said. Syndicate members
include  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd .,  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Bank of China Ltd., according to the
Chinese government bond clearing house website.  China’s central bank on June 25 called on big banks to
further their roles as market stabilizers, as signs of the
nation’s biggest squeeze on credit in at least a decade had
pushed interbank borrowing costs to a record last week. The
 People’s Bank of China  said in a statement on June 25 it would
take steps to safeguard stability in money markets, and that
tight liquidity is set to ease.  Interbank lending rates spiked last week as the monetary
authority refrained from using open-market operations to address
a cash crunch in the world’s second-largest economy. The seven-day repurchase rate touched a record 12.45 percent on June 20.
It fell to 6.74 percent today, compared with this year’s average
of 3.85 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Premier  Li Keqiang ’s government is seeking to curb
speculative lending after credit expansion outpaced economic
growth. Li signaled his determination to stamp out speculation
funded by cheap money with a June 19 State Council statement
saying banks must make better use of existing credit and step up
efforts to contain financial risks.  China’s stocks have plunged on concern a cash squeeze is
hurting economic growth. The Shanghai Composite Index is trading
at four-year lows, while the CSI 300 Index entered a  bear market 
on June 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  