-- China’s Sinovel Charged With Stealing Trade Secrets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2013-06-28T03:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/china-s-sinovel-charged-with-stealing-trade-secrets.html
Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558) , a Chinese
wind-turbine company, was charged with stealing trade secrets
from its former U.S. supplier, a case of industrial espionage
that may heighten tensions in U.S.-China relations in the wake
of the Edward Snowden affair.  U.S. prosecutors secured an indictment of the company and
two of its executives in federal court yesterday in Madison,
Wisconsin. Also charged was Dejan Karabasevic, who pleaded
guilty in Klagenfurt,  Austria , to stealing source code for the
turbine controllers made by  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , his
former employer. The company lost more than $1 billion in market
value after the theft became public.  The indictment’s timing may give it prominence in the U.S.
intensifying dispute with  China  over economic espionage. That
conflict has only been inflamed by Snowden’s disclosures of U.S.
computer-based spying, and China’s decision to allow the ex-National Security Agency contractor to fly to  Russia  from Hong
Kong, where he had fled.  “My 5-year-old understands that this is wrong,” AMSC
Chief Executive Officer Daniel McGahn said by phone. “If your
ideas can be stolen without recourse, there is no reason to
invest in innovation, and if there is no reason to invest in
innovation, there is no purpose to the American economy.”  Sinovel’s stock fell 1.5 percent to 3.95 yuan at 10:44 a.m.
local time in  Shanghai  after plunging 7 percent earlier. Wang
Wen, a Beijing-based spokeswoman at Sinovel, declined to
comment.  Legal Struggle  The indictment is the latest development in a legal
struggle between AMSC, a maker of small industrial computers
that fit inside wind turbines, and the company that was formerly
its largest customer. AMSC, based in Devens,  Massachusetts , is
seeking more than $1.2 billion in damages from Sinovel in
Chinese courts, accusing Beijing-based Sinovel of putting the
stolen source code in more than 1,000 turbines that it sold in
its home country.  Amy Riella and Elliott Joh, lawyers for Sinovel at Vinson &
Elkins LLP, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message
seeking comment on the charges.  Sinovel, China’s third-largest turbine maker, has been
battered by global competition and falling prices for its
products. Still, the company remains well-connected to China’s
elite. One of its early investors was the private equity group
New Horizon Capital, co-founded by Wen Yunsong, son of China’s
former premier, Wen Jiabao.  A probe by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which has
been developing the case for more than a year, received a boost
when Sinovel exported stolen code to the U.S., installing it in
four turbines in Massachusetts. One, owned by the state Water
Resources Authority, wasn’t far from AMSC’s headquarters,
according to Kerry Farrell, a spokesman for the company.  Cyber Espionage  Paul Tiao, former senior adviser for intellectual property
crimes to FBI Director Robert Mueller, said the indictment
coming just weeks after Snowden fled to Hong Kong with a trove
of stolen NSA secrets is coincidental. Regardless, it
“underscores the reason why the administration is demanding
that the PRC government stop engaging in cyber-based commercial
espionage,” said Tiao, now a partner at Hunton & Williams LLP
in  Washington .  When President  Barack Obama  met Chinese President Xi
Jinping this month, he raised the issue of “large-scale theft”
of U.S. property through Chinese cyberattacks.  An internal investigation by AMSC uncovered hundreds of
messages about the code Karabasevic exchanged with three Sinovel
employees, including one e-mail in which the engineer sent
AMSC’s source code to his counterpart at Sinovel, according to
the company.  E-Mail Exchanges  Using search warrants, the FBI obtained an even bigger
trove of communications that Karabasevic swapped via Yahoo! and
Google Inc. Gmail accounts with the two charged executives, Su
Liying, deputy director for research and development, and Zhao
Haichun, technology manager. Like the company, the pair is
charged with conspiracy, theft of trade secrets and fraud.  In one exchange, Su Liying complained about error messages
she received after testing the stolen AMSC code in China.
Karabasevic obliged by modifying the code so that it would run
more smoothly.  Prosecutors said Sinovel induced Karabasevic to provide the
code, promising him a $1.7 million contract with the company and
other perks. The indictment was filed in  Wisconsin  because
Karabasevic allegedly uploaded the code from an engineering
center there.  AMSC, which prosecutors said was cheated out of $800
million, has filed four lawsuits against Sinovel in Chinese
courts. After almost two years, the cases are still entangled in
procedural disputes, John Powell, AMSC’s general counsel, said
in a phone interview.  Suspected Violations  Sinovel said last month that it’s being investigated for
suspected violations of securities laws and regulations.  The company received a notice from the China Securities
Regulatory Commission on the decision to start the probe, and
will cooperate, according to a May 28 filing to the Shanghai
Stock Exchange. The statement didn’t provide more details.  Sinovel, based in Beijing, in March revised down 2011
profit by 22 percent to 607.4 million  yuan  ($99.1 million) due
to an accounting error.  The case is U.S. v. Sinovel Wind Group Co. Ltd., 13-cr-00084, U.S. District Court, Western District of Wisconsin
(Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  