-- China Money Rate Declines for a Fifth Day on PBOC Easing Signs
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-06-27T09:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/china-swap-money-rates-fall-for-fifth-day-on-pboc-easing-signs.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell for a fifth day, the longest run of declines in two months,
on signs the central bank is adding funds selectively to ease a
cash squeeze.  In the past two days, about 30 transactions for overnight
loans in the  interbank market  were recorded in the final 90
minutes of trading in  Shanghai  at rates of between 3.5 percent
and 4 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Those
were the lowest levels of each day and compared with the average
rate of 5.46 percent. The People’s Bank of China signaled this
week that while it won’t let the cash crunch roil money markets,
any liquidity support will be focused on banks that are lending
to help the economy.  “The PBOC will remain the lender of last resort,
preventing a systemic threat, and will try to improve the
liquidity situation, but only gradually, leaving markets
unstable,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Credit Agricole CIB strategist
in  Hong Kong , wrote in a research note today.  The seven-day repurchase  rate  fell 55 basis points, or 0.55
percentage point, to 6.74 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It
reached a record 12.45 percent on June 20 and rose 193 basis
points this month. The overnight repo  rate  declined 10 basis
points to 5.44 percent today.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose four basis points
to 3.95 percent in Shanghai, after falling as much as 11 basis
points earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It reached an
all-time high of 5.06 percent on June 20 and rose 64 basis
points this month, the most since January 2011.  PBOC Operations  The People’s Bank of China won’t conduct repurchase or
reverse-repurchase agreements today, according to two traders at
primary dealers required to bid at the auctions. The central
bank also won’t sell bills today, the traders said. Maturing
notes added a net 25 billion  yuan  ($4.1 billion) to the
financial system this week, the least in a month, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Liquidity conditions in China eased in the past two days
and have “normalized,” Zhang Jianguo, president of  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , said at a press conference in Taipei
today. The bank lent money to other lenders amid the cash
squeeze, he said, adding that the PBOC has been proactive in
maintaining banking-system stability.  China should more effectively regulate banks so as not to
increase their leverage, according to a front-page commentary in
China Securities Journal today. The central bank said in a
statement on June 25 that it has provided financing to some
financial institutions to stabilize interbank lending rates and
will use short-term liquidity operations and existing loan-facility tools to ensure steady markets. It also called on
commercial banks to improve their cash management.  ‘About-Turn’  “The PBOC will be standing by to prevent any real
liquidity crisis and fend off any Lehman-style disaster,”  Ken Peng , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Beijing, wrote in a note
today. “The overnight about-turn in attitude appears to have
come on the heels of intervention by higher authorities and
other government bodies,” he wrote, adding that China
Development Bank Corp. and the  Finance Ministry  were “clearly
upset” about canceled or failed auctions.  Companies including Shanghai ShenTong Metro Co., China
Three Gorges Corp. and Doosan Infracore China Co. joined state-owned policy lender China Development Bank Corp. in postponing
at least 32.1 billion yuan of sales this week, according to
statements posted on Chinabond.com.cn, the government bond
clearing house website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  