-- Chris Bowen Becomes Australia’s Third Treasurer in 17 Years
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-27T10:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/chris-bowen-becomes-australia-s-third-treasurer-in-17-years.html
Chris Bowen, a key backer of
returned Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, was sworn in as  Australia ’s
third treasurer in 17 years and faces the challenge of reviving
a slowing economy as a mining-investment boom wanes.  Bowen, 40, elected to parliament in 2004 and a former
assistant treasurer, takes the top economic role as policy
makers attempt to engineer a rebalancing of the world’s 12th
largest economy by boosting industries including construction to
extend 22 years of economic growth. The University of Sydney
economics graduate may only hold the post for a few months as an
election must be held by Nov. 30 and opinion polls have shown
the ruling Labor Party is set to lose.  “The domestic economy is slowing and China looks more
uncertain,” said Martin Whetton, an interest-rate strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “Bowen has to deal with the end
of the commodities boom and he faces major challenges.”  While the ruling Labor party has trailed Tony Abbott’s
Liberal-National coalition for more than 18 months in opinion
polls. the surveys have also showed Rudd would improve the
government’s standing. Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens and his board have slashed borrowing costs by 2
percentage points over the past 20 months to 2.75 percent to
help the transition from mining.  The government abandoned a pledge to return the budget to
surplus this fiscal year, citing the impact on tax revenue of
the high currency and lower company profits, and in May
projected a deficit of A$19.4 billion ($18 billion).  Election Battleground  Bowen, who lives in Smithfield in Sydney’s west, a key
election battleground, was Australia’s youngest Cabinet minister
in 2009 when he was appointed by Rudd at age 36. He resigned in
March this year after then-Prime Minister Julia Gillard called a
leadership ballot that she won uncontested. He had supported
Rudd in an unsuccessful challenge against Gillard in 2012.  Prior to entering parliament , Bowen was an advisor to a
member of parliament, an industrial officer for the Finance
Sector Union, and chief of staff for a New South Wales state
minister. He is a former mayor of  Fairfield , one of the biggest
and most multicultural local government areas in Australia, and
was immigration minister from 2010 until 2013 under Gillard.  “Bowen is one of Rudd’s trusted allies and it’s a good
move politically to put him in the position,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a lecturer in politics at Monash University. “But
Bowen’s an unproven performer in such a major portfolio, and
it’s going to be a big challenge for Rudd and Bowen to make
voters have faith that he can do the job.”  China, Currency  Bowen’s economic challenges include coping with fallout
from policy change in  China , Australia’s biggest trading
partner, as it seeks to slow growth to a sustainable level. The
Australian dollar has slumped 11 percent this quarter in
response to a deterioration in China’s outlook, the worst
performer among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The depreciation has provided some relief for industry that
has been squeezed by a currency that held above $1 from mid-June
last year to May 10, the longest stretch above parity with the
U.S. dollar since the Aussie was freely floated in 1983.  Ford Motor Co. said last month it will stop making cars in
Australia, nine decades after founder Henry Ford first began
building Model Ts in the country, and plans to cut 1,200 jobs
from its two plants by October 2016.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden
unit said this month it will initiate talks with labor unions to
reduce costs that may include a cut in wages as it struggles
with the currency’s strength.  Swan Resignation  Bowen replaced Wayne Swan, who had been treasurer since
Rudd’s 2007 victory returned Labor to power after nearly 12
years in opposition, and who was deputy prime minister from June
2010 after he backed Gillard’s ousting of Rudd in a backroom
party coup.  “I want to say what a privilege it has been to serve as
deputy prime minister and also as treasurer in a Labor
government that has represented the very, very best of Labor
tradition,” Swan told reporters late yesterday. “Almost alone
amongst developed economies, we avoided a deep recession.”  Swan and Rudd -- former friends turned enemies -- met the
global credit crunch following Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
2008 collapse with cash handouts and bank guarantees. Rudd paid
tribute to Swan today when he addressed parliament for the first
time since being sworn in again as prime minister.  ‘Strong Work’  “I would also like to acknowledge the work that the former
treasurer did with me to prevent this country from rolling into
global economic recession and avoiding mass unemployment,” Rudd
told parliament. “No-one should forget this work. When we think
around the world and the hundreds of thousands of people who
lost their jobs in other countries, millions in some, that was
avoided here and I acknowledge the strong work done by the
former treasurer in assisting me and other members of the
Cabinet in dealing with that crisis.”  Both Swan and Rudd attended Nambour High School in the
northeastern state of Queensland in the 1970s, where Swan
captained the rugby league team and Rudd led its debating team.  “Wayne was very, very cool. I was very, very not,” Rudd
said during the 2007 election campaign when the duo visited the
school.  An arts graduate of the University of Queensland, Swan
worked as a council sewerage maintenance worker before lecturing
at the Queensland Institute of Technology.  In June 2010, when factional leaders ousted Rudd as prime
minister, Swan didn’t inform his former flatmate he had switched
his support to Gillard. “I had to phone him,” Rudd said in an
interview with the Australian. “I suppose he found the prospect
of higher office more tempting. It’s been a sad end to a
friendship that went back a long way.”  ‘Demeaning Attitude’  Tensions between Swan and Rudd exploded on Feb. 22 last
year when Rudd mounted an unsuccessful challenge against
Gillard. The then-treasurer accused Rudd of trying to “tear
down” Labor’s 2010 election campaign, having a “deeply
demeaning attitude” toward Labor party colleagues and of
“dysfunctional decision making” prior to his ouster as leader.  More recently, Swan’s fortunes faded. A Newspoll taken May
17-19 showed Shadow Treasurer Joe Hockey for the first time
overtaking Swan on the question of who is more capable of
managing the economy. That’s even as unemployment remains at 5.5
percent.  Recession Risk  Rudd has yet to say if he will support Gillard’s big-ticket
policy changes, including the nation’s first levy on greenhouse-gas emissions. Even so, the Rudd government is committed to
carbon pricing, Bowen said.  “We’ll always take a responsible approach to these
matters,” he told ABC Television’s 7.30 Report program. “If
there’s matters that need to be addressed in the future, then
the prime minister and I and the relevant ministers will address
them.”  Australia’s economy grew 2.5 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest annual pace in almost two
years. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists estimated in a report
this month that there’s a 20 percent chance of recession and
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch sees a 25 percent chance.  Still, the local dollar’s drop should boost company
profitability, said Warren Hogan, chief economist at  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   “The substantial fall we’ve seen in the currency will have
a positive impact on the budget, there’s no doubt about that,”
Hogan said. “At this stage it’s too hard to tell the magnitude
of it because the fall in the currency has gone hand-in-hand
with the decline in commodity prices. It will certainly offset
that decline in commodity prices.”  The stability of the treasury portfolio since 1996 followed
 a series of holders between 1991 and 1996 . One was John Kerin,
who served then prime minister Bob Hawke for six months in 1991
and stumbled in a national press conference and was soon
replaced.  “Let’s just hope Bowen’s not like Kerin at the end of the
Hawke era, who imploded when asked a simple definition question
on the economy,” Whetton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  