-- Coffee Gains Most in 8 Weeks on Supply Risk; Orange Juice Drops
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-06-27T15:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/coffee-gains-most-in-8-weeks-on-supply-risk-orange-juice-drops.html
Arabica-coffee futures headed for
the biggest gain in eight weeks on concern that a possible
strike by farmers will disrupt supplies from Colombia, the
world’s second-biggest grower. Orange juice fell.  Producers in the Colombian region of Caldas will meet July
3 to decide whether to stage protests to demand higher subsidies
from the government as prices for the commodity have fallen
below production costs, Oscar Gutierrez, a regional coordinator
for a growers group, said yesterday in a telephone interview. As
of June 18, money managers held the biggest net-bet on a price
drop since March, government data show. Through yesterday,
futures sank 18 percent this year amid ample supplies.  “The strike in Colombia is supporting prices because it
could disrupt exports,” Hernando de la Roche, a senior vice
president at INTL FCStone in Miami, said in a telephone
interview. “This may encourage funds to cover shorts.”  Arabica coffee for September delivery climbed 3.2 percent
to $1.2225 a pound at 11:25 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York. A close at that level would mark the biggest gain since
May 2.  Production costs in Colombia are currently estimated at
$1.60 a pound, while Central American growers can farm coffee
for $1.45 a pound, according to Kona Haque, a London-based
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest investment
bank.  Brazil  is the biggest grower.  From Oct. 1 through June 24, the Colombian government gave
a total of 411 billion pesos ($213 million) in subsidies to
producers, according to data from the country’s National
Federation of Coffee Growers, or Fedecafe. The funds reached a
total of 288,745 of the nation’s 560,000 farmers, Martha
Sanchez, a spokeswoman at the Federation said in a telephone
interview from Bogota.  Orange-juice futures for September delivery slid 0.4
percent to $1.273 a pound. A close that level would mark the
ninth consecutive decline, the longest slide since July 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  