-- Colorado’s Binz Picked as Obama Nominee for FERC
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-27T22:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/colorado-s-binz-picked-as-obama-nominee-for-ferc.html
Ron Binz, a former utility regulator
from Colorado, is President  Barack Obama ’s choice to lead the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.  The White House said in a statement today that Obama
intends to nominate Binz, an advocate of clean-energy
technologies who served as chairman of the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission from January 2007 until April 2011. He is
now a consultant on energy and telecommunications issues.  If confirmed by the Senate, Binz would replace Jon Wellinghoff, the FERC chairman whose term expires in three days.
Binz was chairman of the Colorado Public Utilities Commission
from January 2007 until April 2011.  “In the energy area my focus is on climate, clean tech,
integrated resource planning and smart grid,” Binz said on his
LinkedIn  page . He didn’t return e-mail and phone requests for
comment today.  Binz would join an agency that in recent years has gained
visibility from its policing of energy trading and efforts to
secure the electricity distribution network from cyber attacks.
Since January 2011, the FERC has disclosed 13 investigations of
alleged market gaming, including probes of traders for  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , Deutsche Bank AG and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Wellinghoff, a FERC commissioner since 2006 and appointed
chairman in 2009, has said he will stay in office until his
successor is confirmed.  Consumer Advocates  Binz and Wellinghoff, 64, share several traits. Both are
former consumer advocates from the Western U.S. who are
proponents of clean-energy technologies.  Binz is now principal at Public Policy Consulting in Denver
and a policy adviser for the Center for the New Energy Economy
at  Colorado State University  in  Fort Collins . He has also served
as chairman of the climate policy task force for the National
Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, which
represents state agencies.  As a consultant, Binz’s clients included Tendril Networks
Inc., a Boulder, Colorado-based energy management software
company; Qwest Communications International Inc., now owned by
 CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  of Monroe, Louisiana; the New York-based
Environmental Defense Fund; and the U.S. Department of Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  