-- Crackdown on Online Pharmacies Nets $41 Million in Drugs
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-06-27T15:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/crackdown-on-online-pharmacies-nets-41-million-in-drugs.html
Thousands of pharmacy websites that
U.S. regulators said were selling illegal and potentially
dangerous medications had $41 million of their products seized
as part of an international sting.  The operation targeted more than 9,600 websites and shut
down at least 1,677 and issued warnings to others, the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration said in a  statement  today. Many websites
appeared to be part of an organized criminal network that
claimed they were Canadian pharmacies, the FDA said. The agency
didn’t name the companies or individuals involved in the sting.  Drugmakers including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest, have
begun experimenting with selling medicines such as the erectile
dysfunction pill Viagra online through their own websites to
combat counterfeiting. The fake online pharmacies the FDA shut
down were said by regulators to be selling products illegally
under such names as Viagra Super Force and Generic Celebrex.  “Illegal online pharmacies put American consumers’ health
at risk by selling potentially dangerous products,” John Roth,
director of the FDA’s Office of Criminal Investigations, said in
the statement. “This is an ongoing battle in the U.S. and
abroad, and the FDA will continue its criminal law enforcement
and regulatory efforts.”  The effort, dubbed Operation Pangea VI, took place June 18
to June 25 during the sixth annual International Internet Week
of Action. The operation involved authorities from 99 countries  Some of the targeted websites, such as
www.canadianhealthandcaremall.com and www.walgreens-store.com,
now bear the FDA’s Office of Criminal Investigations cybercrime
unit’s banner to identify them as illegal, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  