-- Canada Regulator Approves BCE-Astral Deal With Conditions
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-27T21:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/crtc-approves-bce-bid-for-astral-with-conditions.html
Canada ’s media regulator accepted
BCE Inc.’s C$3 billion ($2.9 billion) bid to acquire  Quebec 
broadcaster  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  as long as BCE agrees to
conditions including investing C$247 million in programming and
not withholding content from competitors.  BCE, the nation’s biggest telephone company and private
broadcaster, must also provide reasonable access to advertising
on its  radio stations , the Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission said in a  decision  released today
in Gatineau, Quebec, near Ottawa. The CRTC won’t require BCE to
divest any Astral assets that the company hadn’t already offered
to sell.  “Canadians can be assured that the necessary steps are
being taken to foster a healthy and competitive broadcasting
system,” the regulator said.  The CRTC initially rejected the C$50-a-share bid by
Montreal-based BCE on Oct. 18, saying it would curb television
and radio competition. BCE later revised its offer for Astral,
agreeing to sell assets to allay concerns the deal would hamper
competition.  The purchase of Astral would allow BCE to add French-speaking television channels like Super Ecran, providing content
for its wireless devices amid competition for cable and wireless
subscribers from  Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B)  and U.S. video-streaming services
such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Fresh Conditions  By imposing fresh conditions rather than rejecting the deal
for a second time, the Canadian regulator is betting it can
satisfy concerns about BCE wielding too much broadcasting power,
said Neeraj Monga, an analyst at Veritas Investment Research in
Toronto who rates BCE a sell.  “An early view of the decision would be that CRTC believes
its regulatory framework can keep BCE’s power in check,” Monga
said in a telephone interview.  BCE is assessing the details of the decision and will issue
a detailed statement before the start of trading tomorrow, said
Jason Laszlo, a spokesman for the Montreal-based company. Astral
has no comment on the CRTC decision at this point, said Olivier
Racette, a spokesman.  The Astral deal would be BCE Chief Executive Officer George Cope’s largest. The company has been adding media content to
lure customers to spend more on wireless data. It teamed with
Toronto-based  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  to buy a controlling
stake in Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd. for $1.3 billion
in 2011, becoming owners of the  Toronto Maple Leafs , the most
valuable franchise in the  National Hockey League .  Competition Concerns  BCE agreed to buy broadcaster CTV in 2010 for C$1.3 billion
in cash and C$1.7 billion in debt, giving it 30 specialty
channels, including sports channel TSN.  In its October  rejection , the CRTC said the deal raised
concerns about competition, ownership concentration in
television and radio, vertical integration and the exercise of
market power. The regulator calculated it would give BCE a 42.7
percent share of the Canadian English-language television market
and 33.1 percent of the French-language market.  “Our decision last fall sent a clear signal that the
public interest is paramount,” CRTC Chairman Jean-Pierre Blais
said in a speech June 12.  BCE revised its offer, agreeing to sell Astral’s share of
six television joint ventures, including Teletoon and Cartoon
Network, as well as two radio stations, to  Corus Entertainment
Inc. (CJR/B)  for C$494 million. Canada’s antitrust agency approved the
revised deal in March.  No Divesting  During public  hearings  last month, Cope said BCE wouldn’t
divest more assets to win support of the deal. Asked by Blais
last month if the company would agree to divest specialty
channels such as TMN, TMN Encore, HBO Canada and Super Ecran as
a condition of CRTC approval, Cope replied, “If we were to be
asked to divest any more of the channels or content, we would
not move forward with the transaction.”  The regulator said today the revised deal would give BCE
35.8 percent of the English-language TV market and 22.6 percent
of the French-language market.  BCE said May 9 it was targeting an early summer closing of
the Astral deal, pending CRTC approval.  Under the CRTC conditions, BCE can’t “unduly” withhold
content distributed online, such as through mobile phones. The
regulator said it will monitor distribution deals that BCE signs
with competitors and arbitrate disputes. BCE must invest C$247
million over seven years in programming, C$72 million more than
it had proposed, the CRTC said.  “None of these conditions seem too onerous to me,”
Veritas Investment’s Monga said of the fresh conditions the CRTC
cited today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  