-- Cyprus Bank Adviser Says Biggest Lender Can’t Be Allowed to Fail
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-06-27T15:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/cyprus-bank-adviser-says-biggest-lender-can-t-be-allowed-to-fail.html
Bank of Cyprus  Pcl, the lender
forced to impose losses on uninsured depositors in return for
the country’s 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout, must emerge
stronger from the financial crisis, an independent adviser on
the Cyprus banking system said.  Bank of Cyprus’s absorption of second-biggest lender Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl is a “difficult merger which contains
considerable execution risk,” according to a report issued
today by the Independent Commission on the Future of the Cyprus
Banking Sector.  “Everyone has got to put a full effort into making a
success of this merger, because if it fails one doesn’t really
want to think what the consequences of that will be,” David Lascelles, the commission’s chairman, said in an interview in
Nicosia. “Bank of Cyprus could emerge in a year and a half or
two years as a very strong bank.”  Cyprus agreed on March 25 to measures including a tax on
bank deposits of more than 100,000 euros at the nation’s two
biggest banks in return for the financial rescue. That condition
was demanded by the euro area and  International Monetary Fund  in
a bid to shrink the country’s banking sector.  Capital Controls  Cyprus imposed  capital controls  after the agreement to
prevent a run on all its banks, the first time such restrictions
have been imposed in the euro area. The interim report said the
banking sector needed a return to normality “as rapidly as
possible.”  Total deposits in Cyprus’s banking system dropped 2.6
percent to 55.9 billion euros in May, the  central bank  said in a
statement posted on its website today. Deposits in Cyprus’s
banking system have fallen by 20 percent in total since the
start of the year.  The commission was set up in November by the Central Bank
of Cyprus after the nation’s banks suffered 4.5 billion euros in
losses from  Greece ’s sovereign debt restructuring. Those losses
prompted the Cypriot government to appeal for financial help in
June last year.  The terms of the bailout, which also includes wage and
pension cuts, may mean the economy of the eastern Mediterranean
island shrinks as much as 8.7 percent this year, according to
IMF forecasts.  Cyprus’s future as an international financial center
depends on a “much more sophisticated, wider range of
professional services,” Lascelles said. “Deposits will form
part of that, but at the moment deposits are the major part of
it, with tax breaks behind, and we will see that aspect becoming
much smaller.”  Lascelles said that even after Bank of Cyprus emerges from
the merger process, action will need to be taken to deal with
the size of the new bank.  If “Bank of Cyprus emerges with half the market, that’s
too much,” he said. “You can do two things: you can either
split Bank of Cyprus up, or you can make other banks bigger. We
consider both possibilities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  