-- Cyprus to Swap 1 Billion Euros of Bonds to Meet Aid Conditions
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-06-27T16:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/cyprus-to-swap-1-billion-euros-of-bonds-to-meet-aid-conditions.html
Cyprus offered to swap 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) of its shorter-dated  government bonds  for
others with longer maturities, seeking to meet the requirements
of the 10 billion-euro rescue deal agreed on in March.  The nation will exchange “a number of existing local
government bonds” due between 2013 and 2015 for five new bonds
with equal coupon rates and five- to 10-year maturities, the
Ministry of Finance said in a statement. Cyprus avoided a
financial collapse in March by bowing to demands from creditors
to shrink its banking system in exchange for aid.  Greece  pushed
through the biggest sovereign restructuring in history in 2012
to maintain access to its rescue funds.  “This was one of the ways that was set out in the
memorandum of understanding for them to cover their funding
gap,” said Lefteris Farmakis, an analyst at Nomura
International in  London . “It shouldn’t be an issue. It was
explicitly said that this was going to be a voluntary exchange,
which means that they are targeting domestic holders and in all
probability they have some recourse over them.”  The Nicosia-based  Finance Ministry  didn’t provide any more
details about the bonds that will be exchanged.  Cyprus’s 6 percent bond maturing in January 2015 yielded
11.31 percent at 5 p.m. in London, down from 15.90 percent three
months ago. The government’s 6.1 percent securities due in April
2020 yielded 13.16 percent.  ‘Economic Recovery’  “We welcome today’s announcement by the Cypriot
authorities to launch a voluntary debt exchange,” the European
Commission and  International Monetary Fund  said in a statement.
The swap will “ensure adequate funding at terms that support
long-term public debt sustainability, an essential step towards
Cyprus’s economic recovery,” they said.  Euro-area partners told the Cypriot government this week to
remain “fully committed” to the terms of the rescue plan,
after President Nicos Anastasiades sought leeway in dealing with
the country’s financial crisis.  “It is important to avoid speculation about the commitment
of the Cypriot government to deliver on its undertakings” in
the bailout agreement “before the program has even had a chance
to take off the ground,” Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, wrote in a letter to Anastasiades sent June 25.  Private investors wrote off about 100 billion euros of
Greek bonds in the restructuring last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  