-- TD Bank Replaces CIBC as Aimia’s Aeroplan Card Partner
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-06-27T14:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/td-bank-replaces-cibc-as-aimia-s-aeroplan-credit-card-partner.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  is seeking to
replace  Canadian Imperial (CM)  Bank of Commerce as the main  credit-card  partner for  Aimia (AIM)  Inc.’s Aeroplan  loyalty program .  Under a conditional agreement, Toronto-Dominion would be
the primary card issuer for Aeroplan starting Jan. 1, according
to statements from the companies today.  Canadian Imperial, the country’s fifth-biggest bank by
assets, said in March that it’s exploring options as it
negotiates with Aimia before their agreement expires at year
end. The 22-year partnership has made the CIBC Aerogold Visa the
bank’s most popular credit card. Montreal-based Aimia counts
CIBC as its biggest partner.  Toronto-Dominion,  Canada ’s second-largest lender, would
commit C$100 million ($96 million) to the loyalty program and
agree to minimum annual miles purchases. Aeroplan’s loyalty
partners include Air Canada, the country’s biggest airline.  “TD announced that it did not anticipate that the
agreement would have a material impact on 2014 earnings,
however, it remains positive on the outlook for 2015,”  John Aiken , a bank analyst with Barclays Plc, said in a note.
“Signing the agreement fits in quite well with TD’s strategy to
focus on assets and should complement the growth of the MBNA
card acquisition.”  TD agreed in August 2011 to pay C$7.5 billion to buy  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Canadian MasterCard portfolio. That
transaction was completed in December 2011.  Not Disruptive  Incremental spending from marketing and guaranteeing
minimum purchases from Aimia won’t be “overly disruptive” to
earnings, Aiken said.  “We expect a neutral to slightly negative impact to CIBC’s
share price today as investors digest the news of a potential
agreement between Aimia and TD Bank,” Andre-Philippe Hardy, an
analyst with Royal Bank of Canada, said in a note. “We believe
that CIBC-Aerogold accounts for 5 to 15 percent of the bank’s
profits.”  Aimia climbed 3.1 percent to C$14.35 at 9:32 a.m. trading
in Toronto, its biggest intra-day gain since Dec. 17. CIBC rose
0.1 percent to C$75.07 and TD gained 0.4 percent to C$83.77.
CIBC slid 6.2 percent this year through yesterday, the  worst
performer  on the eight-company  Standard & Poor’s /TSX Banks
Index. TD shares declined 0.4 percent since Dec. 31, compared
with a 1 percent drop in the index.  Break Fee  CIBC said in a separate statement that it’s reviewing the
Aimia proposal and has the right to match the terms of the new
agreement by Aug. 9. TD is entitled to a C$80 million fee to
cover costs if CIBC agrees to match the terms by that time, the
Toronto-based lender said in a statement. CIBC spokesman Kevin
Dove and TD spokeswoman Ali Duncan Martin declined further
comment.  Aeroplan began in 1984 as a promotional tool for business
travelers on Air Canada. CIBC Aerogold Visa was started in 1991,
according to Aimia. The card allows users to collect Aeroplan
points for travel on  Air Canada (AC/A)  and get goods from retailers.  Aimia also has a pact with  American Express Co. (AXP) , and
negotiations with the credit-card company are “proceeding in
parallel,” the company said.  CIBC is Canada’s largest credit-card issuer based on total
outstanding balances, according to an April 2013 issue of the
Nilson Report, a credit-card industry publication. Toronto-Dominion is the second-largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  