-- HD Supply, CDW Gain in Trading After Pricing IPOs Lower End
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-06-27T23:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/hd-supply-cdw-gain-in-trading-after-pricing-ipos-at-lower-end.html
HD Supply Holdings Inc. (HDS)  and CDW
Corp. gained in New York trading after raising less than
originally sought in their initial public offerings yesterday.  HD Supply rose 3.7 percent to $18.66 at the close in New
York, while CDW rose 8.1 percent to $18.37. HD Supply raised
$957 million, pricing 53.2 million shares at $18 each after
offering them for $22 to $25. CDW, based in Vernon Hills,
 Illinois , raised $395 million, pricing 23.3 million shares at
$17 each, the low end of a reduced range.  Both companies’ shares climbed as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index headed for a third consecutive day of gains. U.S. stocks
last week had the biggest weekly drop since April, and both HD
Supply and CDW scaled back their offerings after markets
declined and volatility increased in reaction to June 19
comments from U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that
the Fed may taper its stimulus measures.  Atlanta-based HD Supply was taken private in 2007 by
Carlyle Group LP, Bain Capital LLC and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice
LLC in a deal initially valued at $10.3 billion including debt.
The buyout, in the midst of the housing crash, was scaled back
to $8.5 billion by the time it was completed two months later.  At the IPO price, HD Supply’s stock is worth less than its
private-equity backers paid in their original equity investment.
Investors in the buyout paid an average of $19.99 a share for
their stake, company filings show.  Debt Level  HD Supply, which initially planned to raise as much as
$1.33 billion, reduced its  price range  after investors raised
concerns over the company’s debt level, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Buyers are concerned that rising
interest rates could drag down the growth rate for HD Supply’s
business, making it harder for the company to repay debt, the
person said.  The midpoint of HD Supply’s original price range would have
generated $1.16 billion of net proceeds to the company, which it
planned to use to reduce long-term debt to $5.6 billion, filings
show. That level still would have exceeded a $4.3 billion
valuation for the company’s outstanding stock, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  CDW and its owners, Madison Dearborn Partners LLC and
Providence Equity Partners Inc., initially sought as much as
$641.7 million, offering 27.9 million shares for $20 to $23
each. Madison Dearborn and Providence later withdrew plans to
sell shares in the offering, regulatory filings show.  “We focus on the things that we can control -- we think it
was the right price for this time,” Ann Ziegler, CDW’s chief
financial officer, said in a telephone interview. “This seemed
like the right point in time, and we didn’t feel that short-term
market disruptions should change that decision.”  The companies are listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
the symbols HDS and CDW. HD Supply’s offering was led by Bank of
America Corp., Barclays Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Credit
Suisse Group AG, while JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays Plc and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managed CDW’s sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  