-- Date-Krumm Sets Wimbledon Age Mark After Wacky Wednesday
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/date-krumm-sets-wimbledon-age-mark-after-wacky-wednesday.html
After Wimbledon’s “Wacky
Wednesday,” it was perhaps fitting that yesterday belonged to
42-year-old Kimiko Date-Krumm, who played her first major when
her next opponent -- defending champion Serena Williams -- was 7
years old.  Seven-time winner Roger Federer and 2004 champion Maria Sharapova lost in upsets two days ago, and injuries wiped out a
one-day record seven players from the singles draws at the All
England Club in  London , leading the British Broadcasting Corp.
to dub it “Wacky Wednesday.”  Normal order resumed yesterday until Japan’s Date-Krumm
chipped and charged her way past  Romania ’s Alexandra Cadantu
6-4, 7-5 to become the oldest woman to reach the third round at
Wimbledon since tennis turned professional in 1968. Cadantu, 23,
was born a year after Date-Krumm played in her first major.  “I cannot believe it,” said Date-Krumm, a former world
No. 4 who lost to  Germany ’s Steffi Graf in the 1996 Wimbledon
semifinals. “I’m very happy to be the third round, even though
I’m 42.”  Today, the fifth day of Wimbledon, Britain’s Andy Murray
plays Spain’s Tommy Robredo while David Ferrer, the No. 4 seed,
faces fellow Spaniard Roberto Bautista Agut. Petra Kvitova, the
champion two years ago from the Czech Republic, meets  Russia ’s
Ekaterina Makarova.  Date-Krumm, who quit tennis at 26 before making a comeback
five years ago following an 11-year hiatus, said she skipped the
clay-court season in order to focus on the grass.  Wade’s Greeting  “Luckily, this year I didn’t play a seeded player in the
first rounds, because most of the time I have played the seeded
player in the first round,” said Date-Krumm, who is ranked 84th
in the world.  After winning her match against Cadantu, Date-Krumm was
greeted by Virginia Wade outside Court 12. Wade, Britain’s last
Wimbledon singles champion, had been the oldest woman to reach
the third round when she was 39 in 1985.  Next up is Williams, an American who dropped five games
during her second-round defeat yesterday of French teenager
Caroline Garcia.  “I watched Kimiko when I was much younger, I don’t know
how she is able to do so well,” said the French Open champion,
who at 31 is the oldest woman to be ranked No. 1 on the women’s
WTA tour. “She’s so inspiring.”  Date-Krumm said she is hoping for rain and a match
scheduled on Centre Court, so she can play under the roof
against the most dominant player of her generation. Williams has
lost only three matches since a first-round defeat at last
year’s French Open, and is trying to win her sixth Wimbledon
title and 17th major.  ‘Big Difference’  “She’s so strong,” said Date-Krumm, who pushed Serena’s
older sister and five-time champion, Venus Williams, to three
sets on a rainy day under the roof two years ago. “There is a
big difference between Venus and Serena. Serena has more power
and she has more speed. She has confidence. She has everything.
Just try my best. I hope I can stay more than one hour, one hour
half.”  Williams said she’d talk to her sister about Date-Krumm,
who in her comeback has beaten former Grand Slam champions
Sharapova and Li Na of  China  with an unorthodox playing style
that absorbs the power of the opponent.  “Kimiko has great hand-to-eye coordination,” Williams
said. “She returns unbelievable shots. Doesn’t matter how hard
you hit it, she sees the ball and gets it back. She has great
hands, has a wonderful great volley, comes to the net a lot,
which on grass can be tricky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon at  drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  