-- Deaths From Clashes in China’s Xinjiang Area Rises to 35
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-28T10:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/deaths-from-clashes-in-china-s-xinjiang-area-rises-to-35.html
China  called a clash in its western
region of Xinjiang on June 26 that killed 35 people a terrorist
incident, and said police are investigating the cause.  “We define the attack as a violent terrorist attack
because on that day several mobs attacked the local police
station, several patrol units and the town government,” Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters today in
Beijing. “They also set a police vehicle on fire.”  The incident was one of the worst outbreaks of violence in
Xinjiang in four years. Twenty-four people, including two
policemen and 16 ethnic Uighurs were killed in Lukqun township,
the official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday. Police shot and
killed 11, the agency reported, without providing a source for
the information.  While about 90 percent of China is ethnic Han, more than 40
percent of Xinjiang’s 22 million people are Uighurs, some of
whom have protested the Beijing government’s decades-long policy
of encouraging Han migration to the area. In 2009, almost 200
people died in clashes between Uighurs and Han Chinese in the
regional capital, Urumqi.  Xinjiang authorities have blamed past violence on religious
extremists trained in  Pakistan  at camps run by the East
Turkestan Islamic Movement. When Premier  Li Keqiang  visited
Pakistan in May, the two sides agreed that the movement is a
“common threat,” according to Xinhua.  “Violent criminals and terrorists are more and more
influenced by overseas terrorist forces,” the state-run Global
Times newspaper said in an editorial today about this week’s
violence. “They resort to more suicide attacks, similar to the
advocates of militant jihad.”  Sporadic Violence  Since the conflict in Urumqi in 2009 there has been
sporadic violence in the region. In April, 21 people were
killed, including local officials and police, in a clash that
broke out when officials uncovered a weapons cache. In Shanshan
county, where this week’s violence took place, Uighurs make up
88 percent of residents, the Global Times said.  The attackers were mostly Uighurs and targeted Uighur
police officers, the Global Times said today, citing an unnamed
Xinjiang official. The Han killed were all migrant workers at a
construction site, it said.  “The continuing repression and provocation is a reason for
the conflict,” Dilxat Raxit, a spokesman for the World Uyghur
Congress, said in an e-mail on June 26. “The international
community should take immediate steps to request China stop all
policies that cause unrest.”  U.S. Concern  The World Uyghur Congress, based in Munich, wants Xinjiang
to become an independent country called East Turkestan.  China also criticized the U.S. for expressing concern over
the treatment of ethnic minorities and Muslims in China in
commenting on the Xinjiang violence.  In a briefing in  Washington  yesterday, State Department
Spokesman Patrick Ventrell said the U.S. was “deeply concerned
by the ongoing reports of discrimination and restrictions
against Uighurs and Muslims in China.”  Hua said China is “dissatisfied with and is opposed to the
U.S. irresponsible remarks,” saying China guarantees the rights
of ethnic minorities and promotes religious freedoms.  “China and the U.S. are both victims of terrorism,” Hua
said. “Instead of pursuing double standards on the anti-terrorism issue, we hope the U.S. would condemn and combat
terrorism in all its manifestations.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  