-- Debenhams Third-Quarter Sales Miss Estimates on Cool Weather
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-06-27T07:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/debenhams-third-quarter-sales-miss-estimates-on-cool-weather.html
Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the U.K.’s second-largest department-store chain, said sales weakened in the third
quarter as another period of cold weather and a tough consumer
climate reduced spending on spring and summer fashions.  Sales at stores open at least a year were unchanged in the
16 weeks ended June 22, the London-based retailer said today in
a statement. That missed the median  estimate  of 15 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg for a 1.5 percent gain and was a slowdown
from growth of 3.1 percent in the first half.  The weaker-than-expected performance won’t ease pressure on
Chief Executive Officer Michael Sharp, who has overseen a
decline of more than 20 percent in the stock value this year.
The executive is modernizing stores, increasing spending on
advertising and offering more discounts to lure shoppers.  “Sales were exactly flat over the period, which is
disappointing and below the market’s expectation despite 40
percent online sales growth,”  Nick Bubb , a retail analyst said
by e-mail.  The shares fell 0.4 percent to 90.4 pence at 8:49 a.m. in
London trading.  The CEO told journalists the “weather has not been
helpful” and weaker  consumer confidence  contributed to the
sales slowdown. Still, the retailer increased market share in
key categories such as beauty.  In April, Debenhams blamed snow for disrupting sales
earlier in the year, causing the chain to offer more discounts.
This quarter the retailer “tightened up its buy” as it reacted
to a softer-than-expected market to rein in costs, Sharp said.  Debenhams remains “comfortable” with the range of pretax
profit estimates for the year, Sharp said in the statement. The
average analyst  estimate  is for pretax profit of 154.3 million
pounds ($236 million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  