-- Dell CEO May Get 50% Return on Buyout, Investor Says
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-06-27T23:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/dell-ceo-may-get-50-return-on-buyout-investor-says.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Dell  may generate an annualized return of more than 50
percent on his investment if he succeeds in taking the computer
maker private, an investor opposed to the deal said.  The CEO could realize an annualized return of as much as
50.1 percent during the next four to five years and  Silver Lake 
Management LLC, his partner, could earn as much as 44.7 percent
annually over the same period, Southeastern Asset Management
Inc. said in a presentation filed with the  Securities and
Exchange Commission .  Those rates of return are higher than shareholders could
achieve under the terms of the leveraged buyout, whereby Dell
and Silver Lake have agreed to pay stockholders $13.65 a share,
Southeastern said in the presentation. The investment firm held
about 4.1 percent of Dell stock, as of June 18, according to
Bloomberg data.  Southeastern, which previously said Dell is worth $24 a
share, may have locked in a loss of $225 million after recently
selling 71.7 million Dell shares at $13.52 apiece to fellow
dissident billionaire  Carl Icahn . It had paid $2.4 billion to
acquire 146.1 million shares, according to earlier regulatory
filings, indicating its cost was about $16.66 a share.  Buyout Vote  “The board could have done more -- much more -- to afford
stockholders an opportunity to achieve the very same gains now
pursued by Michael Dell and Silver Lake,” the Memphis,
Tennessee-based firm, run by O. Mason Hawkins and Staley Cates,
said nonetheless.  Southeastern is teaming with Icahn to oppose Michael Dell
and Silver Lake’s $24.4 billion buyout ahead of a vote at a
special meeting set for July 18 at Dell’s Round Rock, Texas
headquarters. Icahn, in his third push to seek a bigger payout
for shareholders, is proposing a deal that asks Dell to tender
1.1 billion shares at $14 apiece and which would retain the
company’s public listing.  In March, Icahn offered $15 a share in cash for as much as
58.1 percent of the stock. Then, in May, he partnered with
Southeastern to offer investors $12 a share in cash or
additional Dell stock while letting them retain stakes in a
public company. All his offers so far weren’t fully financed and
Dell’s special committee of the board has urged shareholders to
vote for founder Michael Dell’s buyout at the July 18 meeting.  “Substantially Undervalued"  Icahn and Southeastern view Dell’s buyout offer as being at
a ‘‘substantially undervalued’’ price, the investor said in the
presentation. Hawkins made similar arguments in a letter to Dell
shareholders filed with the SEC yesterday.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the advisory firm hired by Dell,
estimated the investment returns for Michael Dell and Silver
Lake, based on projections by Boston Consulting Group Inc.,
Southeastern said. Dell plans to invest his 15.6 percent stake
in the company and an additional $750 million in cash to take
the company private.  Dell and Silver Lake’s offer represents a premium of 25
percent over the computer maker’s closing share price of $10.88
on Jan. 11, the last trading day before news of a deal was first
reported.  A spokesman for the special committee of Dell’s board
handling the merger agreement declined to comment.  Dell slipped less than 1 percent to $13.34 at the close in
 New York . The stock has gained 32 percent this year through
today compared with a 13 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  