-- Denmark Defends Toughest Bail-Ins as EU Deal Readings Vary
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-06-28T11:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/denmark-commits-to-toughest-bail-ins-as-eu-deal-readings-vary.html
Denmark  isn’t planning to soften its
stance on bail-ins after the European Union struck a deal on
bank resolution that leaves room for national interpretation.  The first EU nation to enforce losses on senior creditors
in bank failures won’t back down from a law passed in 2010 that
ensures taxpayer funds aren’t tapped to aid failing banks,
Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said.  “The EU proposal will not change Denmark’s bank resolution
legislation or the conditions for bail-ins in Denmark,”
Vestager said yesterday in a phone interview after returning
from all-night talks in Brussels. “It will not make the road to
receiving a bailout any easier in Denmark.”  EU finance ministers reached a compromise deal yesterday
setting guidelines for assigning losses to private bank
creditors. The text of the agreement still gives governments the
option to nationalize banks to preserve financial stability.
Danish banks, led by  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , have argued the country’s
bail-in legislation puts them at a disadvantage to competitors
in neighboring  Sweden , where creditors can expect state backing.  “Our interpretation of the compromise is that for
countries that wish so -- and can afford it -- it would be
possible to make a recapitalization of a distressed bank without
imposing a bail-in on creditors,” Danske Bank chief analysts
Henrik Arnt and Thomas Hovard wrote in a note. “The compromise
is positive for Swedish banks as it seems authorities will keep
their flexibility in times of distress.”  Danske Bond  The yield on Danske Bank’s 5.6838 percent junior
subordinated hybrid note rose four basis points to 7.44 percent
as of 12:46 p.m. in Copenhagen, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Danske shares dropped as much as 0.9 percent.  Vestager had sought to ensure Denmark’s bail-in model was
adopted across the EU, arguing that failure to enforce a hard
line will compromise public finances and distort competition.  Germany , Denmark and the Netherlands had pursued a tough
stance while Sweden and  France  argued in favor of a compromise
that grants national regulators more freedom to rescue their
lenders.  “Both the French and the Germans seemed genuinely happy
about the compromise,” Vestager said. “We’ve created a clear-cut hierarchy among those funds eligible for bail-ins while
giving the larger depositors more protection. That should send a
clear and transparent message to those who fund banks.”  Copy Denmark  Vestager expects other nations to copy Denmark’s model
“per default,” she said. “It will create a level playing
field for Danish banks.”  According to Danish central bank Governor Lars Rohde, “the
agreement is a major step toward a more credible resolution
scheme, where the use of state funds is limited and fenced in,”
he said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “This creates the
foundation for a more even competitive climate than is the case
today.”  In seven hours of emergency negotiations in Brussels that
started June 26, finance chiefs also spelled out when
governments can step in and established a role for the European
Stability Mechanism, the euro area’s 500 billion-euro ($651
billion) firewall fund.  Denmark has managed to preserve its stable AAA rating even
after a burst housing bubble and a spate of regional  bank
failures . Gross domestic product in the $320 billion economy
stalled in the first quarter as investment and government
spending sank, the statistics office said today.  Moody’s Take  Moody’s Investors Service said this month Denmark’s
commitment to bail-ins is key to protecting its top credit
grade, which it shares with only five other nations in the 27-member EU.  Denmark’s systemically important banks, led by Danske Bank
and mortgage lender Nykredit Realkredit A/S, will be required to
hold as much as 5 percentage points in additional capital if
lawmakers back a March proposal. Danske Chief Financial Officer,
Henrik Ramlau-Hansen, said last month Denmark should copy
Sweden, where too-big-to-fail designation comes with an explicit
promise from the government to bail the banks out.  The EU accord leaves nations the option to take stakes in
their systemically important banks, Swedish Finance Minister
 Anders Borg  said. “There is a reasonable degree of flexibility
when it comes to injecting capital into banks.”  According to Christian Hede, a banking analyst at  Jyske
Bank A/S (JYSK)  in Silkeborg, “as long as the Swedish banks can rely
on some sort of state rescue, the playing field won’t be
entirely even.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  