-- Did Bernanke Signal Return of Risk-Off Market?
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-06-27T22:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/did-bernanke-signal-return-of-risk-off-market-a-gary-s.html
Here’s how I opened my Bloomberg
View  column  in January: “I have structured my investment themes
for 2013 in two ways. The first is geared toward the current
‘risk on’ climate, even though I doubt it will endure. The other
is a ‘risk off’ scenario that I believe will unfold once
investors recognize the unsustainability of what I call the
Grand Disconnect between robust securities markets and subdued
economic reality.”  The shock that I predicted would end the disconnect may now
have arrived in forecasts from the  Federal Reserve  and
statements by central bank officials over the past two months,
culminating in Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments on June
19. The Fed estimates that the  unemployment rate  could reach 6.5
percent to 6.8 percent by the end of 2014, from 7.6 percent in
May. The central bank sees real gross domestic product growth at
3 percent to 3.5 percent next year, compared with 2.1 percent so
far in the recovery. And it thinks that risks to the economy are
diminishing, even as “fiscal policy is restraining economic
growth.” In addition, the  chairman said  the housing sector “is
now obviously a support to growth.”  So Bernanke said the  Fed’s monthly purchases  of $85 billion
in securities could start to be wound down later this year and
cease by mid-2014. Those purchases, he added, “are tied to what
happens in the economy.” The central bank would adjust its
policies, he said, if “we overestimate what’s happening,” as the
Fed did with two previous bond-buying programs that had to be
restarted. He assured mortgage holders that the bank won’t dump
its huge mortgage portfolio. And the Fed clearly believes that
economic growth is sustainable enough that it can wean markets
from huge quantitative easing.  Fed Damper  Yet after he spoke,  stocks  swooned. That was to be
expected. Economies around the world are growing slowly at best
and hold no interest for equity investors, whose entire focus
has been on the money the U.S. central bank has been shoveling
out. So at the first hint that the Fed’s largesse will end, the
 bull market  became vulnerable, especially after the explosive
surge in late 2012, when individual investors jumped into a
rally that professionals had been riding since March 2009.  Furthermore, investors are facing not one but two shocks
that could end the disconnect. The other is a hard landing in
China, which is suffering through a tough transition to a
domestically driven economy, particularly now that its big
export markets in Europe and  North America  have retrenched. The
Chinese new export orders  index  fell to 44 in June from 48.9 in
May (numbers below 50 indicate contraction).  In addition,  China’s growth  is being slowed by its huge
excess capacity and declining numbers of labor force entrants
because of its one-child policy. Official growth data -- a 7.7
percent increase in real GDP in the first quarter compared with
a year earlier -- are probably vastly overstated. Consider that
manufacturing activity is declining, according to the  purchasing
managers’ index  released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics. That sector, along with utilities and construction,
accounts for 46 percent of China’s GDP. Growth is probably close
to the 5 percent to 6 percent hard-landing level.  Most important, debt has exploded and, as the Fed has, the
Chinese central bank is trying to curb it. Total domestic credit
from banks and other lenders leapt to 207 percent of GDP last
year, from 145 percent in 2008; much of the increase came from
shadow banking outfits. With foreign capital inflows drying up
and end-of-the-quarter financing needs increasing -- and, at
month’s end, $245 billion in payments from banks to retail
investors in wealth-management products --  short-term  interest
rates  skyrocketed to 25 percent last week.  China Crunch  The Chinese government blames speculators and shadow
banking for the cash crunch, and sees no shortage of funds in
the financial system. The People’s Bank of China is controlled
by the government and is determined to curtail informal lending
by imposing market discipline, even if that means considerable
pain to banks and other lenders.  The twin shocks of prospective tightening by the Fed and a
hard landing in China appear to be suppressing the “risk-on”
environment, which normally involves a mix I call the quartet --
long the riskier equities and commodities, and short Treasuries
and the dollar. This year, however, commodities have declined,
the dollar has been robust and Treasuries initially rose then
dropped in early May, about three weeks before stocks nosedived.  A central feature of the disconnect was the zeal for yield
as ultralow interest rates pushed investors into the highest-yielding vehicles they could find, regardless of risk --  junk
bonds , the leveraged loans that finance private-equity buyouts,
developing country bonds, investor-owned single-family rentals,
and high-dividend stocks such as utilities and consumer staples.
Indeed, the correlation between the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and junk bonds rose to 66 percent in May from 56 percent three
months before.  Now, as “risk-on” trades shift to “risk-off,” investors are
dumping emerging-market assets and junk bonds, marking what may
be the beginning of sustained declines. Stocks that pay high
dividends outperformed the  S&P 500  in the first quarter “risk-on” days, though they recently have underperformed amid the
general equity sell-off. Mortgage real estate investment trusts
have experienced a similar trajectory. Pension funds, seeking
high returns to meet their performance goals and avoid cuts in
retiree benefits, have moved into private equity, developing-country stocks and bonds,  hedge funds  and even commodities.  Near-junk Italian and Spanish bonds had been buoyed by
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s promise to “do
whatever it takes” to preserve the euro. Now, however, their
prices are falling after Bernanke’s statements, even as economic
growth in the euro area looks less negative with the purchasing
managers’ index rising to 48.9 in June from 47.7 in May.  Bernanke’s Warning  In his  speech  last August at Jackson Hole, Wyoming,
Bernanke said, “Some observers have raised concerns that, by
driving longer-term yields lower, nontraditional policies could
induce an imprudent reach for yield by some investors and
thereby threaten financial stability.” Yet he dismissed the
threat: “We have seen little evidence thus far of unsafe buildup
of risk or leverage.”  In congressional testimony in May, however, he changed his
tune. He said the Fed was worried about zeal for yield that, if
it continued, might “undermine financial stability.” If there
has been no buildup of risk from the zeal for yield, what
accounts for the recent sell-off of risky assets?  Until recently, investors seeking high yields were
oblivious to the weak economic fundamentals of  developing
countries . That is changing as we hear news of the drop in
China’s purchasing managers’ index, the decline in Turkey’s GDP
growth to 2.5 percent in 2012 from 9.2 percent in 2010, the
protests by Brazil’s rising middle class and the International
Monetary Fund’s reduction in its growth forecast for  Russia  to
2.5 percent this year from 3.4 percent.  Also caught in the shift from “risk-on” to “risk-off” are
closed-end bond funds. The average closed-end bond fund has
fallen 10.7 percent in the past month, compared with a 3.4
percent decline in open-end bond funds. About 61 percent of the
$276 billion in closed-end funds is in bond funds. The shift in
investor attitudes pushed municipal closed-end funds from
selling at a 2.1 percent premium to book value in January to
selling at a 6.2 percent discount recently, even as the 2
percent premium on junk closed-end bonds turned into a 5.9
percent discount.  In the “risk-off” climate, developed country stocks
probably have much further to drop, too. The sluggish U.S.
economic recovery since mid-2009 has produced minimal sales
volume growth and no increased pricing power as inflation rates
fell to zero. So seeking to increase profit, companies resorted
to cutting labor and other costs, pushing corporate profits’
share of national income to an all-time high. But that
productivity growth has stalled, and businesses may not be able
to find any further cost-cutting, at least for now.  Stronger Dollar  The strengthening dollar is also squeezing export earnings
and foreign profits of multinational companies. At the same
time,  Robert Shiller ’s cyclically adjusted price/earning
calculation indicates that the S&P 500 is 30 percent above its
long-term trend. That means stocks need to fall 30 percent to
get back to the norm.  Homebuilders’ stocks have plummeted and remain vulnerable
as the recent jump in  mortgage rates  slows the housing sector.
The Federal Housing Authority just announced that its mortgage
endorsements for single-family-home purchases in May dropped 7.1
percent compared with a year earlier as the number of first-time
homebuyers retreated.  As real wealth is destroyed, consumer discretionary
spending on automobiles, appliances and vacations may weaken
along with  consumer lending . To maintain sales, auto dealers
have been forced to offer subsidized zero percent interest rates
on loans and to increase the percentage of loans and leases to
subprime customers.  Slower Chinese growth in manufacturing undermines the
rationale for the commodity bubble of the early 2000s. Until
recently, China bought more than 40 percent of annual global
output of copper, tin, lead and zinc. But commodity prices moved
lower in early 2011, perhaps in anticipation of a hard landing
in China. Cotton prices are dropping as Chinese manufacturing
falls and weather conditions in U.S. cotton-producing areas
improve. Higher interest rates are eliminating the incentive to
store crude oil for sale in the futures market at higher prices.
Meanwhile, gold buyers who thought quantitative easing would
promote instant hyperinflation are finding instead that with
inflation rates dropping to zero and higher interest carrying
costs,  gold prices  have collapsed to about $1,200 an ounce
yesterday from a peak of about $1,800 an ounce in October 2012.  The strong dollar makes many commodities more expensive for
businesses that operate in weakening currencies. With the “risk-off” trade, the dollar should continue to gain as a haven,
especially as protection from the euro.  The yen will probably continue to drop against the dollar
as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe tries to revive the economy by
turning deflation into 2 percent annual inflation and forcing
the  Bank of Japan  to double its purchases of securities. As
exports and prices continue to drop, commodity currencies such
as the Australian dollar, the Brazilian real and the Russian
ruble remain vulnerable.  Competitive Devaluations  Currency devaluations in  Japan  and elsewhere will probably
be matched by competitive devaluations worldwide.  South Korea ,
which competes with Japan, may be next. Russia wants a weaker
ruble to revive its energy-export-dependent economy. No country
wins in competitive devaluations as foreign trade is disrupted.
In the end, however, most will end up devaluing against the  U.S.
dollar . Another reason to be long the buck.  So here’s my “risk-off” quartet: short stocks and
commodities, long the dollar and Treasuries. Yes, the Fed’s
recent statements mean Treasuries and other high-quality bonds
have been trashed along with developed and developing country
stocks, junk and emerging market bonds. Nevertheless, if stocks
continue to decline, the safety of Treasuries and investment-grade bonds will probably outweigh concerns about the end of
quantitative easing. Then the “risk-off” quartet will be fully
in place.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and the author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment
Strategies for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 