-- Don’t Panic as Bond Market Ship Not Sinking, Pimco’s Gross Says
-- B y   G r a n t   C l a r k   a n d   R o c k y   S w i f t
-- 2013-06-27T03:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/don-t-panic-as-bond-market-ship-not-sinking-pimco-s-gross-says.html
Bond yields and risk spreads were
too low two months ago and global markets that were too 
leveraged are now reducing risk, according to  Bill Gross , 
manager of the world’s largest mutual fund at Pacific 
Investment Management Co.  Gross’s $285 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  led declines
among the most-popular bond mutual funds earlier this month
after the  Federal Reserve  sparked a global selloff in bonds by
indicating it may start reducing asset purchases known as
quantitative easing, or QE.  “In trying to be specific about which conditions would
prompt a tapering of QE, the Fed tilted overrisked investors to
one side of an overloaded and overlevered boat,” Gross said in
his July commentary titled “The Tipping Point”, posted on
 Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s website. "Don't panic,"
he wrote.  Gross’s flagship fund lost 1.6 percent from June 18 through
June 20, the day after the Fed outlined its exit scenario, and
was down 2.8 percent for the year, the worst of 19 U.S. total
return funds with at least $2 billion in assets, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The $4.2 billion Bernstein
Intermediate Duration Portfolio was the third-worst performer
this year, after Pimco Total Return and a related fund, falling
2.7 percent.  Bonds, stocks and commodities slumped after Fed Chairman
 Ben Bernanke  put investors on notice the central bank is
prepared to begin phasing out one of the most aggressive easing
programs in its century-long history later this year. Ten-year
Treasury  yields  climbed to a 22-month high of 2.66 percent on
June 24, worsening a selloff that started last month.  ‘Not Sinking’  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a revised 1.8 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter, down from the previous
estimate of 2.4 percent, the Commerce Department said yesterday.
The first-quarter rate was projected to hold at 2.4 percent,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “The  U.S. economy  is not sinking, nor are the majority of
global economies,” Gross wrote. “Their markets just had too
much risk, and in Pimco’s opinion, too much hope for a constant
QE and for the growth that it would produce.”  Bond-fund managers from Gross to  Jeffrey Gundlach  at
DoubleLine Capital LP have said now is a bad time to sell bonds
because the economy isn’t strong enough to sustain higher
borrowing costs. Gross, who trailed peers in 2011 after dumping
Treasuries before they rallied, said last week that investors
who are selling  U.S. government debt  now are missing the
influence of inflation on the central bank’s decisions.  Fund Withdrawals  “The market basically has misinterpreted the growth and
unemployment targets while leaving out inflation targets going
forward,” he said in an interview on June 19 with  Trish Regan 
and  Adam Johnson  following Bernanke’s comments.  Gross’s Total Return fund generated annual gains of 7.1
percent over the past five years, outpacing 91 percent of peers,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bond funds worldwide have experienced withdrawals this
month after Bernanke told Congress on May 22 that the central
bank’s policy-setting board could start reducing its bond
purchases in “its next few meetings” if the U.S. employment
outlook shows sustained improvement.  U.S.-listed bond mutual funds and exchange-traded funds saw
record monthly redemptions of $61.7 billion through June 24. The
redemptions surpassed the previous monthly record of $41.8
billion, set in October 2008, according to an e-mailed statement
by TrimTabs Investment Research in Sausalito,  California .
Investors withdrew $52.8 billion from bond mutual funds and $8.9
billion from ETFs during the period, said Richard Stern, a
spokesman for TrimTabs.  Inflection Point  Gross’s fund saw an estimated $1.32 billion leave in May,
according to Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , its first
withdrawals since 2011. The $4.7 billion  Pimco Total Return
Exchange-Traded Fund (BOND)  has seen redemptions of $487 million since
May 15, according to data from San Francisco-based
IndexUniverse.  The total return category includes funds that invest in
intermediate-term, investment-grade bonds -- core holdings for
investors seeking to put money into fixed income -- and excludes
municipal bond funds.  Gross cut the holdings of Treasuries in the Pimco Total
Return Fund to 37 percent in May from 39 percent in April, a
level that was the highest since July 2010, according to data on
Pimco’s website.  In the latest commentary, Gross advised investors “don’t
jump ship now.”  “We may have reached an inflection point of low Treasury,
mortgage and corporate yields in late April, but this is
overdone,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Clark in  Hong Kong  at 
 gclark@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  