-- Gundlach to Gross Say Worst Probably Over for Treasuries
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/doubleline-s-gundlach-says-worst-is-over-for-treasuries.html
Bond managers from DoubleLine
Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  to Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s  Bill Gross  are telling investors the worst may be over for
Treasury bonds after 10-year yields rose to a 22-month high.  “I do believe July will not be the same type of month,”
Gundlach, chief investment officer of Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine, said yesterday in a webcast for investors. “There’s
profits to be made in the  bond market  between now and the end of
the year.”  Gross, in a Bloomberg Radio interview yesterday with  Tom
Keene , said 10-year Treasury yields can go 25 basis points, or
0.25 percentage point, lower, which would help reverse some of
the losses in May and June.  Gundlach and Gross are telling investors not to panic after
comments by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last
week that the central bank may reduce its asset purchases sent
markets lower across the world. U.S. stocks, commodities and
Treasuries rallied yesterday as Fed officials said investors may
have overreacted and the central bank will continue to spur
growth if needed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent to
1,613.20 at 4 p.m. in New York as 10-year Treasury yields lost
six basis points to 2.47 percent. Yields went as high as 2.66
percent on June 24. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials added
0.8 percent as oil surged 1.6 percent, while gold dipped to a
34-month low below $1,200 an ounce.  Decline Seen  Gundlach manages the $39 billion  DoubleLine Total Return
Bond Fund (DBLTX) , which has averaged gains of 8.8 percent in the past
three years to beat 99 percent of similarly managed funds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund has declined
0.4 percent this year, ahead of 81 percent of rivals.  Ten-year yields will be lower than where they are now by
the end of the year and not by a “tiny amount,” Gundlach said
yesterday. Interest rates won’t continue higher because of the
economic impact, such as in the housing market, where
affordability has been radically changed following an increase
in  mortgage rates  and  home prices , he said.  Mortgage rates for 30-year U.S. loans surged to the highest
level in almost two years, a report yesterday showed. The
average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 4.46 percent
from 3.93 percent, the biggest one-week increase since 1987,
according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac . The rate was
the highest since July 2011 and above 4 percent for the first
time since March 2012.  Dudley’s Comments  Gross said the Fed has historically been too optimistic
about the economy. Fed Bank of New York President William C.
Dudley said the central bank may prolong the asset-purchase
program that has fueled gains in global stocks and commodities
should the economy fail to meet the Fed’s forecasts.  Gross’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s largest mutual
fund, with $285 billion in assets, has declined 3.6 percent this
year, behind 88 percent of similarly managed funds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past three years, the fund
has returned an annualized 4.6 percent, ahead of 79 percent of
rivals.  “We like 10-years, we like five years and we like safe
assets that are overyielded and, like I say, underpriced,”
Gross said during the radio interview.  Pimco Total Return had an estimated $1.32 billion in
redemptions in May, according to Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) ,
its first withdrawals since 2011. Gundlach’s fund is on track to
have its first month of withdrawals this month since it opened
in April 2010, with clients pulling an estimated $387 million
through June 20, according to Morningstar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  