-- The Message of Protests: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   M o i s e s   N a i m
-- 2013-06-27T14:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/the-message-of-protests-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
What is happening in Brazil? Not so
long ago, it was the toast of the global economy. More than 40
million Brazilians joined the middle class, the number of
indigents plummeted, and the nation achieved the feat of
reducing its legendary  income inequality .  The Latin American giant was awarded both the 2014 World
Cup and the 2016  Summer Olympics . It seemed to have finally
buried the old cliche: Brazil is the country of the future --
and always will be.  Now Brazil has hit turbulence. Since the middle of June,
its biggest cities have been convulsed by rolling street
protests. The initial spark was a nine-cent rise in bus fares,
but the protests have since become wider, more clamorous
expressions of anti-establishment anger. The day after the
government backed down on the bus fare hike, 1 million
demonstrators turned out in more than 100 cities to voice
frustration with corruption, the inefficiency of the health-care
and public transport systems, and runaway costs of hosting the
 World Cup .  Some protests have turned violent, with mobs vandalizing
banks and attempting to break into the Ministry of Foreign
Relations. Police responded with pepper spray and rubber
bullets. The uprising is Brazil’s biggest since 1992, when a
student revolt against then-President Fernando Collor de Mello
led to his resignation.  Around the world, eruptions of mass rage are becoming
increasingly common, often sparked by relatively minor incidents
or grievances. In  Chile , student protests about the high cost of
education turned into violent clashes. In  Turkey , the
instigation was the government’s intention to raze a park in
Istanbul.  Revolts Triggered  In 2011 a Tunisian fruit vendor, exasperated by the
constant harassment of the authorities, set himself on fire and
started a revolution that ousted dictator Zina al-Abidine Ben Ali and ignited popular revolts throughout the  Middle East .
Chinese cities are often rocked by street demonstrations spurred
by the most varied of reasons: protests against shoddy
construction, the abusive behavior of local authorities,
corruption, or contaminated food or water.  While critics of capitalism might claim the unrest
represents a backlash against the global economic order, the
reality is that the protest movements are highly localized,
focused on grievances specific to a single country. Yet the
countries in which these protests have occurred do have
something in common: economic success. And that’s no
coincidence.  Stunned Governments  In all the countries in which street riots erupted, the
government was stunned by the rapid escalation of the protests.
It didn’t expect them, didn’t understand their true nature, and
was ill prepared to react effectively. The common response was
to repress the protests by sending in the riot police.
Inevitably, the clashes between the people and the police led to
casualties and scenes of brutality that spread rapidly through
social media, thus exacerbating the protests and spurring even
more people to take to the streets.  Governments have difficulty dealing with movements that
lack a clear chain of command or a discernible organizational
structure. The protests -- informal, spontaneous, collective,
often chaotic -- are baffling to governments organized along
hierarchical lines of authority. In  Brazil , for example, a
survey found that 81 percent of those who participated in one of
the massive rallies simply learned about it via Facebook or
Twitter and decided to join. In these cases, with whom should a
government negotiate to restore order?  Leaderless Protests  The leaderless, spontaneous nature of the protests also
makes it difficult for the government to find someone to blame -
- or to decide whom to arrest in the hope of weakening the
movement by cutting off its head. There is no head. In this
sense, it’s interesting to compare the reactions of Brazil’s and
Turkey’s leaders.  Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff  shied away from
denouncing the protesters and instead insisted that their voices
needed to be heard, their demands taken seriously and changes
made. She has pledged to spend billions upgrading public
transportation, promised to crack down on official corruption,
and proposed a national plebiscite on political reform.  In contrast, Turkey’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
has attacked, threatened, and insulted the protesters, claiming
they were part of a widespread conspiracy against his Islamic
government. Among those Erdogan singled out as participants in
the conspiracy are local bankers and, of course, unnamed foreign
powers.  Range of Outcomes  Just as nobody could anticipate the start of these
protests, it’s equally impossible to predict how and when they
will end. In many countries caught up in the recent wave of
unrest, the protests have had little to no lasting impact; in
others, they’ve produced small, cosmetic reforms. In a few
places, particularly in the Arab world, the protests have
toppled governments.  Brazil, Turkey, and Chile are not Tunisia or  Egypt . Their
democratically elected governments are far more resilient and
their leaders far more popular and secure in their power than
the North African dictators swept away by the Arab Spring.
Nonetheless, one thing is certain: The political climate of
these countries was radically changed by the protests, and their
leadership has been weakened.  This comes as a rude shock to policy makers in emerging
economies who convinced themselves -- with some justification --
they’ve done things right. Chile is often cited as the example
of a poor country able to overcome its troubled political past
to become a world-class model of economic progress, development,
and democracy.  Huntington’s Answer  Same with Turkey: It’s common to call it an “economic
miracle.” Turkey was widely seen as the ideal of a country
where East and West, modernity and tradition, Islam and
democracy could peacefully blend and coexist.  So why did thousands of citizens of Chile, Turkey, and
Brazil take to the streets to protest, instead of celebrating
the obvious and tangible progress of their respective countries?
The answer may be found in a book that the late Harvard
University political scientist Samuel Huntington published in
1968, “Political Order in Changing Societies.”  His thesis is that in societies experiencing rapid change,
the public’s demand for public services grows at a faster clip
than the government’s ability to satisfy it. His more general
point is that institutions cannot develop at the pace required
by the fast-growing expectations of a population recently
empowered by prosperity, literacy, more information, and a
newfound expectation -- indeed hunger -- to shape its own better
future. In Huntington’s words, “The primary problem of politics
is the lag in the development of political institutions behind
social economic change.”  Protests Amplified  That lag is what brings people into the streets and
amplifies more limited protests against high college tuitions in
Chile, the redevelopment of Taksim Gezi Park in Istanbul, or the
nine-cent increase in public transport fares in Brazil.  In these three successful nations the current street
protests will eventually abate. But that doesn’t mean their
roots will disappear. In some countries the gap identified by
Huntington is the source of debilitating turmoil and paralyzing
political instability. In others it awakens apathetic citizens
and forces them to engage, politicians to listen, and
governments to change. In some lucky cases, Huntington’s gap
propels society forward.  The Turkish and Brazilian situations will provide
interesting lessons for the many governments facing newly
empowered populations that want more from their leaders.
Hopefully the lesson will confirm that dialogue, inclusion, and
sincere responses to popular grievances work better than
demagoguery and repression.  No government will be able to fully satisfy all the
expectations of its people. Yet governments in the 21st century
need to hear their people’s voices and offer something real in
response. That means building a democracy that goes beyond
holding free and fair elections.  (Moises Naim, a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, is the author of The End of Power. He was
the minister of trade and industry for  Venezuela  in the early
1990s and the former editor of Foreign Policy magazine.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  