-- The Momentous Supreme Court Ruling You Totally Missed
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-06-27T22:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/the-momentous-supreme-court-ruling-you-totally-missed.html
In the biggest U.S. Supreme Court
week in years, with banner headlines on race and marriage, the
court decided a  small case  no one much noticed. But in its own
way, it reflected societal changes as profound as those captured
in the court’s rulings on the Voting Rights Act and Proposition
8.  At stake was nothing less than the question of whether a
biological father who doesn’t support his child is really a
father at all -- and the court, led by its younger conservative
justices, said he wasn’t.  True, the holding in Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, which
turned on interpretations of the Indian Child Welfare Act of
1978, will affect few people. The facts of the case were
ordinary enough: An expectant mother broke off her engagement to
her fiancé, who subsequently texted her that he would give up
his parental rights rather than pay support for the child. She
gave up the baby girl for adoption, and the baby found loving
and supportive parents.  What made it a federal case was that the biological father
is a member of the Cherokee nation, making the girl 3/256ths
Cherokee. (That’s 1.2 percent, if you’re counting, and yes, it’s
more than Senator Elizabeth Warren is.) Those facts invoked the
ICWA, a law designed to remedy the shameful history of states
forcibly taking American Indian children from their birth
parents and “assimilating” them into white American families.  ‘Best Interests’  When the adoptive parents told the biological father of
their intent to adopt -- the child was by then four months old -
- the father said, for the first time, he wanted to keep the
child. That assertion ordinarily would have stopped an adoption
in its tracks. The ICWA bars the adoption of an Indian child
absent a showing beyond a reasonable doubt that the “continued
custody of the child by the parent or Indian custodian is likely
to result in serious emotional or physical damage to the child.”
It also requires that efforts be made “to prevent the breakup of
the Indian family.” Any ordinary reading of these provisions
would have granted custody to the father.  Yet Justice Samuel Alito -- joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Clarence Thomas, Anthony Kennedy and
Stephen Breyer (the sole liberal here) -- thought otherwise. In
a remarkable decision, the majority first said that custody
wasn’t “continued” because the biological father never had
custody in the first place. Then it said that no efforts had to
be made to prevent “the breakup of the Indian family” because
there was no family to speak of. To put it bluntly, the court
denied that the biological father was a father in any meaningful
sense.  What was going on here? As a brutally direct dissent by
Justice Sonia Sotomayor made clear, these lawyerly contortions
distorted the usual rules of statutory interpretation. The court
was bending over backward to deny the Indian father his legal
rights.  You don’t have to dig too deeply to uncover clues that
explain the majority’s holding. The opinion noted that, had the
father not been Indian, the whole case wouldn’t have arisen,
because ordinary “best interests of the child” analysis -- the
hallmark of family law -- would have given the child to her
adoptive parents. Conservatives have never liked ICWA, with its
special granting of rights to Indians on the basis of their
tribal sovereignty and the associated whiff of racial
discrimination. But equal protection wasn’t the majority five’s
motivating factor. Rather, it was their embrace of the norms of
parental adoption and a distaste for a law that prefers
biological parents to adopted ones.  Contemporary Morals  In a detail that should (in principle) have had no bearing
on the case, Alito’s decision noted that the adoptive parents
attended the baby’s birth, and that the “Adoptive Father even
cut the umbilical cord.” When lower courts ruled in favor of the
biological father, Alito noted, the girl was, at 27 months,
handed over to a man “whom she had never met” -- presumably
because the adoptive parents did not allow him to meet her. The
court also repeatedly said that the biological father had
“abandoned” his daughter prior to her birth. It’s true that he
initially relinquished parental rights to the mother, but he
also asserted parenthood within a day of learning about the
proposed adoption.  Most striking, the ruling’s statutory interpretation made
sense only against the backdrop of the court’s strong
presumption against the biological father. To say that there
could be no continued custody because he never had custody makes
sense only because the adoption process began even before the
baby’s birth. To deny there was ever a “family” that included
the biological father rests on the same conception. These views
reflect a contemporary moral perspective that the adoptive
relationship can wholly replace the biological one -- and can be
better for the child.  Antonin Scalia, increasingly the paleoconservative on the
court, stuck with the now-apparently-outmoded conservative view
that biology matters. He joined Sotomayor’s dissent, which can
be explained by his customary textual fidelity, but also spoke
his mind in his own short dissent. The majority, he said,
“needlessly demeans the rights of parenthood” that were long
respected by the common law. The best interests of the child, he
pointed out, are not in fact considered when a baby is born
unless there is some controversy about custody -- the child
ordinarily stays with its biological parents. Some children, he
said, would “be better off raised by someone else,” but our laws
respect the rights of birth parents.  Time has passed Scalia by. The younger generation of
conservatives is comfortable with adoption and has adopted
mainstream American views on the subject. Scalia has nine
children and 28 grandchildren. Alito and Roberts have two
children each, and Roberts’s are adopted. To the younger
conservatives, an adoptive parent is a true parent, and any law
that interferes with that belongs on the junk pile.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on Twitter at
 @NoahRFeldman .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 