-- Tea Party Groups More Likely to Get IRS Look Than Others
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-27T16:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/tea-party-groups-more-likely-to-get-irs-look-than-others.html
Tea Party  groups were more likely
than self-identified “progressives” to be given extra scrutiny
for political involvement by the  Internal Revenue Service  from
2010 through 2012, according to the Treasury Inspector General
for Tax Administration.  The IRS paid special attention to 30 percent of groups with
“progress” or “progressive” in their names that filed
applications for tax-exempt status between May 2010 and May
2012. All groups with “Tea Party,” “patriot,” or “9/12” in
their names during that time received extra scrutiny.  “While we have multiple sources of information
corroborating the use of Tea Party and other related criteria,”
said inspector general J. Russell George, “including employee
interviews, e-mails and other documents, we found no indication
in any of these other materials that ‘progressives’ was a term
used to refer cases for scrutiny for political campaign
intervention.”  The inspector general’s office has been criticized by
Democrats for not disclosing that some progressive groups had
been subjected to heightened scrutiny and that the term
“progressives” was included on an IRS guidance document.  The office released the information in a letter dated June
26 to Representative  Sander Levin , the top Democrat on the House
Ways and Means Committee. Levin called for George to testify
again to the committee and argued that the audit had a
“fundamental flaw.”  No Hint  “The IG didn’t even give us a hint that progressive groups
were targeted,” said Representative Joseph Crowley, a  New York 
Democrat.  According to the inspector general’s letter, the IRS gave
extra scrutiny to six of the 20 groups with “progress” or
“progressive” in their names. The inspector general’s May
audit said there were 96 groups with “Tea Party,” “patriot”
or “9/12” in their names.  The IRS has been in the midst of controversy since May 10,
when the agency disclosed the Tea Party scrutiny. Six
congressional committees have opened inquiries and the  Justice
Department  is pursuing a criminal probe.  The IRS is required by law to monitor tax-exempt groups for
political activity, which is prohibited for charities under
section 501(c)(3) and limited for social welfare groups
organized under section 501(c)(4).  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said progressive
groups were flagged though not systematically targeted the way
small-government groups were.  Lookout List  The terms “progressives” and “Tea Party” appeared on
different parts of the IRS’s Be On the Lookout, or BOLO, list
and at different times, suggesting two separate efforts.  Tea Party groups were referred to a special unit for
processing starting in 2010.  Progressive groups were included under a section labeled
“historical,” suggesting an issue that had arisen before the
August 2010 version of the BOLO released this week.  The inspector general’s initial May 14 report looked only
at the 2010 to 2012 period, and it’s unclear why the
“progressive” term appeared or how IRS employees treated
progressive groups before then. The inspector general’s office
is still investigating the issue, according to the letter.  Camp and Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican,
criticized the IRS’s request for a $1 billion, or 9 percent,
budget increase for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.  “Why would we, representing the taxpayers we represent,
give you all the money you’re asking for if this is what the IRS
is doing with our hard-earned tax dollars?” Ryan said to Danny Werfel, the interim leader of the IRS, during a hearing today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  