-- ECB Monetary Policy Exit Is Very Far Away, Council’s Knot Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-06-27T13:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/ecb-monetary-policy-exit-is-very-far-away-council-s-knot-says.html
A shift by the  European Central Bank 
from its current accommodative monetary policy is far off amid
concern over economic growth, ECB council member Klaas Knot
said, echoing comments by policy makers yesterday.  “Hinting at an exit, at least in regards with the ECB
policy, is still a very long time away from us,” Knot, who is
also president of the Dutch central bank, told lawmakers in The
Hague today. He was referring to the current state of the euro
bloc’s economy and low inflation. He also said that recovery in
the  euro zone  is still vulnerable. “We are more concerned about
the downward risks,” he said.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday in a speech at
the French National Assembly in Paris that policy makers will
maintain a loose monetary stance for as long as is needed.
Financial markets tumbled in the past week amid concern stimulus
will be withdrawn after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that policy makers may start slowing
their pace of bond buying.  “The financial markets are pretty calm right now,” Knot
said. “There are no chaotic movements in the bond spreads or
the funding costs for banks.”  Interest rates  are still
“reasonably favourable.”  Recovery of market trust has been stagnating in recent
months, Knot said. “If we want to bring it back, more
structural reforms are required.” A banking union is one of the
elements to restore this trust, he said. Not only the
supervision must be taken care of, also the resolution, the
asset quality review and the backstops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Luxembourg at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  