-- Ecuador Scraps Trade Pact Over U.S. Threats in Snowden Case
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-06-27T22:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/ecuador-cancels-trade-pact-over-u-s-blackmail-in-snowden-case.html
Ecuador, the South American nation
considering an asylum request from fugitive U.S. intelligence
leaker Edward Snowden, renounced its U.S. trade benefits today,
saying they were being used as “blackmail.”  “Ecuador doesn’t accept pressure or threats from anyone
and doesn’t barter its principles and sovereignty or submit to
mercantile interests,” President  Rafael Correa  said today in a
speech in the central province of Los Rios. What Snowden
revealed “is a terrible case of massive espionage, both
nationally and internationally that clearly threatens the right
to intimacy and the sovereignty of states.”  The announcement comes a day after U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez , the New Jersey Democrat who is chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, said he would lead the effort to
block renewal of trade preferences for Ecuador if it granted
Snowden asylum. The Andean nation has been lobbying the U.S.
congress to renew the preferences, known as ATPDEA, which are
due to expire next month.  “Our government will not reward countries for bad
behavior,” Menendez said yesterday in a statement. “If Snowden
is granted asylum in Ecuador, I will lead the effort to prevent
the renewal of Ecuador’s duty-free access under GSP and will
also make sure there is no chance for renewal of the Andean
Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act. Trade preferences are
a privilege granted to nations, not a right.”  Job Losses  Ecuador  would lose at least 40,000 jobs if the trade
preferences aren’t renewed, the nation’s Ambassador to the U.S.
Nathalie Cely said last year. While most of the $1.01 billion in
exports to the U.S. in April was oil, shipments also included
more labor intensive products such as cut flowers, broccoli and
shrimp. Exports fell from $1.14 billion in April 2012, according
to U.S. Census data.  Ecuador’s Communications Secretary Fernando Alvarado, who
called the trade preferences a “new instrument of blackmail,”
said today the government is offering the U.S. $23 million, an
amount similar to what the U.S. provides under ATPDEA, to
provide human rights training to combat torture, illegal
executions and attacks on peoples’ privacy.  The loss of trade preferences isn’t crippling, though it
will make local producers and exporters less competitive in the
U.S. than similar companies in neighboring countries, said
Santiago Mosquera, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings . Peru, Chile and
 Colombia  have trade agreements with the U.S. that give their
exports duty-free access to the world’s biggest economy.  Hard Times  “They are going to have a harder time competing in the
global arena because they now have to pay tariffs to get into
their largest market,” Mosquera said today in a telephone
interview from  New York . “Looking into the future, it has more
implications in terms of investment.”  Companies affected by the loss of the trade preferences
will receive compensation from the government in the form of tax
credits, Correa said at a separate event in Los Rios today.  “That sector that’s so nervous, I say take a valium,”
Correa said. “I’m not in the least bit concerned.”  Ecuador, which last year granted refuge to WikiLeaks’
founder Julian Assange, is considering an asylum request from
former National Security Agency contractor Snowden, Foreign
Minister Ricardo Patino said July 23. The decision may take as
long as two months, Patino said yesterday.  “It took us two months to make the decision on the case of
Assange, so do not expect us to make that decision sooner this
time,” Patino said.  Assange has spent the past year holed up in Ecuador’s
London embassy to avoid extradition to  Sweden , where he faces
questions about allegations of rape and sexual molestation,
which he denies.  Moscow Airport  Snowden, a former worker for government contractor  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  who Russian President  Vladimir Putin  has said is in the transit area of a Moscow airport,
disclosed top-secret U.S. National Security Agency programs that
collect phone and Internet data.  U.S. Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican and ranking
member of the Senate Finance Committee, today urged President
 Barack Obama  to “act swiftly” and cancel Ecuador’s
preferential access to U.S. markets. Among the reasons he cited
in an e-mailed statement was Ecuador’s “disregard for the rule
of law.”  The ATPDEA trade preferences, enacted in 1991, sought to
combat cocaine production in the Andes through incentives for
farmers to stop producing coca.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in  Quito  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 