-- Medtronic Recalls Infusion Pump Linked to 14 Deaths
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/medtronic-recalls-infusion-pump-linked-to-14-deaths.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s SynchroMed infusion
pumps were found to have four flaws that have led to 14 patient
deaths, spurring U.S. regulators to issue their most serious
recall on the implantable device used to deliver pain and other
medications.  Medtronic, the world’s largest heart device maker, notified
customers in early June about the flaws that may interfere with
the safe and reliable delivery of medications using the
SynchroMed Implantable Infusion System, the Minneapolis-based
company said in a statement. Each flaw specified in the
notifications was deemed a Class 1 recall by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, denoting potential life-threatening issues.  Fourteen patients have died since 1996 while using the
SynchroMed System, Donna Marquard, a Medtronic spokeswoman, said
yesterday. The most common complication was the inadvertent
injection of a drug into the patient’s subcutaneous tissue,
rather than into the pump, which led to 11 deaths. Two patients
died from a blockage and another from an electrical short.  Harm may also have stemmed from use of the priming bolus, a
function that allows drugs to move quickly from the pump to the
tip of the catheter to deliver medication while the patient is
under medical supervision, Medtronic said in its statement. The
company said it found that any time the feature is used, the
drug mixes with sterile water or cerebrospinal fluid, which may
led to dilution of the drug or an extra delivery of medication.  While the flaw can lead to an overdose or not enough of a
drug being delivered, the company hasn’t linked it to specific
complications in individual patients, given other factors such
as drug dosage, patient medical history and the use of other
medications at the same time, Marquard said in an e-mail.  Medtronic recalled two types of the pumps in December after
reports they may fail to properly delivery medicines,
potentially leading to a return of symptoms and potentially
death. The concern identified then was a risk of stalling and
not properly delivering medicines, particularly when they were
used with unapproved drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  