-- Egyptians Hoard Food as Protests Raise Concern of More Mayhem
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-06-27T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/egyptians-hoard-food-as-protests-raise-concern-of-more-mayhem.html
Ashraf Fouad has stuffed 30,000
Egyptian pounds ($4,300) in a wall safe in his Cairo apartment.
Across town, Niven Mankarious has been stocking up on chicken,
cheese and other food to last her family a month.  Like many Egyptians, they are anxious over the unclear
direction their country is taking and fearful that violence will
be ignited by June 30 protests aimed at ousting the country’s
first democratically elected civilian president, the Islamist
Mohamed Mursi. Tensions over this watershed in Egypt’s
transition from autocratic rule has battered its stocks and
bonds, with the risk of sovereign default at an all-time high.  “I don’t know how violent this is going to get,” said
Fouad, a 32-year-old marketing manager. “To be honest, the only
thing I know is that nothing is clear now. It hasn’t been for a
while.”  The protests coincide with Mursi’s first anniversary in
office, a year detractors paint as one of turmoil and
uncertainty, of deepening poverty and sectarian violence, of
mounting political polarization. Hopes for a better life after a
2011 popular revolt toppled  Hosni Mubarak  have faded, and the
military has threatened to step in to prevent the political
crisis from spiraling out of control.  Mursi, in a speech Wednesday, acknowledged making mistakes,
while blaming opponents for the turmoil. “Polarization has
reached a state that endangers our nascent democratic experience
and threatens chaos,” he cautioned.  Markets Reeling  Egypt’s markets are reflecting the tumult. Egypt’s main
stock index has slumped 14 percent in June, the world’s fourth-biggest drop according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Default
risk is a record 888 basis points, putting Egypt among the
riskiest 10 credits of the world.  Millions in the nation of 85 million have signed a petition
for early elections circulated by the grassroots Tamarud, or
Rebel, movement, the group says. Its goal is to amass 15
million, surpassing the number of votes Mursi received to become
president. Mursi supporters say the push for an early
presidential vote has no legal grounds.  “It’s going to be hard for people to deal with the reality
that June 30 is probably not going to succeed in pushing Mursi
out of power,”  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Doha Center, said by phone.  Secularists and youth activists, disillusioned with Mursi’s
promises to be a president for all Egyptians, see an opportunity
to take back a revolution they say he and his Muslim Brotherhood
backers hijacked.  Islamist Agenda Seen  “Unfortunately, we’ve seen an attempt to rebuild a new
dictatorship but this time, in the name of religion and not in
the name of authoritarian rule,” said Khaled Dawoud, a
spokesman for the opposition National Salvation Front.  Islamists, repressed under Mubarak, see the demand for
Mursi’s exit as a dangerous challenge to gains they achieved
through the ballot box.  The point where the two views collide has been the trigger
for conflict in the year since Mursi narrowly defeated Mubarak’s
last premier.  Since his election, the president has faced a nation
increasingly impatient for the change Mubarak’s overthrow had
promised. Unemployment has soared beyond 13 percent and foreign
reserves have dropped by more than half since the uprising.
Growth is near its lowest in two decades.  Motives Suspected  Instead of tackling  Egypt ’s economic woes, Mursi’s critics
charge, he has put the interests of the Muslim Brotherhood at
the top of his priorities, appointing Islamists to influential
positions. He has spent his first year mired in power struggles,
including frequent conflicts with a justice system Islamists say
is biased against them. Mursi’s detractors accuse his backers of
trying to stack the courts.  Against this background, the military’s comments loom
large.  “It’s becoming very clear who has the upper hand when it
comes to moving things, when it comes to breaking stalemates or
dead ends or even, if necessary, taking over,” said Emad
Shahin, a public policy professor at the American University in
Cairo. “The military, of course.”  Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi’s warning this week
that the military would not stand idly by if unrest escalates
seemed calculated to raise it above the fray and reaffirm the
role it cast for itself after Mubarak’s ouster as guardian of
the revolution. The generals who assumed interim rule before
Mursi were accused by many activists of mismanaging the
transition.  Military Intervention  “The only realistic scenario for Mursi’s downfall is if
the military steps in,” said Brookings’ Hamid. “That will be
undemocratic and, in my view, very dangerous for Egypt.”  Mourad Ali, media adviser for the Muslim Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party, said he hoped the opposition would
agree to dialogue.  “How is this going to end? God forbid, there may be blood
and chaos for months and then we will sit and talk and agree,”
he said. “Why don’t we sit and agree now?”  Dawoud, the opposition National Salvation Front spokesman,
dismissed the overture as disingenuous.  “Their calls for dialogue are always hollow and always
come without an agenda or even a single sign of goodwill,” he
said.  It’s that sort of conflict that has unsettled Egyptians
such as Fouad and Mankarious ahead of the protests. Stocking up
on food, or stuffing cash into a safe is a lesson they learned
after the 2011 uprising.  Mankarious says she has no faith in Mursi or the
opposition, and would like the military to take control again
until the situation stabilizes.  “I hope the day will be peaceful,” she said. ’’We don’t
want more bloodshed; we don’t want more people to be killed or
more mothers to weep for their children.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  