-- Egypt Default Risk Jumps to Record as Political Rift Widens
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-06-27T16:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/egypt-risk-jumps-to-record-as-political-rift-widens-pre-protests.html
Egypt ’s default risk soared to a
record after a speech by President Mohamed Mursi failed to
alleviate investor concerns ahead of planned nationwide rallies
this weekend. Domestic debt yields climbed to a nine-month high.  Five-year contracts that protect against default by the
second-most indebted Arab country rose 12.5 basis points to
887.5 at 5:06 p.m. in Cairo, according to CMA prices, the
highest on a closing basis since Bloomberg started tracking them
in 2009. The country’s risk, among the highest 10 in the world,
for the first time climbed above that of  Pakistan , which has the
same junk rating of Caa1 at Moody’s Investors Service.  Pro- and anti-government camps plan rallies for June 30,
when Mursi marks one year in office. The president in a
nationally-televised address last night blamed the nation’s
crisis on an opposition that has rejected his calls for talks.
Clashes between his supporters and opponents, who accuse him of
consolidating power and failing to revive the economy, have
injured hundreds this week and killed one person.  “Rather than seeing a consensus over how to move forward,
the weekend’s protests point to policy paralysis and political
polarization,” Simon Williams, chief Middle East and North
Africa economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Dubai, said by e-mail
today. “You can hardly be surprised the market is worried.
Growth is poor, inflation is high, the currency is weak and
public finances are deteriorating.”  ‘Fresh Bout’  The yield on the government’s benchmark $1 billion of 5.75
percent eurobonds due 2020 retreated 22 basis points after
hitting a record 10.24 percent yesterday, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The North African country’s  external debt  stood at $38.8
billion at the end of 2012, or 14.1 percent of economic output,
according to Finance Ministry data.  Domestic debt  reached 1.4
trillion Egyptian pounds ($198 billion) in March, or 80 percent
of gross domestic product, the data show.  Local-currency government debt slumped at an auction today,
pushing the average yield on 4 billion pounds of 1 year T-bills
up 50 basis points to 15.41 percent, according to central bank
data on Bloomberg. The yield on 2 billion pounds of 6-month
notes advanced 35 basis points to 14.82 percent. Both levels are
the highest since September.  Demand for one-year securities was at 1.3 times the amount
offered, compared with more than 2 times in April, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 267 basis-point, or 43 percent, surge this month in
Egypt’s CDS compares with an average increase of 59 basis points
to 327 of 10 countries in the Middle East. CMA is a data
provider that is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  “There’s simply no clarity on how Egypt’s political
standoff will play out,” Williams said. “At best, policy
making is likely to be undermined by the tense political
environment. At worst, there is a clear risk of a fresh bout of
serious unrest.”  The Egyptian pound retreated 0.1 percent to 7.0194 a dollar
following a central bank auction at which 19 percent of demand
for the U.S. currency was met. That takes the pound’s decline
since the regulator started the auctions in December to 12
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  