-- Temasek Plans New Offices in U.S., Europe, Straits Times Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-06-27T02:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/temasek-plans-new-offices-in-u-s-europe-straits-times-says.html
Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company, is planning to set up an office
in Europe and another in the U.S., the  Straits Times  reported,
citing the head of the firm’s investment group.  The U.S. office will be probably on the East Coast, Chia
Song Hwee told the newspaper. The office in Europe will be in
“the center of activities,” the newspaper reported Chia as
saying, without elaborating.  Stephen Forshaw , a Singapore-based
spokesman for Temasek, confirmed the remarks in the report.  The share of Temasek’s investments in Europe and North
America increased to 11 percent of its portfolio as of March
2012 from 8 percent in the previous year, according to its
latest annual review, published in July. Temasek paid 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) for a 5.04 percent stake in  Repsol SA (REP) , the
Spanish oil company said in March. It agreed to buy a 4.6
percent stake in German chemical maker  Evonik Industries AG (EVK) , a
person familiar with the matter said the same month.  “In Europe, we continue to believe that there are many
good companies, with good operations, good growth potential and
meaningful exposure outside Europe,” Chia was quoted as saying
in the newspaper. “We will continue to seek out those
opportunities.”  Temasek is seeing signs of an economic recovery in the
U.S., the newspaper reported. The picture in Europe is still
dim, with sluggish growth expectations and no sign of an upswing
in sight, Chia said according to the Straits Times.  The investment company has offices or affiliates in Mexico
City, Sao Paulo, Mumbai, Beijing,  Shanghai , Hong Kong, Chennai
in  India , as well as Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi, both in
 Vietnam , according to its  website . Temasek last week said it has
set up a U.K.-based unit that will focus on investments in the
region.  Government of Singapore Investment Corp ., the city-state’s
other investment company, is planning to open a Sao Paulo office
next year, a person familiar with the matter said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  