-- Emerging Stocks Head for Biggest Three-Day Gain in Nine Months
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-06-27T06:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/emerging-stocks-head-for-biggest-three-day-gain-in-nine-months.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark index to its biggest three-day rally in nine
months, as  South Korea  raised its economic growth forecast and
 India ’s current-account deficit narrowed.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  drove South
Korea’s benchmark gauge to the steepest advance since September.
India’s S&P BSE Sensex advanced the most in almost two weeks and
the rupee rebounded from a record low. The won and the Malaysian
ringgit rallied as investors speculated the  Federal Reserve  will
hold back from reducing monetary stimulus.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.3 percent to 913.94
as of 2:08 p.m. in  Hong Kong , extending a two-day, 2.1 percent
gain. South Korea’s finance ministry increased its 2013 growth
forecast to 2.7 percent from 2.3 percent, a report showed today.
India’s current-account deficit narrowed more than estimated
last quarter from a record, official data showed. The U.S.
revised lower its reading for first-quarter economic growth,
according to figures from the Commerce Department.  “Equities are stabilizing after the sharp fall; regional
currencies are recovering on expectations the U.S. quantitative
easing will continue as long as their economic data remain
weak,” David Pezarkar, head of equities at Daiwa Asset
Management (India) Pvt. said in Mumbai. “Numbers from Korea and
India also seem to soothe sentiments.”  The  emerging-markets  measure has declined 9.3 percent this
month, headed for the steepest monthly loss since May 2012.
It has fallen 13 percent this year, headed for the worst first-half rout since 1998 as the Fed said it may pare asset purchases
that have fueled gains and investors speculated that rising
Chinese funding costs will curb growth in  Asia ’s largest economy.  Biggest Gains  All 10  industry groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rose today, led by technology and consumer-discretionary
companies, which gained at least 2.2 percent.  Samsung Electronics jumped 6.2 percent in  Seoul , the most
since December 2011. Today’s gain snapped six days of losses
that dragged the stock’s 14-day relative strength index to 21
yesterday, below the 30 level that signals a buy to some
investors. It has fallen 15 percent from a peak in January.  Hyundai Motor gained 4.8 percent in Seoul, the most in two
months. South Korea’s Kospi index surged 2.9 percent, its second
day of gains.  India’s Sensex climbed 1 percent as the rupee strengthened
0.3 percent. The nation’s current-account deficit was $18.1
billion in January through March, compared with a revised $31.9
billion in the previous quarter, the  Reserve Bank  of India said
today. The median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a $21 billion gap. The deficit last quarter was 3.6 percent
of gross domestic product, from an unprecedented 6.7 percent of
GDP in October to December.  Won Gains  The won gained for a third day after South Korea’s current-account surplus widened to a record. The ringgit strengthened
0.5 percent.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index rallied 3 percent,
poised for the biggest two-day gain since November 2008, as a
decline in valuations lured the largest inflow of foreign funds
in a month. Overseas investors bought a net $27.9 million worth
of Philippine shares yesterday, ending five days of outflows and
the most inflow since May 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong added 0.1 percent, its second day of gains.
The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.1 percent, snapping a six-day loss.  Vietnam ’s VN index rose 1.1 percent as the nation’s
economic growth accelerated in the second quarter after the
central bank cut  interest rates  to revive lending to businesses
and rising foreign investment boosted the nation’s exports.  The Jakarta Composite Index climbed 2.7 percent, its
highest level in a week. Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 1.3 percent.
Trading volumes for the Sensex were 42 percent higher, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The emerging-markets measure has dropped 13 percent this
year, compared with a 6.8 percent gain in the MSCI World Index.
The developing-nation gauge  trades  at 9.5 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s 13 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  