-- Men’s Wearhouse Turns Target With Or Without Founder
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   C h e l s e y   D u l a n e y
-- 2013-06-27T20:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/men-s-wearhouse-turns-target-with-or-without-founder.html
George Zimmer, the founder of  Men’s
Wearhouse Inc. (MW)  who was ousted after encouraging the company to
consider going private, has put the retailer in play -- with or
without him.  The board of Men’s Wearhouse fired Zimmer as executive
chairman last week, citing disagreements over the Houston-based
retailer’s direction, including his desire to evaluate taking
the clothing chain private. While management’s opposition to a
sale makes a bid more complicated for private-equity firms, the
$1.85 billion company offers cash generation, a clean  balance
sheet  and limited exposure to swings in fashion trends,
according to Cowen Group Inc.  “George essentially put it in play,” David Fann, chief
executive officer of TorreyCove Capital Partners LLC, a  La
Jolla , California-based firm that advises private-equity
managers and investors, said in a telephone interview. “Men’s
Wearhouse has brand equity, it has a significant store presence
and  cash flow . It’s the perfect fit for a private-equity firm.”  Even after its  shares  rose 34 percent in the past year,
Men’s Wearhouse trades at a lower valuation relative to profit
than 95 percent of similar-sized specialty retailers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company could fetch about $50
in a takeover, a 36 percent premium to yesterday’s close,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and shareholder Sentinel Investments said.  Ken Dennard, a Men’s Wearhouse spokesman who works for
Dennard-Lascar Associates LLC, declined to comment on whether
the company has been approached by private-equity firms.  Buyout Option  The board of Men’s Wearhouse said a buyout wouldn’t be in
the best interest of shareholders and would require the retailer
to shoulder “a huge amount of debt,” according to a June 25
statement. Zimmer also clashed with management, according to the
statement, over a plan to review alternatives for the company’s
K&G chain -- a process to which the board said it remains
committed.  Zimmer, who owns a 3.5 percent  stake , said he encouraged
the board earlier this year to study a range of strategic
alternatives, including the possibility of going private.
Instead, “the board quickly and without the assistance of
financial advisors simply rejected the idea,” he said in a
statement yesterday.  Zimmer said in the statement that, at this point, he hasn’t
decided that taking Men’s Wearhouse private is “a better means
of preserving the unique culture and values that have made the
company so successful over the years.”  Boosting Value  Glenn Krevlin, a New York-based money manager at Glenhill
Capital, said that while a buyout isn’t inconceivable, he wants
 management  to boost  shareholder value  through buybacks. In
March, Chief Executive Officer Doug Ewert announced that Men’s
Wearhouse plans to repurchase $200 million of shares.  “We would like to see the company be more aggressive in
its share repurchase activities than it has been in the past
year or so,” Krevlin, who oversees $1 billion, including Men’s
Wearhouse shares, said in a phone interview.  Analysts, on average,  estimate  the stock will reach $38 in
the next 12 months, just 3.1 percent higher than yesterday’s
closing level.  Today, Men’s Wearhouse shares rose 2.6 percent to $37.80,
the highest since May 2012.  Including net debt, Men’s Wearhouse is  valued  at 5.3 times
its $325 million in  earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the last 12 months. That
compares with the median multiple of 9.5 among global specialty-apparel companies with a market value of more than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Attractive’ Target  “Given current valuation, I think it is possible that he
would explore the possibility of taking the company private,”
Colin Kelly, an analyst at Spokane, Washington-based Signia
Capital Management LLC, which oversees $550 million including
Men’s Wearhouse shares, wrote of Zimmer in an e-mail. “Men’s
Wearhouse is a very attractive acquisition target for private
equity. Private equity could certainly do a deal that would not
involve Zimmer.”  The clothing-store chain should be valued at $50 a share in
a takeover, said Jason Ronovech, a  money manager  at Montpelier,
Vermont-based Sentinel Investments, which oversees $26.4 billion
and owned Men’s Wearhouse shares as of March 31.  A bid at that price would give Men’s Wearhouse an equity
value of $2.5 billion, making it the biggest U.S. shoe or
apparel retail transaction valued at more than $1 billion since
TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners LP agreed to take
J.Crew Group Inc. private in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Zimmer Return?  Zimmer could pursue a leveraged buyout for Men’s Wearhouse,
Brian Tunick, an analyst at New York-based JPMorgan, wrote in a
June 25 note.  “Mr. Zimmer could look to team up with a number of
private-equity firms and he could argue that he is well-positioned to come back to run the company full time,” Tunick
wrote. He estimated the company could be valued at about $50 a
share in a go-private deal, based on recent retail buyouts.  Lindsay Andrews, a spokeswoman for Zimmer with Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on whether the founder has
contacted private-equity firms.  The retailer has fairly stable cash generation and low
debt, said John Kernan, a New York-based analyst at Cowen.  For a financial buyer, “the economics of it probably make
sense,” Kernan said in a phone interview. “There’s not a lot
of fashion risk with this. They’re just literally selling suits
and basic sportswear.”  Cash Flow  Men’s Wearhouse  generated  $115.2 million in free cash flow
in the last 12 months and has a  $300 million revolving line of
credit , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The clothing-chain’s trailing 12-month operating margin of
8.4 percent lags behind 85 percent of peers, signaling that
there could be room for improvement, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The opportunity to trim expenses is one reason private-equity firms are drawn to retail targets, according to Jaime Katz, a Chicago-based analyst at Morningstar Inc.  Still, selling suits involves higher fixed costs and is
vulnerable to swings in the  unemployment rate , Kernan said. That
could complicate a buyout for private-equity firms, he said.  “They’ve got to somehow monetize the investment,” Kernan
said. “I’m just not sure what the exit strategy would be post-takeout.”  Still, Zimmer’s departure and his push for Men’s Wearhouse
to consider the possibility of a sale could spur private-equity
firms to evaluate a buyout, especially given its low valuation,
said Fann of TorreyCove.  “Whether he’s shopping around for a private-equity firm to
work with or not, I think there are a lot of folks now who are
looking at the opportunity,” he said. “The stock looks
relatively cheap. It is seemingly the type of transaction that
the private-equity guys would get involved in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Chelsey Dulaney in New York at 
 cdulaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  