-- Mercantile Bancorp Files for Bankruptcy to Sell Assets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-06-27T23:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/mercantile-bancorp-files-for-bankruptcy-to-sell-assets-1-.html
Mercantile Bancorp Inc. (MBCR) , an  Illinois 
bank holding company, sought bankruptcy protection with an
agreement to sell virtually all its assets to United Community
Bancorp Inc. for about $22.3 million.  The company, based in Quincy, Illinois, listed debt of more
than $50 million and assets of less than $50 million in Chapter
11 documents filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,
Delaware.  Mercantile was forced to seek bankruptcy protection from
creditors as a result of “the precipitous decline in the
financial markets during 2007 and 2008, foreclosure rates,
delinquency rates and default rates” at the six subsidiary
banks causing them to suffer “tremendous losses,” Chief
Executive Officer Lee Roy Keith said in an affidavit.  The company sold three of those bank subsidiaries in 2009
for $53.6 million, in an attempt to “right the ship.” The
efforts were unsuccessful and its Heartland Bank and Royal Palm
Bank were closed by state regulators in July 2012 and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. took over as receiver.  Mercantile said in court papers that it reached an
agreement for “its ownership interest in Mercantile Bank and
has determined that a sale” and “the liquidation of its
remaining assets will maximize the value of MBI’s estate for the
benefit of its creditors.” The offer from United Community
Bancorp will be subject to court approval and competitive
bidding at a proposed auction.  The company, founded in 1983, owes about $76 million in
principal and interest on junior subordinated debentures
underlying capital securities it issued through four trusts,
according to court documents.  The case is: In re Mercantile Bancorp Inc., 13-11634, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  