-- Here’s the Real Crisis in Australia
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-06-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/here-s-the-real-crisis-in-australia.html
Australia (AUNAGDPC)  has been called many
things: Oz; the land Down Under; the lucky country. But the
equivalent of a collateralized-debt obligation?  Canberra can’t be happy to hear its AAA-rated economy
likened to one of the reviled investment vehicles that blew up
amid the 2008 global crisis. Yet the comparison is being made by
some economists, who see the asset underlying Australia --
demand from  China  -- beginning to evaporate. No country is more
vulnerable to the much-dreaded slowdown in China than resource-rich Australia. The mining boom that fueled nearly all of its
recent growth is nearing a cliff of economic risk.  “Australia is a leveraged time bomb waiting to blow,”
says  Albert Edwards , Societe Generale SA’s London-based global
strategist. “It is not just a CDO, but a CDO squared. All we
have in Australia is, at its simplest, a credit bubble built
upon a commodity boom dependent for its sustenance on an even
greater credit bubble in China.”  There’s a bit of hyperbole in this view. But highly-advanced Australia is about to pay the price for growing so
addicted to a developing nation. Exporting natural resources led
to the neglect and atrophying of other critical sectors. It’s
created a two-speed economy: The commodities-rich western states
and Queensland raced ahead on China’s once insatiable demand for
metals, while the rest of the country lagged behind. Now, even
as mining giants BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Plc. continue
to ramp up production, the price for  Western Australia ’s iron
ore has fallen to $115 per ton -- a far cry from the $180 paid
by Chinese  steel mills  when the Australian dollar was touching
highs of $1.10.  Petty Politics  Now that the easy China-driven growth is drying up, how are
officials in Canberra responding? With a maudlin and distracting
political soap opera. On Wednesday, the ruling  Labor party 
ousted the unpopular  Julia Gillard  as prime minister. Her
replacement,  Kevin Rudd , is the same unpopular lawmaker Gillard
ejected from the job in 2010. Treasurer  Wayne Swan , frenemies
with Rudd, quit. The ill-timed game of musical chairs has
Australians and outside observers wondering what these last
three years were about. Rudd’s comeback probably won’t stop
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  from winning an election scheduled
for September.  Personalities aren’t Australia’s problem; policies are.
Whoever is in power needs to focus intensely on increasing
investments in infrastructure, education and training. They need
to revamp a high-tax system that encourages all too many of the
workforce’s best, brightest and most productive people to seek
opportunities abroad. Officials in Canberra must think
creatively about spreading the benefits of the vast wealth being
amassed by mining companies. Rudd lost his post three years ago
in part because of his proposed “super tax” on their profits;
Abbott might well want to revive the idea.  Australia matters because it’s in the vanguard of nations,
rich and poor, who are grappling with how to adjust to a slowing
China. As Chinese officials act to restrain runaway credit
growth and rebalance the economy away from overinvestment and
exports, China’s growth is likely to be closer to 5 percent than
10 percent. This year’s 28 percent tumble in iron ore prices
since February is a harbinger of pain to come. So is the 11
percent drop in the Australian dollar this quarter alone.  The shockwaves caused by even modest attempts by China’s
central bank to clamp down on credit show how profoundly this
downshift will affect the globe. It will result in slower growth
from  Japan  to  Brazil  and slam industries like autos, chemicals,
heavy manufacturing, energy and steel. If China needs to dump
some of its $1.3 trillion of U.S. Treasuries to bail out state-owned banks, markets everywhere will quake.  Australia  is a microcosm of what awaits the world. How
officials respond will offer clues to policy makers everywhere.  Reform Path  The key for Australia is to return to the liberalizing
instincts of the 1980s and 1990s, when there was no behemoth
gobbling up resources at record prices. Opportunities for
transitioning back to a non-mining economy abound. Boosting
funding for research and development will create high-paying
jobs in technology, science and education. Australia boasts
great exporting potential in agriculture, medical supplies and
high-end machinery.  But progress in any of these sectors will require a level
of political will and forward thinking that’s been lacking for
nearly 20 years.  “Our worry is that tourism, manufacturing and other trade-exposed sectors haven’t been investing for years now, having
been brow-beaten by the unrelenting strength of the currency and
the diversion of resources into the mining sector,” says Ray Attrill, a currency strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. “So it’s not obvious these sectors are in a position to
quickly plug the hole from which the hissing sound of a
deflating commodity bubble is emanating.”  There will be a premium on policy flexibility. Nimbleness
is everything. That means taking an even bigger step away from
the budget surpluses of the last decade and increasing fiscal
stimulus. For  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens ,
it means adopting a less-dogmatic attitude toward inflation
trends. A Chinese swoon, after all, will be a deflationary event
globally.  Australia should indeed sell all the underground treasures
it can to fast-growing developing nations. But in the long run,
it’s more important for the country to cultivate what’s above
ground. Australia’s future lies in ideas, innovation and the
ingenuity of its 23 million people -- not in a China that’s ripe
for a crash.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net  