-- Merkel Proposes EU Aid Fund After Economic Integration
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-06-27T11:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/merkel-proposes-eu-aid-fund-in-return-for-economic-integration.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
revived a proposal for a new European aid fund aimed at
bolstering competitiveness, as she set out her goals for a two-day summit of European Union leaders.  Merkel, addressing lower-house lawmakers in Berlin today
before traveling to Brussels, said that a “solidarity” fund
serving the euro area might become possible once closer economic
cooperation has been achieved.  “In concrete terms, that means binding agreements for
competitiveness and growth,” Merkel said. “Allied to that I
see a solidarity mechanism closely linked to conditions as
conceivable, for example in the form of a euro-zone fund.”  Merkel first proposed such a mechanism in October last
year, when she laid out her vision for more economic
coordination including a fund “limited in time and project-based” and possibly stocked by the proposed financial
transaction tax. The aim was to give  member states  “the
opportunity to improve their competitiveness and to actually be
able to implement these commitments,” she said then.  European leaders gathering in Brussels will focus their
efforts on combating record unemployment in crisis-scarred
countries such as Spain and  Greece . Unemployment in  Germany ,
 Europe ’s biggest economy, unexpectedly  fell in June  with the
jobless rate dropping back to a two-decade low of 6.8 percent,
the Federal Labor Agency said today.  Merkel, who is contesting federal elections on Sept. 22,
said Germany has “broad experience” of tackling unemployment
dating from the 1990 reunification of east and west. Urging
Europe to go further down the road of structural reform, she
said “it can’t be said often enough” that jobs rely on
economic growth which is in turn dependent upon solid finances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  