-- Mersch Says Watering Down Parts of Banking Union Endangers Whole
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-06-27T17:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/mersch-says-watering-down-parts-of-banking-union-endangers-whole.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Yves Mersch warned political leaders not to weaken
or delay measures aimed at creating a banking union, amid signs
they’ll back away from promises to support stressed lenders.  “The different elements of banking union are bound in a
symbiotic way with each other,” Mersch said today in a speech
in Hachenburg,  Germany . “Forgetting or watering down individual
parts endangers the success of the whole project.”  Draft conclusions for a two-day summit of European Union
leaders in Brussels that started today omit a previous
commitment for states to put “credible backstops” in place for
banks that fall short of capital once the ECB conducts a review
of lenders’ assets beginning this year. That review is a
precondition for the ECB taking over supervision duties as part
of the banking union aimed at breaking the link between the
financial system and nations’ budgets.  The latest draft obtained by  Bloomberg News  instead says
that  member states  should “make all appropriate arrangements”
before the ECB reviews. The document also omits language
describing the ECB balance-sheet reviews and subsequent stress
tests as “particularly important to complete the process of
strengthening bank balance sheets.”  “Without Compromise”  “In order to achieve the regime change to a credible
single supervisor, the asset quality review has to be thoroughly
carried out, without compromise,” Mersch said.  He also criticized a deal struck on the sequence of losses
that should occur when a bank fails. Ministers agreed to German-led demands that banks’ recourse to government funds should be
limited, and secured commitments that private investors should
absorb losses before banks can seek aid from governments or the
region’s bailout fund.  “The political compromise is neither strictly rule-bound
nor completely discretionary,” he said. “So that the remaining
room for maneuver can be appropriately used, and not subjugated
to national interests, a central authority should decide on the
concrete implementation.”  Mersch warned against any delay to legislative steps needed
for the ECB to formally take over supervision duties. Two euro-area officials said last week the ECB may not commence its
supervisory tasks until late 2014, instead of the March date
originally envisaged.  “The agreed timetable for the construction of the banking
union should be kept,” he said. “Even when the need for short-term stabilization measures has eased, we can’t lose the impetus
on reforms for longer-term stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  