-- EU to Cap Decade of Eastern Expansion by Adding Croatia
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-06-28T13:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/eu-to-cap-decade-of-eastern-expansion-by-adding-croatia.html
The European Union is set to cap
nine years of eastern expansion with the July 1 addition of
 Croatia , which may prove to be the last ex-communist country to
join the world’s largest trading bloc this decade.  With Croatia, the European Union will have added 11 nations
once under communist regimes with more than 100 million people
and a combined $1.4 trillion in economic output. After the
entry, 45 million Balkan residents, including Greeks and
Slovenians, will live under the blue-and-gold flag, leaving
Albania and the rest of the former Yugoslavia outsiders on the
peninsula. With the addition of Croatia, the EU will have 28
members.  The region remains peppered with potential flashpoints from
 Kosovo  to Bosnia following the 1990s Balkan civil wars,  Europe ’s
bloodiest conflict since World War II. The global crisis has
hurt efforts to rebuild political and economic life and may
delay further EU expansion by at least seven years, says Tvrtko
Jakovina, a history professor at the University of Zagreb.  “None of these countries, including the candidate country
Montenegro, as well as  Serbia , will join before 2020,” Jakovina
said in a telephone interview yesterday. That’s “primarily
because they are unlikely to finish the talks before that date -
- and also because there is a lack of enthusiasm for enlargement
in the EU.”  Starting Date  Serbia, Croatia’s former foe, became a candidate for EU
membership in March 2012. In a concession to Serbia, the leaders
said membership talks will start by January 2014 and the exact
date may be set as soon as October instead of waiting until the
EU’s December summit, the bloc’s president,  Herman Van Rompuy ,
said today as EU leaders ended a two-day summit in Brussels.  It took Croatia almost eight years from the start of
negotiations to achieve entry and Serbia’s talks will have to
resolve issues including the status of Kosovo, its former
province recognized as an independent state by 22 EU countries
plus Croatia.  “This afternoon or tonight, I expect to know exactly
what’s written and who requested what,” Serbian President
 Tomislav Nikolic  was cited by Beta  news agency  in Belgrade as
saying in response to the EU decision.  While getting a date is “good news” for Serbia, the
country won’t be able to join until its relations with Kosovo
are “normalized,” said Timothy Ash, an emerging-market
economist at Standard Bank Plc in  London .  ‘Conditions’  Kosovo and the Serbian autonomous area of Bosnia may “show
up as one of the conditions in the negotiating process,
considering that  Germany  wants Kosovo to be included in some of
the chapters to be negotiated,” Predrag Simic, a political
analyst in Belgrade, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Wedged between Croatia and Serbia,  Bosnia-Herzegovina ,
divided politically into Serb, Croat and Bosnian Muslims, has
been under international peacekeeping supervision since a U.S.-
brokered peace agreement in 1995 ended a four-year war. Further
southeast, Macedonia’s quest for EU membership stalled amid
objections about the country’s name from  Greece .  “EU membership and even EU talks bring, if not some great
economic progress under current circumstances, then they bring
order, and that’s a good thing for the western Balkans,”
Jakovina said, adding that Croatia has carried out “almost
all” its overhaul projects under pressure from the EU.  Changed Club  The trading bloc, grappling with the euro region’s debt
crisis and rocked by anti-austerity movements undermining
stability is also radically different from the rich-nation club
Croatia started negotiating with in 2005.  As European leaders turn inward to find solutions for the
economic and political issues, nations beyond the EU’s borders
are facing the reality of expansion being put on a back burner.  Ukraine is caught in a struggle for control with  Russia ,
which pulls the levers through energy ties, while a trade
agreement with the EU is being held up by the 2011 imprisonment
of ex-Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  for abuse of office, a
move the bloc deems selective justice.  EU governments on June 25 postponed the resumption of
 Turkey ’s membership talks by at least four months, protesting
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s heavy-handed treatment of
peaceful dissenters.  For Albania, the European Commission last year recommended
making candidate status subject to completion of “key
measures” in judicial and public administration and the
revision of parliamentary rules.  “Croatia has been fortunate” with the timing of its entry
talks, Standard’s Ash said by phone yesterday. “Germany is now
very cautious on enlargement and it’s going to be a lot more
difficult for new entrants.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  