-- EU to Cut Mobile Phone Roaming Charges by Up to 36% Next Week
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-06-27T11:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/eu-to-cut-mobile-phone-roaming-charges-by-up-to-36-next-week.html
The European Union will cut the
price mobile carriers such as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  can charge customers for checking e-mail and watching
videos while traveling by 36 percent next week.  European mobile-phone companies can charge customers
visiting other EU countries no more than 45 euro cents ($0.59)
per megabyte plus tax starting on July 1, the European
Commission said in a statement today. The existing limit of 70
cents was set a year ago. From July 2014, the maximum charge for
data will be 20 cents.  The cuts are part of European Commission vice president
Neelie Kroes’s agenda to make the market for European
telecommunications companies more unified. Carriers have
complained that her initiatives, while consumer-friendly, are
too restrictive to phone companies and crimp investment in
networks and technology. The commission said the EU has cut
retail prices by 80 percent since 2007.  “The latest price cuts put more money in your pocket for
summer, and are a critical step towards getting rid of these
premiums once and for all,” Kroes said in the statement. “This
is good for both consumers and companies, because it takes fear
out of the market, and it grows the market.”  Outgoing calls will cost as much as 24 cents a minute, plus
tax, which is a 17 percent cut from last year, while subscribers
will be charged no more than 7 cents a minute, 13 percent less,
for incoming calls, according to the statement. In July 2014,
the cuts will continue, dropping to 19 cents a minute for
outgoing calls, 5 cents for incoming calls and text message
rates will drop to 6 cents each from 8 cents.  Industry Appeal  Kroes outlined the plan in a speech in Brussels on May 30
calling for a “single market” for telecommunications in
Europe. Chief executive officers including  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s
Franco Bernabe, Telefonica’s Cesar Alierta and Royal KPN NV’s
Eelco Blok asked the EU to ease restrictions on pricing to help
the carriers increase revenue and fund investments in their
networks in a June 14 letter addressed to EU heads of state and
Commission President Jose Barroso.  European wireless carriers get less than half of the amount
their U.S. counterparts are able to charge every month,
according to a May report from the GSMA industry group. The
average European customer spent $38 per month last year on
mobile subscriptions, compared to $69 in the U.S. Wireless phone
bills in Europe have shrunk since 2000, while U.S. carriers were
able to reverse the trend in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  