-- European Stocks Climb After U.S. Data; Alcatel Rallies
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-06-27T15:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/european-stock-futures-advance-as-global-equities-rally.html
European stocks  climbed for a third
day, the longest winning streak for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
in five weeks, as a report showed that U.S. consumer spending
rebounded last month.  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  SA rose 6.4 percent as Morgan Stanley
recommended the stock. Drax Group Plc jumped 7.3 percent as the
U.K. government updated the subsidies for the different forms of
renewable-power generation.  Subsea 7 SA (SUBC)  tumbled the most in more
than 4 1/2 years after the oil-field services provider said its
earnings will fail to grow this year.  The Stoxx 600 climbed 0.7 percent to 286.42 at the close
after earlier declining as much as 0.3 percent. The gauge has
still lost 4.8 percent in June, its first monthly retreat in a
year. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated on June
19 that the central bank may start paring its bond-buying
program this year if the U.S. economy strengthens.  “Positive reports will be a confirmation that the U.S.
economy is indeed in a recovery,” said Guillaume Duchesne, an
equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas SA in Luxembourg, in a
phone interview. “From now on, the most important relationship
in equity markets will be the link to the economy. We come from
a liquidity-driven market to one that is economy driven. Any
good news on that side will be positive.”  European stocks followed the Standard & Poor 500 Index
higher after a report showed that household purchases, which
account for about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy , climbed 0.3
percent in May. They declined 0.3 percent in April.  Quarterly Performance  The Stoxx 600 has still lost 2.5 percent this quarter, its
first drop in a year, and has pared its advance in 2013 to 2.4
percent. Since rallying to a near five-year high on May 22, the
gauge has  tumbled 7.8 percent . The index is trading at 12.7
times the estimated earnings of its constituent companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge was valued at
13 times on June 19.  “We have seen some stabilization over the last few days,
but it’s not clear whether the correction is over,” David Wartenweiler, chief investment officer at Habib Bank AG Zurich
told  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television earlier today. “I
still like equities and after the recent minor correction I
think the valuations are still attractive.”  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  will speak at 12:30
p.m.  New York  time today.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 15 of the 18
western-European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 climbed 1 percent,
 Germany ’s DAX added 0.6 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 jumped
1.3 percent.  Alcatel-Lucent  Alcatel-Lucent rose 6.4 percent to 1.40 euros. Morgan
Stanley reiterated its overweight recommendation, which is
similar to a buy rating, after Alcatel yesterday started a 550
million-euro ($716 million) convertible  bond issue  and bought
back debt as part of its strategy to reduce financing costs. The
brokerage said the plan would benefit shareholders.  Alcatel said as markets closed that it raised the amount of
the sale to 629 million euros.  Drax surged 7.3 percent to 573 pence, after the U.K.
Department of Energy and Climate Change set the subsidy rates
for power from renewable energy plants. The government said it
will pay pay biomass-conversion plants 105 pounds per megawatts
per hour.  Drax brought the first converted biomass unit at its coal-burning plant into service in April.  DS Smith Plc (SMDS)  climbed 5.4 percent to 252.7 pence. The paper
company increased its  dividend  by 36 percent to 8 pence apiece,
more than analysts had estimated. DS Smith also reported full-year revenue and earnings that beat analysts’ estimates. The
company added that the current year has started well, matching
its expectations.  Sevan Drilling  Sevan Drilling ASA (SEVDR)  surged 18 percent to 4.02 kroner after
Seadrill Ltd. increased its stake in the company to 50.1
percent. The offshore driller controlled by billionaire  John
Fredriksen  will make a mandatory offer for the rest of the
company. Seadrill climbed 1.6 percent to 244.60 kroner in Oslo.  Subsea 7 tumbled 13 percent to 106 kroner after the oil-field services provider said it no longer expects full-year
earnings to grow from 2012. The Norwegian company increased its
estimate for the full-life loss on the Guara-Lula NE project off
the coast of  Brazil .  Lanxess AG led a selloff in chemical makers, falling 3.3
percent to 46.61 euros. Solvay SA retreated 2.2 percent to
100.45 euros and BASF SE lost 2 percent to 68.33 euros. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. downgraded all three companies to underweight, which
is similar to a sell recommendation.  “After three years of tailwinds, the good times may be
over,” analyst Martin Evans wrote in a report to clients dated
yesterday. “The recent boom years for chemicals were driven by
a confluence of several one-offs. In sharp contrast to
consensus, we believe that current margins are not sustainable
as we see potential major headwinds.”  Bankia SA, which was bailed out by the Spanish government
last year, rose 1 percent to 59 euro cents after selling the
12.1 percent holding in  IAG SA (IAG)  that it obtained in the 2011
merger of British Airways and Iberia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  