-- Europe Imposing Losses on Bondholders Will Penalize Weaker Banks
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-06-27T12:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/europe-imposing-losses-on-bondholders-will-penalize-weaker-banks.html
A European Union plan to impose
losses on bondholders during bank rescues means borrowing costs
for weaker banks will rise unless they bolster their finances,
said analysts and fund managers including Simon Adamson at
CreditSights Ltd.  “There’s going to be more differentiation of banks based
on their standalone financial situation,” Adamson said by
telephone from  London  today. “Banks with weaker capital levels
or profitability will find it tough to get financing or at least
will pay a higher price.”  European finance ministers agreed today that creditors
should be liable for  bank failures  before taxpayers as they
worked to overcome the euro-area debt crisis and break the link
between governments and lenders. Bond investors will help
support regulators in pushing banks to boost capital because
they will reward the strongest, said Adamson and Ingo Frommen,
an analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart.  “Banks will be looking to set aside reserves for stress
scenarios,” said Frommen at LBBW, which recommends investors
weight European banking stocks neutrally in their portfolios
when compared to a wider index of equities in the region. “This
may also help regulators go some way in solving the issue of too
big to fail.”  Risk Premium  The ministers’ agreement requires regulators to write down
creditors, in order of seniority, until 8 percent of the
distressed bank’s liabilities are wiped out, before they grant
exemptions and turn to national backstops instead. The deal
offers some wiggle room for regulators, after notifying the
European Commission, to exempt some creditors and shift the
burden to others.  “The bail-in threshold will increase the premium asked by
investors to fund riskier institutions,” said Angelo Drusiani,
who helps manage about 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of
securities at Banca Albertini Syz & C. in Milan. “I also expect
a marginal impact on senior debt, now included in the bail-in.”  The cost of insuring against losses on senior bank debt
fell for a third day, with the Markit iTraxx Financial index of
credit-default swaps dropping 2 basis points to 166 basis
points.  Financial shares  declined, with the Stoxx 600 Index of
banks sliding 0.9 percent at 2 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Frommen and Adamson, who recommends investors hold European
bank debt, said investors will have to wait to see how the plan
is implemented to get a full picture of how it will affect bond
prices.  Alberto Gallo , an analyst with Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, said he doesn’t expect to see yields on senior debt rise as
most banks will be able to cover the 8 percent of liabilities
with equity and subordinated debt.  “It’s balanced and I don’t expect negative reactions,”
said Gallo. “This is a positive agreement overall.”  Senior unsecured debt issuance won’t dry up, though
 Europe ’s leaders need to ensure that banks keep selling bonds
that can be written down in case of failures, Adamson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  