-- Hewlett-Packard Beats CSC for $3.5 Billion Navy Contract
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-27T23:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/hewlett-packard-beats-csc-for-3-5-billion-navy-network-contract.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  won a contract
valued at as much as $3.5 billion to run the U.S. Navy’s
communications network, the largest single information-technology project in the federal government.  The Navy selected Hewlett-Packard’s team over a group of
contractors that included  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  and  Harris
Corp. (HRS)  The agreement calls for managing the Navy’s 800,000-user
intranet through 2018, according to a Defense Department
announcement today.  Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto,  California , has
operated the Navy’s network since 2008. It is the company’s
biggest federal contract, accounting for almost 40 percent of
its $2.6 billion in prime, or direct, contracts in the year
ended Sept. 30, according to Brian Friel, an analyst at
Bloomberg Industries.  “The victory allows HP to maintain its position as one of
the top IT services companies in the federal government,” Friel
said. “It’s become hyper-competitive, and they’re showing they
can keep their market share.”  Today’s award won’t bring the same benefits to Hewlett-Packard, partly because the Navy has scaled down and competition
has driven down the price, Friel said. HP’s orders will fall 37
percent under the new contract compared with the current
agreement, he said.  HP’s Team  Hewlett-Packard’s team for the so-called Next Generation
Enterprise Network includes  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)   “We know the technology, we know what it takes to operate
this massive and highly complex IT environment, and we now
embrace the opportunity to help build a better enterprise
network and continue the uninterrupted delivery of secure and
reliable IT services,” said Marilyn Crouther, senior vice
president and general manager of the U.S. public sector for HP
Enterprise Services.  The award gives the Navy an affordable way to modernize its
network and meet cybersecurity challenges, Sean Stackley, the
Navy’s assistant secretary for acquisition, research and
development, said today at a Pentagon press conference.  “We got what we aimed for,” Stackley said.  The team led by Falls Church, Virginia-based CSC and
Melbourne, Florida-based Harris includes  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ,
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)   Evaluate Options  Heather Williams, a CSC spokeswoman, said the company
planned to evaluate its options.  “While this is not the outcome CSC hoped for, we’re proud
of our team and the next-generation technology solutions we put
forth,” Williams said in an e-mail.  Jaime O’Keefe, a Harris spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that
the company “offered a cost-effective solution with the right
technology, and our team had valuable experience with the Navy,
all of which gave us confidence in our proposal.”  Harris has “a robust federal sales pipeline, and we will
compete aggressively for new opportunities,” O’Keefe said.  The announcement on the contract came after the Navy on
June 24 fired Captain Shawn Hendricks, the officer who had been
leading the competition, citing the results of an inquiry into
an “improper relationship.”  A Navy official who asked not to be identified discussing
the matter said the relationship was with a female contractor,
without providing the name of her employer.  Hendricks’s dismissal “was in no way related to any
contracting decisions with the programs he oversaw” and there
“was no compromise of procurement-sensitive information,”
Sarah Flaherty, a Navy spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Stackley said the circumstances of Hendricks’s firing
didn’t represent a conflict of interest.  No one “associated with one of the bidding teams was
involved in that instance,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  