-- Faulty Rolls-Royce Pipe Caused 2010 Flight Blast, Study Says
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-06-27T04:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/faulty-rolls-royce-pipe-caused-2010-mid-air-blast-report-says.html
A faulty oil pipe in a  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc (RR/)  engine triggered a 2010 blast that forced a Qantas
Airways Ltd. jet to make an emergency landing in  Singapore ,
 Australia ’s transport safety agency said.  Oil ignited after seeping through a cracked pipe that
failed to meet design specifications, the Australian Transport
Safety Bureau said in a  final report  on the incident today.
Similar parts in other engines were also incorrectly made,
making them more likely to break under stress, the bureau said.  In the Nov. 4, 2010 incident, part of the Rolls-Royce Trent
900 engine blew off after takeoff from Singapore, sending
shrapnel through the wing and fuselage of the Airbus SAS A380.
The safety agency today cited a lack of oversight and quality
control at Rolls-Royce’s manufacturing facilities, while
praising the flight crew.  “We clearly fell short,” Colin Smith, director of
engineering and technology at Rolls-Royce, said in a separate
statement. “The robustness of the Airbus A380 and the
professionalism of the Qantas crew assured that the aircraft and
all its passengers landed safely.”  After the fire started, one of the engine’s turbine discs
broke free, shattered into pieces as it gathered speed, and then
burst out of the engine housing, the Australian safety bureau
said. None of the 469 people on board were hurt.  Component Defects  At Rolls Royce’s plant in Hucknall,  England , a culture
existed that made it acceptable not to declare minor component
defects, according to the bureau. Certain inspection processes
were ambiguous, engineers and designers weren’t always required
to consult each other, and quality thresholds weren’t fully
communicated to staff, the bureau said.  Rolls-Royce said today it made a measurement error during
manufacturing and supports the bureau’s findings. The company
has since improved its control, design and manufacturing
procedures. London-based Rolls-Royce addressed the issue soon
after the incident, according to its  2010 annual report .  Qantas grounded its entire fleet of Airbus SAS superjumbos
for more than three weeks after the accident. The Sydney-based
airline won A$95 million ($89 million) in compensation from
Rolls-Royce.  The Australian regulator has been investigating why
problems with the Trent 900’s oil-feed pipe were not spotted
before the explosion, and Rolls-Royce has changed the way it
develops new components as a result, the agency said in an
 interim report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  