-- FCC Chief Asks Agency to Approve Softbank Bid for Sprint
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-06-27T22:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/fcc-chief-asks-agency-to-approve-softbank-bid-for-sprint.html
The head of the last U.S. agency
reviewing  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s bid for control of mobile carrier
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  recommended approval of the $21.6 billion
deal.  Federal Communications Commission Acting Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn asked her two fellow commissioners to vote on the
transaction that would give billionaire Masayoshi Son a position
in the U.S. market, the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  The transaction would strengthen third-largest U.S.
wireless carrier Sprint as a competitor to the country’s two
biggest mobile carriers, Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T)   Wireless operator SoftBank, based in Tokyo, told the FCC
its control of Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, would
bring more investments in the mobile network and innovative
pricing.  The deal would continue a re-ordering in the growing mobile
market, after the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S. carriers
combined May 1 into  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  after that company bought
MetroPCS Communications Inc.  Shareholders of Sprint approved the deal with SoftBank on
June 25, ending a takeover contest with  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the
satellite television provider seeking to expand its service
offerings.  Huawei Assurances  U.S. antitrust and security officials earlier cleared
SoftBank’s bid. The companies gave assurances they would limit
use of telecommunications gear made by Huawei Technologies Co.,
based in Shenzhen, China.  A congressional committee last year said Huawei’s
connections to the Chinese army created the potential for
electronic spying. Huawei has said its exclusion is
“misguided” and doesn’t resolve vulnerabilities arising from
common global equipment supply chains.  The FCC’s review of the SoftBank-Sprint deal determines
whether the transfer of control of Sprint’s airwaves is in the
public’s interest.  Clyburn’s request included Sprint’s proposal to buy the
half of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  it doesn’t already own, according to the
agency’s statement today.  The FCC has no deadline to act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  