-- Fed’s Lockhart Says Markets May Have Misread Bernanke Plan
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-06-27T18:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/fed-s-lockhart-says-markets-may-have-misread-bernanke-message.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart , who has supported Fed stimulus, said
investors may have overreacted to Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
announcement the central bank could start scaling back record
stimulus this year.  “Financial markets have been volatile recently” and may
reflect a “different interpretation” of Bernanke’s message
last week, Lockhart said in a speech today in Marietta,  Georgia .
He doesn’t vote this year on monetary policy.  Using an analogy to a cigarette smoker trying to quit,
Lockhart said “it seems to me the chairman said we’ll use the
patch and use it flexibly, and some in the markets reacted as if
he said ‘cold turkey.’”  Policy makers are considering when to end the biggest
stimulus program in the Fed’s 100-year history after pushing
central-bank assets to a record  $3.47 trillion . Bernanke said
June 19 the Fed may trim its $85 billion in monthly bond buying
this year and end it around mid-2014 if the economy grows in
line with the central bank’s forecast.  “In my view, the comments by the chairman do not
constitute an enormous shift in policy,” Lockhart said to the
Kiwanis Club of Marietta. “I still anticipate that the very low
interest-rate policy will remain in place for a considerable
time after the end of asset purchases, and thus policy will
remain highly accommodative.”  Rising Yields  Bernanke’s comments after the Federal Open Market Committee
meeting have helped pushed up market interest rates. The yield
on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.54 percent yesterday from
2.19 percent June 18.  “The pace of purchases, the composition of purchases, and
the ultimate size of the Fed’s balance sheet still depend on how
economic conditions evolve,” Lockhart said. “All elements of
the asset-purchase program will be considered on a meeting-by-meeting basis in light of the incoming data and economic
outlook.”  Lockhart told reporters after his speech his comments today
and those by other Fed speakers, including  New York  Fed
President William C. Dudley, weren’t coordinated as a way to
clarify Bernanke’s message. “There is no concerted single
strategy,” he said.  Less Joblessness  The U.S. unemployment rate is likely to be 7.2 percent to
7.3 percent by year-end, Lockhart said. However, if the labor
market makes faster progress and unemployment fell to 7 percent
late this year, Lockhart said he might support scaling back bond
buying earlier than is now envisioned.  “If we were to get to that level in my mind we would have
accomplished substantial improvement at a faster pace and I
would be very open to considering then a faster pace of
reduction in purchases,” he said.  The Fed has kept its benchmark policy rate near zero since
December 2008. In his speech, Lockhart estimated that the first
increase in the federal funds rate, which will be dependent on
how the economy evolves, may occur in 2015.  U.S. growth is likely to be about 2 percent to 2.5 percent
this year, with an acceleration in the second half, and
inflation will be gradually moving higher toward the Fed’s 2
percent target, Lockhart said.  A former Georgetown University professor, Lockhart, 66, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district
includes  Alabama ,  Florida , Georgia, and portions of  Louisiana ,
 Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  