-- Fed’s Powell Sees Scaling Back Asset Purchases Later This Year
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-06-27T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/fed-s-powell-sees-scaling-back-asset-purchases-later-this-year.html
Federal Reserve Governor Jerome Powell said the central bank’s asset purchases may be scaled
back later this year if growth holds up, and any such trimming
depends on economic data rather than the calendar.  The Fed may wait “before moderating purchases or even
increase them” if the economy weakens, while the large-scale
asset purchases “may be moderated somewhat more quickly”
should the economy strengthen faster than officials anticipate,
Powell said today in the text of remarks prepared for delivery
in  Washington .  “I want to emphasize the importance of data over date,”
Powell said at the Bipartisan Policy Center, where he was a
visiting scholar before joining the Fed. “In all likelihood,
the current” large-scale asset purchases “will continue for
some time.”  Policy makers are debating when to wind down $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases that have pushed the Fed’s  balance sheet 
to a record  $3.47 trillion  in the most aggressive easing in the
central bank’s 100-year history. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
last week the  Federal Open Market Committee  could start reducing
purchases later this year and end them around the middle of next
year if the economy meets the Fed’s forecasts.  “The LSAPs continue to provide meaningful support for
economic activity,” Powell said. “Although the channels may
not be working perfectly, it is unlikely that they are not
working at all.”  Largest Economy  Powell said the world’s largest economy probably “will
continue to gain strength” and that the labor market “has also
made real progress” despite  federal budget  cuts that may be
“preventing faster reductions in unemployment.” While
inflation gauges have declined below the Fed’s 2 percent target,
he said there is “some reason to think that the recent low
readings partly reflect transitory factors.”  Even after the Fed started holding its main  interest rate 
 near zero  in December 2008, that month was the last time the
world’s largest economy had a jobless rate of less than  7.5
percent. (USURTOT)  Fifteen of 19 FOMC participants expect the first rate
increase to be in 2015 or later, forecasts released after their
June 18-19 meeting showed. They project unemployment, which was
7.6 percent in May, will fall to 6.5 percent to 6.8 percent by
the end of 2014.  Borrowing Costs  The Fed in December linked changes in the benchmark
borrowing cost to the outlook for employment and prices. The
FOMC said the rate will remain in a range of zero to 0.25
percent so long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and
the outlook for inflation is no higher than 2.5 percent.  The  U.S. economy  has continued its four-year expansion even
amid across-the-board government spending cuts as consumers
boosted spending and propelled gross domestic product to a
lower-than-projected 1.8 percent annual pace in the first
quarter.  A slowdown in inflation has given Fed officials more leeway
for easing. The personal consumption expenditures price index
rose 0.7 percent for the year through April, the lowest since
October 2009 and below the FOMC’s 2 percent target.  Excluding food and fuel, consumer prices climbed 1.1
percent in the 12 months through April, matching the smallest
increase since records began in 1960, according to a so-called
core measure watched by the Fed.  Powell, 60, an attorney and private equity investor who was
a Treasury undersecretary for President  George H.W. Bush ., took
office as a governor in May 2012. He was a partner at the
Carlyle Group LP, a private-equity firm, from 1997 through 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  