-- Federer Follows Nadal Through Wimbledon Exit in Worst Day
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-27T00:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/federer-follows-nadal-through-wimbledon-exit-in-worst-day.html
Tennis has never seen a day of
defeats and defections like what happened at Wimbledon, when
seven-time winner  Roger Federer  joined former champions  Maria Sharapova  and  Lleyton Hewitt  as second-round casualties.  A wayward backhand that sailed wide on Centre Court sealed
the fate of Federer, the defending champion from  Switzerland ,
who was beaten by unseeded Sergiy Stakhovsky of Ukraine, 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (7-5), 7-5, 7-6 (7-5) at the All England Club in
southwest London yesterday. Stakhovsky is ranked 116th by the
men’s ATP Tour.  “Can’t have ’em all,” Federer, 31, who was seeded third,
told reporters after his historic run of 36 straight major
quarterfinals ended. “It was a tough loss.”  The departure of Federer -- a 17-time major singles
champion -- came two days after two-time Wimbledon champion
 Rafael Nadal  was upset in the first round by Steve Darcis, a
Belgian ranked No. 135 in the world. Never before in a major
have both Nadal and Federer lost at such an early stage.  Stakhovsky rushed to the net nearly 100 times against
Federer.  “He brought back the serve-and-volley,” Bud Collins, a
broadcaster and tennis historian for more than 40 years, said in
an interview at Wimbledon. “What a day.”  Federer’s loss, his earliest at Wimbledon since 2002, ended
a day on which six top-10 seeds in the men’s and women’s singles
draws exited the tournament. That’s the worst day for top-10
seeds in any of the four majors during the first week, according
to the  International Tennis Federation .  Azarenka Out  Seven players -- including No. 6 seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of
 France  and No. 10 seed Marin Cilic of  Croatia  among the men and
women’s No. 2 seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus -- left the
world’s most famous tennis tournament because of injuries.
That’s the most in a single day in a major since tennis turned
professional, according to the ITF.  Including the defeat of Ana Ivanovic, players who lost or
dropped out yesterday have won a total of 26 Grand Slam singles
titles.  Top seeds Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  and  Serena Williams  of
the U.S. are scheduled for second-round matches today.  Sharapova was upset 6-4, 6-3 on Court 2 yesterday by
Michelle Larcher de Brito, a qualifier from  Portugal .  Sharapova, the 2004 champion from  Russia , struggled with
her footing on the grass, shouting “How many times?” after she
slipped in the first set. She had a nine-minute medical timeout
for treatment of her thigh and hips during the second set.
Earlier in the day,  Caroline Wozniacki , a Danish player formerly
ranked No. 1 in the world, twisted her ankle on the same court
in her loss against Petra Cetkovska of the  Czech Republic .  Hewitt Loses  Hewitt, the 2002 Wimbledon champion, was beaten by
 Germany ’s Dustin Brown in four sets.  Azarenka withdrew shortly before her second-round match
against  Italy ’s Flavia Pennetta with a knee injury sustained
during a fall in her opening round.  When asked by the  British Broadcasting Corp . if she’d
overheard Sharapova telling the umpire the court was dangerous,
Larcher de Brito said, “These courts can be slippery and
dangerous. There was a lot of grass that’s been cut that hadn’t
been swept off. It was a tough court to play on.”  Azarenka said the courts had been slippery and called on
tournament organizers to find a solution.  Sharapova told reporters she couldn’t remember “ever
falling three times in a match before in my career, so that was
a little strange.”  She said that wasn’t an excuse for losing.  That’s Tennis  “Today I’ve seen a lot of players fall and take a few hits
and a few injuries,” Sharapova said. “That’s just part of the
game, part of what we have to deal with.”  Richard Lewis, chief executive officer of the  All England
Club,  said in an e-mail there have been no changes in the
preparation of the courts.  “The court preparation has been to exactly the same
meticulous standard as in previous years, and it is well known
that grass surfaces tend to be more lush at the start of an
event,” he said.  Lewis added that the organizers sympathized with the
players who quit.  Darcis was one of them, failing to make his second-round
match with a shoulder injury sustained during a fall against
Nadal.  The departure of both Federer and Nadal opens up the draw
for Britain’s  Andy Murray , who advanced to the third round
yesterday in straight sets against  Taiwan ’s Yen-Hsun Lu. Federer
and Nadal, who faced each other in three Wimbledon finals, had
been seeded to meet in the quarterfinals, with the winner then
due to play the second-seeded Murray in the semifinals.  Federer’s Letdown  “I still have plans to play for many more years to come,”
Federer said, when asked if it was the end of an era for him and
Nadal. “It’s normal that after all of a sudden losing early
after being in the quarters 36 times, people feel it’s
different. You guys hyped it up so much, me playing Rafa, and
we’re both out. So there’s a letdown clearly. Maybe it’s also
somewhat a bit disrespectful to the other opponents who are in
the draw still.”  Murray didn’t want to think too far ahead.  “Everybody was so obsessed with how the draw was before
the tournament started,” he said in a news conference. “Now
everybody wants to change their views on it because a few guys
have lost. I’ll just concentrate on my next match.”  With the exception of Russia’s Marat Safin at the 2005
Australian Open and  Argentina ’s Juan Martin Del Potro at the
2009  U.S. Open , the four tennis Grand Slam events have been won
by either Murray, Nadal, Federer or Djokovic since the 2004
French Open.  Dominating Quartet  That domination may be about to end, Murray said.  “The consistency of playing at a high level from the top
players has been incredible,” said Murray, the current U.S.
Open champion. “But that is not going to last forever. When
guys have slight dips in form, some of the younger guys start to
improve and raise their level, then that’s going to be tough to
maintain for a long period. There’s been a lot of depth in the
men’s game for a long time. It’s just now the results are
starting to show that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  