-- FHFA Nominee Watt Faces Senate Skeptics at Hearing Today
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-06-27T18:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/fhfa-nominee-watt-faces-senate-skeptics-at-hearing-today.html
U.S. Representative Mel Watt pushed
back against lawmakers skeptical of his knowledge of housing-finance issues at a Senate hearing on his nomination to oversee
mortgage giants  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   Watt, a  North Carolina  Democrat selected by President
 Barack Obama  to head the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , made
his case before a panel including senators who this week offered
a bipartisan plan to eliminate the two U.S.-owned companies and
replace them with a new government reinsurer.  His two decades in Congress including service on the House
Financial Services committee, which deals with housing issues,
prepared him for the position, he said at the Senate Banking
Committee hearing today in  Washington .  “You can’t legislate unless you really have an
understanding of the system that you’re legislating about,”
Watt said.  His nomination is Obama’s second attempt to fill the FHFA
post held since 2009 by Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco, who
has been criticized by Democratic lawmakers and consumer-advocacy groups for doing too little to help homeowners
struggling in the wake of the financial crisis. The president’s
first choice, former North Carolina banking commissioner  Joseph Smith , withdrew in 2011 amid Republican opposition.  “Our housing market and our economy need a confirmed
director in place at FHFA,” Banking Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat, said at the hearing.
“Congressman Watt is well qualified for the job and should be
confirmed without delay.”  Republican Support  Watt’s chances of gaining confirmation remain unclear. He
would need support from at least five Republicans to get the 60
votes needed for Senate confirmation if he’s backed by all 55
lawmakers who caucus with the Democrats in the 100-member body.
Senator  Richard Burr  of North Carolina is the only Republican
who has endorsed him so far.  The National Association of Realtors yesterday sent a
letter to the Senate endorsing Watt. The organization “has not
seen eye-to-eye on all issues with Mr. Watt during his
Congressional tenure,” the letter said. “However, our members
respect the manner in which he is willing to engage the
industry, stakeholders, and consumers to craft policy that is
fair, meets most of the needs of those involved, and allows all
parties to move forward.”  50/50 Chance  Brian Gardner , senior vice president for Washington
research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., gives Watt a 50/50
chance of winning confirmation.  “It’s not likely it’s going to happen but it’s not out of
the question,” Gardner said in an interview.  Watt, 67, backed a measure that would let bankruptcy judges
force lenders to cut principal owed on mortgages -- a tactic
that he called a legal “sledgehammer” against banks.  Republicans have criticized that position, his past support
for  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , and his qualifications for the
job. Watt, a lawyer, has served in Congress since 1992.  Republican resistance to the nomination has centered on a
view that the leadership of FHFA is better suited to a person
with technical rather than political expertise.  “I just hope for a technician that knew a lot about the
substance of Fannie and Freddie,” Senator  Bob Corker , a
Tennessee Republican, said in an interview. “I’ve raised those
personally with him and publicly but I’d hope we’d have a
technocrat and not a politician.”  Corker’s Vote  Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at
the  Cato Institute , said that view is a bad sign for Watt.  “Corker’s usually a swing vote, so when the moderates come
out against you it’s not a good sign,” Calabria said in an
interview “It’s hard for me to see any Republican votes.”  On June 25, Corker and Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia
Democrat, introduced a bill that would liquidate Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac. The
measure could restart debate on a sweeping overhaul of U.S.
housing finance.  Watt embraced the general concept of that plan at the
hearing.  “The good news is that a broad consensus has emerged on
the direction that our next steps must take us -- towards a
system driven by private capital that minimizes the risk to
taxpayers,” he said.  Senator  Mike Crapo  of  Idaho , the Banking Committee’s top
Republican, said he still has “very significant concerns”
about Watt’s nomination.  ‘Political’ Appointment  “I have previously expressed my concern about the
president choosing to make an appointment that is political in
nature,” Crapo said.  The FHFA director is responsible for overseeing the U.S.
conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which have
operated under federal control since they were seized amid
soaring losses in 2008. The agency’s chief also has the power to
set and modify terms for the 50 percent of existing U.S.
mortgages owned or backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  The two companies provide liquidity to the housing market
by purchasing mortgages and packaging them into securities on
which they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  The rebounding housing market has turned around the
companies’ financial condition. Both are posting record profits
after drawing $187.5 billion in taxpayer aid to stay afloat in
the wake of the 2008 credit crisis.  Banking District  Watt’s congressional district, which has the second-largest
concentration of banking-industry operations next to the  New
York  district that includes  Wall Street , also includes pockets
of poverty, according to Watt’s website.  In December, he signed a letter urging Obama to include in
his budget talks with Republicans a provision that would require
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce principal on some of the
loans they guarantee. Republicans may ask Watt to defend his
calls for principal reduction of troubled mortgages, a step that
DeMarco has opposed.  Watt said he would need to study the issue further before
deciding whether he would pursue principal reductions as FHFA
director.  He also said he sees a continued role for government
in mortgage finance because “there are circumstances in which
the profit motive overtakes anything else.”  Watt also said he doesn’t think Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
“should ever have been in the business of carrying out any kind
of social agenda.” In the run-up to the housing bubble, the
companies were under a mandate to broaden homeownership in
underserved communities, a rule that many Republicans blame for
the resulting crisis.  Pennsylvania Republican  Pat Toomey  said he was concerned by
Watt’s testimony.  “I think he reinforced my fear that he is deeply
distrustful of the private sector as a general matter and he
believes the profit motive apparently is a dangerous and
counterproductive motive in some cases,” Toomey said in an
interview. “I just think that runs contrary to history and
reality.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  