-- Fiat Plans Next Chrysler Option Purchase Amid Court Case
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-06-27T12:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/fiat-plans-next-chrysler-option-purchase-amid-court-case.html
Fiat SpA (F)  plans to exercise an option
to buy another 3.3 percent stake in U.S. carmaking unit Chrysler
Group LLC from a union’s pensioner health-care fund amid a
lawsuit over an earlier purchase.  “We’ll keep on doing what we’ve done in the past” under
terms of an agreement to acquire Chrysler stock every six months
from the United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust, Fiat
Chairman John Elkann told reporters today in Milan. The Turin,
Italy-based carmaker is maintaining a goal of combining with
Chrysler into one company, though “when or how” it will
happen, “we will see,” he said.  Fiat’s previous purchases from the trust total 6.6 percent
since mid-2012, and it can exercise the next option starting
July 1. The Italian company has yet to take ownership of the
holding amid a lawsuit in a Delaware court over its value.
Excluding the stake in dispute, Fiat owns 58.5 percent of
Chrysler. The trust owns the remaining 41.5 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne, 61, has spent
the past four years working to unify the companies to be more
competitive with global industry leaders  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  The executive, who wants
to merge the two carmakers “as soon as possible,” must first
buy the remaining stake Chrysler from the trust. He said on June
7 that Fiat is negotiating with the union on a settlement.  “Talks are going on, and let’s let the discussion run its
course,” Elkann said today.  Value Debated  The Italian  carmaker  asked Delaware Chancery Court Judge
Donald Parsons last year to rule that a call-option agreement
covering the first 3.3 percent holding acquired from the trust
is worth $139.7 million. The trust puts the value as high as
$342 million.  Marchionne, who is also CEO of Chrysler, has estimated the
court case would be completed by the end of September. Parsons,
now reviewing filings by the two sides, is likely to call for a
trial before placing a value on the shares, according to legal
experts including Charles Elson, director of the John L.
Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of
 Delaware . That may extend the process by months.  “Courts take their time, so we await a decision with
confidence,” Elkann said today, declining to estimate a date
for any legal ruling.  Chrysler has become Fiat’s most reliable profit generator
as the Italian company struggles to end losses in Europe that
totaled 704 million euros ($917 million) last year. Without
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler, Fiat would have posted
more than 1 billion euros in losses in 2012.  Fiat may raise as much as $10 billion from banks to
increase its stake in Chrysler and to refinance both companies’
 debt , people familiar with the matter said in May. As part of
those talks, Marchionne refinanced $5.65 billion in loans for
Fiat and Chrysler June 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  