-- FIFA’s Valcke Says Being Loved Isn’t Among Soccer Body’s Goals
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-27T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/fifa-s-valcke-says-being-loved-isn-t-among-soccer-body-s-goals.html
Soccer’s governing body is among
protesters’ targets as Brazilians stage the country’s biggest
street demonstrations in two decades. Being the focus of fury
goes hand in hand with running the world’s most-popular sport,
according to its top administrator.  “I don’t think the goal of FIFA is to be loved by the
world,” FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  said in an
interview at his organization’s temporary offices facing  Rio de
Janeiro ’s Copacabana beach. “As long as you have this
responsibility to protect the game, to make decisions which are
not always the nicest ones for some people, I’m not sure you can
avoid criticism.”  While the three-week protests that have drawn more than a
million Brazilians onto the streets are mostly focused on
improving public services and ending political corruption, the
Confederations Cup, a test event for next year’s World Cup in
 Brazil , has provided a platform for demonstrators, who have
thrown rocks at buses bearing Zurich-based FIFA’s logo.  Some marchers have brandished placards demanding schools
and hospitals be raised to “FIFA Standard,” a requirement that
the 12 stadiums for the  World Cup  must meet. In  Salvador , a host
city, workmen pulled down two giant “FIFA Out” posters on a
highway close to the arena where Brazil beat  Italy  4-2 on June
22.  Brazil topped neighbor Uruguay 2-1 last night to advance to
the June 30 final of the two-week Confederations Cup. World and
European champion  Spain  faces Italy in the other semifinal
today.  Surprise Protests  The scale of the protests has been a surprise to FIFA,
whose contingency planning before the tournament didn’t foresee
such opposition.  “We had no indication that would happen, and definitely no
indication that it would reach such a level,” said Valcke, who
has made nine trips to Brazil in the past year.  Valcke, 52, said he recognizes his organization has an
image problem. FIFA has been forced to make changes following
corruption allegations during the process to select hosts of the
$5 billion World Cup and the 2011 election for the body’s
president.  In May, officials from its 209 member associations convened
on the island of  Mauritius  in the  Indian Ocean  to vote through a
package of corporate governance changes. The venue and the sight
of executives being ferried around in  luxury vehicles  conflicted
with public pronouncements by the organization that it was
becoming more accountable and transparent.  “We have to change the image and the perception of the
world of what FIFA is and what FIFA is doing,” Valcke said.  Development Grants  Valcke said the sums used to fund FIFA congresses is small
when set against the more than $1 billion it’s spent to boost
the sport. The ruling body disperses income from the World Cup
to national federations and to develop soccer in poor countries.  Still, doubts remain about whether all of its work is
successful. FIFA promised more than $1 million to officials in
 Mozambique  to convert a 14-room colonial mansion in Maputo into
federation offices. The 2,700 square meter (29,000 square foot)
plot won’t have room for a soccer field, according to the seller
Izak Holtzhausen, a South African-born cattle farmer.  While reforms have created a stronger regulatory framework
within FIFA, the organization resisted changes such as
publishing executive pay and introducing  term limits . Valcke
said releasing the details of salaries would achieve little.  “We have reached a level of transparency and compliance
which is quite high,” he said. “You will say, ‘It’s not
enough, guys. You have to publish your salaries’, but why?
Whatever we earn I’m sure we will be criticized.”  Special Treatment  In Brazil, protesters are angered at FIFA’s demand for tax
exemptions for corporate partners such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and
 Adidas AG (ADS) , and hosting requirements that needed the Brazilian
parliament to pass special legislation.  FIFA is “a state within a state” that “is going to come,
install a circus without paying anything and take everything
with it,” Romario, who played on Brazil’s 1994 World Cup-winning team and is now a member of the Brazilian Chamber of
Deputies, said in a YouTube video last weekend.  While FIFA and Brazil’s government have done a poor job in
articulating the benefits of the World Cup, the accusations are
misplaced, Valcke said.  “Most of the claims when it’s about FIFA I would say are
wrong,” he said.  Direct staging costs are a fraction of the almost 30
billion reais ($13.7 billion) Brazil is spending on
infrastructure works to host the monthlong tournament in 12
cities, Valcke said.  Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo said in an interview June 24
that the country wouldn’t hesitate to sign the agreements former
president  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  made in 2007 to secure the
World Cup.  “If you asked Lula would he do it again I’m sure he would
say yes,” Rebelo said. “And so would I.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  