-- FIFA’s Valcke Says He’ll Decide Future After Brazil World Cup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-27T15:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/fifa-s-valcke-says-he-ll-decide-future-after-brazil-world-cup.html
Jerome Valcke , FIFA’s general
secretary, and the soccer body’s top administrative official,
comments on FIFA being targeted by protests in  Brazil ,  FIFA’s 
image following a series of corruption probes against members of
its executive board and his future amid talks he may run for the
organization’s presidency in 2015. Valkce, 52, was speaking in
Rio de Janeiro, which will host next year’s World Cup final.  On Brazilian protests:  “It is not linked to the World Cup at all. It is based on
a demand coming from the streets and the country for more
investment in health, education, transport for a fight against
corruption. Suddenly, the use of the Confederations Cup was a
perfect platform to express the voices in a stronger way. That’s
fine. There’s nothing wrong.  ‘‘The thing which became wrong is when a minority joined
the groups and started destroying everything, and being violent.
That’s where there were some concerns and needs to ensure the
security of the Confederations Cup.”  On FIFA’s image:  “I don’t think the goal of FIFA is to be loved by the
world. You should detach the  World Cup  and our competitions. Our
competitions are loved by the world. The body FIFA is a body
making decisions, it is the governing body of football and I
don’t think we should have as a goal to be loved.  ‘‘We have to change the image and the perception of the
world of what FIFA is and what FIFA is doing. FIFA is doing a
lot more than just organizing events, it’s doing a lot more than
just being the governing body. Without the support of FIFA
there’s no development of football.”  On a post-reform FIFA and executive pay:  “The world has changed. There’s a word today which is the
main word whenever you are a big company or big institution
which is transparency and compliance.  ‘‘We have reached a level of transparency and compliance
which is quite high. You will say ‘it’s not enough. Guys, you
have to publish your salaries,’ but why? Do you think that it
changes anything and it brings something important to the
situation we have at FIFA? I think now to have a system that
whoever is working in football can be investigated by an
independent body, the new ethics committee, is more important
than anything else.  ‘‘It means we are under a system which we cannot make any
mistake. And if we are making mistake today I will be
immediately out of the system.’’  On whether he will run for FIFA presidency in 2015:  ‘‘I’m doing something which is an amazing job: The
organization of the World Cup but also working at FIFA where I
wouldn’t say I’m in control of everything but I can touch on
everything. It’s the first time in my life that I’m in a
position that you’re involved from A to Z.  ‘‘I’m involved in the organization of football at level
which is quite unique. If you are asking me do I want to become
the next president? Firstly, the current president has to decide
if he wants to stay or remain as president. It’s not a question
for today. I will ask myself what’s my future after the World
Cup because then I will have to decide what I have to do beyond
2015.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  