-- Fladgate Expands With Acquisition of Port Producer Wiese & Krohn
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-06-27T16:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/fladgate-expands-with-acquisition-of-port-producer-wiese-krohn.html
The Fladgate Partnership Vinhos SA,
whose Port brands include Taylor’s, Fonseca and Croft, has
bought Wiese & Krohn, a Portuguese grower and shipper of
fortified wine with vintage stocks dating back 150 years.  The purchase gives Fladgate control of Wiese & Krohn’s
Quinta do Retiro Novo wine estate at Sarzedinho in the Rio Torto
Valley, a premium Port-producing area of the Douro region in
northern  Portugal , as well as stocks of five million litres of
Port, according to an e-mailed statement from  Fladgate .  The acquisition comes two months after Port makers declared
2011 a vintage year, a move that categorized those wines among
the top 10 of the last 30 years. The Wiese & Krohn purchase
further strengthens Fladgate stocks of mature tawnies and
single-vintage wood-aged Ports, known as colheitas.  “The recent growth and interest in aged tawnies worldwide
has fueled our interest to expand our stock and introduce a
range of exceptional colheitas,” Fladgate Chief Executive
Officer Adrian Bridge said in the statement. “Wiese & Krohn is
widely recognized for its expertise in this field.”  The acquisition of Quinta do Retiro Novo adds to Fladgate’s
vineyard properties, which cover more than 500 hectares (1,235
acres) and include Quinta de Vargellas for Taylor’s, Quinta do
Panascal for Fonseca and Quinta da Roeda for Croft.  Wiese & Krohn, like Fladgate, is based in Vila Nova de
Gaia, across the Douro River from Oporto and historic home to
warehouses of Port shippers. No price was given for the deal.  The shipper was founded in 1865 by two Norwegians, Theodor
Wiese and Dankert Krohn, as an exporter of Ports to Scandinavia
and  Germany , according to its  website . It’s now run by the third
generation of the family of Edmundo Falcao Carneiro, who joined
as an export manager in 1910 and later bought the company.  To contact the reporter on this story: Guy Collins in London on
   guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Paul Sillitoe
in London on   psillitoe@bloomberg.net  