-- Flying Planes Closer Together Boosts Biggest FedEx Hub
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-06-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/flying-planes-closer-together-boosts-biggest-fedex-hub.html
With a policy change at one airport,
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  went from having to hold up departures at its
biggest hub to getting planes out as fast as it could line them
up.  The largest air-cargo hauler has increased hourly arrivals
in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , by more than 20 percent and cut average
taxi times before takeoff by 3 minutes since U.S. regulators
decided it was safe for wide-body aircraft to fly closer to each
other. The change was the equivalent of adding a runway at the
world’s second-busiest freight airport.  A planned expansion to more airports is poised to benefit
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and passenger airlines. FedEx credits
the pilot program in Memphis for 7 percent of its fuel savings
this year and improved efficiency in sorting as many as 1.5
million packages a night.  “The result was nothing short of remarkable,” said Dan
Allen, senior manager of air traffic operations. “It’s changed
our world that dramatically.”  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration ’s move in Memphis,
which started Nov. 1, is the agency’s biggest change in more
than 40 years to rules designed to keep the biggest jets safe
from the hazard known as wake vortex.  Tornado-like spiraling air movements that form off large
planes’ wingtips may exceed 200 miles an hour (322 kilometers an
hour), powerful enough to turn a smaller plane on its side,
according to an FAA training guide. Encounters with wakes were
linked to at least 51 accidents with 27 deaths from 1983 to
1993, according to the document.  Shipping Cheaper  Now, spurred by a decade of research using more advanced
technology showing that planes may have been separated more than
necessary, the FAA is preparing to unveil similar changes at
UPS’s hub in Louisville,  Kentucky , and delay-prone passenger
airports, according to documents.  For FedEx, “it’s another way for them to push down costs
within their airline network,”  Kevin Sterling , a BB&T Capital
Markets analyst, said of the impacts on FedEx in an interview.
“You’ve got fuel savings, less taxi time and less pilot hours
too.”  FedEx spent $4.75 billion on fuel in the fiscal year ended
May 31, or about 11 percent of its total $41.7 billion in
operating costs. It’s in the midst of a $1.7 billion cost-cutting program, parking older, less-efficient planes, trimming
capacity to  Asia  and offering employee buyouts.  Net income in the quarter ended May 31 fell 45 percent to
$303 million, or 95 cents a share, from $550 million, or $1.73,
a year earlier.  Wake Vortex  Savings on routine operations such as taxiing would help
FedEx as it adapts to customers’ shifts in shipping preferences
to slower, lower-cost options than priority deliveries.  FedEx shares  rose  7.3 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with 17.2 percent for UPS and 12.2 percent for the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  The FAA’s changes in Memphis are part of its $42 billion
NextGen air-traffic makeover intended to replace radar with
satellite-based tracking. Unlike core NextGen programs, the
decrease in separations didn’t require airport construction, new
systems or cockpit equipment.  “That single, elegant solution allowed us to increase the
number of flights per hour, without a single piece of new
technology or foot of pavement,” FAA Administrator Michael Huerta said in an e-mail.  Since 1969, multiaisle aircraft such as the  Boeing Co. (BA)  747
have been given a wide berth from other large planes because of
what was then known about wake vortex.  Aircraft known as “heavy,” including most wide-body
planes such as Boeing’s 747 and 767, or the Airbus SAS A330 and
A300, have been required to stay at least 4 nautical miles (7.4
kilometers) apart as they arrive or depart.  Database Created  Devices perfected a decade ago could monitor the horizontal
twisters with more precision, Mike Margulis of  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  said in an interview.  Lockheed’s  WindTracer  sends out laser pulses that reflect
off microscopic dust particles, allowing researchers to track
wind speed and direction in clear air, said Margulis, who heads
the business line.  The FAA used such devices over the past decade to create a
database of aircraft wakes, according to a presentation to the
WakeNet-Europe Workshop last month in Bonneuil-sur-Marne,
 France . The group hosts research conferences.  The  research  showed some of the largest planes could fly as
close as 2.5 nautical miles (4 kilometers) behind a similar
model without being at risk, according to the presentation by
Jeffrey Tittsworth, who heads the FAA program, and Steven Lang,
the former program chief who now is a researcher at the U.S.-
funded Volpe National Transportation Systems Center in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . The two have led the FAA’s effort.  Lining Up  The new standard has been particularly helpful to FedEx.
All of its  355  jets are wide-bodies or Boeing 757s, a single-aisle plane that’s been treated similar to a wide-body in the
FAA separation rules, according to the company’s website.  While the change has allowed 18 more FedEx arrivals an
hour, the biggest impact has been on departing flights, FedEx’s
Allen said. Before the program known as Wake Turbulence
Recategorization or Recat began, FedEx would hold planes at the
terminal to avoid lines waiting to take off, wasting fuel, Allen
said.  Now the company struggles to get planes to the runway fast
enough to take all available departure slots, he said.  While pilots are pleased with the results in Memphis, they
are monitoring incident reports to ensure moving planes closer
together at other airports won’t undermine safety, Sean Cassidy,
first vice president of the Air Line Pilots Association, said in
an interview. ALPA is the largest U.S. pilots’ union and
represents FedEx cockpit crews.  ‘Showed You’  Spacing rules won’t change between most single-aisle
planes, such as the  Boeing 737  and the  Airbus A320 , the two most
common airliner model families. They can fly within 3 nautical
miles (4.8 kilometers) at most airports and 2.5 nautical miles
at busier hubs, according to the FAA standards.  After introducing Recat to Louisville in August, the FAA
plans to expand it to  San Francisco , Atlanta, Houston, Miami and
Philadelphia, said  Laura Brown , an agency spokeswoman.  If Recat adds even a handful of landings and takeoffs an
hour at busy airports, it may provide an opening for more
competition by passenger carriers, George Ferguson, senior
analyst for aerospace and airlines at Bloomberg Industries, said
in an interview.  “How can you increase capacity without spending millions
and millions on new runways?” Scott Pressley, the National Air
Traffic Controllers Association union’s representative on the
FAA’s program, said in an interview. “We’ve just showed you
how.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  