-- For Egypt’s Liberals, Noise Doesn’t Equal Power
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-06-27T22:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/for-egypt-s-liberals-noise-doesn-t-equal-power.html
On the face of it, the winds should
have been favorable for Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi.  After kings and military dictators, he was Egypt’s first
democratically elected president. He prevailed at the polls a
year ago by a very narrow margin, with almost 52 percent of the
vote in a runoff. It had not been the happiest of choices. The
young men and women of  Tahrir Square  who had brought down the
old dictatorship had been disinherited; their revolution, they
asserted, had been hijacked.  Now, after a tumultuous year, Mursi’s critics have called
for a national strike June 30 that is meant to drive him from
power. After the last pharaoh -- the label given  Hosni Mubarak  -
- social peace has not come to Egypt.  The liberal-secular coalition seeking the general  strike 
isn’t blameless. Its leaders, known as the National Salvation
Front, have feuded among themselves. In the presidential
election last year, they failed to unite behind a single
candidate. They set up that miserable choice between the old
regime and Mursi, the Muslim Brotherhood functionary.  A colorless, uninspiring man, Mohamed Mursi emerged from
the history and culture of the Brotherhood. Born to peasant
poverty in 1951, he went on to college for a degree in
engineering, a gift from the open educational system of  Egypt ’s
Free Officers Movement in the 1950s. In due course, he made his
way to the U.S. and secured a doctorate at the University of
 Southern California . He wasn’t eager to leave: He had lined up a
teaching stint at  California State University  at Northridge.  Biding Time  He wasn’t unique in his journey. Engineers and physicians
swell the ranks of the Brotherhood, and long sojourns abroad
aren’t exceptional. Devastated by the secular dictatorship of
Gamal Abdul Nasser in 1954, the Brotherhood was forced into the
shadows and into exile.  The Brotherhood was willing to bide its time. It wanted no
repetition of the terror and political prisons it had known in
the 1950s and 1960s. Above all, it wanted no confrontation with
the army. Its ideologues never gave up on an alliance with the
officer corps. Say what you will about the Brotherhood, it
wasn’t in the least a revolutionary organization.  The Brotherhood’s stock in trade was conspiracy and a
willingness to dodge mighty storms. It had waited out the
protests of  Tahrir Square . Those 18 magical days in 2011 that
captivated outsiders and gave back Egyptians a measure of
political efficacy and dignity were the work of secular
liberals, Christian Copts, young men and those daring women who
defied custom and tradition to come out in the public square.  Yet the Brotherhood had more than eight decades of
political experience behind it. The military dictatorship had
atomized the feeble liberals, leaving them unprepared for the
contest over the new order. Like liberals elsewhere in hard,
illiberal places, they were sure they embodied their country’s
spirit.  They were trounced by the Brotherhood and the hardline
Salafis in the first parliamentary elections; the judiciary, a
bastion of the old order, stepped in and dissolved the
parliament. The democrats didn’t own up to the truth: While
 Egypt  has a sophisticated intellectual elite, a modernist camp,
and  Europe  isn’t too far away, it is a poor country with a high
illiteracy rate and a population that the Mubarak dictatorship
had been content to leave to darkness and the rule of
superstition.  In the best of worlds, the Brotherhood would have been
willing to tread carefully and to acknowledge the narrow mandate
it had secured with Mursi’s election. But a paranoid movement
that ached for power wouldn’t show restraint. The Brotherhood
lived by a majoritarian logic. Mursi was its frontman. It had a
political bureau and a supreme guide.  Divided Country  The Brotherhood was  contemptuous  of the liberals and wary
of the army. They were keen to preempt the judiciary and to
drape their rule in legalistic colors. When Mursi issued an odd
“constitutional declaration” in November 2012 that put his
decrees beyond judicial review, his secular opponents howled in
protest. He stepped back, then pushed a draft constitution
through an Islamist-dominated assembly, which overwhelmingly
approved it. Egyptians were keen to find a way out of the chaos
and the lawlessness.  Egypt  is intensely divided. The Brotherhood had the mantle
of electoral legitimacy, yet millions were unalterably opposed
to its drab reign. When Mursi declared a curfew in December in
the cities of Port Said, Suez and Ismailia, people came out into
the streets to sing and dance and play soccer in the night.  The country had become  ungovernable : No one, save for the
most strident reactionaries, wanted the restoration of the old
order, but Egyptians were coming to terms with the difficulties
of arriving at a workable national compact. The contempt shown
Mursi by his secular detractors is as uncompromising as the
assertions by so many Brotherhood preachers that it is
impermissible -- really, a religious sin -- to advocate his
ouster from power.  The  protests  are a desperate throw of the dice. They offer
no deliverance: Mursi will not cede power. The suspicion mounts
that his rivals are hoping the military will step in and sack
the Brotherhood. Mubarak, who has been coming to his trial on a
gurney, must have allowed himself a thought or two about the
wisdom and the safety of the way he ruled.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at Stanford University’s
Hoover Institution and author of “The Syrian Rebellion.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 