-- Ford’s Russian Factory Halts Evening Shift Because of Heat Wave
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-06-27T15:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/ford-s-russian-factory-halts-evening-shift-because-of-heat-wave.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Russian venture
near St. Petersburg, the nation’s second-biggest city, canceled
a working shift and other carmakers ordered extra breaks after
local temperatures rose to the hottest in seven years.  The evening shift at the Ford-Sollers joint-venture was
halted for the first time in 11 years today after temperatures
in the company’s warehouses reached 32 degrees Celsius (90
degrees Fahrenheit), union leader Andrey Kashitsyn said by
phone. The factory produces Ford Focus and Mondeo cars for the
Russian market. The shift may be canceled tomorrow as well if
the weather stays unchanged, Kashitsyn said.  “It’s really hot inside the building,” Kashitsyn said.
“Proper work is impossible as the normal temperature has to be
only as high as 27 degrees.” The Ford-Sollers press service
declined to immediately comment by phone.  Local factories owned by  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  set additional 10-minute breaks for each shift and
supplied workers with cold water, spokesmen for the plants said.
 Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. prolonged a lunch break, union leader Yevgeny
Pavlovsky said. A General Motors plant is working “as usual,”
said Victoria Chuikina, a spokeswoman for GM Russia’s production
unit, said by phone.  Temperatures in St. Petersburg have risen above 30 degrees
Celsius for a fourth day while the average temperature for June
is 20 degrees, according to the State Weather Forecast Service’s
website.  Five carmaking plants in St. Petersburg produced 168,500
cars in the first five months of 2013, or 22 percent of all
Russia’s car production, according to a survey released
yesterday by the AutoDealer-SPb agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  