-- Ford: Industry Sales Pace May Have Slowed on Fed Signals
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-06-27T20:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/ford-says-sales-slowed-as-fed-signals-sapped-confidence.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, said the pace of industry sales in its home
market may have moderated after the  Federal Reserve  signaled it
could begin unwinding its accommodative monetary policy.  “The industry was really strong in the first half of the
month, but maybe slowed a bit in the last week,” Joe Hinrichs,
Ford’s president of the Americas, told reporters today in
Dearborn, Michigan, near the company’s headquarters. Ford is
monitoring whether concerns over rising  interest rates  are
denting  consumer confidence , he said.  Auto lending has accelerated as the U.S. market rebounds to
a pace of more than 15 million sales this year, positioning the
industry for its best year since 2007. The Fed’s monetary policy
has driven rates for new-car loans to record lows, supporting
demand from U.S. consumers looking to swap the oldest vehicles
ever on American roads for new cars and trucks.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said last week that
the Fed may taper the current $85 billion monthly bond-buying
program later this year and halt purchases around mid-2014
should the economy grow in line with Fed projections. Concluding
the stimulus program may take years to complete since most Fed
officials said they don’t expect to begin raising the benchmark
lending rate out of its lowest-ever range of zero to 0.25
percent until 2015.  ‘Consumer Confidence’  “That could be something as it gets more and more
attention in the last week that could have an effect on
consumers,” Hinrichs said today. “It will be interesting to
watch where  consumer confidence  goes as the market kind of
fluctuated in the last week and they talk around eventually
higher interest rates, and what that means for consumers’ buying
confidence.”  Ford, the biggest gainer of U.S. market share this year,
expects a strong June close for its sales this weekend, which
leads up to the July 4 holiday, Hinrichs said. The automaker is
adding capacity to build 200,000 more vehicles annually in  North
America  on demand for its F-Series pickups and Fusion sedans,
and most of its regional assembly plants also are taking shorter
summer shutdowns.  Ford is seeing the effects of the weaker yen in pricing and
incentives from Japanese automakers, Hinrichs said. Ford Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  last week called  Japan  a currency
manipulator that’s giving local exporters an unfair edge.  Yen Advantage  “We are seeing some signs that businesses are doing what
they would do with a  currency devaluation ,” Hinrichs told
reporters. “We have seen increased incentives on Prius
products, which are all made in Japan. The Lexus ES has had a
substantial increase in incentives this year.” The Prius hybrid
and Lexus luxury line are produced by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s 25 percent U.S. sales gain in May
tripled the industywide sales increase. The automaker cut the
price of seven models, including its top-selling Altima sedan.
The Yokohama, Japan-based company’s price reductions were the
first sign of a Japanese automaker taking advantage of the
weakening yen, which has declined about 19 percent against the
dollar since Oct. 31.  Currency changes could make it more difficult for the rest
of the industry to charge for optional content and command
improved pricing, Raj Nair, Ford’s head of product development,
told reporters today.  “When you get into manipulation” of currency, “you
create a lot of disconnects that disadvantage certain parts of
the industry and advantage others,” Nair said. “That can have
repercussions.”  Ford rose 2.4 percent to $15.65 at the close in  New York .
The shares have surged 21 percent this year, compared with a 13
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  