-- Forties Crude Drawn to Mediterranean as Russian Oil Prices Gain
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-06-27T12:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/forties-crude-drawn-to-mediterranean-as-russian-oil-prices-gain.html
A cargo of North Sea Forties crude
is on its way to  Spain , at least the second vessel to make the
voyage this month, as strengthening Russian prices encourage a
wider range of buyers for the U.K. grade.  Repsol SA (REP)  loaded a Forties cargo on the SC Sara on June 22,
according to ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg. Another
Forties consignment was loaded onto the vessel Torm Ingeborg
yesterday at Hound Point,  Scotland , according to ship-tracking
data from ShipAIS. Both vessels are heading for Tarragona, where
Repsol operates an 186,000 barrel-a-day refinery.  Total SA (FP) 
booked a ship to collect a cargo at the Forties terminal and
ship it to  Poland , shipbroker data show.  A  narrowing spread  between prices for Forties and a Russian
alternative crude, Urals, has made these arbitrage trades
possible, said three people familiar with the matter who asked
not to be identified because the information is confidential.
Spain hasn’t imported crude from the U.K. since September 2011,
according to state-run reserves agency Corporacion de Reservas
Estrategicas de Productos Petroliferos, or Cores. The data
extend through April 2013.  Forties crude cargoes are finding homes in European
destinations as changes to  South Korea ’s tax regime has
curtailed the flow of North Sea crude to the Asian nation. South
Korea and the European Union signed a free-trade agreement in
July 2011, which exempted its refiners from a 3 percent tax on
EU imports. The agreement triggered an arbitrage flow of North
Sea crude to the Asian country, before slowing since March when
the South Korean government closed a loophole that allowed its
refiners to claim rebates on oil product exports derived from
North Sea crude.  Poland Voyage  Poland is among other destinations where the North Sea
grade, one of four that make up the Dated Brent benchmark, is
being sold to. The Russian grade, Urals, cost 17 cents a barrel
more than Dated Brent in northwest  Europe  yesterday, up from a
discount of $2.90 on March 1, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Forties was at a 5-cent premium to dated Brent yesterday, versus
a 12-cent premium on March 1.  Chartering and Shipping Services SA, a shipping unit of
Total, booked the British Falcon for July 4 from the Forties
loading terminal Hound Point for a voyage to Gdansk, according
to reports from ship brokers, including JGO Shipbrokers AS.
 Brian O’Neill , a spokesman for Total in Aberdeen wasn’t
available for comment yesterday, and officials at Total’s press
office in Paris didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  