-- Four Milestones Made U.S. the World’s Craft Beer Champ
-- B y   T o m   A c i t e l l i
-- 2013-06-27T16:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/four-milestones-made-u-s-the-world-s-craft-beer-champ.html
The  Brewers Association , the main
trade group for U.S. beer-makers, announced June 20 that the
number of American breweries had surpassed 2,500, more than at
any time since at least the 1880s and more than in any other
nation.  The vast majority (more than 2,300) are  craft breweries ,
independently owned companies that make beer on a small scale
using traditional ingredients. There are also, according to the
association, as many as 1,559 breweries in the planning stages,
most of them craft.  This growth shouldn’t be surprising, given that craft
beer’s share of the $99 billion U.S. beer market increased to
$10.2 billion in 2012, from $8.7 billion in 2011.  European beer was once considered the world’s best. Brewers
there didn’t produce in the same volume as  Anheuser-Busch (BUD) , but
their products were regarded as higher quality. That perception
began to change in the 1990s, as U.S. craft beer makers racked
up successive years of double-digit growth.  By the new century, many critics recognized U.S. beer for
its excellence. American brewers had redefined age-old styles
and created new ones; and their consumers were increasingly
savvy.  There were four important milestones in the development of
the industry.  Last Brewery  Anchor: In 1965, the home-appliance heir Fritz Maytag saved
 San Francisco ’s Anchor Brewing Co., the last craft brewery in
the U.S. Anchor’s beer was pretty bad, and so Maytag decided to
make it better. In so doing, he set benchmarks for future makers
of craft beer.  First, Maytag decided that his brewery would remain small
and wouldn’t follow the trend in American brewing of increasing
volume and expanding distribution. Second, it would remain
 independently owned , no matter how much money it lost (and it
lost plenty, well into the 1970s).  Most importantly, Maytag used only traditional ingredients.
No more adjuncts such as corn syrup or rice -- only hops, malted
grains such as barley, and yeast and water.  New Albion: In late 1966,  Jack McAuliffe , a U.S. Navy
mechanic stationed in  Scotland , visited a Boots drug store in
Glasgow. Hoping to recreate the rich European beers he knew he
wouldn’t be able to get in the U.S., he bought a home-brewing
kit.  Back at his stone cottage in nearby Dunoon, McAuliffe
brewed a pale ale over a coal-burning stove. It was a hit with
fellow service members and with the Scottish locals.  Ten years later, McAuliffe started New Albion, the first
new craft brewery in the U.S. since Prohibition, in Sonoma
County,  California . A lack of funds for expansion caused the
company to collapse in 1983, but it inspired a generation of
homebrewers to start commercial operations.  Cascade Hop : Typically, hops are added at two points during
brewing: the earlier “bittering” stage and the later
“aromatic” stage. Until the early 1970s, no U.S.-grown hops
were considered good enough to be added during the aromatic
stage, when a beer acquires its distinctive aroma.  In 1972,  Coors (TAP)  tested the Cascade hop, which had been
developed by an Agriculture Department farm in Corvallis,
 Oregon . It eventually came to the attention of Maytag at Anchor,
which was preparing a brew called Liberty Ale, in honor of the
200th anniversary of Paul Revere’s 1775 ride. It would be the
bitterest domestic beer.  Pale Ale  The Cascade-infused  Liberty Ale  spawned imitators
(including the modern India pale ale, the most popular style in
American craft beer) but it also fostered a new, experimental
way of thinking about brewing.  Tax Breaks: Since World War II, the industry had been
lobbying the federal government to cut  taxes  for smaller
brewers. They had little success until Henry King, the head of
the now-defunct U.S. Brewers’ Association, took up the cause in
the mid-1970s.  King cajoled contributions from big-time brewers and
leveraged the political muscle of manufacturing unions. In
September 1976, he got  Congress  to cut excise taxes on beer by
more than 20 percent, from $9 a barrel to $7 on the first 60,000
barrels a brewery made -- so long as the brewery didn’t make
more than 2 million barrels a year.  When the  tax cut  went into effect, there was only one craft
brewery: Anchor. The number grew exponentially in subsequent
decades.  New Amsterdam: In 1981, Matthew Reich, a top executive at
Hearst Magazines, flew to  Boston  to meet with Joseph Owades, a
leading consultant in the brewing industry. Reich wanted to
start the first craft brewery in  New York City ; Owades told him
the cost would be prohibitive.  Instead, Owades suggested contract brewing: Reich would
rent the equipment and subcontract the labor at one of many
under-capacity regional breweries that were being squeezed by
national giants such as Anheuser-Busch.  Reich’s decision to contract-brew New Amsterdam through the
F.X. Matt Brewing Co. in Utica,  New York , inspired imitators
such Jim Koch and Pete Slosberg, the creators of Samuel Adams
and Pete’s Wicked.  The craft beer movement also has had some setbacks along
the way. From 1996 to 2000, almost 200 craft operations, or
around one-third of all small brewers, closed. The main reason:
too much beer of dubious quality being produced by too many
uncommitted new entrants to the market.  That isn’t likely to happen with the current craft-beer
boom. This time around, much more stringent quality controls are
in place: modern breweries, equipped with top-shelf technology
and staffed by highly trained brewmasters.  ( Tom Acitelli  is the author of “ The Audacity of Hops : The
History of America’s Craft Beer Revolution.”)  Read more from  Echoes  online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Tom Acitelli at  tacitelli@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  