-- Freeport LNG Seeking Financing for $11 Billion Texas Facility
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-06-27T01:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/freeport-lng-sees-11-billion-project-with-three-units-by-2019.html
Freeport LNG Development LP is
seeking financing to start construction next year on an $11
billion natural-gas export facility in  Texas  that in six years
is scheduled to ship 2.1 billion cubic feet of gas a day.  Funds will be sought for the first two units that will cost
about $7.5 billion,  Michael Smith , Freeport’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview in Houston yesterday.
The company will also seek $1 billion to help retire debt that’s
on top of the $11 billion project costs, he said. Financing will
be sought for a third unit, or train, in 2014, for the balance
of the costs, he said.  One train a year is expected to open in 2017, 2018 and
2019, Smith said. He said financing will have equity and debt
components. Last month, the U.S. Energy Department conditionally
authorized  exports  from part of Freeport’s project, saying they
likely would yield net economic benefits.  Increased output from shale formations in  North America  has
led to proposals for about 30 billion cubic feet of daily U.S.
gas export capacity.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  has the first project
in the lower-48 states to gain full approval for exports of
liquefied natural gas, or LNG.  The Energy Department’s Freeport approval covers 1.4
billion cubic feet a day of capacity. The company is seeking
approval for another 1.4 billion cubic feet a day for a planned
third train and a possible fourth unit the company may consider
in the future.  Approving Projects  Smith said the U.S. should approve all of the pending
applications and let the market decide which projects succeed.
By the end of 2022, the lower-48 states may see as many as six
LNG export projects built totaling perhaps 6 billion to 10
billion cubic feet a day, he said.  “They should all be approved because the government
shouldn’t be picking winners and losers, but the market isn’t
deep enough for more than four, five or six of these
facilities,” Smith said.  Freeport still must gain approval from the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission , which Smith said may occur early next
year.  Freeport has agreements with Osaka Gas Co., Chubu Electric
Power Co. and  BP Plc (BP/)  for use of the planned export facility.
Freeport may announce customers for the third train later this
year, Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  