-- Gazprom Sees Full-Year Profit Down 10% on European Rebates
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-06-27T15:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/gazprom-sees-full-year-profit-down-10-on-european-rebates.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, said net income will drop as much as 10
percent this year because of repayments to European customers
and higher taxes.  Gazprom has earmarked as much as 200 billion rubles ($6
billion) for potential rebates to European companies in 2013,
with  RWE AG (RWE)  the latest to win concessions today following
arbitration.  The estimate is “somewhat higher” than the 114 billion
rubles set aside last year, Chief Financial Officer Andrey Kruglov told reporters in Moscow today. It will be
“sufficient” to meet all necessary payments, he said.  European buyers including EON SE and  Eni SpA (ENI)  have pressured
the state-controlled exporter for discounts since its average
gas price reached a record in 2008 while a recession cut demand
for the fuel and made gas available at reduced market prices.
Gazprom, the supplier of about a quarter of  Europe ’s gas, posted
net income of $38 billion in 2012.  Gazprom will reimburse  Germany ’s second-biggest utility for
payments made since May 2010, while introducing a gas market
indexation in the supply contract’s pricing formula, RWE said in
a statement after the court ruling. Higher mineral taxes in
 Russia  will also weigh on earnings, according to Gazprom.  Shares of the Moscow-based gas exporter fell 2.2 percent to
107.75 rubles. The stock is down 25 percent this year.  Gazprom renegotiated contracts with utilities including EON
last year with retroactive discounts ranging from 7 percent to
10 percent. Following the outcome of the RWE case, Gazprom
remains in negotiations with  GDF Suez (GSZ) , EconGas, Wingas and WIEH.  Gazprom Export’s press service declined to comment on the
amount RWE will receive back or the size of the spot indexation
in the pricing formula to be adjusted.  Contract Terms  Eni secured a price discount of less than 7 percent for
this year, according to an agreement last week. It’s continuing
to renegotiate other contract terms, Eni Chief Executive Officer
 Paolo Scaroni  has said.  Gazprom has already paid 23 billion rubles in retroactive
payments in the first quarter, Mikhail Rosseev, its deputy
senior accountant, said.  Revenue and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will probably stay at the same level as last year,
Kruglov said. Gazprom expects exports to Europe to rebound this
year after a slump in 2012, supported by colder weather on the
continent last winter.  As the government studies holding back domestic rate
increases, Gazprom is reviewing investment plans, Kruglov said.  Projects aimed at maintaining the gas pipeline network and
meeting supply obligations will remain intact, though some
production and transportation projects could be curbed, he said,
without elaborating.  The government may limit increases in regulated domestic
prices to 5 percent a year from 15 percent planned for next year
as President  Vladimir Putin  considers rate caps to fight
inflation.  “If there are cuts, then we can expect some scaling back
of the projects that were aimed for development,” Kruglov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  