-- GE Capital Boosts Lending as CMBS Market Wavering
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-06-28T01:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/ge-capital-boosts-lending-as-cmbs-market-wavering.html
GE Capital Real Estate, among the
world’s biggest property investors before getting burned in the
financial crisis, is increasing lending this year as deals
accelerate and the cost of borrowing jumps in the commercial
mortgage-backed  securities market .  The unit of  General Electric Co. (GE)  plans to make about $7
billion of new loans on North American real estate, up 40
percent from last year, said Alec Burger, North America
president of GE Capital Real Estate, based in Norwalk,
 Connecticut . U.S. commercial transactions jumped 35 percent in
the first quarter to $72.8 billion, according to Real Capital
Analytics Inc., a New York-based property research firm.  “Liquidity has come back into the commercial real estate
space with a vengeance,” Burger said in a June 13 telephone
interview, before a rise in Treasury yields. “That’s both on
the equity and the debt side. We’re getting back to healthy,
normalized amounts of deal flow.”  Lenders like  GE Capital  that use their own money and
generally hold onto the loans they make could take business from
Wall Street banks as spreads widen in the market for CMBS, said
Tom Craig, a partner and co-founder of Bluewater Realty Capital
in  Seattle , which arranges debt financing for commercial real
estate.  Lenders are charging more on loans that will be packaged
into bonds as investors pull away from the securities amid
concern about rising rates. That makes it more expensive for
borrowers looking for 65 percent or more of a property’s value
in the CMBS market, the loan-to-value ratio, or LTV.  ‘Options Narrow’  “Since CMBS spreads have totally blown out, your options
have narrowed if you need the higher LTV,” Craig said. “If you
need to get out of an existing loan with a refinancing or you’re
going to buy a property and you need 75 percent loan to value,
you may have to go to a balance sheet lender” like GE Capital.  Life insurance companies also will benefit, said  Dan Fasulo , managing director at Real Capital. “For life companies
and balance-sheet lenders, this has the ability to help them
compete again almost overnight,” he said.  GE’s commercial real estate unit had assets of $96 billion
in the second quarter of 2008, before the global financial
crisis and the collapse of property values. The division had
about $43 billion in assets as of the first quarter.  Equity Investments  Before the credit crisis, GE expanded its equity
investments in commercial real estate after years of running a
mostly debt-based portfolio. The company returned its focus to
making real estate loans in 2010 as banks halted lending during
the credit crisis and CMBS securitizations temporarily stopped.
GE Capital originated about $1 billion of commercial property
loans that year, followed by about $3 billion in 2011, Burger
said.  Almost all the loans GE Capital Real Estate makes are
senior secured first mortgages, with 70 percent to 75 percent
loan-to-value ratios, Burger said. It typically loans three- to
five-years in term, giving borrowers flexibility to sell or
revamp properties over the next few years. GE Capital is working
predominantly with borrowers buying and selling large groups of
assets as opposed to single buildings, Burger said.  Treasury yields have jumped since Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben Bernanke  said last week the central bank may taper bond
purchases as the economy improves. The 10-year Treasury yield
has risen about 36 basis points since June 19 to 2.54 percent.  Rising Rates  Investors are demanding 1.2 percentage points more than the
benchmark swap rate to buy new CMBS tied to shopping malls,
skyscrapers, hotels and apartment buildings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up from 72 basis points in
February, the narrowest spread since sales revived in 2009, the
data show.  Loan rates for borrowers have climbed about 100 basis
points, or 1 percentage point, over the past two months,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by New York-based analyst Ed
Reardon wrote in a June 21 report.  GE Capital earlier this month loaned Blackstone Group LP
$581 million in floating-rate debt to refinance a 16-property
hotel portfolio, including assets in  Florida  that the private
equity firm is selling. The loan gives Blackstone flexibility to
sell assets without incurring the prepayment penalties normally
imposed by fixed-rate debt.  Some property owners are securing fixed-rate loans in the
belief that rates won’t come back down, said Brian Stoffers,
chief operating officer and president of CBRE Capital Markets
overseeing debt and equity finance at the unit of CBRE Group
Inc., the largest commercial broker.  ‘Tricky Game’  “I’d say more than half are moving now to lock in and less
than half are saying perhaps things will settle back down,”
Stoffers said. “It’s a very tricky game to play. My view is
that we’re going to get into an environment of higher rates.”  The composition of GE Capital Real Estate’s loan book
reflects a period of historically low  interest rates . About 51
percent of GE Capital Real Estate’s loans are floating-rate,
with 49 percent fixed, according to the company.  “If you’ve got a very long-term horizon, you’re probably
going to lock in a CMBS fixed-rate loan for a long period of
time,” Burger said. “If you have a plan where there’s more of
a value-creation side or a plan where you’re ultimately selling
down assets over a three- to five-year window, my sense is
that’s going to lend itself more to a floating-rate
transaction.”  Rising interest rates may disrupt some deals in progress as
“a buyer who thought the price of debt was X turns around and
it’s Y,” said Fasulo of Real Capital. “Short term there will
be a shakeout but the market is plenty healthy. This will be a
short-term phenomenon.”  ‘Modest Increase’  GE Capital’s Burger agreed that the  property market , and
demand for capital to make acquisitions, is strong.  “While there’s been a modest increase in interest rates
recently, we’re not seeing any material impact in the investment
market,” Burger said. “When  unemployment  is still 7.6 percent,
I don’t think people feel there is significant inflationary
pressure.”  Whereas the 10-year Treasury is the basis for many fixed-rate loans, floating-rate loans are priced off the London
interbank offered rate, or  Libor (US0003M) , which hasn’t moved much
relative to Treasury yields after the Fed remarks on June 19.
Three-month dollar Libor rose to 0.28 percent from 0.27 percent
the day before Bernanke spoke.  GE Portfolio  “We expect a lag in the current shift,” said  Sam Chandan ,
president and chief economist of Chandan Economics, a New York-based provider of data and analysis on the commercial real
estate market.  GE Capital’s real estate debt portfolio is currently at
about $22 billion, Burger said. Even with the expected $7
billion of originations this year, the total portfolio won’t
swell because of the subtraction due to debt maturities and
collections, Burger said.  The company loaned Blackstone about $800 million in a
senior mortgage in October 2011 to help finance the private
equity firm’s $1.1 billion purchase of 79 suburban U.S. office
buildings from  Duke Realty Corp. (DRE)   “Coming out of the downturn, that was kind of a watershed
transaction for us,” Burger said. Many of GE’s competitors in
commercial real estate lending were consumed by the financial
crisis, including Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Wachovia
Corp., which was acquired by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  “Where there’s a
need for a larger transaction, that plays to our strengths.
Structuring flexibility plays to our strengths. The world is
very liquid for very vanilla-looking 60 percent loan-to-value
transactions. There’s slightly less competition for the higher
structured, slightly higher LTV deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  