-- Germany’s Von der Leyen Urges European Labor Market to Spur Jobs
-- B y   A r n e   D e l f s   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2013-06-27T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/germany-s-von-der-leyen-urges-european-labor-market-to-spur-jobs.html
German Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen said she’ll push to create a Europe-wide labor market with
common training, mutually recognized qualifications and language
classes that allow people to move to where the work is.  Von der Leyen, who is coordinating a jobs summit with labor
ministers from all 27 European Union member states in Berlin on
July 3, said that better mobility is key to helping match people
in countries like  Portugal  burdened with youth unemployment of
42.5 percent with jobs in  Germany , where 34,000 training places
are vacant.  “I think in terms of a European labor market and no longer
national labor markets,” Von der Leyen, 54, said in an
interview in Berlin yesterday. “A young Spaniard has to know
where there’s a training place vacant in Germany or  Austria .”  European leaders meeting in Brussels today are shifting
their focus from three years of crisis fighting to longer-term
efforts to tackle unemployment that has reached a record 12.2
percent in the 17-nation euro region. By contrast,  joblessness
in Germany  fell in June to a two-decade low of 6.8 percent,
figures released yesterday showed.  EU leaders seeking to address unemployment among under-25s
that has surpassed 50 percent in Spain and  Greece  plan to
“front-load” 6 billion euros ($7.8 billion) in aid already
made available, Von der Leyen said. To that can be added 16
billion euros from European structural funds, yielding a total
of 22 billion euros, she said.  Pilot Project  Even so, “it’s not just a question of money,” said Von
der Leyen, citing a pilot project run by her ministry that paid
for language lessons and travel costs to help young people in
southern  Europe  find jobs and training places in Germany. To
scale that up to a pan-European project, labor agencies must be
involved and encouraged to become “very practical,” she said.  Representatives of all 27 EU countries’ labor agencies will
attend the Berlin summit along with 20 heads of state and
government including French President  Francois Hollande  and
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , she said. The aim is to
“fill the decision of the European summit with life,” she
said.  Among the measures needed are Europe-wide recognition of
qualifications and, longer term, common European training based
on the German dual-education system, whereby apprenticeships at
mainly private companies are combined with vocational education
in about 350 professions. The dual-education system in
particular “was the trigger that caused youth unemployment to
sink in Germany 10 years ago,” she said. It is “the secret of
our success right now.”  “There’s a real readiness to embrace change right now in
Europe,” said Von der Leyen, who was families minister in
Merkel’s first-term government and said that she’d like to serve
again as labor minister after Sept. 22 elections. “The crisis
can also be an opportunity that pushes us forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net ;
David Tweed in Berlin at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  