-- German Unemployment Unexpectedly Drops in Recovery Sign
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-27T07:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/german-unemployment-unexpectedly-drops-in-recovery-sign.html
German  unemployment  unexpectedly
fell in June amid signs a recovery in  Europe ’s biggest economy
is on track even as the euro area struggles to emerge from its
longest ever recession.  The number of people out of work dropped by a seasonally
adjusted 12,000 to 2.94 million, after a revised gain of 17,000
in May, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said today.
Economists predicted a June increase of 8,000, according to the
median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The adjusted
 jobless rate  was at 6.8 percent, matching the two-decade low
registered for most of last year. May’s rate was revised to 6.8
percent from 6.9 percent.  “The jump in May was something of a distortion, so there
should be a correction” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt  before the data was published. “The
labor market as a whole is doing well, considering the
significant economic slowdown over the winter.”  The Ifo institute’s measure of German business confidence
rose for a second month in June, while the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research in Mannheim said its index of
investor and analyst expectations, which aims to predict
economic developments six months in advance, increased.  Debt Crisis  German industrial output jumped 1.8 percent in April from
March as construction activity rebounded following winter
temperatures that lasted longer than usual and postponed work.  The economy expanded just 0.1 percent in the first quarter
of 2013 as the 17-nation euro area,  Germany ’s biggest trading
partner, remained mired in recession. The currency bloc’s gross
domestic product has contracted for the past six quarters.  The Bundesbank on June 7 cut its projections for Germany.
The Frankfurt-based central bank expects gross domestic product
to expand 0.3 percent in 2013 and 1.5 percent next year, down
from earlier forecasts of 0.4 percent and 1.9 percent. Signs of
a slowdown in the summer months are emerging, the central bank
said June 17 in its monthly report.  “The economy is overall leaving the effects of the
sovereign debt crisis behind, even if at a slower pace due to
weather effects,” said David Milleker, chief economist at Union
Investment GmbH in Frankfurt. “The German economy is on track
and the labor market numbers are very solid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Luxembourg at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  