-- German Stocks Are Little Changed After Two-Day Rally
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-06-27T08:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/german-stocks-are-little-changed-after-two-day-rally.html
German stocks  were little changed
after two days of gains, with the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  heading
for its fourth consecutive quarterly advance, as investors
awaited reports that may show U.S. consumer spending and sales
of previously-owned homes increased in May.  MorphoSys AG (MOR)  surged 16 percent after announcing an alliance
for an experimental cancer treatment with Celgene Corp. worth as
much as 628 million euros ($818 million) plus royalties on
sales.  Adidas AG (ADS)  added 2.6 percent as Barclays Plc raised the
stock to overweight.  Lanxess AG (LXS)  fell the most in three months
after China said it will collect anti-dumping duty on toluidine
imports from the European Union for five years.  The DAX Index climbed less than 0.1 percent to 7,944.42 at
10:05 a.m. in Frankfurt. The equity benchmark is heading for its
fourth consecutive quarterly gain, after yesterday extending the
first weekly advance this month. The broader HDAX Index
increased 0.2 percent today.  The DAX slipped 4.8 percent so far this month, its biggest
decline in 13 months, as investors prepared for a potential
paring of stimulus this year by the  Federal Reserve  if the  U.S.
economy  improves in line with forecasts. Stocks rallied around
the world yesterday after a report showing slower-than-estimated
U.S. economic growth fueled speculation that the central bank
will maintain stimulus.  In the U.S., a report at 8:30 a.m.  New York  time may show
that personal spending increased 0.3 percent last month, after a
0.2 percent drop in April, according to the median forecast of
83 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Home Sales  Separate data from the National Association of Realtors at
10 a.m. will probably show that an index of pending-home sales
rose 1 percent in May after a 0.3 percent gain in April.  European Union finance ministers struck an agreement early
this morning on how to handle failing banks to bolster investor
confidence and help overcome the euro area’s financial crisis.  Ministers settled on guidelines for assigning losses to
private creditors and regulating public assistance. They also
spelled out when governments can step in and established a role
for the European Stability Mechanism, the euro area’s 500
billion-euro firewall fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  