-- German Inflation Probably Accelerated for a Second Month
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-06-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/german-inflation-probably-accelerated-for-a-second-month.html
German  inflation (ECCPEST)  probably
accelerated for a second month in June after falling to the
lowest level since 2010 in April.  The  consumer price index  in Europe’s largest economy,
calculated using a harmonized European Union method, rose 1.8
percent from a year ago, compared with 1.6 percent in May,
according to the median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey . Prices probably climbed 0.1 percent on the month, the
survey shows. German states are scheduled to report inflation
data throughout today before the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden publishes national figures at 2 p.m.  “A slight increase in the inflation rate is no reason for
concern at the moment,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at
NordLB in Hanover. “It is still under 2 percent and we are
convinced it will stay there for the months to come.”  The Bundesbank forecasts German inflation will average 1.6
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014.  Inflation in the euro area accelerated to 1.4 percent in
May from 1.2 percent the previous month, the EU’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said June 14. Data for June will be
published on July 2. The European Central Bank this month cut
its 2013 inflation forecast for the region to 1.4 percent from
1.6 percent and left the 2014 estimate unchanged at 1.3 percent.  The ECB on June 6 kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent as the 17-member
currency bloc tries to emerge from six quarters of contraction,
its longest-ever recession. The Bundesbank on June 7 reduced its
2013 growth projection for  Germany  to 0.3 percent from the 0.4
percent predicted in December, citing a worse-than-expected
first quarter and warning that the still-unsolved sovereign debt
crisis poses risks to the recovery.  ECB policy makers including President Mario Draghi said
this week that an end to the accommodative monetary stance is
distant and that the Frankfurt-based central bank stands ready
to act if economic conditions worsen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  