-- Global Cartel Fines Dip Before Libor, Car-Parts Penalties
-- B y   A n t h o n y   A a r o n s
-- 2013-06-27T11:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/global-cartel-fines-dip-before-libor-car-parts-penalties.html
Global criminal cartel fines dipped
during the first part of the year in a pause before hefty
penalties are likely to be imposed in probes of Libor and car
parts, law firm Allen & Overy LLP said.  The penalties so far this year have totaled $677 million,
less than a fifth of the more than $5 billion levied during
2012, Allen & Overy said in a report today. The drop-off was
most pronounced at the two biggest antitrust regulators, the
U.S. and European Union.  Allen & Overy partner John Terzaken said the EU is likely
to levy large fines later this year in probes of car parts and
the London interbank offered rate, where it lags behind its U.S.
colleagues. The U.S. and U.K. have already fined three banks
about $2.5 billion in the Libor probes and almost $1 billion in
fines have been issued in the U.S. and  Japan  in the
investigation of auto-parts makers.  “There will be some judgments by the end of the year,”
said Terzaken, a former director of criminal enforcement at the
U.S. Department of Justice’s antitrust division. “They want to
show some momentum and keep the cases moving along.”  U.S. criminal antitrust fines in the first six months of
the year were $192 million, compared with $1.1 billion in all of
2012. The EU fines so far this year totalled $72 million,
compared with $2.3 billion in 2012, according to London-based
Allen & Overy.  While the U.S. and EU fines have slowed, regulators in
 China ,  Australia ,  Brazil  and South Africa are “coming into
their own,” Terzaken said. The South African regulator this
week issued a 1.46 billion rand ($146 million) penalty against
15 construction companies and China prosecuted an international
cartel for the first time, leading to a 353 million  yuan  ($57.4
million) fine against makers of liquid-crystal display panels.  “The antitrust practice has been global for a long time,
but it has become more global as the years have gone by,”
Terzaken said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  