-- Gold Traders Split as Rout Resumes in Bear Market: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-06-28T14:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/gold-traders-split-as-rout-resumes-in-bear-market-commodities.html
Gold traders are divided on the
outlook for prices, with some judging that the slump to a 34-month low following the  Federal Reserve ’s comments on tapering
stimulus will spur demand for coins and jewelry.  Fifteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
rise next week and 14 were bearish. Three were neutral. Gold
fell 14 percent in the past two weeks, reaching $1,180.50 an
ounce today, the lowest since August 2010. The metal is poised
for the biggest quarterly drop in at least nine decades after
investors cut bullion holdings to a three-year low.  Gold is heading for its worst year since 1981 after some
investors lost faith in it as a store of value and amid mounting
speculation the Fed will curb debt-buying. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said last week he may slow asset purchases this year if
the economy continues to improve. The plunge into a  bear market 
in mid-April was followed by a rally of as much as 13 percent
over three weeks as coin and jewelry sales surged.  “We are already at distressed prices and they may even go
lower,” said Thorsten Polleit, chief economist at Degussa
Goldhandel GmbH, a precious metal trading and investment company
in  Frankfurt . “The market is really oversold. There are a lot
of strategic buyers showing up who are taking advantage of
current prices.”  Gold Price  The metal fell 29 percent this year to $1,196 in London,
and is set for a 25 percent drop this quarter, the most since at
least 1920, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities dropped 4.5
percent since the start of January and the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities rose 4.8 percent. Treasuries lost 2.6
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Gold as much as doubled from 2008 to a record $1,921.15 in
September 2011 as the U.S. central bank led nations in cutting
 interest rates  and buying debt. Bernanke said the Fed may reduce
its $85 billion of monthly purchases this year and end the
program in 2014. In contrast, Fed Bank of Richmond President
 Jeffrey Lacker  said in a June 26 Bloomberg Television interview
that it isn’t close to reducing its balance sheet and he expects
“a couple more years of sluggish growth.”  While physical demand isn’t as strong as in April, buyers
in  Asia  are taking advantage of lower prices “in bits and
pieces,” Joni Teves, an analyst at UBS AG in London, wrote
yesterday in a report. Weaker demand in  India , the biggest
buyer, because of government restrictions on imports contrasts
with “decent” consumption in  China , she said.  Technical Strategies  Gold’s 14-day relative-strength index was at 19.3 today,
the lowest since April 15 and below the level of 30 that
indicates to some analysts who study technical charts that a
rebound may be imminent. Prices jumped from as low as $1,321.95
on April 16 to as high as $1,488.10 on May 3.  Trading gold using the 14-day RSI measure would have given
investors the second-biggest loss this year, after a buy-and-hold strategy, among 23 technical analysis tools, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The returns don’t account for trading costs.  Exchange-traded-product investors sold 583.2 metric tons
this year, erasing $63 billion from the value of  holdings , data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The 2,048.7 tons now held is the
least since May 2010.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators
cut bets on higher prices by 80 percent since October, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data  show.  Price Forecast  Analysts at banks from Morgan Stanley to Credit Suisse
Group AG to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trimmed gold forecasts this
week, with Morgan Stanley saying that waning investor interest
has turned more serious amid a clearer outlook for when the Fed
may withdraw stimulus. Prices will average $1,150 in next year’s
third quarter, Credit Suisse said in a June 25 report.  “It’s a crowd exit and everybody is in deep fear of how
low it can go,” said Jonathan Bouchet, a director at Delman SA
in Geneva, which manages assets including precious metals.
“Gold will never go to $500, but it can drop another leg.”  Bullion is heading for a third consecutive quarterly drop,
the worst run since 2001, partly because the unprecedented money
printing by central banks around the world that pushed U.S.
equities to a record last month has so far failed to spur
inflation. Expectations for increases in consumer prices, as
measured by the break-even rate for 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, fell 19 percent this year.  Coin Sales  There are no signs of increasing demand for coins right
now. The  U.S. Mint  sold 47,000 ounces of American Eagles so far
this month, compared with 70,000 ounces in May and 209,500
ounces in April, data on its website show. Price swings may be
deterring buyers, with the metal’s 60-day historical volatility
at 32.5 percent yesterday, the highest since October 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In other commodities, four of 12 people surveyed expect raw
sugar to fall next week and five were neutral. The commodity
slid 13 percent to 16.97 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York  this year.  Thirteen of 25 surveyed anticipate lower corn prices and
eight said the grain will gain, while 15 of 26 said soybeans
will fall and six expect higher prices. Twelve traders predicted
declines in wheat and four were bullish. Corn dropped 24 percent
to $5.33 a bushel this year in  Chicago . The December contract,
which reflects supply after the U.S. harvest, is down 11 percent
this year. Soybeans fell 9.7 percent to $12.725 a bushel, as
wheat slipped 13 percent to $6.7475 a bushel.  Copper Survey  Ten traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to fall
next week, eight were bullish and four were neutral. The metal
for delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s
benchmark contract, fell 15 percent to $6,774 a ton this year.  As gold retreated this week after the dollar strengthened
and the 10-year  yield  on Treasuries reached a 22-month high, the
S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials fell to a two-month low on June
24 amid concern that a cash squeeze in China will erode demand.
Silver and gold are leading declines in commodities this year.  “An increasing dollar, rising bond yields, falling equity
markets and concerns about China’s banking system was a poison
cocktail not only for gold, but other commodities as well,”
said  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “For base metals I would say the price fall is
exaggerated. We are confident the economy will improve in the
second half of the year, so this should lead to higher prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  