-- Google Behavior Risks Banning Order If Talks With EU Fail
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-06-27T20:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/google-search-engine-risks-partial-ban-if-talks-with-eu-fail.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  risks a ban of some of
its actions if settlement talks with the European Union fail to
solve competition concerns, the EU’s antitrust chief said today.  If negotiations don’t succeed, “there is a tougher way to
handle it,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in
a speech in  Madrid . That would mean issuing a so-called
statement of objections and ultimately a decision
“prohibiting” certain behavior, he said.  Google, the owner of the world’s largest search engine, in
April  offered  to label its branded search services and show
links “to three rival specialized search services close to its
own” as part of a series of  commitments  to end the almost
three-year-old probe. Competitors and users had until this week
to send comments on the proposed remedies, which the EU will
consider before reaching a decision.  While Almunia has sought a deal to end the case, Google
rivals have stepped up pressure to block any settlement. The
European Commission has received “very negative” feedback from
Microsoft Corp. and other companies, Cecilio Madero, the EU’s
deputy director-general for antitrust, said earlier this week.  “Google has to decide whether it improves the planned
solutions it presented,” Almunia said. “Depending on Google’s
response and the market test I have to decide whether we reach
an accord,” he said.  “Working with the hypothesis that it’s possible to reach a
deal, it will probably be reached by the end of this year.”  Without an agreement, the process toward a possible ban on
some of Google’s actions “will probably extend until next
year,” said Almunia.  ‘Sensible Solution’  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, declined to
comment beyond a blog posting earlier this week by Kent Walker,
Google’s senior vice president and general counsel.  Google is seeking a “sensible solution” and thinks “we
did a pretty good job” in addressing the commission’s concerns,
Walker said.  Google’s remedies seek to address allegations that the
company promotes its own products, such as Google News and
Google Finance, in search results, and copies competitors’
travel and restaurant reviews. The EU also says Google has
agreements with websites and software developers that stifle
competition for advertising.  Motorola Mobility  Google’s Motorola Mobility unit was sent an EU antitrust
complaint in May for abusing its dominant position as part of a
probe into its control of key patents in gadgets such as Apple
Inc. iPhones and iPads.  The EU is also continuing a probe into Google’s Android
operating system for mobile phones and tablets and “in which
ways it poses barriers that may be anti-competitive,” Almunia
said today. “Google is perfectly aware of this, because we have
communicated this to them.”  As well as fining companies for antitrust violations, the
Brussels-based commission can impose orders on companies to
change the way they operate. The authority can also penalize
companies for failing to live up to promises made as part of
antitrust settlement talks.  Microsoft was fined 561 million euros ($731 million) by the
EU authority for violating the terms of a settlement to give
users a choice of web browsers aside from its  Internet Explorer .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  