-- Grocer Loblaw Beef Supply Disrupted by Flooding at Cargill Plant
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-06-27T21:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/grocer-loblaw-beef-supply-disrupted-by-flooding-at-cargill-plant.html
Loblaw Cos. (L) ,  Canada ’s biggest
grocer, said it was forced to seek alternative beef supplies
after floods last week halted the cattle slaughter at a Cargill
Inc. beef plant in  Alberta .  The June 21 closure of the High River plant “has
interrupted our beef supply, however we were able to secure
product from alternative sources to minimize the impact,”
Melinda Metcalfe, a spokeswoman for Brampton, Ontario-based
Loblaw, said today in an e-mail.  The disruption hasn’t impacted the supply of beef cuts
available to consumers, Metcalfe said in a telephone interview.
Loblaw will continue to purchase from Cargill once processing
resumes, she said.  Cargill’s High River facility, which typically processes
4,500 head of cattle a day, has been unable to slaughter after
flooding in the area disrupted fresh-water supplies, Brigitte
Burgoyne, a company spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.
The company increased production at its plant in Guelph,
Ontario, to supply customers with products, Chantelle Donahue, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The town of High River, the hardest hit in Alberta by
recent flooding, received C$50 million ($47.7 million) in
 government aid  to help pay for emergency response and recovery
efforts, the province said in a  statement . Alberta accounts for
40 percent of Canada’s cattle herd, provincial  data  show.  Some Alberta cattle producers who are unable to sell their
animals to the High River plant will incur higher feed costs
until slaughter resumes, according to Rich Smith, executive
director of Alberta Beef Producers.  “As time goes on, the impact will get greater and
greater,” Smith said in a telephone interview from Calgary.
“It won’t take many more days until we see a shortage of
specific cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  