-- Gulf’s Congested Skies Under Review to Ease Airline Traffic Flow
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-06-27T09:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/gulf-s-congested-skies-under-review-to-ease-airline-traffic-flow.html
Persian Gulf governments must
coordinate efforts to alleviate congested air traffic that
threatens to undermine booming travel as flights get rerouted or
delayed, the International Air Transport Association said.  The region’s governments, airlines and civil aviation
bodies are working to reach an agreement by the end of the year,
said Michael Herrero, the head of IATA’s Gulf operations. Among
the stumbling blocks is the fact that 55 percent of the Gulf’s
airspace is controlled by the military, leaving only restricted
area available for commercial flights, he said.  “The only solution that can work is a regional approach on
airspace management,” Herrero said in an interview at the Arab
Aviation Summit in  Oman . “If the UAE works alone or Oman works
alone or other Gulf countries work alone to find solutions, it
will not work because they share the airspace and so need a
harmonized solution.”  The Middle East has turned itself into a global hub for
aviation, with Emirates and other regional airlines using their
geographic advantage as transit points for travelers from North
America, Europe and Asia. The Dubai International airport has
almost doubled traffic to 57.7 million passengers since 2007,
putting it on a path to match London Heathrow by the end of
2013.  Wrong Layout  The flipside of that expansion is growing congestion that
forces some aircraft into lengthy holding patterns or outright
rerouting to other airfields. The clogged skies also lead to an
increase of much as 12 percent in the cost of fuel burn as
planes await landing slots,  Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI)  Chief Executive
Officer Adel Abdullah Ali said at the Oman forum.  Part of the approach should be to review the layout of the
airspace in the region, which Herrero said is outdated and stems
from a time when traffic was mainly north to south, when today a
larger proportion of the routes flow east to west.  While airports are getting a major upgrade, with Qatar in
the process of opening a new aerodrome and Dubai working to
bring passenger traffic into a second airport, those efforts are
not enough to address the crowded airspace, Herrero said.  “In the end, if they are not able to accommodate so many
flights in the air, these will go through other routes and
airports,” he said. “Therefore, the Middle East would not be
able to take that piece of the cake they are aiming for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  