-- ICAP Says Senior Managers Unaware of Any Bids to Rig Libor
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-06-27T16:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/icap-says-senior-managers-unaware-of-any-attempts-to-rig-libor.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks, said senior managers were never
aware of or involved in attempts by traders at UBS AG to
manipulate the London interbank offered rate.  The Swiss bank paid an unidentified interdealer broker
about 15,000 pounds ($23,000) a quarter over an 18-month period
for a “fixing service” for yen Libor, the U.K. regulator said
in December, when the Zurich-based lender paid 1.4 billion Swiss
francs ($1.5 billion) to settle claims it rigged the benchmark.
That firm is ICAP, said a person briefed on the matter who asked
not to be identified because details of the probe are private.  David Casterton, now ICAP’s global broking head, was aware
of the payments from UBS, the Wall Street Journal said today,
citing unidentified people with knowledge of the investigation.
Casterton, 55, didn’t respond to two telephone messages left by
Bloomberg at his office today. ICAP disputes that the payments
were improper.  “ICAP strongly refutes that Casterton or anybody else in
ICAP senior management were ever aware of, or involved in, any
improper activities in relation to the attempted manipulation of
yen Libor,” Brigitte Trafford, a spokeswoman for London-based
ICAP, said in an e-mailed statement today. “Neither the company
nor its senior management was aware of any corrupt payment from
any source at any time. All payments received from UBS were
documented and invoiced.”  Shares Slip  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the Financial Conduct
Authority, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  ICAP rose 1.2 percent to 357.9 pence in London trading
today. The stock is up 17 percent this year.  ICAP is also being probed by  Canada ’s Competition Bureau
for allegedly facilitating the manipulation of yen Libor by
panel banks including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Deutsche Bank AG, according to papers filed
with the Ontario Superior Court in May 2011. ICAP said at the
time that it had received requests from government agencies
probing banks’ Libor submissions and is cooperating fully.  Interdealer brokers such as ICAP act as a go-between for
banks that trade bonds, stocks, currencies, energy and
derivatives.  To contact the report on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  