-- Time Warner Cable Adds Wi-Fi Spots in NYC for Subscribers
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-06-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/time-warner-cable-adds-wi-fi-spots-in-nyc-for-subscribers.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  will add more
than 1,000 Wi-Fi hot spots in  Manhattan  by mid-July and as many
as 10,000 by the end of the year to increase the appeal of its
Internet service.  The Wi-Fi expansion in Manhattan follows the company’s
installation of more than 12,000 hot spots in Los Angeles. The
two markets are Time Warner Cable’s largest for Internet
customers, which totaled 11.5 million as of the first quarter.  The second-largest U.S. cable provider is expanding Wi-Fi
coverage to attract and keep Internet subscribers. The company
competes in Manhattan with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS
and closely-held RCN Corp. Customers will be able to connect
smartphones, PCs and tablets to hot spots at no additional cost,
allowing users to limit wireless data usage.  “Our customers will enjoy even more value from their TWC
Internet subscriptions and avoid pricey cellular data overage
charges,” Mike Roudi, senior vice president of corporate
development, said in a statement.  Subscribers also will be able to log on to New Jersey and
Connecticut hot spots built by Comcast Corp., the largest U.S.
cable company, and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  as part of the
cable industry’s Wi-Fi alliance.  Tablet, PC and mobile-phone users who aren’t Time Warner
Cable subscribers can use the Manhattan hot spots on a pay-as-you-go basis for $2.95 an hour, the company said.  Time Warner Cable is also expanding Wi-Fi in Austin,  Texas ,
and the Kansas City area to compete with Google Inc.’s Google
Fiber.  Time Warner Cable rose 4.3 percent to $103.64 yesterday in
New York. The shares have  gained  6.6 percent this year, trailing
the 12 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  