-- India Rupee Rises From Record Low as Current-Account Gap Narrows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-06-27T05:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/india-rupee-rises-from-record-low-as-current-account-gap-narrows.html
India ’s rupee rose from a record low
after a report showed the nation’s current-account deficit
narrowed last quarter.  The shortfall narrowed to 3.6 percent of gross domestic
product from an unprecedented 6.7 percent in the the preceding
three months, central bank data showed today. For the fiscal
year that ended March 31, the gap widened to 4.8 percent of GDP
from 4.2 percent in the previous period. The rupee fell to an
all-time low of 60.765 per dollar yesterday on concern signs of
a pickup in the  U.S. economy  will boost demand for the dollar.  “Today’s data helped to an extent but the demand and
supply conditions in the foreign-exchange market will soon take
over this sentiment,” said  Paresh Nayar , head of currency and
money markets at the Indian unit of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  “I don’t
expect the same magnitude of weakening that we had yesterday but
60 will prove to be a good support” for the dollar and the
rupee is unlikely to strengthen beyond that level, he said.  The rupee advanced 0.3 percent to 60.5350 per dollar as of
10:13 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It has fallen 6.7 percent this month, the
worst performance among 78 global currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, and plunged 10.3 percent this quarter, the most since
1991.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, today to 12.66 percent.  Central Bank  The  Reserve Bank  of India has sold dollars in the past two
weeks to curb the rupee’s fall, traders said, asking not to be
named as the information isn’t public. Nomura Holdings Inc. is
still bearish on the rupee, but is watchful for more measures
from policy makers to boost dollar supply, analysts including
Singapore-based Craig Chan wrote in a report yesterday.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.1 percent to
61.46 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts advanced 0.1 percent to
61.73. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  