-- India’s Current Account Deficit Narrows; Rupee Rebounds
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-06-27T12:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/india-s-current-account-deficit-narrows-rupee-rebounds.html
India  released figures showing a
narrower-than-estimated current-account deficit a day earlier
than expected, sparking a climb in the rupee from a record low.  The  shortfall  was $18.1 billion in January through March,
compared with a revised $31.9 billion in the previous quarter,
the  Reserve Bank  of India said today. The median of 14 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a $21 billion gap. The
deficit last quarter was 3.6 percent of gross domestic product,
from an unprecedented 6.7 percent of GDP in October to December.  The central bank usually publishes the figures on the last
working day of the quarter and the surprise release is probably
aimed at calming nerves after the rupee sank to an all-time low
yesterday, Yes Bank Ltd. said. The currency has tumbled as the
prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus exposes emerging
nations from India to  Brazil  to the risk of capital outflows.  “This is a brief reprieve,” said Shubhada Rao, chief
economist at Yes Bank in Mumbai. “The deficit may widen again
this quarter.”  The rupee strengthened 0.9 percent to 60.2 per dollar at
the close in Mumbai. It is down 8.7 percent in 2013, the most
after the yen in a basket of 11 Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The S&P BSE Sensex index rose 1.8 percent, while the
yield on the 7.16 percent government bond due May 2023 fell to
7.56 percent from 7.58 percent yesterday.  For the 12 months ended March, the deficit widened to $87.8
billion, or 4.8 percent of GDP, from $78.2 billion in 2011-2012,
or 4.2 percent of GDP, today’s  statement  showed.  Biggest Risk  The current account is the broadest measure of trade,
tracking goods, services and investment income. The central bank
estimates the sustainable level of the deficit at 2.5 percent of
GDP and has said it’s the biggest risk to the economy.  The “non-disruptive” financing of the gap is a major
challenge, the Reserve Bank said in a biannual report on
financial stability released today. Overall economic risks
facing the nation’s economy appear to have increased since the
last report in December, it said.  India has increased taxes on gold imports twice this year
to try and rein in the imbalance by deterring purchases of the
metal. The nation is the world’s biggest consumer of bullion,
for uses ranging from wedding jewelry to a store of value amid
elevated consumer-price inflation.  Policy Push  The higher levies are part of a policy push by Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government since September to revive
an economy that expanded last fiscal year at the  weakest  pace in
a decade. Export growth last quarter assisted efforts to pare
the  trade gap .  Foreign direct investment in India fell the most in more
than a decade in 2012-2013, increasing reliance on stock and
bond inflows to fund the current-account shortfall.  The government is considering easing restrictions on
foreign direct investment in a range of industries to woo funds,
according to Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram.  While net capital inflows moderated in January through
March, they were “more than adequate” to finance the current-account gap, the Reserve Bank said today.  “We expect lower capital inflows to continue to pressurize
the balance of payments,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai.  The monetary authority left  interest rates  unchanged this
month, snapping three straight reductions, and said inflation,
economic growth and the balance of payments will guide policy.  The plunge in the rupee threatens to stoke import costs and
reignite price pressures.  Consumer prices rose 9.31 percent in May from a year
earlier, the second-fastest pace in the Group of 20 major
economies. The wholesale-price index climbed 4.7 percent, a 43-month low.  Asia ’s third-largest economy expanded 5 percent last fiscal
year, less than the 10-year average of about 8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  