-- India Approves Higher Gas Prices in Boost to Reliance, ONGC
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-06-27T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/india-approves-higher-gas-prices-in-boost-to-reliance-ongc.html
India ’s cabinet agreed to increase
the price of natural gas as it seeks to augment exploration of
the clean-burning fuel. The decision will benefit  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)   The cabinet approved a pricing formula recommended in
December by a panel led by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief of the
prime minister’s Economic Advisory Council, Oil Minister
Veerappa Moily told reporters in New Delhi yesterday. Prices
will double to $8.4 per million British thermal unit from $4.2
per million Btu starting April 2014, Press Trust of India
reported, citing an official it didn’t identify. A briefing on
the decision and other steps endorsed by the cabinet will be
held today.  Reliance, controlled by India’s richest man  Mukesh Ambani ,
and partner  BP Plc (BP/)  have been seeking higher prices of natural
gas even as production from their field in India, the nation’s
biggest, has slumped in the past three years. The drop in output
and aging ONGC fields has forced the country to import expensive
gas that’s contributed to a widening  current account deficit  and
driving the rupee to a record low.  “This will encourage more investments in exploration and
make smaller pools of gas economically viable to produce,” said
Neelabh Sharma, a Mumbai-based analyst at BOB Capital Markets
Ltd. “Higher gas price will also increase cost of power
generation and fertilizer production and the government will
have to take care of that.”  Reliance’s shares  climbed  3.3 percent to 830 rupees and
ONGC  gained  3.8 percent to 320.25 rupees in Mumbai yesterday.
 Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , which also produces the fuel from fields in
northeastern India, rose 1.9 percent to 572.15 rupees. The
benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  advanced 1.8 percent.  Price Mix  Every $1 increase in the price of gas will make as much as
10 trillion cubic feet of natural gas economically viable to
produce, Sharma said. India had 47 trillion cubic feet of proven
gas reserves at the end of 2012, according to BP data.  Reliance has been selling gas from the KG-D6 block off
India’s east coast at $4.2 per million British thermal units
since it started production in April 2009. The government more
than doubled ONGC and Oil India’s selling price to $4.2 per
million Btu in May 2010.  A panel led by Rangarajan recommended rates in India should
be an average of gas prices in the U.S., U.K. and import rates
in Japan and India.  Output from the KG-D6 block slid more than 75 percent since
2010 as the reserves proved geologically difficult to recover.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is seeking to boost energy
exploration and production and cut an import bill that widened
the current account deficit to a record in the three months
ended Dec. 31. The deficit narrowed to $18.1 billion in January
through March, compared with $31.9 billion in the preceding
three months, the  Reserve Bank  of India said yesterday.  Rupee Fall  The rupee has dropped 8.7 percent in 2013, the most after
the Japanese yen among 11 major Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. It slumped to a record 60.7650 per dollar on June 26.  The government needs to allow higher selling prices to
encourage explorers to produce more, said  R.S. Sharma , chairman
of the Federation of India Chambers of Commerce and Industry’s
Hydrocarbon Committee and a former chairman of ONGC.  State-run ONGC, which found reserves adjacent to Reliance’s
fields in the Bay of Bengal six years ago, has said deepwater
drilling is not viable at current prices.  Gujarat State
Petroleum Corp. (GSPC) , an explorer controlled by the Gujarat state
government, is also developing a field in the area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  