-- Indiana County Sells Fertilizer Notes at Yields Double AAA Munis
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-27T20:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/indiana-county-sells-fertilizer-notes-at-yields-double-aaa-munis.html
Posey County,  Indiana , issued $1.3
billion of tax-exempt notes for a fertilizer plant after the
state pulled its support for the project on concern the
Pakistani owner’s products were being used to make bombs.  The county, near the Illinois state line, sold notes with a
mandatory redemption in February 2014 at a yield of 0.75
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s about
double the 0.38 percent investors demand to own top-rated munis
maturing in a year.  Standard & Poor’s  rated the securities A-1+,
its highest short-term grade.  The fertilizer plant has been a source of contention in
Indiana, where Republican Governor Mike Pence last month
withdrew incentives for the $2 billion project because of
concerns raised by the Pentagon that Lahore-based Fatima Group
makes calcium ammonium nitrate. The fertilizer product is used
in explosives targeting U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan, the
Defense Department says.  The notes will refinance debt issued by the Indiana Finance
Authority in December, which was priced to yield 0.2 percent,
Bloomberg data show. After the notes are redeemed, the
securities will be converted into long-term bonds. The 2014
borrowing would probably be the biggest speculative-grade bond
sale ever, eclipsing a similar $1.2 billion Iowa fertilizer deal
this year.  John Taylor , executive director of the Posey County
Economic Development Partnership, didn’t immediately respond to
a telephone message seeking comment.  Also this week,  Los Angeles , which had the highest short-term municipal rating from S&P, issued about $1.3 billion in
notes, with yields from 0.16 percent to 0.18 percent, Bloomberg
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  