-- India Swaps Reach March High as Rupee Dents Rate-Cut Outlook
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-06-27T05:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/india-swaps-reach-march-high-as-rupee-dents-rate-cut-outlook.html
India’s  interest-rate swaps  advanced
to the highest level since March on speculation a plunge in the
rupee will stoke inflation and reduce the central bank’s scope
to cut borrowing costs.  The Indian currency touched a record 60.765 per dollar
yesterday as investors favored the dollar after U.S. economic
data topped estimates, bolstering the case for the  Federal
Reserve  to scale back asset purchases that have fueled fund
flows to  emerging markets . The  Reserve Bank  of India kept the
repurchase  rate  unchanged at 7.25 percent on June 17 after
cutting it three times this year, citing inflation risks.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.6 percent at 10:07 a.m.
in Mumbai, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the highest
level since March 4.  “Interest-rate cuts may have to be postponed due to the
currency’s slide,” said Srinivasa Raghavan, the Mumbai-based
executive vice president of treasury at Dhanalaxmi Bank Ltd.
“There are reasons, both global and local, that are
pressurizing the rupee.”  The rupee has fallen 6.7 percent this month, the worst
performer among the 11 most-traded Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 that $85
billion of monthly debt buying could be tapered this year and
ended in 2014 if the  U.S. economy  performs in line with central
bank estimates.  Policy Stance  India’s wholesale prices rose 4.7 percent in May from a
year earlier, the least since 2009, official data show. The
monetary-policy stance will be determined by the evolution of
economic growth, inflation and the balance of payments in the
months ahead, the central bank said in its June 17 statement,
adding that “it is only a  durable receding  of inflation that
will open up the space for monetary policy to continue to
address risks to growth.”  The yield on the benchmark bonds due June 2022 was little
changed at 7.79 percent, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate is at the highest level since April 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  