-- Miners Can’t Operate With Gold Below $1,500, Gold Fields Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-06-27T16:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/miners-can-t-operate-with-gold-below-1-500-gold-fields-says.html
Bullion must rise to $1,500 an ounce
for the gold mining industry to be sustainable, according to
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ’s Chief Executive Officer  Nick Holland .  “The industry is not sustainable at $1,230 an ounce, which
is where the gold price is at the moment,” Holland said today
in a telephone interview. “We’re going to need at least $1,500
an ounce to sustain this industry in any reasonable form.”  Gold entered a bear market in April on signs the U.S.
economy was improving and fell further this month as Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled he may slow bond
purchases should the U.S. recovery continue. The plunging price
of bullion is squeezing producers who spent $195 billion on
acquisitions in a decade-long price boom that peaked in 2011,
when prices reached $1,900 an ounce.  The decision by  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s biggest
producer, to write down the value of its mines by as much as A$6
billion ($5.5 billion), will lead to the biggest one-time charge
in gold mining history. Rivals such as  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the
biggest producer, and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  may be next,
according to Jefferies International Ltd.  “There’s going to be significant rationalizing in the gold
industry,” Holland said. “You can’t keep mines producing if
they’re losing money.”  Gold Fields’s South Deep mine in South Africa is one of the
few mines that could survive at the current gold price of 1,230
an ounce, Holland said. The mine’s size and the fact that it’s
largely mechanized, meaning it’s less reliant on labor demanding
pay rises, will help keep costs low, he said.  The Bloomberg Research Global Mining & Exploration Index
has fallen 41 percent since April 9, while gold has dropped 22.3
percent amid its biggest three-month decline on record.  Andy Lloyd , a spokesman for Barrick and Omar Jabara, a
Newmont spokesman, declined to comment on potential writedowns
earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  