-- Inmet Bondholders Raise Question of Covenant Breach in Takeover
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-06-27T22:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/inmet-bondholders-raise-question-of-covenant-breach-in-takeover.html
Investors and analysts are
questioning whether  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  created a breach
in terms of $2 billion bonds of Inmet Mining Corp. when it
acquired the Toronto-based miner.  The bonds carried restricted-payments covenants, which
limit the amount of cash an issuer may use for distributions to
shareholders such as stock repurchases or dividends.  In the C$5 billion ($4.8 billion) acquisition in April,
Vancouver-based First Quantum employed a bridge loan to buy
Inmet, using the target’s assets to support the financing, then
paid off the short-term debt with cash, creating a “strong
argument” that First Quantum breached the payments provision,
according to a report by the researcher Covenant Review today.  “It certainly raises concerns, and we’re currently
examining this,” said Kevin McSweeney, portfolio manager at CI
Investments Inc., which oversees about $74 billion of assets.
“We know that they couldn’t have paid out Inmet shareholders
directly. We have questions and doubts about how the company
structured these transactions to get around the restricted-payments limits and whether compliance with this covenant was
maintained.”  Sharon Loung, a spokeswoman for First Quantum, referred
questions to executives in  London , who weren’t available outside
of business hours.  ‘Indirectly Funded’  “It appears that the money that went to Inmet shareholders
was indirectly funded by Inmet assets,” Anthony P. Canale, head
of high-yield research at New York-based Covenant Review, said
in a telephone interview. “The restricted payments covenant of
these indentures is designed specifically to protect the
bondholders from having assets of Inmet being used to finance a
buyout of equity,” he said. “It appears that Inmet’s
shareholders were the beneficiaries of a buyout financed with
Inmet assets.”  Inmet’s $1.5 billion of 8.75 percent bonds due in June
2020, which were quoted as high as 111.5 cents on the dollar in
January, have fallen to 102.4 cents to yield 8.29 percent,
according to Bloomberg prices. Its $500 million of 7.5 percent
debt maturing in June 2021 is down 12.6 cents from a March high
to 96.3 cents to yield 8.14 percent.  First Quantum’s hostile purchase of Inmet gave it the Cobre
Panama copper project, which will catapult it to the world’s
fifth-largest copper producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net 
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  