-- Lions Are Primed to Seal First Rugby Series Win in 16 Years
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-28T04:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/lions-seek-early-finish-to-rugby-test-series-against-australia.html
The British and Irish Lions have the
luxury of being able to lose the second rugby Test to  Australia 
and retain a chance of their first series win in 16 years. The
combined team wants to get the job done tomorrow.  “There’s an attitude to go 2-0,” Lions assistant coach
Rob Howley, who played on the losing squad against the Wallabies
12 years ago, said today in a news conference. “That’s been
very evident in the week. You have to seize the moment and take
the opportunity. We’re 1-0 up and we can put Australia to bed
tomorrow evening, that’s our goal and that’s our mindset.”  After starting the three-game contest with a 23-21 win in
Brisbane, the Lions would seal the series with another victory
at Melbourne’s Etihad Stadium. Australia also lost the first
Test when the teams last met in 2001 before rebounding for a 2-1
triumph. The third match is July 6 in Sydney.  Lions captain Sam Warburton and fellow Welshman  Adam Jones 
said they expect a backlash from the Wallabies, who were a
failed penalty kick away from winning in Brisbane when Kurtley Beale slipped as he went to strike the ball in the last minute.  “Australia are going to come at us,” prop Jones said
yesterday at the Lions’ Melbourne hotel. “We know the
Australians are wounded now. They probably should have won the
first Test. We know they’re going to come out firing.”  Going so close after having to make regular backline
adjustments as three players were stretchered off and another
two also got injured has given the Wallabies belief for the
second game, according to head coach  Robbie Deans .  Must-Win  “For the team to work their way through and get themselves
in the position to be able to win that game was remarkable,”
Deans said yesterday. “We were close last week, but short. We
have to win this week. We have to put a better performance in.
I’ve got absolutely no doubt we will do that.”  Australia, which finished the opener with a flanker and
scrum-half in the backline because of the injuries, retained
 James O’Connor  at fly-half and made two enforced starting
changes for tomorrow’s game.  Beale was picked at full-back to replace  Berrick Barnes ,
who suffered a concussion, while Joe Tomane comes onto the left
wing in place of the injured Digby Ioane. Midfield back  Rob
Horne  and rookie full-back Jesse Mogg were added to the
replacements’ bench.  Deans said he hadn’t considered dropping O’Connor and Beale
after they were photographed posing with fans at 3:50 a.m. in a
fast-food restaurant after attending the Lions’ 35-0 shutout of
the Melbourne Rebels on June 25. Although the Australian Rugby
Union cleared them of breaching team protocols, Deans said it
wasn’t ideal preparation.  Awkward Conversation  “We’ve had a conversation for sure,” Deans said. “It’s
not best practice in terms of sleeping habits. They understand
that it was too late for them to get to bed. Suffice to say it
wasn’t a comfortable conversation.”  O’Connor also kept the No. 10 playmaking role after being
criticized by local media for his performance in Brisbane.
Christian Leali’ifano, who got knocked out less than a minute
into his Test debut in the series opener, will play at inside
center after passing post-concussion tests. He’ll partner Adam Ashley-Cooper, who’s recovered from a shoulder injury.  Ashley-Cooper, who’s played 78 Tests for Australia, said
the Wallabies are steeling themselves for another physical
challenge from the tourists.  “If I was in their position, I’d come out at Etihad
Stadium this week and give it everything,” Ashley-Cooper said.
“They’ve got a win under their belt so why wouldn’t they?
They’ve got that fallback option. For us, our backs are against
the wall, we need to win.”  Bowe’s Back  The Lions picked fit-again winger  Tommy Bowe , who broke a
bone in his hand June 8, and scrum-half Ben Youngs among five
changes to their starting lineup.  Bowe takes over from Alex Cuthbert and Youngs replaces  Mike
Phillips , who was left out of the 23-man squad. In changes to
the forward pack, flanker Dan Lydiate comes in for  Tom Croft ,
while lock Geoff Parling and prop Mako Vunipola step in for the
injured Paul O’Connell and Alex Corbisiero.  Prop Ryan Grant, back-rower  Sean O’Brien  and scrum-half
 Conor Murray  were called up to the replacements after impressing
against the Rebels three days ago. Croft and Cuthbert will join
them on the bench alongside fly-half Owen Farrell, hooker
Richard Hibbard and prop Dan Cole.  Howley said emotional intelligence, good decision making
and accuracy would be the keys to victory “in the hurly-burly
of the battle.”  “The side that’s been selected, we feel that we’ve got
Test match animals that have made those decisions in games and
understand what is required tomorrow night,” Howley said in a
news conference. “I just hope we’re right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in  Melbourne  at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  