-- Liquidnet CEO Sees `Great Rotation' Into Equities as Rate
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-06-27T15:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/liquidnet-ceo-sees-great-rotation-into-equities-as-rate.html
Investors may pour as much as $1
trillion into equities as borrowing costs rise, according to
Liquidnet Holdings Inc., a broker and operator of dark pools.  U.S. Treasuries now provide less than half the yield of
stocks, giving investors little reason to keep the three-decade
 bull market  in bonds alive as housing starts, consumer
confidence and corporate profits point to an improving economy.  “$1 trillion which went into fixed income over the past
decade will go into equities as a result of central-bank
deleveraging and rise in  interest rates  which will affect fixed-income yields,” Seth Merrin, chief executive officer of
Liquidnet, said in an interview at the Federation of European
Securities Exchanges’ annual convention. “With fixed-income
yields down, and even assets such as gold underperforming, we
are entering a phase in which, for investors, there is no real
alternative to equities.”  While 10-year Treasuries yield 2.50 percent, up from a 2013
low of 1.61 percent on May 1, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
has an earnings yield of 6.4 percent, Federal Reserve data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Even after the selloff in bonds, the
gap is more than double the average of 1.9 points since 2000.  With  consumer confidence  approaching a six-year high,
housing starts increasing to 2008 levels and corporate profits
double what they were five years ago, investors withdrew $9.1
billion from fixed-income mutual funds and exchange-traded funds
in the week ended June 5, the second-highest total in more than
20 years, according to Denver-based Lipper.  “Seventy percent of all investable assets are currently in
the developed world chasing the same basket of stocks,” Merrin
said in Berlin. “We see real potential for institutional flows
into high-growth markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in Berlin at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 