-- Wallabies’ Horwill Says Stamping Accidental as IRB Appeals
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-28T05:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/irb-appeals-decision-to-clear-wallabies-captain-horwill-of-stamp.html
Australia  captain  James Horwill  said
his alleged stamp on British and Irish Lions lock Alun Wyn Jones
in last week’s series opener was an accident after rugby’s
governing body challenged a decision to clear him of foul play.  The International Rugby Board said yesterday it appealed an
IRB-appointed judicial officer’s ruling to acquit Horwill after
he was cited for allegedly stamping or trampling on Wyn Jones’s
head in the third minute of Australia’s 23-21 loss to the Lions
in Brisbane six days ago.  The appeal hearing will take place after tomorrow’s second
Test between the teams in Melbourne at a date yet to be
confirmed. An unfavorable decision could rule Australia’s
captain out of a potential July 6 series decider in Sydney.
Horwill, who’s free to play pending the appeal outcome, said
today that he was oblivious a stamping incident had even
occurred until the morning after the match.  “When I was told I was cited, I still had no idea of what
it was for until I was shown the incident,” Horwill said at a
news conference. “It was a completely accidental act. There was
no intent from my side, there was no malice. I completely had no
idea that Alun was anywhere near my feet.”  After the Lions referred the incident to the match citing
commissioner, Horwill was exonerated by judicial officer Nigel
Hampton on the grounds that he could not rule that the action
was deliberately reckless. The IRB said it appealed after
reviewing Hampton’s full written decision and the evidence.  The Lions had no involvement in the IRB’s decision to
appeal the case, team spokesman Greg Thomas said today.  Camera Angles  Second-rower Horwill, 28, said that the incident had been
viewed from nine camera angles during the initial hearing and
had delivered the “right decision,” adding that the IRB was
entitled to appeal. It’s the first time the governing body
challenged a ruling to clear a player.  “I’ve played more than 130 professional rugby games and
never been cited once and never been to any judicial hearings,”
Horwill added. “It was a complete accident. Unfortunately
accidents happen in rugby, it’s a contact sport and there was no
intent or malice on my end to do anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in  Melbourne  at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  