-- Italy Sells Maximum Amount at Auction After Banking Deal
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-06-27T11:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/italy-sells-maximum-amount-at-auction-after-banking-agreement.html
Italy sold the maximum amount
offered at an auction of 10 and 5-year debt today after European
Union finance chiefs struck an agreement on how to handle
failing banks, restoring investors’ confidence.  Italy sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) of bonds
maturing in May 2023 at 4.55 percent, the highest since March 27
and up from 4.14 percent at a May 30 auction. Investors bid for
1.46 times the amount offered, up from 1.38 last month. The
Treasury also sold 2.5 billion euros of debt maturing in 2018 at
3.47 percent, up from 3.01 percent. The total amount of the
auction was at the top of the announced range.  “Demand was well supported by those dealers who bet on
some re-alignment in spreads,” Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at
Newedge Group in  London , wrote in a note after the sale.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield dropped 12 basis points to 4.58
percent at 12:46 p.m. in Rome, pushing the difference with
comparable-maturing German Bunds to 285.7 basis points  Banking Agreement  After seven hours of emergency negotiations in Brussels,
finance ministers settled on guidelines for assigning losses to
private creditors and regulating public assistance.  They also spelled out when governments can step in and
established a role for the European Stability Mechanism, the
euro area’s 500 billion-euro firewall fund.  The deal comes at a time when investors are concerned about
a withdrawal of liquidity from central banks in the next months.
Markets around the world tumbled last week in response to Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s announcement that the central bank
may start reducing bond purchases that have fueled gains in
markets globally.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has tried to
reassure markets this week by reiterating the ECB’s monetary
policy will stay accommodative and the central bank is ready to
act if needed.  Under Scrutiny  Today’s sale comes as Italy’s public finances are under
scrutiny after the Financial Times reported yesterday that the
country faces losses of 8 billion euros on about 32 billion
euros of derivatives. “There won’t be any negative impact on
public accounts,” Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said at
a press conference in Rome yesterday. “These are instruments
used to manage interest-rate risk.”  Prime Minister Enrico Letta is facing the difficult task of
boosting growth while keeping the budget commitments made with
the EU at a time when bond markets are volatile and the legal
issues of his ally and former premier Silvio Berlusconi threaten
the stability of his government.  Yesterday his cabinet passed a package of measures to boost
employment and delayed by three months a planned increase of the
value-added tax from July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  