-- Mitsui Engineering Tells Shareholders Merger Remains an Option
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-06-27T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/mitsui-engineering-tells-shareholders-merger-remains-an-option.html
Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding
Co. (7003) , the most reliant of  Japan ’s heavy machinery makers on
shipbuilding for sales, would consider a merger even after talks
to combine with  Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012)  fell apart, the
company’s outgoing president told shareholders.  Yasuhiko Katoh, who was appointed chairman after the
shipbuilder’s annual general meeting in Tokyo yesterday, said a
combination of some sort is an option though the company could
still remain independent, according to Yoshio Honda, 71, one of
223 investors who attended the meeting. Kawasaki Heavy’s
decision to call off a merger was “regrettable,” Katoh said.  A deal with Kawasaki Heavy would have created a company
with sales of 1.9 trillion yen ($19.4 billion), narrowing the
gap with Japan’s top maker of heavy machinery,  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011)  The break-up with Kawasaki leaves Mitsui with
shipbuilding operations accounting for more than half its total
revenue in an unprofitable market where domestic yards have lost
market share to lower-cost rivals in  China  and  South Korea . 　  “I wanted to hear more concrete explanation from the
management about how the company will promote non-shipbuilding
operations,” Kazuki Sai, another shareholder who joined
yesterday’s meeting, said in an interview. “The meeting was
disappointing.”  Katoh told investors the company would consider every
possibility to boost competitiveness, including an alliance with
others, a merger or an acquisition, Masahiro Takaoka, a
spokesman for Mitsui Engineering, said yesterday by phone. New
President Takao Tanaka will unveil a mid-term business plan
later today.  Mid-Term Plan  Kawasaki Heavy, which makes everything from ships and high-speed trains to Ninja racing bikes, dismissed Satoshi Hasegawa
as president on June 13 and said it terminated merger talks with
Tokyo-based Mitsui Engineering, two months after denying the two
companies were in negotiation to combine.  Mitsui Engineering reported its first annual loss in 11
year in the financial year ended March 31 due to a 24 billion
yen impairment charge. It forecast net income of 5 billion yen
this year, while operating profit may fall 42 percent.  The shares yesterday gained 2.9 percent to 142 yen in
 Tokyo . The stock has risen 7.6 percent this year,
underperforming a 27 percent advance in the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  