-- Japan Institutions Cut Shares to New Low in Snub to Abe
-- B y   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-06-27T07:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/japan-institutions-cut-shares-to-new-low-in-snub-to-abe.html
Japan’s biggest quarterly  rally  in
25 years did little to entice institutional investors, whose
stock holdings fell to the lowest proportion of overall holdings
ever in March.  The country’s insurers, lenders and trust banks pared their
Japanese shares to  28 percent  of total market value, the lowest
ever, as of March 31, according to  Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697) 
Holdings have fallen from a peak of 44.1 percent in 1988. Fukoku
Mutual Life Insurance Co. and Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset
Management Co. are betting Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies
will fail to defeat deflation or restore sustainable growth.  The Bank of Japan is doubling the monetary base and Abe has
pledged public spending, tax reform and freer markets to
kickstart the economy and encourage investment after 15 years of
deflation made it profitable to hoard cash. Institutions have
been  net sellers  of shares every week since mid-November,
unloading 6.2 trillion yen ($63.4 billion) through June 21,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Almost no Japanese investors believe the real economy
will get that much better,” said Ichiro Yamada, who helps
manage about $3 billion in stocks at Fukoku Mutual Life in
 Tokyo . “Past governments have failed to fix the economy, so
nobody’s holding out much hope this time. It’s very hard to
alter portfolios based on expectations for Abenomics.”  The Topix index jumped 20 percent from January through
March, the most for any  quarter  since 1988, after advancing 17
percent the previous three months. It’s up 6.2 percent since the
end of March, trimming a gain of as much as 23 percent.  Missed Chance  Japan’s institutional fund managers missed a chance to
generate returns for their clients when they reduced holdings
during the biggest rally in a quarter century, said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees the equivalent of about $500 million in
Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.  “The problem is they don’t have much incentive to pursue
higher returns while they have many reasons to avoid risk,”
Akino said. “They don’t believe Abenomics will change the long-term direction of Japanese equity markets. They still believe
stocks will continue to go down.”  Institutions’ share of stock transactions fell to 4.7
percent last month, the lowest since the first week of 2008.
Individual investors are filling the void, accounting for more
than 40 percent of daily volume and helping to make Japan the
most volatile developed market.  Foreign Bonds  The BOJ’s unprecedented monetary easing, announced in
April, was expected to drive a shift from government bonds to
local assets. Instead, institutions such as Bank of Yokohama
Ltd., Japan’s  second-largest  regional lender, are opting to buy
foreign bonds as they sell local shares.  “Even though the BOJ set a 2 percent inflation target,
institutional investors don’t think it will happen, so they’re
not changing their weightings and have to sell stocks when the
markets rise,” said Goya Nakao, a senior investment manager at
Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., which oversees about
5 trillion yen.  Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund, the world’s
biggest manager of retirement savings, is among investors who
doubt the central bank can reach its goal of 2 percent inflation
within two years, President Takahiro Mitani said in an interview
June 21. The fund announced new asset allocations on June 7 that
are in line with its portfolio as of Dec. 31.  “Our new core portfolio is very close to our actual
allocation right now, so we were saved,” Mitani said. “If the
new portfolio had been really different from what we have, then
we’d have to think about how to change allocations with minimal
impact to the market.”  Main Alternative  Bank of Yokohama aims to increase holdings of risk assets
to 450 billion yen by the year ending March 2016 from about 100
billion yen in the year ended March 2013. Foreign bonds and
domestic real estate investment trusts will account for most of
the addition, according to the bank’s  medium-term plan .  “Foreign bonds will be the main alternative to domestic
bonds considering their lower risk and volatility compared to
domestic shares,” said Takashi Haraikawa, a spokesman at Bank
of Yokohama.  The value of domestic shares held by Japanese banks fell
7.1 percent to 15.2 trillion yen in April from 16.3 trillion yen
in October, as lenders reduce cross-shareholdings, according to
 data  from the Bank of Japan. Lenders sold 5.8 trillion yen of
domestic government bonds and added 4.3 trillion yen of foreign
securities, the data show.  Permanent Change  The trend is likely to be permanent, Atsuto Sawakami,
founder of Japan’s largest independent mutual fund, said.
Further gains for the country’s equities will be driven by a
return of individual investors who are sitting on almost $9
trillion of bank savings, he said.  “ Japan ’s institutional investors will keep on selling
domestic shares, though not as much as before,” the chairman of
the 297 billion yen Sawakami Fund said. “They’ll never again
play an important role in the markets as a net buyer of domestic
shares.”  Life insurers also  reduced  their equity allocations. The
value of local shareholdings rose 31 percent in the five months
ended March 31, less than the Topix’s return of 39 percent
during the period, according to the Life Insurance Association
of Japan.  “Domestic financial institutions have cut the weighting of
risk assets to prevent investments from damaging their real
business,” said Kenichi Kubo, a senior fund manager at Tokio
Marine Asset Management, which oversees about 5 trillion yen.
“What they care about most is investment risks, not returns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  