-- Jefferson County Settles With Lender Group, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-27T19:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/jefferson-county-settles-with-lender-group-lawyer-says.html
Alabama ’s Jefferson County reached a
settlement with lenders owed at least $138 million, increasing
the number of creditors who have signed onto a deal to
restructure more than $3 billion in debt, a lawyer said.  The liquidity banks and a bond insurer joined seven  hedge
funds ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and several other creditors in
settling their disputes, Jefferson County attorney Jennifer
Harris Henderson told a judge today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Birmingham, Alabama.  The latest settlements will increase support for a
“consensual, or largely consensual plan” to exit bankruptcy,
Henderson said.  On June 4, the county announced an agreement to pay its
largest creditors $1.84 billion, or about 60 percent of what
they’re owed, as part of a plan to end the biggest U.S.
municipal bankruptcy by the end of the year. The agreement, if
approved by a court as part of a bankruptcy-exit plan, will
resolve more than $3 billion in debt related to the county’s
sewage system.  After the court hearing, the county commission voted 4-1 to
approve the settlements, which include  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
State Street Bank & Trust and bond insurer National Public
Finance Guarantee Corp.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett must approve the
agreements at a November hearing before the county can refinance
the sewer debt and end its Chapter 9 case.  Ratepayer Suit  Separately, Bennett refused to lift a temporary halt to a
ratepayer lawsuit challenging the legitimacy of some of the
sewage-system debt. The ratepayers can bring their complaint
about the debt before the court as part of the November hearing
on the bankruptcy-exit plan, Bennett said.  Jefferson County supplanted Orange County,  California , as
the largest municipal bankruptcy. Orange County entered court
protection in 1994 after losing $1.7 billion on interest-rate
bets. Partly because of lawsuits against financial firms, Orange
County creditors were paid in full.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  