-- Jindal Said to Be in Talks for Liberia Iron Ore: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-06-28T11:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/jindal-said-to-be-in-talks-for-liberia-iron-ore-corporate-india.html
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) ,  India ’s
third-largest steelmaker by value, is in talks to acquire an
iron ore mine in  Liberia  as environmental hurdles at home prompt
it to look overseas, said two people familiar with the matter.  The target is the Wologizi mine and negotiations are on
with the government of the West African nation for approvals,
one of the people said, asking not to be identified before an
official announcement. A final decision is expected by the end
of September, the person said.  Jindal Steel, which scrapped purchase talks with  Afferro
Mining Inc. (AFF)  in March and wrote off more than $90 million after
abandoning a Bolivian iron ore project last year, is betting on
Liberia’s need for foreign investment to grow a postwar economy.
The New Delhi-based company has struggled to get new iron ore
mining permits in India, where it also faces charges it
manipulated coal-mine allotments by the government.  “Jindal Steel needs more iron ore to fulfill its needs
following its steel capacity expansion and also to create a
natural hedge,” said  Rahul Jain , an analyst with CIMB
Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. “There’s an opportunity to buy
iron ore mines now, given the fall in commodity prices leading
to lower valuations.”  Global  iron ore prices  have declined 20 percent this year,
compared with a 2 percent drop in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ore at  China ’s Tianjin
port fell to $115.30 a ton as of June 27.  Jindal Steel  shares  gained the most since Sept. 14,
climbing 8.1 percent to 217.45 rupees at the close in Mumbai.
The stock has fallen 51 percent this year, compared with a 0.2
percent drop in the S&P BSE Sensex.  CBI Probe  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  started probing Jindal
Steel this month for possible irregularities in the allocation
of mines to the company owned by lawmaker Naveen Jindal. The
Comptroller & Auditor General of India said in August giving
away mines to non-state companies without an auction has cost
the government 1.86 trillion rupees.  Jindal Steel will cooperate with the probe, Manu Kapoor,
head of external affairs, said by e-mail on June 11.  The company posted a worse-than-expected 35 percent drop in
profit in the three months ended March 31 as alloy prices fell
and costs rose. Earnings as a share of sales before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization shrank to 34 percent, the
narrowest in at least seven years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Should Jindal Steel win the Wologizi mine, it will be the
second major Indian investor behind billionaire Anil Agarwal-owned  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  in Liberia. Sesa, aiming to build 30 million
metric tons of mining capacity in Liberia, plans to invest $2.4
billion in its three properties in the nation. Global investors
in West Africa include ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest
steelmaker, and miners Vale SA and Rio Tinto Group.  Capital Spending  Jindal Steel is in the process of spending 200 billion
rupees ($3.3 billion) in the two years ending March 31, 2015, to
double steelmaking capacity and triple electricity generation.
The spending also includes expanding its steel capacity in Oman
and buying iron ore and coal assets.  The company, which runs a 3 million ton steel plant in the
central state of Chhattisgarh, is building a mill each in the
eastern states of Odisha and Jharkhand and a factory in Oman.  Ravi Uppal, managing director of  Jindal Steel , didn’t
answer a text message and two calls to his mobile phone seeking
comment.  The final investment in exploration and infrastructure such
as roads for transporting iron ore will exceed the initial
spending, one of the people said, without specifying the total
expenditure. Jindal Steel is looking for deals of $20 million to
$200 million in greenfield iron ore mines, Group Chief Financial
Officer Sushil Maroo said in an interview on March 12.  Ukraine, Indonesia  Jindal Steel is looking at acquiring iron ore mines in
African nations, Ukraine,  Indonesia  and  Australia  to feed its
post-expansion requirements in India and Oman, Maroo said in
March. A deal may be signed before the end of the calendar year,
he then said.  In Liberia, Sesa Goa is in the process of hiring mining
contractors to start operations in Bomi, the site for the first
phase of the project. The contractor will carry out mining
activities, including drilling, blasting, loading and hauling.
The company, which acquired the asset by buying Western Cluster
Ltd. in August 2011, is targeting production by March.  Jindal Steel’s effort to secure raw material assets
intensified after it terminated the $2.1 billion El Mutun iron
mining contract. The company also shied away from acquiring
Afferro in Cameroon in February, saying much of the proven  iron
ore  reserves were low grade and it would have to spend
“billions of dollars” to create the required infrastructure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  