-- Corzine Faces Trading Ban as CFTC Sues Over MF Global
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r ,   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-06-28T11:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/jon-corzine-said-to-be-sued-by-regulator-over-mf-global-collapse.html
A U.S. regulator’s lawsuit against
Jon Corzine could make him the first former leader of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to be banned from trading, the industry he
returned to after serving as a New Jersey senator and governor.  The complaint filed yesterday by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission seeks to punish Corzine for failing to
supervise employees at MF Global Holdings Ltd., which
transferred client funds to pay debts in a failed effort to save
the firm. Less than a year after the October 2011 bankruptcy,
Corzine considered starting a hedge fund, the New York Times
reported in August, citing people with knowledge of his plans.  If the CFTC prevails against Corzine, “he’ll face a very
serious challenge if he ever wants to be involved in the money-management business again,” said Gregory Bruch, a law partner
at Bruch Hanna LLP in  Washington  and former assistant
enforcement director at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
“They’re trying to bar him from the business, and that’s going
to be a huge fight.”  Corzine, 66, who replaced Stephen Friedman as Goldman
Sachs’s leader in 1994, handed off to Henry Paulson in 1999 and
became MF Global’s chief executive officer in March 2010 after
losing his bid for a second term as New Jersey governor to
Republican Chris Christie, 50. The move to MF Global was a step
down from Goldman Sachs, once Wall Street’s most profitable
securities firm.  Paulson, 67, later became U.S. Treasury secretary and
Friedman, 75, served as director of the National Economic
Council and chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Senior government roles are so common for former Goldman Sachs
leaders that current CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, said last year
that he could stay “forever” if he doesn’t land such a job.  Restitution, Penalty  The CFTC also sued former Assistant Treasurer Edith O’Brien
and reached a settlement with the company’s brokerage unit, MF
Global Inc., which agreed to pay about $1 billion in restitution
to clients and a $100 million penalty. The settlement is subject
to court approval.  “This is an unprecedented lawsuit based on meritless
allegations that Mr. Corzine failed to supervise an experienced
back-office professional who was located in a different city and
who did not report to Mr. Corzine or even to anyone who reported
to Mr. Corzine,” his lawyer, Andrew Levander, said in a
statement, referring to O’Brien, who was based in  Chicago . “No
evidence has been found that contradicts Mr. Corzine’s sworn
testimony before Congress.”  Evan T. Barr, a lawyer for O’Brien, wasn’t available for
comment.  Unlawful Acts  Corzine bears responsibility for MF Global’s unlawful acts,
the CFTC said yesterday in its  complaint . The suit, which
requests a jury trial, also seeks monetary penalties and
disgorgement of all benefits received, including salaries and
bonuses, from the defendants.  “He held and exercised direct or indirect control over MF
Global and Holdings and either did not act in good faith or
knowingly induced these violations,” the agency said in the
complaint, referring to the brokerage unit and the parent
company.  Corzine failed to supervise the company’s officers,
employees and agents, the regulator said.  “If the CFTC can prove that Mr. Corzine had a sense that
the firewall between firm and customer money was at risk,
control-person liability would become a viable weapon of the
CFTC,” said Seth Taube, a partner at Baker Botts LLP in New
York. “Where companies cause great damage, the law recognizes
that the man at the top should bear some responsibility, absent
evidence of strong internal controls.”  Recorded Conversations  The complaint cites recorded phone conversations between MF
Global employees in the firm’s final weeks.  In one conversation on Oct. 6, 2011, about three weeks
before the firm’s bankruptcy, the global treasurer said, “We
have to tell Jon that enough is enough,” according to the
complaint. “We need to take the keys away from him.”  Corzine sought to turn the brokerage firm into a global
investment bank that reaped revenue from proprietary trading,
according to the complaint. His plans included making larger and
riskier investments from MF Global’s funds, the CFTC said.  To achieve that goal, Corzine caused the firm to make
significant investments in instruments such as the sovereign
debt of European countries, the CFTC said. The plan faltered by
late 2011, placing “significant strains on the firm’s capital
and liquidity,” the CFTC said.  Risks Mounted  As the  risks  associated with Corzine’s strategy mounted, he
repeatedly was permitted by the holding company’s board to
increase the size of the investments, the regulator said.  The CFTC, led by Chairman Gary Gensler, has itself been
blamed for contributing to MF Global’s downfall. Gensler, 55,
who was a colleague of Corzine’s at New York-based Goldman Sachs
and recused himself from the agency’s investigation of the case,
failed to coordinate with the SEC, according to a November
report by U.S. House Republicans.  It’s hard to bring cases against CEOs like Corzine,
“largely because they are so well-lawyered, so well-protected,” said Arthur Levitt, a former SEC chairman who’s an
adviser to Goldman Sachs and on the board of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP. “The CFTC under Gary Gensler has been much
more aggressive than any of its predecessors.”  MF Global’s collapse on Oct. 31, 2011, was the eighth-biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history. A $6.3 billion wager on the
bonds of some of Europe’s most-indebted nations helped destroy
the firm and its brokerage unit, which listed assets of $41
billion and debt of $39.7 billion in its Chapter 11 filing.  Liquidity Crunch  Corzine was warned about MF Global’s liquidity crunch and
“knew the firm violated its own policy that had been designed
to protect customer funds,” the CFTC said in a  statement .  Kent Jarrell, a spokesman for James W. Giddens, the trustee
for the liquidation of the brokerage unit, said in an e-mailed
statement that the agreement with the CFTC, which is subject to
court approval, is “appropriate.”  Corzine has also been sued along with senior executives
Bradley Abelow and Henri Steenkamp in U.S. Bankruptcy Court by
Louis J. Freeh, a trustee winding down the brokerage. Freeh
alleged that they failed to act in good faith and implemented
strategies that caused the company to fail.  The CFTC “will have to prove there were red flags” that
Corzine ignored, said Bruch, the former SEC attorney. “The
complaint doesn’t say he was corrupt or lied to regulators.”  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. MF
Global Inc., 13-04463, U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  