-- Junk Bonds Drop Below Par as Asia Suffers China: Credit Markets
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-06-27T17:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/junk-bonds-drop-below-par-as-asia-suffers-china-credit-markets.html
For the first time since August,
 junk bonds  are trading below par amid speculation that companies
will have a harder time meeting debt payments as the  Federal
Reserve  prepares to reduce its extraordinary stimulus measures
and  China  reins in its shadow-banking system.  Average prices on speculative-grade corporate notes dropped
to 99.42 cents on the dollar on June 25, from a record 106.04
cents in May, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global High Yield Index. The declines were led by  Asia , which
saw prices tumble to 97.2 cents, the lowest level in a year.  Central bank largesse has allowed companies to avoid
default by refinancing debt at ever lower interest rates,
encouraging investors to bid up the price of their bonds.
Moody’s Investors Service said June 25 that investors pulling
money from high-yield funds threaten to derail stable credit
conditions for the riskiest companies.  “Fears of a slowdown in China are back to the forefront
but the main driver of the selloff is tightening liquidity,”
said Salman Niaz, a Singapore-based bond  fund manager  at Goldman
Sachs Asset Management. The firm had $748 billion invested
globally on March 31.  Rising Yields  Returns on junk bonds worldwide are flat this year through
June 25, after soaring 18.8 percent in 2012, including
reinvested interest, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
shows. In Asia, investors have lost 3.1 percent, following a 26
percent rally last year.  A measure of the average yield investors demand to own the
bonds has surged to 6.81 percent from this year’s low of 4.61
percent on May 9, according to the  Bloomberg Global High Yield
Corporate Bond Index. (BHYC)  Even with the increase, rates are below
last year’s high of 8.79 percent on Jan. 2, 2012.  The slump in the junk bond market “is justified because it
was overvalued previously,” said  Martin Fridson , the chief
executive officer of New York-based FridsonVision LLC, a
research firm that specializes in high-yield debt. “It requires
some shock to get it back to fair value.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank could begin to reduce the $85 billion of mortgage and
Treasury bonds it buys each month if the  U.S. economy  continued
to show sustained improvement.  China Slowdown  In China, Premier  Li Keqiang ’s efforts to rein in shadow
banking stoked the worst credit crunch in China in at least a
decade, driving up funding costs for Asia’s weakest borrowers.
China’s benchmark  money-market rate  averaged 6.97 percent in
June versus 3.30 percent the first five months of the year,
threatening to freeze the  interbank market .  Nomura Holdings Inc. sees a 30 percent chance that growth
in Asia’s biggest economy will dip below 7 percent in the second
half, after averaging  10 percent  a year since 2000.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. fell for a third day.
The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 2.2 basis points to a mid-price of
85.8 basis points as of 1:08 p.m. in  New York , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index, which ended June 24 at the highest this year,
typically falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, was little changed at 15.2 basis points as
of 12:50 p.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as company debentures and widens when they
seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Bank of America Corp. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 3 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 1:09 p.m. in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The  Bloomberg Global Investment Grade Corporate Bond Index (BCOR) 
has lost 2.45 percent this month, bringing the decline for the
year to 4.17 percent.  Investors have pulled $13.7 billion from global bond funds
in the four weeks ended June 19, data published by EPFR Global
show. Some $6.9 billion exited emerging-market funds, the most
since 2011, and $1.8 billion left Asia markets outside  Japan .  Default Rate  Moody’s said earlier this month that it now expects the
global speculative-grade default rate to rise to 3.1 percent by
year-end, from 2.6 percent in April.  “Investors who can be satisfied with rising yields on non-risk Treasuries are shifting money to safer assets,” said
Manabu Tamaru, a Tokyo-based fund manager who helps oversee $528
million of fixed-income investment at Baring Asset Management
(Japan) Ltd. “If you’re targeting a return of say 2 to 3
percent, and that can be achieved with Treasuries, you’re going
to want to sell high-yield.”  The market value of bonds in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global High Yield Index has fallen $71.2 billion to
$1.79 trillion from a peak of $1.86 trillion in May.  Kaisa Bonds  Bonds in Asia have been particularly hard hit, with 82 of
157 securities in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Asia index
trading below par on June 25, compared with 14 when the market
peaked at $73 billion on May 13. Yields on the securities rose
to 7.39 percentage points more than Treasuries on June 25, from
a more than two-year low of 5.52 percentage points on May 10.  Debentures of Chinese builder  Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd. (1638)  due
January 2020 fell below par this month for the first time since
February, prices compiled by Bloomberg show. Indonesian power
producer PT Indika Energy’s January 2023 notes have dropped to
85.3 cents on the dollar from 103.8 in April, the data show.  Bond sales have slowed as Asia’s weakest borrowers shunned
the highest funding costs in 10 months.  Chinese corporates led $14.5 billion of offerings
denominated in dollars, euro or yen in the first three months of
the year, a record quarter since Bloomberg started compiling the
data in 1999. U.S. junk-bond sales rose 37 percent to $201.1
billion this year versus the same period of 2012, including
$108.9 billion in the first quarter.  “It’s likely the pace of new dollar issuance will slow,”
Goldman’s Niaz said. “The higher cost of money and limited
refinancing options will make it challenging for some businesses
and put pressure on  credit quality . However fundamentals are
strong, so investors will be interested at the right price.”  Finding Equilibrium  China Central Real Estate Ltd., based in the mainland’s
Henan province, was the last Chinese speculative-grade company
to issue, selling $400 million of five-year bonds on June 4. The
6.5 percent notes, sold at par, were trading at 89.3 cents on
the dollar yesterday to yield 9.24 percent, Bloomberg prices
show.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , the London-based oil and metals
group controlled by Indian billionaire Anil Agrawal, raised $1.7
billion last month in Asia’s biggest fundraising by a high-yield
company in 2013. Its 6 percent notes due January 2019, also sold
at par, were trading at 95.2 cents on the dollar yesterday,
yielding 7.05 percent.  “Liquidity was poor in cash markets generally because
investors were reluctant to buy, thinking prices may fall
further,” said Joyce Tan, the head of Asia fixed-income in
 Singapore  at UOB Asset Management Ltd., which manages $26.8
billion. “After rallying since 2009 on lower  interest rates  and
narrower credit spreads, the market’s going to take some time
before finding a new equilibrium.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  