-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for June (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-27T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-june-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Tenth District manufacturing activity fell modestly after last
month’s rebound, although producers’ expectations for future
activity continued to increase. Some firms commented on
production delays due to power outages, flooding, and shipment
interruptions from recent regional storms. Most price indexes
posted minimal changes in June.  The month-over-month composite index was -5 in June, down from 2
in May but equal to -5 in April and March (Tables 1 & 2, Chart).
The composite index is an average of the production, new orders,
employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory
indexes. Production fell at both durable and non-durable goods-producing plants, with food and machinery manufacturing
particularly weak. Other month-over-month indexes showed mixed
results. The production index dropped from 5 to -17, its lowest
level since March 2009, and the shipments and new orders indexes
also fell markedly. The order backlog and employment indexes
increased somewhat but still remain slightly below zero. Both
inventory indexes edged higher after falling in May.  The majority of year-over-year factory indexes improved over
last month. The composite year-over-year index increased from 0
to 3, and the production, shipments, and new orders indexes also
rose. The order backlog index edged up from -15 to -10, and the
employment index posted a positive reading for the first time in
two months. The new orders for exports index increased from -7
to -1, and the capital expenditures index improved for the
second straight month. The raw materials inventory index inched
higher from -7 to -6, and the finished goods inventory index
also recorded a slight gain.  Most future factory indexes increased further in June. The
future composite index edged higher from 11 to 12, and the
future production, shipments, and new orders indexes also
improved. The future order backlog index climbed from 9 to 14,
and the future new orders for exports index posted its highest
level in two years. In contrast, the future employment index was
relatively unchanged, and the future capital expenditures index
moderated somewhat. The raw materials inventory index fell from
1 to -2, while the finished goods inventory index increased
slightly.  Most price indexes recorded minimal changes from the previous
month. The month-over-month raw materials price index rose from
-3 to 3, and the finished goods price index increased
marginally. The year-over-year raw materials price index was
unchanged, while the finished goods price index posted a slight
gain. The future raw materials price index inched higher from 43
to 46, but the future finished goods price index eased somewhat,
indicating fewer firms plan to pass recent cost increases
through to customers.  SELECTED COMMENTS  “We are automating production and minimizing hiring due to
increased costs related to employment.”  “The financial impact of increased health care costs on our
employees will cause significant stress and will put pressure on
our company to absorb more of the costs, which would need to be
passed on to customers.”  “Several of our licensees had their businesses damaged or
destroyed by recent storms.”  “Power outages have reduced production output and created
increased costs.”  “Violent electrical storms created production outages resulting
in delayed or lost sales of approximately five production days.”  “A wet spring has slowed construction in the midwest.”  “A tornado hit our Oklahoma City plant, causing roof damage.”  “Business continues to be slow. No improvement in sight.”  “The Fed is pushing on the gas and the ACA and Dodd-Frank are
pushing on the brakes. ACA is tremendously detrimental to
medium-sized companies.”  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of Kansas City 