-- Kansas City Wheat Pit Trade Ends 157-Year Run in Move to Chicago
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-06-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/kansas-city-wheat-pit-trade-ends-157-year-run-in-move-to-chicago.html
CME Group Inc., the world’s largest
futures-exchange owner, is closing its wheat-trading pit in
 Kansas City  today, ending a 157-year run, before shifting
transactions next week to the Chicago Board of Trade.  CME acquired the Kansas City Board of Trade in October for
$126 million, gaining control of a wheat-futures market that was
the largest in the world behind the CBOT. With most Kansas City
contracts already bought and sold on CME’s Globex electronic
system, the company elected to halt face-to-face transactions in
the city, where trading began in 1856.  Pit traders in Chicago will be able to buy and sell Kansas
City futures face to face starting July 1, according to the
exchange. The contracts are for high-protein, hard, red winter
wheat used to make bread.  Chicago  futures are for soft, red
winter wheat used mostly in cookies and cakes.  “There are more people that trade in Chicago and have the
rights to trade all the different contracts, so if you stick the
KCBT contract in there and make it part of the menu, you might
pick up people who previously hadn’t been trading Kansas City
wheat,” William Tierney, the chief economist at AgResource Co.
in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  Trading has migrated to Globex from the pits, where buyers
and sellers shout orders and use hand signals. Of the 11.1
million trades on the CBOT in the first five months of 2013,
open outcry accounted for 152,315, or 1.4 percent, exchange data
show. In Kansas City, 7 percent of wheat trades occurred in the
pit, Damon Leavell, a CME spokesman, said by telephone, without
giving exact figures.  The price of Chicago futures has tumbled 13 percent this
year as the government forecasts record global production.
Kansas City futures are down almost 16 percent.  Starting next week, Chicago pit traders will be able to buy
and sell KCBT weekly wheat options, KCBT-CBOT wheat-spread
options and Minneapolis Grain Exchange-KCBT wheat-spread
options, according to the  CME. (CME)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  