-- KB Home Reports Narrower Loss After 73% Jump in Revenue
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-06-27T20:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/kb-home-reports-narrower-loss-after-73-jump-in-revenue.html
KB Home (KBH) , the best-performing U.S.
homebuilder stock this year, reported a narrower loss for its
fiscal second quarter as revenue and selling prices jumped.  The net  loss  for the three months through May was $3
million, or 4 cents a share, compared with a loss of $24.1
million, or 31 cents, a year earlier, the Los Angeles-based
company said today in a statement. The average of 23 analyst
 estimates  was for a loss of 5 cents a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  KB Home and other U.S. builders are benefiting from
accelerating demand for new houses amid a tight  supply  of
existing homes on the market. New-home  sales  rose 2.1 percent
last month to an annualized pace of 476,000, the most since July
2008, the Commerce Department said two days ago.  “KB Home is well positioned in some of the strongest
housing markets across the country,”  Jeffrey Mezger , president
and chief executive officer, said in the statement. “With the
limited supply of homes available for sale and robust demand in
many of our served markets, we have deliberately emphasized
price and value creation over sales pace.”  Revenue in the quarter increased 73 percent from a year
earlier to $524.4 million. Net orders rose 6 percent to 2,162
homes. The company’s contract backlog, an indication of future
sales, climbed 6 percent to 3,128 homes.  The average selling price increased 25 percent to $290,400,
the highest for a second quarter since 2006.  ‘Turnaround Story’  The company, which has had losses in four of the past six
quarters, has lagged behind other builders including  Lennar
Corp. (LEN) ,  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)  in returning to
profitability.  “KB Home is a turnaround story,” Megan McGrath, an
analyst at MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , with a buy
rating on the stock, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“For them, it’s, ‘What’s the improvement and the trajectory,
and how quickly can they narrow the gap with the other
builders.’”  The company expects to be profitable for 2013, with
“meaningful profits” in the final two quarters of the year,
Mezger said on a conference call with analysts. Demand is
outpacing supply in all of the company’s markets, even with the
recent jump in borrowing costs, he said.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 4.46
percent from 3.93 percent, the biggest one-week increase since
1987, McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac said today.  “Anecdotally, we are hearing from the sales floor that the
uptick in rates has actually created an increased sense of
urgency” among buyers, Mezger said on the call.  KB Home fell 1 percent to $19.70 at the close in New York.
The  shares  have gained 25 percent this year, the best
performance in the 11-company Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index, which advanced 4.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  