-- Kerry Warns Time Is Short to Revive Mideast Peace Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-06-27T15:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/kerry-warns-time-is-short-to-revive-mideast-peace-talks.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said some progress toward reviving Middle East peace talks needs
to be made “long before September,” when the next session of
the  United Nations General Assembly  will begin.  While Kerry said he will set no deadlines for kick-starting
a new round of negotiations, he said yesterday at an appearance
with his Kuwaiti counterpart that time “allows a vacuum to be
filled by people who don’t want things to happen,” and
unforeseen dangers can arise.  Kerry was greeted by such a development yesterday, when
 Israel  approved plans for 69 new housing units in a section of
 Jerusalem  that Israel captured from Jordan in the 1967 Middle
East War and Palestinians consider occupied territory. A
municipal building committee approved the permits, city
spokeswoman Brachie Sprung said by telephone.  Israel continues to build in settlements in the  West Bank 
and east Jerusalem, which the U.S. State Department has called
“unproductive.” The latest move to add housing is unhelpful as
the U.S. urges all parties to help create a climate for peace, a
department official said yesterday, speaking on condition of
anonymity in advance of Kerry’s meetings.  The Palestinians have refused to return to talks without a
freeze in settlement construction, and they have signaled they
might resume their quest at the UN to join the  International
Criminal Court .  ‘Something Important’  Now Kerry is in Amman, Jordan, for three days of
consultations with Israeli and Palestinian leaders aimed at
bringing them to the table for the first time in almost three
years.  Kerry had a private lunch and meeting today with King Abdullah II of Jordan and is scheduled to have a private dinner
tonight in Jerusalem with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , followed by a meeting tomorrow in Amman with
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas .  Abbas said in an interview with Al Jazeera television
yesterday that he hopes Kerry brings “something important” and
new that will help narrow the gaps with Israel and lead to fresh
talks. Netanyahu said this week that he’ll engage in peace
negotiations if Palestinians indicate they’re willing to address
all substantial issues and resolve the conflict.  Netanyahu is willing to withdraw from more than 90 percent
of the West Bank if his security concerns are met, Ha’aretz
newspaper said today, citing an unidentified Israeli minister.
The prime minister has said any Palestinian state must be
demilitarized, and Israel needs to maintain a security presence
on the border between the West Bank and Jordan.  “Peace is based on security,” Netanyahu said today at a
ceremony in Jerusalem. “It is not based on goodwill and
legitimacy,” he said, in remarks broadcast on  Army Radio .  Building Confidence  The goal of Kerry’s sessions with the Israeli and
Palestinian leaders is to come up with confidence-building
measures and a formula for getting both sides back to the
negotiating table, said a State Department official who briefed
reporters today on the condition of anonymity to discuss private
consultations.  Part of the strategy involves selling Abbas on an economic
plan to spur private investment for economic development in the
West Bank if a two-state solution could be worked out, the
official said. No U.S. government funding would be involved, the
official said.  Kerry wants to listen to both sides to get a sense of what
each needs and what each may be willing to do to resume
negotiations, the official said.  Feeding Cynicism  Progress is urgent “because time is the enemy of a  peace
process ,” Kerry said yesterday in Kuwait City, alongside
Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Sabah al-Khalid al-Sabah. The
passage of time, Kerry said, “has the ability to wear out
people’s patience and to feed cynicism and to give people a
sense of impossibility where there in fact is possibility.”  The timing of the UN General Assembly in September is
significant because last year it recognized the Palestinians as
an “observer state,” and they have threatened to use UN
organizations such as the ICC to level war-crimes charges
against Israel.  Kerry has thrown himself into reviving Israeli-Palestinian
peace negotiations, making his fifth trip to Israel since he
became the top U.S. diplomat in February. He’s pushing for
renewed talks even amid a crush of competing demands in the
 Middle East , including  Syria ’s civil war, violence in Iraq and
 Libya , tensions over  Iran’s nuclear program , and worries about
the stability of  Egypt  and Jordan.  Peace Partners  An agreement with the Palestinians is possible and Israel
should do more to strengthen them as peace partners, departing
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said today on Army
Radio. Fischer steps down from the bank on June 30.  Kerry said he’s committed to trying because both Netanyahu
and Abbas have shown a “seriousness of purpose” in wanting a
peace deal.  “I wouldn’t be here now if I didn’t have a belief that
this is possible,” Kerry said. “But it’s difficult. If this
were easy, it would have been done a long time ago.”  Kerry denied an Israeli news report that he was preparing
for three-way talks between U.S., Israeli and Palestinian
officials this week under the auspices of Jordan’s king.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  