-- Key Features of Bank Resolution Deal Struck by EU Nations
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-27T13:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/key-features-of-bank-resolution-deal-struck-by-eu-nations.html
EU nations agreed on a framework for
bank restructuring and resolution. The deal, which now must be
negotiated with the European Parliament, spells out private-investor losses and conditions for receiving aid.  * Regulators will be required to write down creditors in order
of seniority until losses reach 8 percent of the distressed
bank’s liabilities, with some ability to shift losses among
private investors. Above that threshold, they could grant
exemptions and turn to national backstops instead of following
the formula.  * Deal offers wiggle room for regulators, after notifying the
European Commission, to exempt some creditors and shift the
burden to others.  * Nations will be required to set up funds, financed through
levies on banks, that are big enough to cover 1.3 percent of
insured deposits of each country’s banks. Resolution funds will
be treated differently than deposit guarantee funds, in terms of
conditions for when governments can deploy the money.  * European Commission approval will be needed to tap the
resolution funds, which won’t be allowed to contribute an amount
more than 5 percent of a failing bank’s liabilities unless
unsecured senior bondholders are wiped out.  * If a nation’s resolution fund is twice the size required by
the new rules, nations can take advantage of emergency rules
that change the loss threshold to 20 percent of risk-weighted
assets.  Sweden , which said that the standard threshold for using
flexibility was too high, wanted the concession.  * Interbank lending with a maturity of less than one week is
exempt from the rules, as sought by the  European Central Bank .
Secured debt such as covered bonds also is shielded.  * Deal must be agreed with EU Parliament before it becomes
final. EU financial services chief  Michel Barnier  wants year-end
finish. The new rules would take effect in 2018.  * Parliament, nations disagree on when countries can nationalize
their banks, when to start the new bail-in rules, and when
national deposit-guarantee funds should be in line to absorb
losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  