-- Krona Rises as SEK Warns on Loss Predictions: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-06-27T11:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/krona-rises-as-sek-warns-on-loss-predictions-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden ’s krona gained against the
dollar and the euro after the head of the nation’s state-backed
export bank, SEK, warned against betting on further declines.  The krona rose as much as 0.5 percent against the euro to
trade 0.2 percent higher at 8.7704 as of 12:24 p.m. in
Stockholm. Versus the dollar, the krona gained as much as 0.6
percent.  The gains come after a sell-off through last week following
signals from the U.S. Federal Reserve it’s preparing to scale
back stimulus. Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said in an
interview earlier in the week the depreciation was a relief for
exporters. Still, it’s risky to anticipate more currency
weakness as Sweden’s economy is healthy enough to support a
strong  exchange rate , according to Peter Yngwe, chief executive
officer of SEK.  “They shouldn’t expect a krona that will weaken
significantly,” Yngwe said in an interview yesterday. “There
is no reason for the krona to fall significantly other than
these short-term fluctuations.”  The krona appreciated 31 percent against the euro from the
end of 2008 through the middle of March this year as investors
poured funds into Sweden’s AAA rated bonds. That prompted
warnings from Finance Minister  Anders Borg  that excessive krona
strength could become an obstacle for the nation’s exporters.  “We have strong finances, in other words fundamentals are
good,” Yngwe said. “The krona is a small currency; one should
be clear about that.”  ‘Fair Picture’  According to Anders Eklof at Swedbank AB, the warning from
SEK paints a “fair picture” of the outlook for the krona.  “The Swedish economy will stand relatively strong,” he
said by phone today. “We’re expecting the krona to strengthen a
bit toward 8.40” per euro “in three months, but then the krona
will gradually weaken in one year’s time versus the dollar,” he
said.  Yngwe said trading on Sweden’s haven status is safer for
long-term investors than for speculators.  “If you buy the Swedish krona to invest and stick with the
investment for a long time before exiting, then one should feel
that it’s pretty safe,” he said. “But if you’re buying to make
a quick deal, it’s probably not a safe haven, since it’s so
sensitive” to market volatility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net 
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  