-- Navy Should Delay Next Carrier Amid Troubles, GAO Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-27T21:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/navy-should-delay-next-carrier-amid-troubles-gao-says.html
The U.S. Navy should delay the award
of a multibillion-dollar contract to  Huntington Ingalls
Industries Inc. (HII)  to build the second aircraft carrier in a new
class as the first one faces failings from its radar to the gear
that launches planes, congressional investigators said.  “Technical, design and construction challenges” with the
first carrier, the USS Gerald R. Ford, have caused “significant
cost increases and reduce the likelihood that a fully functional
ship will be delivered on time,” the Government Accountability
Office said in a draft report obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Ford, already the most expensive warship ever built, is
projected to cost $12.8 billion, 22 percent more than estimated
five years ago. The report raises questions about the future of
U.S. seapower in a time of reduced defense  budgets  and about
whether new carriers are affordable as they assume greater
importance in the Pentagon’s strategy to project U.S. power in
the Asia-Pacific region.  Delays and “reliability deficiencies” with the flattop’s
new dual-mission radar, electromagnetic launch system and
arresting gear for aircraft mean that the Ford “will likely
face operational limitations that extend past commissioning” in
March 2016 and “into initial deployments,” the agency said.  The GAO, the investigative arm of Congress, said that’s
reason enough to delay the contract that’s scheduled to be
issued this year for the second ship, the  USS John F. Kennedy .  ‘Repeating Mistakes’  “It will be important to avoid repeating mistakes” in the
contract for the Kennedy, the GAO said. “Staying within
budget” will require the Navy to reduce “significant risk
mainly by completing land-based testing for critical
technologies before negotiating a contract” with Newport News,
Virginia-based Huntington Ingalls.  Beci Brenton, a company spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview that “it would not be appropriate to comment on a
draft report.”  Naval Sea Systems Command spokeswoman Colleen O’Rourke said
in a statement that “as the Navy is currently working with the
GAO on this report, it would be inappropriate to comment on any
draft findings at this time. When the report is finalized, it
will include Navy comments.”  The Navy remains committed to the Ford-class carrier as a
needed capability, said a Navy official who declined to be
identified before the GAO releases its final report. The Navy is
confident that the first vessel will be delivered on schedule
and that lessons learned from building it will be applied to
reduce the cost of the second ship, the official said.  Shipbuilding Plan  Huntington Ingalls rose 2.3 percent to $56.59 at the close
in New York and has climbed 31 percent this year.  The Navy is grappling with how to pay for a shipbuilding
plan that anticipates $43 billion for three carriers in the Ford
class, as well as $34 billion for 52 Littoral Combat Ships and a
12-vessel nuclear submarine fleet to replace the Ohio-class
submarine.  While the GAO said that the Navy and Huntington Ingalls are
taking steps to control costs for the Ford, most increases occur
after a vessel is 60 percent complete and key systems are
installed and integrated. The Ford is now 56 percent complete.  Even the current $12.8 billion estimate is “optimistic
because it assumes the shipbuilder will maintain its current
level of performance throughout the remainder of construction,”
the GAO said.  Carrier Numbers  The Pentagon’s independent cost-estimating office, the
Congressional Budget Office and a Navy-commissioned panel
project final costs as high as $14.2 billion, the GAO said.  The draft report also raises questions about how many
aircraft carriers the nation will have ready this decade.
Congress has given the service temporary relief from the
requirement to have 11 fully capable aircraft carriers. There
are now 10 after deactivation of the USS Enterprise, and the
Ford is supposed to bring that back to 11 by March 2016.  “As it now stands, the Navy will not be positioned to
deliver a fully capable ship at the time,” the GAO said.  “Reliability shortfalls facing key Ford-class systems
cloud the Navy’s ability to forecast when, or if” the carrier
will meet the aircraft sortie rates and reduced manning
requirements that distinguish it from the older Nimitz class,
the GAO said.  O’Rourke, the Naval Sea Systems Command spokeswoman,
wouldn’t comment on the specific value of the potential detailed
design and construction contract to Huntington Ingalls for the
Kennedy that the GAO said is due in September.  General Atomics, Raytheon  The largest share of the cost increase for the Ford, 38
percent, stemmed from technologies delivered by the Navy,
including the radar, launch system and arresting gear, according
to the GAO.  The  electromagnetic launch system  made by San Diego-based
General Atomics has increased to $742.6 million, up 134 percent
since 2008, the GAO said. The cost of arresting gear also made
by the company increased 125 percent to $169 million.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s dual-band radar has increased 140 percent to
$484 million, according to data cited by the GAO. Twenty-seven
percent of the cost growth was pegged to shipbuilder design
issues and another 27 percent to construction, both attributed
to Huntington Ingalls.  Huntington Ingalls is building the Ford under a $4.9
billion detailed design contract that covers the shipbuilder’s
portion of constructing the vessel. It doesn’t cover other
costs, such as the nuclear reactor to power the ship and other
government-furnished equipment.  Forecasting Overrun  The GAO said its analysis indicates that Huntington Ingalls
“was forecasting an overrun at contract completion of over $913
million” that it said stemmed from “the shipbuilder not
accomplishing work as planned.”  Huntington’s Brenton said in an e-mail in May that, “as
the first new design carrier beginning construction in more than
40 years,” the Ford “is designed to provide increased
capability and reduced total ownership cost by about $4 billion
compared to Nimitz-class carriers.”  “For this first-of-class ship, construction commenced in
parallel with design completion based on earlier decisions at
Department of Defense,” she said. “Ongoing design during the
construction process caused delay and inefficiencies in
procurement, manufacturing, and assembly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  