-- Navy SEALs’ Parents Sue Biden, Panetta Over Sons’ Deaths
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-27T13:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/navy-seals-parents-sue-biden-panetta-over-sons-deaths.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  and ex-U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  were sued by the parents of
Navy SEALs, who accused the officials of exposing their sons to
retaliation by publicizing their unit’s role in the raid that
resulted in the death of  Osama Bin Laden .  The men were killed in an Aug. 6, 2011, attack on their
helicopter, three months after the bin Laden raid, according to
a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  Washington . The
parents, seeking more than $200 million in damages, accused
Biden and Panetta of revealing the team’s involvement for
political purposes before the 2012 presidential election.  “The hard reality is that Biden and Panetta are alive
‘feasting’ on their ‘political notoriety,” power and wealth,
while the brave heroes who gave their lives for our nation’s
security are dead, thanks to them!” Larry Klayman, an attorney
for the family, said in a statement on the filing.  Thirty U.S. special forces, seven Afghan commandos and a
civilian interpreter were among those killed when the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization CH-47 Chinook helicopter was shot
down by the Taliban in the eastern province of Afghanistan. An
official who spoke on condition of anonymity said at the time
that none of those killed were from the SEAL team involved in
the bin Laden raid.  The suit also names  Iran , Afghanistan and Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai , who allegedly tipped the Taliban off about the
helicopter coordinates on the day of the attack.  SEALs’ Parents  The plaintiffs are Billy and Karen Vaughn, the parents of
Aaron Vaughn; Charles and Mary Ann Strange, the parents of
Michael Strange; Doug and Shaune Hamburger, the parents of
Patrick Hamburger; and Sidh Douangdara, the father of John
Douangdara.  A call to Biden’s press office seeking comment on the
complaint wasn’t immediately returned. Panetta couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment through his Panetta Institute
for Public Policy.  The case is Vaughn v. Biden, 1:13-cv-00974, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 