-- New York Amtrak Serice Curbed After CSX Derailment
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   S u r a n e
-- 2013-06-27T22:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/new-york-amtrak-serice-curbed-after-csx-derailment.html
Amtrak  passenger service to and from
New York City was disrupted after a derailment involving two  CSX
Corp. (CSX)  freight trains in upstate New York, blocking all available
tracks and forcing cancellation of some trips.  Buses are being used to carry some Amtrak riders west of
 Albany , New York, and connect them to other trains, the national
passenger railroad said today in an e-mailed statement. Among
the suspended routes was the Empire Service, one of Amtrak’s
most popular, according to Cliff Cole, a spokesman.  “There is no estimate for track restoration available from
CSX at this time,” Amtrak said in the statement.  Two freight trains heading in opposite directions were
involved in the derailment near Fonda, New York, CSX said,
without providing further details. Robert Sullivan, a CSX
spokesman, declined to say whether there was a collision, saying
that the “cause is under investigation.”  Two CSX employees were treated for minor injuries at the
scene, the Montgomery County of New York Emergency Management
said on its  Facebook page .  Four locomotives and 45 freight cars were derailed,
Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX said, citing preliminary
reports. Some diesel fuel leaked is being cleaned up, Sullivan
said.  Kevin Thompson, a spokesman for the Federal Railroad
Administration, said the agency is leading an investigation to
determine the cause of the accident and see whether any federal
regulations were violated.  The Empire Service route carried 1.06 million passengers in
2012, according to  data  from Amtrak.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Surane in New York at 
 jsurane1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  