-- Nike Reduces Annual Earnings Forecast as China Sales Fall
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-06-28T14:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/nike-fourth-quarter-profit-tops-estimates-as-u-s-gains.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods company, reduced its annual forecast for sales
and earnings and said revenue in China would decline in the next
two quarters.  Revenue in the year ending in May will rise at a high
single-digit percentage rate while earnings per share gain by a
low double-digit percentage, Chief Financial Officer Don Blair
said yesterday on a call with analysts. In March, Nike forecast
sales would gain as much as low double digits and that profit
would increase by a mid-teens percentage.  Nike’s sales in China, where it got 9.7 of its revenue in
its most recent fiscal year, have been deteriorating as the
economy’s growth slows and it discounts apparel that didn’t have
the proper fit and sophistication for the nation’s shoppers. In
May, Nike replaced its top executive in the country, and the
company also is working on improving the presentation of its
products at retailers there, Blair said.  Nike’s business in  China  is “still a work in progress,”
Chris Svezia, an analyst for Susquehanna Financial Group in  New
York , said in an interview. “There was some hope that they were
turning the corner.”  Nike, based in Beaverton,  Oregon , declined 2.8 percent to
$60.59 at 10:10 a.m. in New York. The shares had advanced 21
percent this year through yesterday, compared with a 13 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  In China, sales excluding the effect of currency exchange-rate fluctuations fell 1 percent in Nike’s fiscal fourth quarter
ended May 31 for the third consecutive drop, Nike said yesterday
in a statement. Revenue will decline in the first half of this
fiscal year before stabilizing in the final two quarters, Blair
said.  Profit Gains  Meanwhile, Nike profit in the quarter topped analysts’
estimates as running shoes boosted U.S. sales and margins
expanded for the second time in almost three years.  Net income rose 22 percent to $668 million, or 73 cents a
share, from $549 million, or 59 cents, a year earlier. Excluding
businesses the company has since sold, profit was 76 cents a
share, beating the 74-cent average  projection  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nike has been benefiting from increasing demand for running
and basketball gear in  North America  as revenue in its largest
market surged 12 percent. That helped worldwide sales gain 7.4
percent to $6.7 billion, topping estimates.  “It’s a good quarter, but not a blowout,” said Svezia,
who rates the stock neutral.  Orders for the Nike brand from June to November, excluding
the effects of currency exchange-rate changes, advanced 8
percent. Analysts projected a gain of 8.8 percent, the average
of five estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Orders on that basis
advanced 12 percent a year earlier.  Higher Costs  Nike has been trying to improve profitability amid higher
costs for materials and labor, mostly in China. To combat that,
the company increased prices last year and has been cutting
waste out of its supply chain. It also sold off the
underperforming Cole Haan and Umbro brands last year.  As a result, gross margin, or the percentage of sales left
after subtracting the cost of goods sold, widened to 43.9
percent from 42.8 percent a year earlier. That marked the second
straight gain after nine consecutive declines. The company
forecast an expansion of 0.5 percentage points.  Last week, Nike announced management changes that included
repositioning several current executives and the retirement of
 Charlie Denson , its second-in-command. Denson, president of the
Nike brand, is leaving July 1 after 34 years. Gary DeStefano,
president of global operations and a 31-year veteran, is also
retiring next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  