-- Nintendo Expects Own Software Development to Help Revive Wii U
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-06-27T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/nintendo-expects-own-software-development-to-help-revive-wii-u.html
Nintendo Co., the world’s biggest
maker of video-game machines, plans to revive demand for its Wii
U through the release of its own new titles as sales of the
console failed to meet forecasts amid a lack of software.  Building sales momentum will also make it more appealing
for other studios to produce content, President Satoru Iwata
told the annual shareholder meeting yesterday, according to an
e-mailed statement. There is no plan to cut jobs, the Kyoto,
Japan-based company said.  Iwata is trying to bolster earnings with titles including
“Wii Fit U” for the home console and “Animal Crossing: New
Leaf” for the 3DS handheld player amid a shift in gaming to
smartphones and tablets. Nintendo faces new competition for the
Wii U, which posted sales 37 percent below initial forecasts, as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  both plan to release new machines
for the  Christmas shopping season .  “The only way to improve earnings is to sell good software
titles,” said Masao Katsuura, an individual investor who
attended the meeting in Kyoto yesterday. “I’m worried whether
the company can release games as it plans.”  Media were not permitted to monitor the meeting at the
company’s headquarters.  Nintendo  fell  0.4 percent to 10,940 yen at the close of
Osaka trading yesterday, paring this year’s gain to 19 percent.  Forecast Affirmed  Iwata reiterated his January pledge for operating profit of
100 billion yen ($1 billion) in the year ending March, the
company said. That compares with the 75.8 billion-yen average of
21 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The forecast is based on an exchange rate of 90 yen against
the dollar and 120 yen to the euro, or weaker, Iwata said. The
 U.S. dollar  was worth 97.96 yen as of 3:36 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Sales of the Wii U, introduced in November, totaled 3.45
million in the financial year ended March. That compares with a
4 million-unit target set in January and an initial projection
of 5.5 million. Nintendo, which attributed a lack of titles for
lower than expected sales, plans to sell 9 million of the
consoles in the current business year.  The creator of  Super Mario , Zelda and Donkey Kong
characters targets  sales  of 18 million units of the 3DS this
financial year, up 29 percent from last year. The handheld
player edged out Microsoft as the top-selling platform in the
U.S. in May,  Port Washington , New York-based NPD Group Inc. said
June 17. “Donkey Kong Country Returns 3D” and “Luigi’s
Mansion: Dark Moon” helped increase Nintendo’s software sales,
the company said.  Competing Consoles  The Wii U, priced starting at $300, features a 6.2-inch
touchscreen controller that lets users wirelessly connect to the
console and shift the display between the device and a TV. It is
the industry’s first new home-gaming console since 2006, the
year Nintendo released its predecessor, the Wii.  Sony’s PlayStation 4, which surged to the top of pre-orders
on Amazon.com Inc.’s online shop after it unveiled the model
earlier this month, will start from $399 when it is released in
the U.S. later this year, boasting sharper graphics.  While Microsoft’s Xbox One will have a price tag of $499,
it includes improved Kinect voice commands and motion sensing,
content partnerships with the  National Football League  and
access to Skype video calls. The next version of “Halo,”
Microsoft’s top-selling science-fiction game that anchored the
previous Xbox, will arrive in 2014, the company said this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  