-- No 1997 Asian Crisis Return as China Trembles
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-06-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/no-1997-asian-crisis-return-as-china-trembles.html
Asia’s 1997 financial crisis won’t
repeat itself, even as a slowing Chinese economy unnerves the
region’s financial markets.  So says  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economics
research at HSBC Holdings Plc. He concluded in a June 25 report
that current “differences outweigh the similarities.”  While still predicting Asia is headed for slower growth in
coming years, Neumann cited several reasons for expecting the
continent to avoid another period of turmoil akin to 16 years
ago. Then, countries from Thailand to South Korea were forced to
devalue their currencies and were propelled into recession.  Current account positions are now mostly in surplus, which
should cushion the blow from an outflow of capital, Neumann
said. Banking systems also appear more robust, with better
regulatory systems, higher capital buffers and lower loan-to-deposit rates.  There are also no “glaring” mismatches between assets
and liabilities, he said. In the 1990s, most external borrowing
was in U.S. dollars. By contrast, most of the debt that
investors have taken on in recent years is in local currency, so
a surge in the dollar won’t impose a spike in debt-service
costs.  The region also enjoys much higher foreign exchange
reserves than in the 1990s and countries have more power to swap
currencies at short notice, giving them firepower to fight
currency attacks.  Still, there are new vulnerabilities, said Neumann.
Financial volatility complicates the ability to pay debts and
bond markets are now bigger than they were. Whereas in the 1990s
leverage lay in the hands of businesses, now it’s households,
small companies and government entities that bear the most debt.  “On balance the dissimilarities with 1997 outweigh the
parallels,” said Hong Kong-based Neumann, a former consultant
to the  World Bank . “Asia’s defenses are more robust nowadays.
Most likely, Asia’s growth has just downshifted to a less
spectacular pace.”  * * *  The Federal Reserve, on the other hand, could repeat the
past by raising  interest rates  as early as the summer of 2014 if
a recent improvement in the labor market is sustained, according
to Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  Chief U.S. Economist  Joseph LaVorgna  found that the  central
bank  has almost always lifted its benchmark within one year of
when the number of Americans first applying for  unemployment
benefits  averaged 350,000 or less for a quarter. With  jobless
claims  just below that, averaging 345,600 in the quarter so far,
the trigger could be reached in a week.  LaVorgna himself doesn’t expect rates to rise until early
2015, because this time the Fed has to first unwind its
quantitative easing and see how the markets absorb that. The
historical relationship means his rate call might be wrong, as
might his prediction that it will take several quarters for the
U.S. Treasury 10-year note yield to rise above 3 percent,
LaVorgna said in a June 24 report to clients.  Jobless claims data are an “excellent intermediate-term
predictor of monetary policy,” especially in the case of higher
rates, LaVorgna said. “If past is prologue, whereby low and
declining claims accurately foreshadow a noticeable pickup in
hiring -- and hence a sharp decline in the  unemployment rate  --
then monetary policy makers will not be waiting until 2015
before raising the Fed funds rate.”  With the exception of the early 1990s, when it took a year,
Fed tightening has always coincided with claims reading 350,000,
he said.  When the trigger was reached in the third quarter of 1958,
the  Federal Funds Target Rate (FDTR)  went up to 1.32 percent from 0.94
percent, wrote LaVorgna, a former economist at the Fed Bank of
New York. In the third quarter of 1961, claims fell 27,000 to
331,000 and the Fed boosted its key rate to 2.4 percent from
1.68 percent. Similar patterns held true in 1984 and 2004.  * * *  A tennis ball used at Wimbledon travels 50,570 miles
(81,370 kilometers) before landing on a racket, when its
materials are included.  An analysis of the ball’s supply chain by  Warwick Business
School  associate professor  Mark Johnson  found it involves flying
between 11 countries and across four continents to the
manufacturing plant in Bataan in the Philippines before heading
to London.  Among the materials used to make a ball are clay from South
Carolina, wool from  New Zealand , silica from Greece, magnesium
carbonate from Japan, rubber from Malaysia and sulfur from South
Korea.  The balls are made by Slazenger, a brand of  Sports Direct
International Plc (SPD) , the U.K.’s biggest sporting-goods retailer.  “It shows the global nature of production these days, and
in the end, this will be the most cost-effective way of making
tennis balls,” Johnson said.  * * *  An inability to do basic mathematics may have helped foster
the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis.  In a  paper  published this week by the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences, economists tested the numerical
skills, cognitive ability and financial literacy of 399 people
who had taken out  subprime  mortgages from January 2006 to August
2007.  Among the questions asked: “In a sale, a shop is selling
all items at half price. Before the sale, a sofa costs $300. How
much will it cost in the sale?”  The authors found that those who defaulted were worse at
simple math than those who hadn’t, wrote Kristopher Gerardi of
the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta, Lorenz Goette of the
University of Lausanne and Stephan Meier of  Columbia University .  “Our results indicate possibly large benefits from
increased financial education of homeowners,” they said.  * * *  The global economy still has “plenty of room to grow,”
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist Jose Ursua.  He measured output gaps -- the difference between an
economy’s actual output and the level at which further growth
starts fanning inflation -- for 40 countries.  The results suggested a gap of 2.4 percent between the
world economy’s current output and its potential. Developed
economies have a 3.4 percent differential and there’s a 1
percent gap in  emerging markets , New York-based Ursua said in a
June 26 report.  “When the recent bout of market turbulence abates, markets
should begin to reflect the view that the world’s ‘room to grow’
is larger than is sometimes perceived, and adapt to a gradual
rather than abrupt return to normality,” Ursua said.  * * *  Labor’s share of global income has “significantly
declined” since the early 1980s across a majority of countries
and industries,  according  to  University of Chicago  economists.  The share of income paid to labor has dropped 5 percentage
points over the last three decades, estimated Loukas
Karabarbounis and Brent Neiman in a paper published this month
by the National Bureau of  Economic Research  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  Of 56 countries studied, 38 showed downward trends in their
labor shares, as did six of 10 major industries.  A decrease in the relative price of investment goods linked
to advances in information technology and the computer age
induced the shift toward capital, the economists said.  * * *  People may not be happy while they work.  That’s the finding of a study cited in the latest edition
of CentrePiece, the magazine of the London-based  Centre for
Economic Performance  at the London School of Economics.  Using smartphone technology, Alex Bryson of the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research and the University of
Sussex’s George MacKerron were able to tap information on well-being in real time. That differs from previous happiness studies
which typically ask people how they feel in retrospect.  They relied on insights from people who downloaded an app
that asked them at random times to complete a short survey about
how they were feeling. They then were told to pick one of 40
options that best described what they were doing at that moment.  More than 1 million observations from tens of thousands of
people showed that paid work ranked lower than any of the 39
other activities with the exception of being sick in a bed. The
effect is equivalent to a 7 percent to 8 percent reduction in
happiness relative to someone not working.  “People tend to be positive about paid work when
reflecting on the meaning and value of their lives,” the CEPR
said in a statement accompanying the report. “The analysis of
the new ‘Mappiness’ data source indicates that actually engaging
in paid work is one of the activities that people least like
doing in terms of their immediate feelings of happiness.”  * * *  The  International Monetary Fund  has become faster in
responding to crises since the mid-1980s as policy makers
realized local events can have international consequences,
 according  to the Central Bank of Chile.  Focusing on standby arrangements, the main channel of aid,
 Princeton University ’s Ashoka Mody and Diego Saravia of the bank
found in a report released this month that the average timeframe
between crisis and program shortened from 19 months in the 1977-1986 period to 15 months in the years after 1986.  Their study was based on 300 rescues, 200 of which were
associated with turmoil that had occurred in the previous two
years. Greater economic and financial stress have accelerated
aid programs, while the Latin American debt crisis of the 1980s
created more awareness of international spillovers and systemic
risks.  “The combination of evidence from different methodologies
suggests that this led to faster negotiations of IMF programs
after 1986, especially for the more severe crisis or when the
crisis country had a fixed  exchange rate ,” said Mody and
Saravia.  * * *  It’s not what Fed chairmen say, it’s the way they say it.  A University of Edinburgh  study  found the tone adopted by
U.S. central bank chiefs has a “small but significant” impact
on the price of gold and silver regardless of the policy
outlined in the speech. They used gold and silver as proxies for
the response of financial markets, according to the report
issued June 17.  The research was based on text-analysis software to measure
the level of variables such as certainty, optimism and realism
in 400 speeches and testimonies from May 1999 to May 2012. They
found  Alan Greenspan , who led the Fed from 1987 to 2006, was
more likely to convey activity and realism in his speeches,
while incumbent  Ben S. Bernanke  is more optimistic.  A 1 percent increase in the amount of certainty in
Greenspan’s tone was enough to lift the price of gold by 0.1
percent, said authors Kristjan Thorarinsson and Arman Eshraghi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  