-- Nomura Ex-Head of Program Trading Wells Said to Join Hedge Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-06-27T17:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/nomura-ex-head-of-program-trading-wells-said-to-join-hedge-fund.html
Nicholas Wells,  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) ’s former head of equities program trading, has left the
bank and plans to join hedge-fund firm Millennium Management
LLC, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Wells will be joined at Millennium by two junior Nomura
colleagues, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the departures aren’t public. Wells joined Nomura in
London from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. after the Japanese
lender acquired the collapsed firm’s European business.  His departure follows a decision last year by Nomura to
fold all execution services, including cash, program and
electronic trading outside of  Japan , into the firm’s Instinet
unit, a standalone brokerage acquired in 2006. The Tokyo-based
bank announced the move in September, while disclosing at the
same time that it planned to eliminate $1 billion of costs by
scaling back the firm’s global ambitions.  Wells didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on his
departure. Redzi Mangwana, a London-based spokeswoman for
Nomura, declined to comment. Tripp Kyle, a spokesman for New
York-based Millennium, declined to comment.  Wells’ registration with the U.K. Financial Conduct
Authority as a Nomura employee has been inactive since June 13,
according to the regulator’s website. He had worked at Lehman
since 2001, according to the website.  Program trading typically involves buying and selling
baskets of securities through a computer algorithm based on
preconditioned triggers. The strategy can be used to take
advantage of situations when related securities and indexes
trade outside their normal range.  Millennium has been adding employees after almost tripling
its assets under management to $18.2 billion since June 2010.
The firm, founded in 1989 by former American Stock Exchange
floor broker Israel Englander, allocates its capital to more
than 140 trading teams focused on investing in stocks and bonds,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  