-- NSA’s Alexander Says Secret Programs Stopped Terror Plots
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-06-27T19:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/nsa-s-alexander-says-secret-programs-stopped-terror-plots.html
Two secret U.S. programs used to
track telephone calls and monitor Internet use, which were
exposed by Edward Snowden, helped stop terror plots around the
world, the head of the National Security Agency said.  The agency provided Congress with “54 cases in which these
programs helped disrupt terror plots in the U.S. and throughout
the world,” Army General Keith Alexander said today at a
conference in Baltimore. Action to stop potential attacks
involved other U.S. agencies, such as the Central Intelligence
Agency, the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, the Pentagon and
the Department of  Homeland Security , he said.  Defending the surveillance programs that Snowden revealed
to newspapers, Alexander provided a regional breakdown, saying
25 terrorist plans had been disrupted in Europe, 11 in Asia and
five in  Africa .  Forty-two instances involved what Alexander called
“disruptive plots,” and 12 were related to supporting
terrorism. Arrests were made in 50 cases, Alexander said.  Snowden, 30, a former employee of  Booz Allen Hamilton
Holding Corp. (BAH) , provided the Guardian and the Washington Post
details of U.S. surveillance programs that involved collecting
data on calls from U.S. phone companies and monitoring Internet
activity involving foreigners believed to be located outside the
U.S. and plotting terrorist attacks.  Snowden, who fled the U.S. to  Hong Kong  on May 20, is at a
Moscow airport, according to Russian officials, and has been
seeking asylum in  Ecuador  or another country.  In 12 of 54 cases Alexander cited, he said the collection
of phone data aided the FBI. In 53 of 54 cases, collecting
Internet data provided “the initial tip,” he said.  Alexander spoke at a conference organized by AFCEA
International, a Fairfax, Virginia-based trade group whose
members include information technology companies and government
contractors.  The leaks have damaged the ability to collect information
on terror groups, Alexander said, without providing details.  “Every time a capability is revealed we lose our ability
to track targets,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  