-- NYC Council Rebuffs Bloomberg in Police Oversight Vote
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-06-27T06:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/nyc-council-rebuffs-bloomberg-in-police-oversight-vote.html
The  New York  City Council approved
two bills to protect minorities from overzealous police, setting
up a clash with Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who says the laws would
make it more difficult to fight crime and terrorism.  The council voted 40 to 11 to create an inspector general
empowered to review police policies and practices, and 34-17 to
allow lawsuits against the city when an officer uses racial
profiling as a reason to question an individual. The mayor said
he will veto both measures; supporters need 34 votes in the 51-member chamber to override him.  “I believe that we must have both safe streets and
stronger police-community relations,” Council Speaker Christine Quinn said before the votes early this morning. “An inspector
general will provide feedback and recommendations to our police
commissioner and mayor on how to balance these two goals and
ensure one doesn’t impede on the other.”  Crime has dropped 34 percent since Bloomberg became mayor
in 2002, and the city has had 25 percent fewer homicides this
year through mid-June compared with the same period in 2012,
when it had 417, according to the police data. The numbers show
New York to be the safest big city in the U.S., says Bloomberg.  “Unfortunately, these dangerous pieces of legislation will
only hurt our police officers’ ability to protect  New Yorkers 
and sustain this tremendous record of accomplishment,”
Bloomberg said in a statement after the bills were passed. He
said he will veto the legislation.  Previous Vote  Quinn, 46, a Democrat and the mayor’s closest council ally,
helped steer the bills to a vote by joining with her colleagues
to overrule Peter Vallone Jr., the Democratic chairman of the
Public Safety Committee. He had refused to free the measures for
consideration. While she supports adding an inspector general,
Quinn opposes the racial-profiling measure, saying it will
hamper police and encourage frivolous lawsuits.  Police union leader Patrick Lynch, president of the
Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, said the profiling bill
would prevent officers from using gender, skin color or age in
describing a suspect. Supporters of the measure deny that.  “Allowing someone who is simply questioned by police to
sue the NYPD will paralyze  law enforcement ,” Lynch said
yesterday by e-mail.  Taking up an issue unrelated to policing, the council voted
47-4 to override the mayor’s veto of a bill requiring employers
with 20 or more workers to provide paid sick leave starting
April 1. It would be expanded to those with 15 or more employees
a year later, in 2015. It initially passed 45-3 on May 8.  Morning Vote  The early morning vote, which followed hours of debate on
the police bills, concluded at 2:30 a.m., and included a 50-1
vote to approve a $70 billion budget for the 2014 fiscal year
beginning July 1.  The votes to boost police oversight took place as civil-liberties advocates in the city of 8.3 million await a decision
by U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan  in a 2008
lawsuit accusing police of disproportionately targeting minority
youths to stop, question or frisk them on the street.  Of the 4.3 million stop-and-frisk searches in the past nine
years, more than 80 percent were of blacks and Latinos,
according to court papers filed by the New York-based Center for
Constitutional Rights, which backs the plaintiffs. Less than 1
percent of those stops led to recovery of a gun, the plaintiffs
said.  New York has been “deliberately indifferent” to the
constitutional violations of its police force, attorneys for the
four men suing said in a June 12 post-trial filing.  No Position  The U.S. Justice Department, while taking no position on
the claims against the city, said in a June 12 memo to the judge
that it endorsed the use of a court-appointed monitor in the
event it’s ruled to be necessary.  “The experience of the  United States  in enforcing police
reform injunctions teaches that the appointment of an
independent monitor is a critically important asset,” the
department said.  Bloomberg, 71, denounced the  Justice Department  statement
during a June 13 news briefing in Queens, saying police are
trained to stop people only under appropriate circumstances.  “It just makes no sense whatsoever when lives are on the
line to change the rules and hamper the police department from
doing their job,” he said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP. A political independent, he is barred by
law from seeking a fourth term. Speaker Quinn is among seven
Democrats seeking to replace him next year.  The case is Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  