-- Obama Says Gay Marriage Ruling Should Have Wide Impact
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-06-27T12:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/obama-says-gay-marriage-ruling-should-have-wide-impact.html
President  Barack Obama  called
yesterday’s Supreme Court ruling on gay marriage “a victory for
American democracy” while saying federal lawyers are studying
how to administer benefits in states that don’t recognize same-sex unions.  “It’s my personal belief” that a couple married in a
state that recognizes gay marriage should be able to obtain
federal benefits even if living in a state that doesn’t
recognize such marriages, Obama said. “I’m speaking as a
president, not as a lawyer.” Obama said he has directed federal
lawyers to study the implications of the ruling.  Obama spoke at a news conference with Senegalese President
Macky Sall in Dakar, the first stop on his three-country visit
to sub-Saharan  Africa .  The news conference came a day after the U.S.  Supreme
Court , in a landmark victory for the gay-rights movement, struck
down a federal law that denies benefits to same-sex married
couples and cleared the way for weddings to resume in
 California .  In  Senegal , homosexuality is a crime punishable by
imprisonment.  Obama said while different countries have different
cultural traditions, under the law “I believe that everybody
has to be treated equally.”  Sall said his country is “not ready to decriminalize
homosexuality,” while noting that Senegal does not practice
capital punishment as does the U.S.  “We have different traditions,” Sall said.  Voting Rights  Obama also criticized the Supreme Court’s ruling that
struck down much of the landmark 1965 Voting Rights Act, saying
the court “didn’t recognize” the extent to which voter
suppression is still a problem throughout the country. He said
he’ll ask Congress to take steps to make voting easier.  “I might not be here as president” if not for the work
behind the  Voting Rights  Act, that added protections for black
voting rights, Obama said. “I think that the Supreme Court made
a mistake in its ruling but that decision is now here.”  He said there are ‘other potential remedies,’’ and that a
legal adviser will issue a report on how to make voting easier
around the U.S. People should not have to “jump through a whole
bunch of hoops” to be able to vote and there should be
“uniformity” of ease throughout the country, Obama said.  The court’s 5-4 ruling nullified a requirement that all or
parts of 15 states get federal clearance before changing their
election rules or voting lines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Dakar, Senegal at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Dakar, Senegal at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  