-- Obama Begins Africa Trip in Senegal as Mandela Declines
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-06-27T16:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/obama-begins-africa-trip-with-senegal-stops-as-mandela-declines.html
Using a visit to a slavery museum
and reminiscences about Nelson Mandela’s struggle against
apartheid to punctuate his point, President  Barack Obama  said
African nations have made significant gains that should be
recognized as the continent seeks more investment and trade.  “I see this as a moment of great progress and great
promise for the continent,” Obama said in a news conference
with Senegalese President Macky Sall in Dakar. It was his first
stop on a three-country trip that is also scheduled to include
 South Africa  and Tanzania.  “All too often, the world overlooks the amazing progress
that  Africa  is making, including progress in strengthening
democracy,” Obama said. “Many African nations have made
tremendous strides in improving democratic governance and
empowering citizens.”  Obama traveled by ferry to Goree Island off the coast of
 Senegal , where he toured the Slave House before a meeting with
civil society advocates.  With cramped rooms labeled as prison cells and a Door of No
Return overlooking the water, described as an embarkation point
for slave ships, the museum draws thousands of tourists each
year to learn about the Atlantic slave trade.  Powerful Sight  “For an African-American and African-American president to
be able to visit this site, I think, gives me even greater
motivation in terms of the defense of human rights around the
world,” Obama said.  Obama, first lady  Michelle Obama  and family members looked
out the portal where thousands of slaves got their last glimpse
of Africa. Obama said it was a “very powerful moment.”  Even as historians have disputed the details of the
island’s history and role in slavery, the location has drawn
civil rights leaders, celebrities and past U.S. presidents
including  Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush .  Eloi Coly, curator of the museum, in an interview the day
before Obama arrived, said visits by U.S. presidents help draw
attention to the history of slavery, while Obama’s is especially
poignant because he is the first U.S. president of African
descent and his success is part of the narrative.  Mandela’s Condition  The timing of Obama’s visit coincided with Mandela’s
hospitalization. “It’s very emotional,” Coly said. “President
Mandela is a black African. He lived the same story. It’s a
continuation of history.”  Obama’s Africa trip is being overshadowed the watch on
Mandela. The 94-year-old former South African president and
anti-apartheid icon lies in critical condition after weeks of
treatment for a lung infection.  Obama described Mandela as a “personal hero” who inspired
his own political activism in college and after.  “To see  Nelson Mandela  step forward after 27 years of
captivity and not only help usher in democracy and majority
rule,” Obama said, “but as importantly, for him to say, I
embrace my former captors and my former oppressors, and believe
in one nation and believe in judging people on the basis of
their character and not their color -- it gave me a sense of
what is possible in the world when righteous people, when people
of goodwill work together on behalf of a larger cause.”  Government Reforms  Obama highlighted government and judicial reforms in
Senegal, a West African democracy that is an example of
stability in the Sahel in the face of unrest in neighboring
 Mali .  Thousands of people lined the streets of Dakar, playing
music, carrying welcome signs and wearing T-shirts picturing
Obama and Sall. “We are deeply touched,” Obama said, speaking
also for his wife and two daughters, who are accompanying him.
“We are so grateful for your teranga -- your hospitality.”  Sall welcomed Obama for meetings at the presidential palace
in Dakar. While their news conference was dominated by questions
about Edward Snowden, the former contractor who leaked national
security secrets, and the U.S. Supreme Court’s rulings yesterday
on gay rights and minority voting rights protections, Obama
sought to raise the profile of his visit.  Sall, 51, a former prime minister and National Assembly
president, was elected as president of Senegal last year after
defeating the two-term incumbent,  Abdoulaye Wade . Wade faced
allegations of corruption and nepotism, and criticisms for
postponing elections and limiting civil liberties.  Sall took office promising to institute democratic reforms
including a reduction in the length of presidential terms to
five years from seven.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Goree Island, Senegal at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Dakar, Senegal at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  