-- Mocking Germans Adds Irish Insult to Banking Injury
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-06-28T08:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/mocking-germans-adds-insult-to-irish-banking-injury-euro-credit.html
Irish politicians say jibes at
Germans by some of the country’s former bankers undermine their
case for securing help to cut the 64 billion-euro ($83 billion)
bill for saving the financial system.  John Bowe, a former executive at the now defunct Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., sang “Deutschland Ueber Alles” as the lender
won German deposits on the back of a government guarantee,
according to recordings of 2008 conversations that were
published this week by the Irish Independent newspaper.  Irish borrowing costs surged in 2010 as investors grew
concerned about the mounting burden on the taxpayer of the euro
region’s biggest banking crisis. With Ireland now planning to
fully re-enter the international credit markets by the end of
December and with 10-year benchmark rates near 4 percent, the
government is trying to persuade German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and other euro-region leaders to refund part of what was spent
on saving the country’s lenders.  “The tone seems to be the same across the banking
industry, and it’s very hard to take for people who go to work
every day and earn money,” Merkel told reporters today in
Brussels where European leaders are meeting. “I have nothing
but contempt for this.”  Causing Damage  The revelations are “very damaging,” Irish Transport
Minister  Leo Varadkar  said in an interview with RTE radio today,
adding he largely agreed with Merkel’s comments.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  is scheduled to visit Merkel in
Berlin on July 3 for a European summit to promote youth
employment. Eamon Gilmore, his deputy premier, told reporters in
Luxembourg on June 25 he was angry about what was on the tapes
and that they make the government’s job more difficult.  The yield on 10-year Irish bonds fell four basis points
today to 4.06 percent. While it’s up from a low of 3.42 percent
in May, it was above 9 percent when Ireland requested an
international bailout in November 2010. The premium the nation
pays to borrow for that time compared with  Germany  was 2.35
percentage points, down three basis points from a week ago.  Five-year bond yields have fallen to 3.06 percent after
peaking at more than 17 percent in 2011. The spread over Germany
narrowed to 2.34 points from 15.4 points in July 2011.  Bailout Bill  While the decline in the cost of borrowing was driven by
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge to defend
the euro, it also reflects Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan ’s success in reducing the bank bailout bill.  Noonan first helped persuade the ECB not to block a swap of
so-called promissory notes used to rescue Dublin-based Anglo
Irish with 25 billion euros of long-term  government bonds  held
on the national central bank’s balance sheet.  The second part of Noonan’s strategy involves accessing the
European Stability Mechanism to refund as much as 30 billion
euros the state spent on saving banks. Winning retroactive
recapitalization would reduce Ireland’s debt to gross domestic
product, due to peak at 123.3 percent this year, and add
momentum as Noonan heads back into bond markets.  At a June 20 meeting of euro-region finance chiefs in
Luxembourg, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
there’s “no great leeway” for refunds because the ESM fund is
capped at 60 billion euros for bank rescues.  Alternatives  Noonan was already preparing people at home for that
response. He said the nation is “not solely tied” to trying to
access the ESM to recoup money because its two largest banks
have a “value in the market” as they return to profit.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , 99.8 percent state-owned after a 21
billion-euro taxpayer rescue, plans to return to profit during
2014, Chairman David Hodgkinson told shareholders last week.
Chief Executive Officer  David Duffy  said in February the bank
had already started talks with potential investors.  “It’s unlikely, regardless of what’s emerged in the last
few days, that Ireland will be able to use the ESM for
retroactive recapitalizations,” said Juliet Tennent, an
economist at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin. “The 60 billion-euro cap puts paid to anything.”  The tapes have reverberated around  Europe . They also
suggest executives at the bank downplayed how much financial
support the lender might need to win central bank money.  Bild, the largest German newspaper, headlined a story on
tapes as “Failed Irish Bankers Scoffed at German Clients,”
while  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  described the Irish bankers
as “laughing into the abyss.”  German Hand  “We are offended,”  Michael Fuchs , deputy parliamentary
leader of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  told Irish state
broadcaster RTE radio in an interview on June 26. “If you have
a feeding hand, you shouldn’t bite into it.”  Fuchs said “it’s really dangerous” language as German
lawmakers try to convince local taxpayers to support ailing
European countries such as Ireland. “It’s absolutely unbearable
that somebody is talking like this.”  At one point during the recorded conversations with Bowe at
Anglo Irish, David Drumm, then chief executive officer of the
bank,  jokes  that Bowe was “abusing” the government guarantee
and dismissed the regulator’s concern about how it was viewed in
Germany and the U.K. In another, Drumm outlines a plan to
pressure the central bank for an initial 7 billion euros.  Give Us Money  The lender would tell the central bank “we need the
moolah, you have it, so you’re going to give it to us and when
would that be? We start from there,” Drumm said on Friday,
Sept. 19, 2008, according to tapes uploaded onto the Irish
Independent’s website. “Because if they don’t give it to us on
Monday, they have a bank collapse.”  While Bowe said this week he deeply regretted the language
and tone he used in the calls, Drumm has made no public comment.
Calls and an e-mail to Drumm’s bankruptcy lawyer, Francis C.
Morrissey, weren’t responded to.  The central bank said in a June 27 statement that it is
taking the transcripts of the tapes “very seriously” and will
liaise with police after studying them. Conall Mac Coille, chief
economist at Dublin-based securities firm Davy, is more sanguine
about the controversy’s longer-term effect.  “Ireland at the time had no credibility with Europe,” Mac
Coille said. “It’s not news to the Europeans that Irish
regulation of the banks was a shambles at that point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  