-- OECD Sees West Africa Agriculture Investment Boost on Population
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-27T12:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/oecd-sees-west-africa-agriculture-investment-boost-on-population.html
Agricultural investment in West
 Africa , the world’s largest cocoa-producing region, will grow
“very significantly” by 2050 as the population expands and
people move from rural areas to cities, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  West African urbanization is increasing at the fastest rate
in the world, Karim Dahou, an executive manager at the OECD’s
directorate for financial and enterprise affairs, said today in
an interview at a conference in London. Population in West
Africa has doubled every 20 years since 1960 and in cities the
number of people has tripled, he said.  “In West Africa, the natural resources are conducive to
huge agricultural output, there’s water, there are a lot of
hydro-resources,” Dahou said at the Agriculture Investment
Summit. “Our agricultural outlook by 2050 is very optimistic in
terms of the growth of the sector globally, and including in
Africa.”  Investment in West African agriculture will expand as the
world tries to meet growing local and global demand, he said.
The amount of capital invested per farmer in Africa is “very
low,” one sixth of that in  Asia  and one fourth of that in  Latin
America , according to Dahou. That’s the reason why yields for
many crops in the region are stagnant, he said.  Ghana and  Nigeria  are leading investments in agriculture in
the region, he said. Nigeria, which spends $10 billion a year
importing wheat, sugar, rice and fish, plans to boost domestic
 food production  by 20 million metric tons by 2015, according to
Akinwunmi Adesina, the country’s agriculture minister.  Cash crops such as cocoa and coffee in West Africa won’t be
under threat as the region tackles  food security  and may even
facilitate access to food as they bring in revenue, Dahou said.
There’s enough land available to expand and improve yields for
both food and cash crops, he said.  “The issue is not really space, it’s intensification,”
Dahou said. “That’s what African agriculture, especially West
African agriculture, needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  