-- Ohio Abortion Opponents Try New Tactic to Curb Clinics
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-06-27T20:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/ohio-abortion-opponents-try-new-tactic-for-restricting-clinics.html
Ohio  is seeking to put abortion
clinics in a Catch-22 with the latest tactic by Republican state
lawmakers to stop the procedure in U.S. states.  A provision in the two-year, $61.7 billion budget would
require that the state’s 12 abortion clinics have an agreement
to transfer patients to a hospital in emergencies. It also would
ban the state’s 18 public hospitals from making those deals with
abortion providers. The Republican-run House of Representatives
and Senate passed the budget today. Republican Governor  John Kasich  must sign the plan by June 30.  Eight states mandate such agreements between clinics and
hospitals, according to the New York-based  Guttmacher Institute ,
which compiles data on reproductive health. The institute said
Ohio is the first to bar public hospitals, which represent a
minority of the state’s health-care facilities, from entering
into them. The novel approach may force clinics to close, said
Elizabeth Nash, Guttmacher’s states issues manager.  “People have been arguing that we need these transfer
agreements to make sure that women’s health is protected,” Nash
said by telephone. “This removes that veil. It very clearly
says no, what it really wants to do is shut down clinics. This
is a way to eliminate access to abortion.”  Clamping Down  In the past three years, state lawmakers have passed a
record number of statutes regulating abortion. Some focus on
when women can terminate pregnancies, such as  Texas ’s attempts
to ban abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy. Others target
the ability of providers to operate. The strategy is to limit
access instead of trying to overturn Roe v. Wade, the 1973
Supreme Court decision that made the procedure legal.  Besides the transfer agreement requirement in the Ohio
budget, Republican lawmakers ranked recipients of family-planning money, putting Planned Parenthood Federation of America
Inc., which offers abortions among many  health services , behind
other providers. Republicans also incorporated an amendment to
require doctors to determine, before performing an abortion,
whether there is a fetal heartbeat and to inform the mother.  Echoing protests this week in Texas, opponents of Ohio’s
measure wearing red and pink shirts rallied on the Statehouse
steps and gathered in legislative chambers during debate. They
shouted “shame on you” in the Senate after the vote there.  Intimate Decisions  Eighteen of the state’s 207 hospitals are public, according
to the Ohio Hospital Association. Jaime Miracle, policy director
for NARAL Pro-Ohio in Columbus, said she expects private
institutions to face increased pressure not to approve transfer
agreements.  “The real question is how much of a chilling effect will
this have,” Miracle said by telephone.  The transfer deals ensure efficient ambulance transport to
a hospital, and “no taxpayer-funded entity should be propping
up the abortion industry,” Mike Gonidakis, president of Ohio
Right to Life in Columbus, said in an interview at the
Statehouse.  Democratic lawmakers objected to the provisions, saying
Republicans are “obsessed” with abortion and interfering with
women’s health decisions.  “It forces the government into the most private and
difficult situation a woman could face,” Representative Debbie Phillips, an Athens Democrat and her party’s assistant leader in
the House, said today during debate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  