-- Hong Kong Stocks Advance Third Day on U.S. Data, China
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-06-27T08:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/hong-kong-stocks-gain-third-day-on-u-s-receding-china-concern.html
Hong Kong   stocks  rose for a third
day after slower-than-forecast U.S. economic growth signaled
record stimulus may be maintained and amid speculation that the
recent drop in the city’s shares has been overdone.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and clothes to retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., gained 1 percent. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd., the world’s largest lender,
advanced 1.3 percent after China’s central bank moved to
stabilize money markets. China Resources Land Ltd., the second-biggest mainland developer traded in Hong Kong, jumped 5.1
percent. China Gas Holdings Ltd. climbed after earnings beat
estimates.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  climbed 0.5 percent to 20,440.08 at the
close, capping its longest win streak since May 20. About twice
as many shares rose as fell, with volume 20 percent above the
30-day intraday average. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
declined 0.1 percent to 9,158.61. The gauge yesterday gained the
most since Jan. 2 after valuations dropped to levels not seen
since the 2008 global financial crisis.  “Hong Kong and Chinese shares are very cheap,” said  Binay Chandgothia , a  fund manager  at Principal Global Investors in
Hong Kong, where he helps oversee $280 billion. “Downside
should be limited for Hong Kong unless you get into a full-blown
financial crisis. Investor sentiment is fairly weak, markets
look oversold short term but for contrarian investors, it’s
probably a good time to get in.”  Shares pared gains today as China’s  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  reversed its advance to close 0.1 percent lower, led by
coal, copper and small-company shares. Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut
its 2013 growth forecast for China, saying a jump in interbank
rates this month on tighter monetary conditions is likely to
“pose further headwinds.”  Profit-Taking  “There’s some profit-taking,” with falling Chinese stocks
impacting shares in Hong Kong, said  Kenny Tang , general manager
of AMTD Financial Planning Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Mainland markets
are still lacking clear direction and momentum to go up.”  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, has fallen more than 20 percent from its Feb. 1
high, meeting some investors’ definition of a  bear market . The
measure  traded  at 6.6 times estimated earnings on June 25, 39
percent below its five-year average and the lowest since October
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Squeeze  Stocks tumbled after the nation’s overnight repurchase rate
rose to a record last week as Premier Li Keqiang seeks to wring
speculative lending out of the banking system after credit
expansion outpaced economic growth. The People’s Bank of China
has since said it provided liquidity to financial institutions
to steady money-market rates.  Concern that higher interbank rates would crimp earnings
dragged valuations at the nation’s three biggest banks to about
one times book level on June 25.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. (601398)  and China Construction Bank Corp. were trading at 1.3
times on May 20, the recent high for the  Hang Seng Index , while
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. was at 1.2 times.  ICBC (1398)  shares today climbed 1.3 percent to HK$4.76, its
biggest two-day gain since December 2011. China Resources Land
gained 5.1 percent to HK$20.35, leading developers higher.  Chinese companies have dropped out of the ranks of the
world’s 10 biggest stocks by market value for the first time
since 2006 amid a  cash crunch , slower growth and the biggest
U.S. stock rally in a decade.  PetroChina, ICBC  PetroChina Co. (PTR) , a state oil producer that was the world’s
sixth-biggest company in May, lost $35 billion in market value
this month to $214 billion, dropping to 12th on the list,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on closing prices
yesterday. ICBC fell four places to 13th.  The  premium  of mainland traded Chinese shares to their
underlying Hong Kong-listed stocks retreated the most since
December 2011 yesterday after the central bank pledged to
maintain monetary stability and the overnight rate fell.  China’s overall economic situation is stable this year,
according to a statement posted to the government’s website
yesterday after a State Council meeting led by Premier  Li
Keqiang . China will keep consistent policies to stabilize market
expectations, according to the statement.  Profits at China’s industrial companies jumped 15.5 percent
in May from a year earlier, the statistics bureau reported
today. A 9.3 percent gain was recorded in April.  “The data is encouraging for investors, especially when
the stock market is at a very low level at the moment,” said
Linus Yip, chief strategist at First Shanghai Securities in Hong
Kong. “It helps the market to rebound, and there may be some
bargain hunting.”  Power Generators  Utilities and information technology companies led the
advance among the 11 industries on the Hang Seng Composite
Index, the city’s broadest equity measure.  Huaneng Power International Co., a unit of China’s largest
electricity producer, gained 6.5 percent to HK$7.66. China
Resources Power Holdings Co. increased 6.3 percent to HK$18.36.  China Gas (384)  increased 4.8 percent to HK$7.64. Net income for
the year ended March jumped 85 percent to HK$1.76 billion ($227
million), beating the HK$1.51 billion average estimate of 11
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.   Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.2
percent. The index rose 1 percent yesterday in New York after
U.S. gross domestic product expanded a revised 1.8 percent from
January through March, down from a prior estimate of 2.4
percent. The  Federal Reserve  said it will probably taper
stimulus in 2013 and halt bond purchases mid-2014 as long as the
economy performs in line with projections.  Li & Fung advanced 1 percent to HK$10.58. Man Wah Holdings
Ltd., a sofa maker that gets half its sales from the U.S., rose
1.4 percent to HK$9.71.  Positive Sentiment  “There’s less concern that the  U.S. economy  is growing too
fast, leading the Federal Reserve to taper its stimulus,” said
Yip. “It helps turn the  market sentiment  more positive and the
Hong Kong market extend its rebound after dropping too much
recently.”  Hang Seng Index futures rose 1.2 percent. The HSI
Volatility Index slid 0.8 percent to 23.68, indicating traders
expect a swing of 6.8 percent for the equity benchmark in the
next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  