-- Top Malaysia Bond Fund Sees Opportunities in Banks, Power Firms
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-06-27T07:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/top-malaysia-bond-fund-sees-opportunities-in-banks-power-firms.html
Malaysia’s best-performing bond fund
is holding five times as much cash as usual and is considering
buying the debt of local lenders and power companies if yields
keep rising, the vehicle’s manager said.  CIMB-Principal Bond Fund will be “more conservative” and
refrain from taking big positions in the coming months while
waiting for volatility to abate, CIMB-Principal Asset Management
Bhd.’s regional chief investment officer  Raymond Tang  said in an
interview yesterday in Kuala Lumpur. Cash levels were increased
to 10 percent to 15 percent in the last two to three months from
2 percent in anticipation of a rise in debt sales after the
nation’s May 5 general election, he said.  “I’ve got a pretty good level of cash to re-invest so I’m
looking to re-enter the market,” said Tang, who helps oversee
about $10 billion. “Banking is a tightly regulated market and
the  capital ratios  are strong. Power companies are cash-rich,
concession-type assets, so normally they’d be defensive.”  Malaysia’s five-year government  bond yield  surged to the
highest level in almost three years yesterday after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 policy makers may
cut stimulus this year and end it in 2014, stemming flows that
boosted emerging-market assets. The country’s economy is the
most vulnerable in  Southeast Asia  to the risk of a “sudden
stop” in fund inflows as it’s the biggest regional beneficiary
of the Fed’s largesse, according to a June 20 report from Bank
of America Merrill Lynch.  ‘Easily Spooked’  “We are cautious in this kind of environment,” Tang said.
“People are easily spooked. Definitely, the feeling is a little
bit pessimistic right now,” he said, adding that Malaysian
yields could rise further  The country’s local-currency debt has lost 0.8 percent this
month, poised for the first decline since September 2012,
according to an  index  compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  CIMB-Principal Bond Fund (CIMBMBF)  delivered gains of 2.7 percent
this year, the best performance among 13 Malaysian fixed-income
vehicles with assets of at least $100 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The 563.5 million ringgit ($177 million) fund
invests only in ringgit notes and 82 percent of holdings are in
debt with maturities of more than three years, according to its
latest available factsheet.  The fund holds power-plant operator Jimah Energy Ventures
Sdn.’s 8 percent notes due November 2016, palm oil planter
Golden Agri-Resources Ltd.’s 4.35 percent 2017 bonds and Hong
Leong Financial Group Bhd.’s 4.5 percent securities maturing
2018, according to the factsheet.  In the longer-term, Malaysia’s debt market will be
supported by “a lot of natural latent demand” from the
country’s biggest pension funds and insurance companies,
according to Tang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  