-- Tornado Watch Posted from Virginia to New Jersey
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-06-27T20:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/tornado-watch-posted-from-virginia-to-new-jersey.html
A tornado watch stretches from
northern Virginia to  New Jersey , including Washington and
Philadelphia, as a line of storms ties up air traffic and
threatens flooding across the Northeast.  The watch, meaning the storms are possible, is in effect
until 10 p.m. East Coast time, according to the  National Weather
Service . Flood watches and advisories reach as far north as
Maine as heavy rain is expected throughout the region, the
agency said.  “We have a large upper-level low dropping into the region;
it’s driving a cold front into hot and humid air,” said Mike Pigott, a senior meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State
College , Pennsylvania. “Even though the cold front pushes
through, the upper level of the system will remain over the
 Great Lakes  for a very, very long time.”  The result may be that the Northeast will have heavy rain
and thunderstorms through the middle of next week. The region
was inundated by a series of storms earlier this month and the
chances of flooding go up with each new one, Pigott said.  Flight delays of almost 2 hours were reported at Newark
Liberty International Airport in New Jersey and more than an
hour at New York’s LaGuardia and  Boston ’s Logan International,
according to the  Federal Aviation Administration .  As of 3:30 p.m., 403 flights into and out of the U.S. had
been canceled, including 77 at LaGuardia and 69 at  Newark ,
according to  FlightAware , a Houston-based airline tracker.  Pigott said the system over the Great Lakes may start to
exit by July 3. He isn’t sure it will be completely gone as the
U.S. celebrates the July Fourth holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  