-- Mortgage Rates in U.S. Jump to Highest Since July 2011
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-06-27T16:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/mortgage-rates-in-u-s-jump-to-highest-since-july-2011.html
Mortgage rates  for 30-year U.S.
loans surged to the highest level in almost two years,
increasing borrowing costs at a time when the housing market is
strengthening and prices are jumping.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 4.46
percent from 3.93 percent, the biggest one-week increase since
1987, McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac  said in a statement.
The rate was the highest since July 2011 and above 4 percent for
the first time since March 2012. The average 15-year rate
climbed to 3.5 percent from 3.04 percent.  The increase, sparked by expectations that the  Federal
Reserve  will scale back bond purchases, provides a test for a
yearlong housing recovery that’s been fueled by home-loan costs
near record lows. Buyers seeking to take advantage of low rates
are competing for a tight  inventory  of listings, driving up
values. House  prices  in 20 U.S. cities rose 12 percent in April,
the biggest year-over-year gain since March 2006, according to
S&P/Case-Shiller data released this week.  Higher mortgage rates are “not going to snuff out the
housing recovery,”  Paul Diggle , property economist for Capital
Economics Ltd., said yesterday in a telephone interview from
 London . “But it’s another reason to expect a slowdown from the
very rapid rate of price rises of late.”  Fed Comments  Capital Economics yesterday increased its 2014 mortgage-rate forecast for 30-year loans to 5 percent from a previous
estimate of 3.75 percent. The rate, which has jumped from 3.35
percent in early May, leaped after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said last week that policy makers may slow bond purchases this
year amid signs of an improving economy.  At the current rate, the monthly payment on a $300,000 30-year loan has increased to $1,513 from $1,322 in May.  Prospective homebuyers may be rushing to make deals.
Contract signings to buy previously owned  homes  climbed 6.7
percent in May to a six-year high, suggesting rising mortgage
rates may be providing a “spark,” the National Association of
Realtors said today.  KB Home (KBH) , a Los Angeles-based builder, said demand is
outpacing supply in all of its markets, even with the increase
in borrowing costs.  “Anecdotally, we are hearing from the sales floor that the
uptick in rates has actually created an increased sense of
urgency” among buyers, Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger 
said today on the company’s earnings conference call.  Peak Sales  Borrowing costs are still relatively low. The average rate
for a 30-year mortgage over the past 10 years is 5.31 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  During the housing market’s boom,  existing-home sales 
reached a peak annual pace of 7.25 million in September 2005
with 30-year mortgage rates at about 5.8 percent. Home sales
last month, with rates below 4 percent, were at a pace of 5.18
million.  Rates would have to rise to almost 7 percent before a home
at the U.S. median price would be unaffordable to a family
making the median income in most parts of the country, according
to a Freddie Mac study this month.  “While rising  interest rates  will reduce housing demand,
rates would have to increase considerably more before the
reduction in demand for home purchases would be substantial
across the country,” Chief Economist  Frank Nothaft  wrote.  Credit Availability  The increase “will not meaningfully impact the fundamental
recovery in demand because affordability remains high relative
to history,” Joseph Lavorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc., wrote yesterday in a note to clients.
“Rates are also rising partly because of expectations of an
improving economy. Hence, rising job and income prospects will
offset some of the now-higher mortgage financing costs.”  Banks may also help offset the rate increase by loosening
underwriting standards as rising prices reduce the risk of
making new loans and a slowdown in refinancing makes lending to
homebuyers more attractive. An index released this week by the
 Mortgage Bankers Association  shows credit availability has eased
since last year.  The bankers group’s index of home-loan  purchase 
applications increased 2.1 percent in the week ended June 21,
while its  refinancing  measure fell 5.2 percent to the lowest
level since November 2011. The share of applicants seeking to
refinance was 67.3 percent, the lowest since July 2011, the
Washington-based trade association reported yesterday.  Higher rates are a sign that the economy is becoming
healthier,  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer of Miami-based
 Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest homebuilder, said on a
conference call this week.  “Interest rates are moving higher in the context of
economic improvement,” Miller said. “We’re looking at a supply
shortage, so that means that even in the context of rising rates
and a better economy, we’re likely to see price increases and
rental increases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  