-- Bigger Is Better for the Tour de France
-- B y   S a m u e l   A b t
-- 2013-06-27T22:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/tour-de-france-should-revel-in-excess.html
The main threat to the Tour de
 France , its organizers used to say, was “gigantisme” -- 
tremendous growth -- a sprawl of people and equipment that
overwhelmed the three-week bicycle race, a host of sideshows
obscuring the main ring.  That was a decade or two ago, when Tour officials liked to
boast that only the Olympic Games drew a larger television
audience. Now soccer’s World Cup has moved into the second slot
and, battered by doping scandals, the sport of bicycle road
racing fights for coverage, team sponsors flee, and long-established races disappear.  How can the Tour de France fight the trend?  Easy: Embrace gigantisme. Make the race better by making it
bigger. If the daunting climb to  Alpe d’Huez , 1,371 meters
(4,498 feet) up in the French Alps around 21 hairpin turns,
lures hundreds of thousands of spectators, then they should be
given the extra thrill of watching the riders make the climb
twice in a day, as is scheduled this year. If the traditional
afternoon finish on the Champs-Elysees in Paris is usually
watched by half a million fans, stage it at  night , as is
scheduled this year, in hopes of a bigger turnout. As Oscar Wilde observed, “Nothing succeeds like excess.”  As the biggest, richest and most prestigious bicycle race
in the world kicks off this weekend on the island of  Corsica ,
neither the organizers nor the fans seem discouraged by the
sport’s many doping scandals.  Rolling On  Most French people long suspected that Lance Armstrong, the
American cyclist who won the Tour de France seven consecutive
times, used illegal drugs, and that many other riders also did
and still do: More than half a dozen riders have been caught
this season. The Tour’s record book for the last 15 years is
riddled with asterisks for riders who lost their victories
(Armstrong, Floyd Landis, Alberto Contador) after it was
revealed they had been aided by banned substances.  The Armstrong confession that made so much news in the U.S.
had very little traction in Europe and is barely mentioned now.
Doping scandals in  Belgium ,  Germany ,  Italy  and Spain in recent
years have met with muted indifference. What of it? the average
fan asks, why let some bad eggs spoil my good time? This
reservoir of support -- or apathy -- fuels the organizers of
this year’s race. The show will go on, they say, and it will be
bigger than ever.  As they gleefully pointed out, this  100th running  of the
race (begun in 1903, it was halted by both world wars) will have
4,500 participants -- a number that grows every year. These
include officials, news media, commercial partners, “service
providers” and a 12-kilometer-long publicity caravan that
precedes the race and distributes 14 million trinkets to people
waiting for hours along the sides of the roads, only to see the
riders go by in a flash.  Almost hidden among the participants will be 198 riders
divided into 22 nine-man teams. As they pedal over the race’s
3,404 kilometers (2,115 miles) in 21 daily stages, those 198
will be attended by 300 team officials, mechanics and
“soigneurs” or caregivers, whose duties include massages. The
athletes will be watched over by 17 officiating commissaires to
report violations of the rules. Also in attendance will be 380
employees of the organizer, the Amaury Sport Organization, and
10 doctors and one nurse traveling in six ambulances, two cars
and on a motorcycle.  Small Kingdom  The police will be out, too: 47 motorcyclists, 13 officers
on general security and 23,000 officers to block side roads for
hours in the 537 French municipalities the race passes through
in its clockwise journey around the country. (The Tour de France
is a pocket kingdom, with its own police force and air force --
a handful of supersized helicopters to shuttle high-level guests
from site to site. It also features the only post office in the
country that remains open on the national holiday Bastille Day.)  There was a time, perhaps 30 years ago in the era of
typewriters, when the press corps covering the race consisted of
several dozen people traveling full time and an equal number of
local drop-ins when the Tour passed into their papers’
circulation zone. Now there are 2,000 reporters, photographers
and “consultants,” whatever that means. They represent 560
media outlets, including 85 television channels broadcasting to
190 countries. Last year, 3.5 billion people watched the Tour on
television, according to the race’s organizers. (The event also
has 925,000 fans on  Facebook  and 150,000 followers on  Twitter .)
Additionally, about 800,000 Tour applications allowing fans to
track the race on their mobile devices have been downloaded.  Finally, there are the spectators who turn out on the side
of the road: 12 million showed up last year, a majority of them
men. Most waited six hours on flat stages and almost nine hours
in the mountains.  By accident and by design, the Tour de France enjoys many
advantages: The countryside is gorgeous, the mountains awesome,
the weather generally beckoning. Nothing, however, trumps its
place on the calendar. So many people are on vacation in July
and what better way to spend the day than at a bicycle race,
listening to the whir of wheels, watching the splash of colors -
- and it’s all free.  The organizers may be right in thinking that bigger is
better. The Tour prospers (all profit statements are secret and
reportedly hefty) while other races struggle. So, bring on the
double ascent of Alpe d’Huez, light up the Champs-Elysees for
the finish. Vive le gigantisme!  ( Samuel Abt  has covered the Tour de France for 32 years for
the  New York  Times and the International Herald Tribune and is
the first American to be awarded the Tour Medal for service to
the race. He lives in Paris.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Samuel Abt at  sabt34@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net . 