-- House Leaders Consider Splitting Food Stamps From Farm Bill
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-06-27T17:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/house-leaders-consider-splitting-food-stamps-from-farm-bill.html
U.S. House Republican leaders have
begun talking about divorcing food stamps from agriculture
subsidies and bringing a much-slimmer farm bill up for a vote.  Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia, is considering the
possibility of breaking with decades of precedent to put forward
a bill that can pass with only Republican votes, according to a
senior Republican aide who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Last week, the House rejected a $939 billion measure, H.R.
1947, that would have authorized agriculture and food-aid
programs for the next five years. Nutrition programs have been
handled in the farm bill since 1977, marrying the interests of
urban and rural lawmakers.  The largest House Republican caucus, the  Republican Study
Committee , has been pushing leaders to treat the issues
separately, a position advocated by a coalition of small-government groups.  “We should separate food stamps from what we call the
commodity title,” Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan , an RSC member,
told  MSNBC  on June 24.  “If you want to change the status quo,” said Ryan, the
Republican vice presidential nominee in 2012, “separate the two
and focus on them separately.”  Ryan voted against the farm bill. He represents an
agriculture-heavy district in southern Wisconsin, including  CNH
Global NV (CNH) ’s Racine-based farm equipment manufacturer Case Corp.  The bill ended up in defeat in part because Democrats
objected to a food-stamp work-requirement  amendment  that Cantor
backed.  The Senate has passed S. 954, a bill that would change
farm-subsidy programs and reauthorize the food stamp program,
though with eligibility restrictions.  Senate Agriculture  Chairman  Debbie Stabenow , Democrat of
Michigan, has said a farm bill without  food stamps  is a non-starter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  