-- How Obama Can Make Same-Sex Marriage Meaningful
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/how-obama-can-make-same-sex-marriage-meaningful.html
After the jubilation come the
complications. This week’s  Supreme Court  decision granting equal
rights to same-sex married couples is  a landmark  for gay and
civil rights. It also raises complicated practical questions --
many of which President  Barack Obama  could, with the stroke of a
pen, sweep away.  By law, the federal government now must treat same-sex
couples the same way as heterosexual ones when it comes to
health care, retirement, inheritance, family leave and dozens of
other benefits. Nonworking spouses in  same-sex marriages  will be
eligible for Medicare benefits, for example. Many same-gender
spouses will be able to take up to 12 months of unpaid leave to
care for a sick husband or wife under the Family & Medical Leave
Act. They will no longer have to pay taxes to add a nonworking
spouse to an employer-provided health plan.  In practice, though, it’s not so simple. Since the  court’s
decision  specifically applies only to “lawful marriages,” it
isn’t clear if same-sex couples can claim any of these benefits
if they live in one of the 38 states that don’t legally
recognize their marriage. The questions, to borrow a phrase from
Justice  Anthony Kennedy ’s majority opinion, range from the
mundane to the profound.  Obama is asking for a “little patience” from the tens of
thousands of gay couples trying to figure out how they may be
affected legally and financially. Careful consideration is
important, especially with opponents of same-sex marriage
already warning that they will sue if federal policies impose de
facto same-sex marriage in states where voters have opposed it.  Obama has the power to cut through a lot of the legal
underbrush. He already appears to be wrestling with the biggest
issue of all: whether to grant benefits to married couples who
live in states where same-sex marriage isn’t allowed. “It’s my
personal belief,”  Obama said , “if you’re married in
 Massachusetts  and move someplace else, you’re still married.” He
cautioned that he was speaking as the president and not as a
lawyer, meaning that his counselors may have a different
opinion.  They should take their cue from the  Department of Defense ,
of all places. The Pentagon defines marriage based on “the place
of celebration,” and not the place of residence. On the day of
the court decision, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel said the
department would as soon as possible extend benefits, including
military health care and on-base housing, to military spouses in
same-sex marriages.  An executive order from the president could instruct
federal agencies -- including the  Internal Revenue Service ,
which defines marriage based on where couples live, not where
they were married -- to follow the Pentagon’s lead.  The 2010 Census shows there are more than 130,000 same-sex
married couples in the U.S., with about two-thirds of them
living in the 12 states (plus the  District of Columbia ) where
their marriages are legally recognized.  With the court’s momentous decisions this week, it’s
natural to expect that number to jump. After waiting this long
for the right to be treated equally, same-sex couples shouldn’t
face a lengthy legal limbo before they can reap the benefits.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 