-- Pending Sales of Previously Owned U.S. Homes Jumped 6.7%
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-27T14:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/pending-sales-of-previously-owned-u-s-homes-jumped-6-7-in-may.html
More Americans signed contracts in
May to buy previously owned homes than at any time in more than
six years, a sign of bigger progress in the industry.  The  index  of pending home sales jumped 6.7 percent to
112.3, the highest since December 2006, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed today in Washington. The
increase exceeded all estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists and was the biggest since April 2010.  More contract signings show Americans who had been holding
off on purchases entered the market as  mortgage rates  started to
climb, reaching an almost two-year high this week. Further gains
in sales of previously owned properties will probably encourage
a pickup in purchases of home furnishings, spurring economic
growth.  “The housing market is pretty healthy,”  Guy Lebas , chief
fixed income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, said before the report. “When you buy a home,
either new or existing, you’ve got to furnish it. It’s sort of
the secondary benefits of greater home sales that support
growth.”  Pending sales fell a revised 0.5 percent in April,
previously reported as a 0.3 percent gain.  Estimates for pending home sales ranged from a decline of
0.9 percent to an increase of 5.5 percent, according to 43
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Leading Indicator  Economists consider pending home sales a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Existing homes sales are
tabulated when a contract closes, usually a month or two later.  Today’s Realtors’ report showed pending home sales
increased 12.5 percent from May 2012 on an unadjusted basis.  “Even with limited choices it appears some of the rise in
contract signings could be from buyers wanting to take advantage
of current affordability conditions before mortgage  interest
rates  move higher,” the group’s chief economist  Lawrence Yun 
said in a statement. “This implies a continuation of double-digit price increases from a year earlier, with a strong push
from pent-up demand.”  The  average rate  on a 30-year fixed mortgage surged to 4.46
percent this week, the highest since July 2011, according to
figures from  Freddie Mac . The increase from 3.93 percent in the
prior week was the biggest since April 1987. In November, the
average rate reached a record low of 3.31 percent.  Monthly Payment  At the current rate, the monthly payment on a $300,000 30-year loan has increased to $1,513 from $1,322 in May.  “Interest rates have moved higher and  mortgage rates  have
moved from their unprecedented low point towards more normalized
levels,” Stuart A. Miller, chief executive officer of Lennar
Corp., third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, said on a June
25 earnings call.  “While this movement is not a surprise given the
improvement in economic conditions and in the housing market in
general, it seems that the timing has caught the investor
community off-guard and has shaken investor confidence in the
overall housing recovery,” he said.  Three of four regions showed an increase in contract
signings from a month earlier, including a 10.2 percent gain in
the Midwest and a 16 percent increase in the West, today’s
Realtors report showed.  Index Level  The  index level  for pending home sales increased from 105.2
in April on a seasonally-adjusted basis. A reading of 100
coincides with the average level of contract activity in 2001
and “historically healthy” home-buying traffic, according to
the NAR.  Purchases of existing houses increased 4.2 percent to an
annualized rate of 5.18 million, the most since November 2009,
the Realtors’ figures showed earlier this month. The median
selling price surged 15.4 percent, the largest month-over-month
increase since October 2005, to $208,000.  A lack of inventory has driven up prices, while encouraging
new-home purchases and construction. Housing starts rose 6.8
percent in May and permits to build single-family houses rose to
a five-year high, the Commerce Department said June 18.  Job growth is helping stoke demand. Payrolls expanded by
175,000 workers in May, more than forecast, and the jobless rate
rose to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent as the number of people
entering the workforce outpaced the number of jobs available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  