-- Philippines Boosts Defense Ties to Counter China on Sea Disputes
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-06-27T08:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/philippines-boosts-defense-ties-to-counter-china-on-sea-disputes.html
The Philippines is boosting military
ties with the U.S. and Japan as it seeks to counter   China ’s
increased presence in disputed waters in the fish and gas-rich
 South China Sea .  President  Benigno Aquino ’s government is crafting an
agreement with the U.S. giving its military access to Subic Bay,
Philippine Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin said at a briefing
in  Manila  today. Gazmin and Itsunori Onodera, his Japanese
counterpart, also agreed at a meeting today to boost defense
cooperation, Japan’s Ministry of Defense said in a statement.  The deals come amid tensions in the waters, which are beset
by competing territorial claims from countries including the
Philippines, China, Taiwan and  Vietnam . Countries have struggled
to agree on rules for operating in the seas, raising the risk of
confrontation as China’s military strength grows.  Vietnam and the Philippines have rejected China’s claims in
the waters as a basis for joint development of oil and gas
reserves. Speaking at a briefing today, China Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying called on the  Philippines  to work with
other countries in the region and play a positive role in
regional stability.  “If and when there is an agreement on access, there will
be equipment coming in from the U.S.,” Gazmin said, without
giving further detail. Military bases won’t be built in Subic,
the former site of an American naval base, and the deal won’t
violate the Philippine constitution, he said. Subic Bay is the
site of a former U.S. naval base in Zambales province north of
Manila, which includes the Scarborough Shoal area disputed with
China.  ‘Weak Militarily’  The Philippine Senate in 1991 rejected a treaty that would
have extended the lease for U.S. military bases in the provinces
of Zambales and Pampanga during the administration of the late
President  Corazon Aquino . It later ratified a visiting forces
agreement allowing the U.S. to keep control of American soldiers
facing criminal charges in the Philippines.  “Given how weak we are militarily, we have to depend on
other countries,” Clarita Carlos, a political science professor
at the University of the Philippines, said by phone. “This
telegraphs to China that they cannot continue with the
provocations.”  The Philippines asked the  United Nations  in January to rule
on its dispute with China, which moved to take control of the
Scarborough Shoal a year after a standoff between Philippine and
Chinese ships. The shoal is about three times closer to the
Philippines than China, the Philippines said in an arbitration
note.  Japan Cooperation  Sea cooperation with the Philippines will include port
calls by the latter and reciprocal visits by their navy chiefs,
Japan’s defense ministry said.  Both agreed to cooperate on the “defense of remote
islands” and “protection of maritime interests,” Onodera told
reporters in Manila after meeting with Gazmin. Disputes in the
 East China Sea  and South China Sea should be resolved “based on
the rule of law” and not by force, he said.  The ministers agreed on the importance of the U.S.
presence, Onodera said, adding the two nations will work to
support the U.S.’ strategic shift toward  Asia .  “We have regular exercises with the Americans and we have
not talked about specific equipment yet, but we do welcome the
inclusion of new technology, very new to us, so this is part of
our education,” Gazmin said.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may go to countries
including the Philippines and Malaysia after Japan’s upper house
election which is scheduled on July 21,  Kyodo News  said, citing
an unidentified government official. Abe aims to boost
cooperation with countries that are also in territorial disputes
with China, the  news agency  said on June 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  