-- Pittsburgh Credit Rating Raised by S&P on Fiscal Rebound
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/pittsburgh-credit-rating-raised-by-s-p-on-fiscal-rebound.html
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania’s second-most populous city, had its general credit-rating raised three
steps to A by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited a restored
structural balance in operations and rising reserve funds.  The new grade is S&P’s sixth-highest level and matches the
city’s score from  Fitch Ratings . Moody’s Investors Service puts
Pittsburgh at A1, one step higher. S&P had ranked Pittsburgh two
steps above junk.  “The city has demonstrated a proven ability to maintain an
enhanced credit profile featuring improved financial management
and planning, consistently favorable budget performance, and
strong reserves and liquidity,” Andrew Teras, an S&P credit
analyst in  Boston , said in a statement released late yesterday.  Teras said Pittsburgh has favorable long-term prospects
because of a deep and diverse economy. Once known as America’s
Steel City, Pittsburgh has moved away from its Rustbelt heritage
by expanding schools, universities and hospitals to replace
mills and foundries. It has also been bolstered by a natural-gas
boom in surrounding counties.  The city is a logistical hub for gas drillers, Wells Fargo
& Co. economists said last year. Exploration and extraction
using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking techniques have unlocked
resources contained in shale rock formations around the nation.
In May 2004, before the fracking boom, S&P rated Pittsburgh debt
BB, two steps below investment grade and the lowest of any major
U.S. city.  State Help  Teras also credited the Intergovernmental Cooperation
Agency, a state oversight board formed in 2004, and the city’s
coordinator under  Pennsylvania ’s Act 47 program, which aids
financially distressed municipalities, for strengthening
Pittsburgh’s finances.  The state oversight board, which approves the city’s budget
and five-year financial plan, said in an April report there’s
been “good progress” and the community is no longer at the
brink of bankruptcy, where it was in 2003.  Still, Pittsburgh “continues to face many significant
financial challenges,” such as debt consuming 19 percent of its
budget, and a “dangerously underfunded” pension system,
according to the overseer’s report. In addition, it said
revelations of hidden police department accounts and credit
cards linked to them underscore the need for a financial-management system to prevent abuse.  Mayor Luke Ravenstahl, 33, abruptly ended a re-election
campaign in March and said he would leave office by year-end,
citing job pressures and a federal corruption probe of the
police department. He took office in September 2006. Marissa
Doyle, his spokeswoman, didn’t respond to telephone calls and an
e-mail seeking comment on the rating upgrade.  A Pittsburgh bond maturing in September 2018 traded
yesterday at an average yield of 2.76 percent, 1.07 percentage
points over benchmark debt of the same maturity, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  