-- Five Dead in Protests as Brazil Tackles Graft and Transit
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s ,   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-06-27T15:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/protesters-fight-police-as-brazil-lawmakers-fight-graft.html
As  Brazil ’s biggest street protests
in two decades claimed a sixth life, officials sought to quell
unrest by increasing penalties for corruption and suspending
transportation contracts to allow greater public participation.  A 21-year-old student died in clashes between protesters
and police yesterday in  Belo Horizonte , Brazil’s third-largest
urban area, after a soccer match in which the national team beat
Uruguay, Folha de S.Paulo reported. In the coastal town of
Guaruja, a truck ran over and killed a protesting teenager, the
newspaper said. About 500 protesters gathered today in the
northeastern city of Fortaleza ahead of a Confederations Cup
soccer semifinal between Italy and  Spain .  Demonstrations that began three weeks ago against an
increase in bus fares have since given voice to discontent over
grievances such as government corruption. The Senate yesterday
passed a bill to toughen the punishment for graft, while Sao
Paulo Mayor Fernando Haddad, after reversing the bus-fare
increase last week, said he was suspending the renewal of 46
billion reais ($21.1 billion) in public transit contracts to
invite proposals from citizens.  “There are a lot of banners being waved in this movement,
but none higher than the fight against corruption,” Henrique
Ziller, a 54-year-old auditor for a body that supervises
 government spending , said during demonstrations that brought out
4,000 in Brasilia yesterday. “We have money but it’s diverted.
It goes to corruption.”  Forecast Cut  While 40 million people emerged from poverty over the past
decade,  accelerating inflation  and slow growth have pushed
Rousseff’s approval rating down eight percentage points since
March. Underscoring the sluggish economy, Brazil’s currency has
weakened 6.2 percent this year, helping lead the Ibovespa stock
benchmark to a 28 percent slump in dollar terms.  Brazil’s central bank cut its 2013 economic growth forecast
to 2.7 percent from 3.1 percent today, and said the outlook for
inflation, already running above its 6.5 percent target limit,
is unfavorable. In their quarterly inflation report, policy
makers said increases in prices for food, fuel and public
tariffs were partially responsible for “the worsening of family
and business sentiment.”  Lawmakers are rushing to tackle a legislative agenda put
forth by President  Dilma Rousseff  this week to address
protesters’ demands for a crackdown on corruption and improved
health care and education. She also called for a plebiscite to
overhaul the political system.  Taking Action  The plebiscite will ask voters to decide on longstanding
proposals to move away from the current voting system based on
party lists toward a U.S.-styled one based on electoral
districts, Rousseff aide Gilberto Carvalho said in an interview
today. Carvalho also called for an end to campaign financing by
private companies, saying the system leads to corruption. The
government will send the request for a plebiscite to Congress by
July 2, Jose Ramos, a presidential spokesman, said this week.  Senate leader Renan Calheiros, himself a target of anti-corruption protests, suspended a recess to allow the upper house
to approve a bill classifying corruption as a so-called heinous
crime, putting it in the same category as rape and murder and
doubling the minimum sentence to four years. The lower house on
June 25 passed a bill earmarking 75 percent of Brazil’s oil
royalties for education and 25 percent for health. The approved
version modified Rousseff’s call for all of the revenue to go to
schools.  Secret Ballots  Other protest-spawned proposals that are being debated
include a bill to eliminate bus fares for students and a
constitutional amendment ending the use of secret ballots in
disciplinary votes against fellow lawmakers. The governor of
Goias state, which surrounds the capital Brasilia, decreed free
public transit for students yesterday, the G1 news website
reported.  Officials including Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  and
Supreme Court Chief Justice Joaquim Barbosa have supported the
legitimacy of the protesters’ demands.  In Belo Horizonte, the capital of Minas Gerais state,
police deployed helicopters yesterday to scare off protesters
and fired tear gas and rubber bullets after an initially
peaceful march that Globo TV estimated at 50,000-strong.
Demonstrators have capitalized on media attention on the
Confederations Cup, a dry run for the  World Cup  next year. The
tournament, which started June 15, has been baptized the
“Demonstrations Cup” in placards and chants.  The largest protests occurred on June 20, when more than 1
million took to the streets across the country and clashed with
police in dozens of cities.  Today’s Protests  Scattered protests also took place today in Sao Paulo,
Brazil’s largest city, while in  Rio de Janeiro , Governor Sergio
Cabral said he would meet demonstrators camped outside his
offices at the Guanabara Palace, formerly the seat of Brazil’s
national government.  Sports were also on the minds yesterday of protesters in
Brasilia in the form of 594 soccer balls -- one for each
lawmaker -- lined up in front of Congress. Crowds gathered in
the afternoon to kick the balls into fountains surrounding the
building. Vendors sold popcorn and chocolate as people walked
around with trash bags picking up litter. Peaceful at first, the
protests turned violent in the evening as demonstrators fought
police.  Lama Miranda, a 51-year-old airline employee demonstrating
with her teenage daughter in Brasilia yesterday afternoon, said
she was skeptical that lawmakers will address protesters’
concerns and improve their lives.  “We feel inflation every day, in our medical bills, in
education, in the food we buy,” she said. Congress’ efforts to
reduce corruption “are good if they’re actually put into
practice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 