-- QNB Surges to Record as CEO Named Finance Minister: Doha Mover
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-06-27T11:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/qnb-surges-to-record-as-ceo-named-finance-minister-doha-mover.html
Qatar National Bank SAQ, the Persian
Gulf nation’s biggest lender, jumped to the highest level on
record as its chief executive officer was appointed finance
minister of the world’s richest country.  The  shares  rose 1.9 percent to 159 riyals at the close in
Doha, the highest since June 2003 and bringing the gain this
quarter to 19 percent. That compares with an advance of 8.4
percent in the period for the benchmark  QE Index. (DSM)  Qatar’s new
emir, who was handed power by his father on June 25, appointed
CEO Ali Shareef Al Emadi as he formed a cabinet, Qatar News
Agency reported yesterday.  This “shows the close connection of the government with
the bank and reinforces” its position in the country, Jaap Meijer, the Dubai-based director of equity research at Arqaam
Capital Ltd. said by phone today. “They are well connected with
the public sector, and the public sector is where you have seen
the biggest growth.”  Qatar, the world’s richest country by per capita income,
plans to spend $200 billion over the next decade on projects
including a rail and metro system and a new port before it hosts
the 2022 soccer World Cup. Deposits from government-backed
savers and lending to state-backed borrowers helped boost profit
at Qatar National Bank, with 2012  net income  rising 11 percent.  MSCI Upgrade  The bank has grown to be the region’s biggest, with assets
of more than $100 billion, helped by political ties as well as
acquisitions in  Egypt  and the United Arab Emirates and
investments in  Syria . During 2012, the bank purchased stakes in
Iraqi and Libyan lenders and in March 2013, it bought the
Egyptian unit of  France ’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  for $2.45 billion.  Qatar National Bank’s  full-year profit  will probably climb
13 percent to 9.44 billion riyals ($2.59 billion), according to
the mean estimate of 13 analysts on Bloomberg. The bank has a
12-month  dividend yield  of 3.8 percent, compared with 2.8
percent for  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the U.A.E.’s
biggest lender.  Qatar’s upgrade to emerging market status from its frontier
ranking by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  earlier this month will help attract
foreign funds and acquisitions are helping improve return on
equity, Meijer said.  Thirteen analysts  recommend investors buy
Qatar National Bank shares, while two have a hold rating on the
stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qatar’s former Emir, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, who
stripped his father of the title in a 1995 coup, handed power to
his son, Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al Thani, saying the moment for
new leadership in the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied
natural gas had arrived.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  