-- Railroads Ask Congress to Delay Crash Technology Mandate
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-06-27T17:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/railroads-ask-congress-to-delay-crash-technology-mandate.html
A U.S. mandate for railroads to
install systems that prevent crashes by 2015 can’t be met for
technical and regulatory reasons, trade groups representing
freight railroads and public transit agencies said.  The president of the Association of American Railroads,
representing companies including  CSX Corp. (CSX)  and Burlington
Northern Santa Fe, told a House transportation subcommittee
today that railroads should be given another three years to
install the technology.  Railroads have spent $1.5 billion so far on implementing
so-called positive train control, according to an October report
by the Federal Railroad Administration. The agency estimated in
2010 it would cost $13.2 billion over 20 years to install and
maintain the systems, before amending the rule last year to
exempt about 10,000 miles (16,000 kilometers) of lines that
don’t carry passengers or toxic materials.  “Does the system work, for both passenger and freight
railroads,” AAR’s Edward Hamberger said. “The industry can
achieve the objectives of the mandate if they have an
implementation schedule that allows the technology to be
developed as well as tested and proven.”  A 2008 law enacted after a California train collision
killed 25 people requires railroads to install technology that
can automatically stop or slow trains.  The American Public Transportation Association, which
represents local and regional transit systems, said there is
still no off-the-shelf technology available to meet the mandate.
Commuter railroads will spend at least $2 billion to equip more
than 4,000 locomotives and passenger cars and upgrade 8,500
miles of track.  Congress has appropriated only $50 million to help defray
the costs, said Michael Melaniphy, president of the Washington-based transit group. Agencies’ inability to obtain radio
spectrum needed to make the communications work is also delaying
installation, Melaniphy said.  A U.S. appeals court June 11 threw out a lawsuit by a group
of chemical shippers challenging the rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  