-- Ranieri’s Shellpoint Sells Restructured Mortgage-Bond Deal
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-06-27T21:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/ranieri-s-shellpoint-said-to-delay-first-mortgage-bond-offering.html
Shellpoint Partners LLC , the housing
lender backed by mortgage-bond pioneer Lewis Ranieri, sold its
first securities tied to home loans without government backing
after restructuring the debt to lure investors.  Shellpoint had postponed the $251 million offering last
week, said four people with knowledge of the transaction. The
company earlier this week increased the extra yield being
offered over benchmark swap rates, then underwriter  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CS)  offered a restructured deal today that gives
some investors more protection against borrower defaults, one of
the people said.  The offering was delayed and reworked after credit markets
were roiled by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke comments
that laid out a potential timetable for scaling back $85 billion
of  monthly bond purchases . That expanded relative yields on
competing investments and lifted  interest rates  that may extend
the lifespan of mortgage bonds by slowing the pace of homeowner
refinancings or sales. Transactions this month probably have
been more difficult mostly because of market volatility, since
the underlying loans haven’t gotten riskier, according to Sharif
Mahdavian, a senior director at  Standard & Poor’s .  “I still think the future’s bright” for the market,
though deal volumes may slow, Mahdavian, who helps rate
residential-mortgage bonds, said today at an S&P conference in
 New York .  3 Pieces  Eric Kaplan, a managing director at New York-based
Shellpoint, and Drew Benson, a spokesman in New York for Credit
Suisse, declined to comment. Ranieri, who helped expand the
mortgage-bond market in the 1980s while at Salomon Brothers
Inc., is Shellpoint’s chairman and his Ranieri Partners LLC is a
part-owner of the firm.  In its latest form, a top-rated $235.4 million portion of
the Shellpoint deal was broken up into three pieces, said one of
the people familiar with the offering, who asked not to be named
because the transaction is private.  The largest, a $158.8 million slice, provides protection
against losses of 20 percent on the underlying loans, up from 10
percent in the initial terms, the person said. The debt was sold
at a spread of 2.85 percentage points.  The entire top-rated portion had been offered earlier this
week at 2.95 percentage points, up from as much as 2.45 on June
21, two of the people said. The new lowest-ranking, $25.8
million slice of that portion was priced today at a spread of
3.3 percentage points, one of the people said.  More Protection  Investors may have wanted more protection in part because
about 5 percent of the loans in the deal were made to foreigners
living in the U.S. and because credit scores of other borrowers
fell after the loans were made, according to  David Land , a  money
manager  at  St. Paul , Minnesota-based Advantus Capital Management
Inc., which oversees about $26 billion.  “That’s a reason we may not participate,” he said.  Sales of debt known as non-agency mortgage securities had
been recovering after freezing five years ago amid tumbling home
values and soaring defaults, following issuance of $1.2 trillion
in each of 2005 and 2006. Deals tied to new loans exceed $7
billion this year, up from $3.5 billion in all of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Insanely Expensive’  Even before Shellpoint’s deal, investors had been demanding
wider spreads amid the expanding supply and concern that the
notes yielded less than government-backed debt.  Scott Simon , who
then headed mortgage-bond investing at Pacific Investment
Management Co. and has since retired, called new non-agency
securities “insanely expensive” in February.  Redwood Trust Inc., the most-active issuer, sold top-rated
bonds at a spread of 2.21 percentage points on June 11, compared
with 1.75 percentage points in April and as low as 0.97
percentage point in January. The  Mill Valley , California-based
company and other issuers have been issuing bonds tied to jumbo
mortgages.  Jumbo home loans are ones larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in some areas. For  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for borrowers using 20
percent down payments, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  Relative yields on  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  securities trading closest to
face value have climbed to about 1.39 percentage points higher
than an average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates, from 1.15
percentage points on April 30. The  average cost  of new 30-year,
fixed-rate home loans climbed yesterday to 4.57 percent from a
record low 3.36 percent in December, according to Bankrate.com.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  