-- Syrian Rebels Accused of Decapitations by Rights Group
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-06-27T14:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/rebels-behead-syrian-civilians-for-collaboration-group-says.html
Militants fighting alongside Syrian
rebel forces have beheaded two civilians with knives in front of
onlookers including children, a pro-opposition group said.  The Syrian civilians were accused of collaborating with
President Bashar al-Assad’s government, the Coventry, U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said on its Facebook page.
The rebels, who spoke in classical Arabic with an accent, may
have been Chechen, the Observatory said.  The beheading was caught on video and posted on YouTube.
The civilians were captured in Khan al-Assal, a town west of
Aleppo, according to one of the rebels who spoke on the film.
The Observatory said it was unable to verify the location. The
Syrian government in March accused rebels of firing a missile
that released a thick cloud of chemical smoke into Khan al-Assal, killing and injuring more than 100 people. Rebels blamed
the attack on the government.  Separately, a suicide bomber killed four and injured an
unspecified number of people in the Christian neighborhood of
Bab Touma close to Mariamiyah Cathedral in Damascus, Syrian
State TV said today. Opposition groups said the explosion was
caused by a mortar round, Al Arabiya Television reported.  Meanwhile, 12 of Assad’s troops who were captured by rebels
in Deir Ezzor are pleading with the government to agree to a
prisoner exchange, according to a video posted on YouTube. The
men are all from Assad’s Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite
Islam. The insurgents are mostly Sunni Muslims.  Strategic Blows  Assad, supported by the Lebanese Shiite militia Hezbollah,
dealt the opposition a series of strategic blows this month. His
troops this week captured Tal Kalakh, a town west of Homs,
cutting off another arms transfer route for the opposition.
Rebel forces retreated after more than four days of fighting,
the Observatory said. Hezbollah, which the U.S. and  Israel 
classify as a terrorist group, is backed by  Iran .  Tal Kalakh is near to the Lebanese border and the Homs-Tartous highway. Earlier this month rebel forces lost al-Qusair,
a city about 30 kilometers (19 miles) from Homs, cutting their
supplies from Lebanon.  After al-Qusair’s fall, Assad’s troops, backed by Hezbollah
militiamen, headed north to the nation’s commercial capital of
Aleppo and to Damascus, where activists say Assad’s forces have
used chemical weapons.  Tax Rises  The Syrian government is raising taxes and fees by 5
percent for three years to help fund “reconstruction,” and
will raise real estate taxes by 10 percent starting next year,
state news agency Sana reported today. The nation’s central bank
is using a $1 billion  credit line  from Iran to help support a
declining Syrian pound, Sana said last week.  The U.S. and 10 other nations have pledged to increase
support for opposition forces in  Syria , without saying what
specific steps they would take or how much firepower may be
needed.  France  is considering sending arms to Syrian rebels “to
balance” military aid to the Assad regime from Russia, Iran and
Hezbollah, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said on RMC
Radio.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , speaking at a European
Union summit in Berlin today, said  Germany  won’t be supplying
weapons to Syria for legal reasons, and that the risks are too
great.  Providing arms to either side in the Syrian conflict “is
not the right thing to do,” the United Nations special envoy to
Syria, Lakhdar Brahimi, said this week.  More than 100,000 people have died since the uprising
against Assad began in 2011, half of them civilians, the
Observatory said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  