-- Red Bull Racing’s Mark Webber Says He’s Leaving Formula One
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-06-27T11:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/red-bull-s-mark-webber-will-leave-formula-one-autosport-reports.html
Red Bull Racing’s Mark Webber will
quit Formula One after this season to drive for Porsche AG’s
team at the 24 Hours of Le Mans and other endurance events.  Webber  said on his website  he had options to stay in
Formula One, without identifying them, but is sticking to a plan
to leave. Red Bull, whose other driver Sebastian Vettel is the
defending champion, said in a statement it won’t pick Webber’s
replacement until later in the season.  “Formula One as a category wasn’t on my radar for 2014,”
Webber said. “Will I miss some of this? Yes, of course, but
time doesn’t stand still for anyone and it’s time to move on to
my next challenge.”  Webber, a 36-year-old Australian, has started 203 Formula
One races since joining the now-defunct Minardi team for the
2002 season. He then moved to Jaguar and Williams.  He joined Red Bull in 2007 and has captured all nine of his
Formula One race wins with the team. He’s seeking his third
British Grand Prix victory in four years at Silverstone in
 England  this weekend.  Webber has had several falling-outs with Vettel, most
recently in March this year when he said the 25-year-old German
had “some explaining to do” after ignoring team orders and
passing him to win the Malaysian Grand Prix.  The Australian is fifth in this year’s driver standings.
Vettel, in first place, is seeking a fourth straight
championship.  Webber will continue to help energy drink maker Red Bull
GmbH promote its brand, he said.  The Formula One season ends Nov. 24. Porsche is returning
to the elite category for the June 2014 edition of the 24 Hours
of Le Mans. It last won in 1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  