-- Relay Ventures Names Ex-Woodbridge Chief Beattie Chairman
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-27T17:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/relay-ventures-names-former-woodbridge-chief-beattie-as-chairman.html
Geoff Beattie, former deputy
chairman of news and information provider  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) ,
has been named chairman of  Relay Ventures  to scout new
investment opportunities for the Canadian venture capital fund.  Beattie was president of the Woodbridge Co., the investment
holding company for the Thomson Family through which it controls
 Thomson Reuters (TRI) , until last December. Patriarch  David Thomson  is
the 22nd-richest person in the world, with a net worth of $24.4
billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  “I will readily share my insights, advice and extensive
network to further establish the firm as a global force in the
rapidly growing mobile industry,” Beattie said in a statement.  Relay, based in Toronto and Menlo Park, California, has
more than C$500 million ($477 million) invested in 40 mobile-computing startups, including  Appcelerator  and Aepona. The
venture fund, formerly known as ATP Capital, raised about $150
million in early 2012 to invest in wireless application
developers and other software companies that build programs for
smartphones like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  Relay Ventures is “platform agnostic” and invests in
companies that build for Apple, Google Inc.’s Android platform
and the new BlackBerry 10 operating system, Kevin Talbot,
managing partner of Relay Ventures, said in a telephone
interview.  Beattie’s role will be to advise Relay on its expansion
plans, be it geographically or beyond the mobile computing area
where its focus currently lies, he said.  “In three to four years as we continue to grow this
business, how will this business evolve?” said Talbot. “He’s
an extremely accomplished and experienced executive and he will
push us harder and help us think about things that we otherwise
wouldn’t normally think of.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 Thomson Reuters  in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  