-- ReproCell Set to Quadruple From IPO on Stem-Cell Optimis
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-06-27T05:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/reprocell-set-to-quadruple-from-ipo-on-stem-cell-optimis.html
ReproCell Inc. (4978) , a stem-cell medical
research company, is heading for the biggest opening jump for a
Japanese initial public offering in nine years.  Shares of the biotech company were untraded a second day
after debuting on  Osaka ’s JASDAQ exchange yesterday. The stock
was bid at 14,180 as of 1:09 p.m. in  Tokyo  and is poised to open
trading 343 percent higher than its IPO price of 3,200 yen. Buy
orders outnumbered sell orders by about 4-to-1.  Founded in 2003, ReproCell was the first company licensed
to generate induced pluripotent stem cells, or iPS cells,
 according  to the company website. Kyoto University professor
Shinya Yamanaka won a  Nobel Prize  for medicine in October after
discovering a new way to transform ordinary skin cells into iPS
cells. Riken, a state scientific research institute, said the
cells have potential for treating cancer.  “Investors are focusing on the dream,” said Toshiaki Iwasaki, an analyst at Mito Securities Co. Ltd. “They are
buying because of optimism about iPS. Investors are also hopeful
that ReproCell’s technology will be used by cosmetic companies
as well as pharmaceutical firms.”  If the shares open at the current price, this will be the
largest surge on a Japanese trading debut of greater than $10
million in value since Message Co. soared 426 percent in 2004,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Research Approved  The Japanese government yesterday approved the world’s
first clinical research using iPS cells, according to the Nikkei
newspaper. Riken and the Foundation for Biomedical Research &
Innovation won clearance from the Health Ministry and plan to
use iPS cells for retinal regeneration, according to the report.  Health-care companies also surged this year after Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to reform the Pharmaceutical Affairs
Law to facilitate biotechnology research, including exploring
 stem cells  that can be reprogrammed for use in tissue
engineering and regenerative medicine.  Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories Ltd. (2395)  surged 315 percent
this year for the second-biggest increase on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange Mothers Index of smaller firms. CanBas Co., a maker of
cancer medications, has soared as much as 728 percent in the
same span.  Nipro Corp. (8086) , which owns 12 percent of ReproCell, surged 19
percent on May 27 after the listing was announced. Nipro has
since fallen 17 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  