-- Rice Exports From India May Fall on Vietnam, Pakistan Sales
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-06-28T03:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/rice-exports-from-india-to-fall-as-vietnam-pakistan-boost-sales.html
Rice exports from  India , the world’s
second-largest grower, may decline this year from a record as
buyers turn to cheaper supplies from  Vietnam  and  Pakistan ,
according to a traders’ group.  Shipments may fall 6 percent to 9.5 million metric tons in
the year that started in April from 10.1 million tons a year
earlier, said Vijay Setia, a former president and member of the
All India Rice Exporters Association. Exports of non-basmati
rice are estimated to drop 15 percent to 5.5 million tons, while
overseas sales of aromatic basmati variety are set to jump 14
percent to 4 million tons, he said.  India’s government raised the minimum price it pays to
growers to a record last year, making supplies from the country
more expensive amid a global glut.  Thailand ’s plan to sell grain
from state stockpiles may further depress prices, which are set
for a second quarterly advance, said B.V. Krishna Rao, managing
director of  Pattabhi Agro Foods Pvt ., an exporter.  “The government support mechanism is so strong in India
that it’s difficult to match Vietnam and Pakistan,” Rao said by
phone from Kakinada in  Andhra Pradesh . “With the rupee falling
to a record low, exporters have been forced to cut prices” and
non-basmati shipments may slump to as low as 4 million tons
should Thailand cut its export prices, he said.  Rupee Slump  The price of Indian parboiled rice, which accounts about 50
percent of the non-basmati exports, has been cut to $415 a ton
from $435 a month earlier to cope with increasing competition,
Rao said. Vietnam is offering 5 percent broken white rice at
$370 a ton, while the Indian variety costs $440, he said.
 Thailand’s rice  is at least $50 more than India, he said. India
exports mainly to the  Middle East  and  Africa .  Rough-rice futures for delivery in September on the Chicago
Board of Trade was little changed at $15.56 per 100 pounds at
8:51 a.m. in Mumbai today. The rupee, which slumped about 10
percent this quarter, dropped to a record low of 60.765 per
dollar on June 26.  The forecast for above average monsoon rainfall may boost
planting of basmati rice in the main growing regions, Setia of
the exporters’ association said.  “There is a heavy rush to buy basmati seeds in Punjab and
Haryana and sales are estimated to have doubled from last
year,” he said. The basmati rice production may rise to 8
million tons from 6 million tons a year earlier, he said.  India controls 65 percent of the overseas basmati market,
while the only other producer Pakistan accounts for the rest,
according to the state-run  Agricultural and Processed Food
Products Export Development Authority .  The monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
India’s annual rainfall, was 37 percent above a 50-year average
between June 1 and June 26, according to the weather bureau. The
nation will receive normal rains during the June-September
period,  India Meteorological Department  said June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  