-- Royalty Said to Explore Ways to Bid for Elan With Partner
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-06-27T18:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/royalty-said-to-explore-bidding-for-elan-with-a-partner.html
Royalty Pharma, whose $6.7 billion
takeover bid for  Elan Corp. (ELN)  lapsed this month, is holding
internal discussions about making a new bid for the company with
a partner, according to four people with knowledge of the
situation.  Royalty would need permission for a joint bid from Elan,
which formally put itself up for sale on June 14, since the
target company has required prospective buyers to bid alone,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. Elan invited Royalty to participate in an
auction of the company.  Royalty isn’t permitted to talk to potential joint bidders
until it has entered Elan’s auction, a person familiar with the
matter said. Since Elan won’t currently allow joint bids,
Royalty needs to first negotiate new terms with the Irish
company that would allow it to make a dual bid, the person said.
Royalty plans to approach Elan to discuss how to enter the
auction, the person said.  Partnering would be a twist in Royalty’s attempt to gain
access to royalties on the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri after
it spent four months trying to acquire Elan, beginning with an
unsolicited offer in February. Royalty’s offer lapsed on June
17. Elan gets royalties from  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , which markets the
drug.  Income Stream  Elan’s New York-traded depositary receipts rose as much as
6 percent on the news and were up more than 1 percent to $14.13
at 2:01 p.m.  Royalty is among firms that buy access to the income
streams from existing drugs amid a dearth of new blockbuster
medicines. Chief Executive Officer Pablo Legorreta pioneered the
business when he founded Royalty in 1996, targeting drugs for
critical care and life-threatening illnesses.  If Royalty can place a joint bid, it would keep the Tysabri
royalties while its partner could take advantage of Elan’s
corporate shell, which would allow a buyer to benefit from
Ireland’s lower tax rates, the people said. Irish corporate
income taxes are levied at a rate of 12.5 percent, which has
drawn companies including Google Inc. to set up large operations
in the country.  Potential bidders for Elan include Allergan Inc., Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals Inc.,  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , Alexion
Pharmaceuticals Inc., Zoetis Inc., Mylan Inc. and Perrigo Co.,
Jefferies LLC analyst  Corey Davis  said in a note to investors on
June 18.  A representative for Elan declined to comment on the sale
process, as did a spokeswoman for Royalty Pharma.  Tysabri is an intravenous infusion discovered by Elan for
multiple sclerosis. Biogen agreed to buy Elan’s stake in the
drug for $3.25 billion in cash plus future royalties on Feb. 6.
Sales of the drug may reach $2.03 billion by 2016, according to
the average of 12 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at  
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ; Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  