-- Samsung, AB InBev,General Dynamics: Intellectual Property
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 6 0 1 2 3 0 ]   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r   [ ]
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/samsung-ab-inbev-general-dynamics-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of smartphones, defended an import ban on some
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products it won in a U.S. patent dispute and urged
trade officials to let the block take effect.  The “limited effect” of halting certain iPhone 4 and iPad
2 models from entering the U.S. “raises no economic policy
concerns sufficient to take the extraordinary and nearly
unprecedented step” of overturning the ban issued June 4,
Samsung told the U.S. Trade Representative’s office in a June 19
filing.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington
ordered the ban after finding Apple’s older devices infringe a
Samsung patent for a widely used way phones transmit data. Apple
is asking the USTR, which acts on behalf of the president in
such matters, to overturn that order before it takes effect in
early August.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , submitted its own
filing urging the USTR to decide Samsung hadn’t fulfilled
requirements that it offer to license the patent on fair and
reasonable terms, according to the blog Foss Patents, which
first reported on the filings.  Apple and USTR officials didn’t immediately respond to
requests for a copy of the Apple filing.  Samsung said it made an offer and Apple refused to pay
anything.  “By any definition, Apple is an unwilling licensee of
Samsung’s declared essential patents,” Samsung wrote in the
filing.  Ronald Reagan  was the last U.S. president to overturn an
ITC-ordered import ban. Such decisions must be made on public-policy grounds. The president and USTR usually don’t take
action, allowing the bans to take effect after the 60-day review
period.  Apple would be precluded from importing or selling China-made models of the iPhone 4 and iPad 2 that are designed to work
on the  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  networks. Newer models,
including the iPhone 4S, iPhone 5, iPad mini and the iPad with
retina display, aren’t part of the case.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, said it acted
properly in its efforts to license patents that cover elements
of standardized technology used throughout the industry.
Companies that participate in establishing industry standards
get the advantage of having their technology used, so they must
pledge to license any relevant patents to anyone on fair terms.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  AB InBev Gets EU Trademark Rights to Use ‘Bud’ Name for Beer  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  was formally granted the European
Union-wide trademark right for the word “Bud” for beer after
an EU agency registered the intellectual property right.  The Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market, the
EU’s trademark authority, registered the Bud trademark, the
brewer said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The step follows
AB InBev’s victory in a trademark clash with Czech competitor
Budejovicky Budvar NP at the EU General Court in Luxembourg.  “While we have national rights for Bud and Budweiser in
many European Union member states, it fills in the remaining
gaps that we had,” Frank Hellwig, global legal director at AB
InBev, said in a statement. “We now have more countries covered
by Bud or Budweiser trademark registrations than we have had at
any point in time in the 137 year history of the brand.”  AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, and Czech rival
Budvar have been entangled in disputes over the use of the Bud
brand for more than a century, as each brewer won and lost the
rights in different rulings. Anheuser-Busch, founded by German-born American Adolphus Busch, said it started using the
Budweiser name in 1876, 19 years before Budvar was formed.  The Czech brewer didn’t appeal the EU court decision from
January. The EU trademark office approved the Bud registration
on June 14, AB InBev said.  Trademark Applications Anticipate High Court Gay Marriage Ruling  Trademark applications indicate that some entrepreneurial
sorts anticipated yesterday’s  Supreme Court  rulings related to
same-sex marriage.  A resident of  Sioux Falls ,  South Dakota , filed an
application in July 2012 to register “gay i do” as a
trademark. According to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, the mark -- which features a red heart dotting
the letter “I” -- would be used for a wide range of party-related paper goods.  A Michigan company filed an application in March to
register “Merriage,” with the mark to be used for the
licensing of gay marriage.  A Costa Mesa, California-based resident is seeking to
register Magayriagge.com as a mark. According to the September
2012 application, the mark would be used for online social-networking services.  New York-based Marriage Equality USA, an organization that
has campaigned for same-sex marriage rights, registered its name
as a trademark in February 2007. The organization said it would
use the mark “promoting public awareness about the need for
legal marital fairness in same-sex couples.”  China Considering Doubling Damages Available in Trademark Suits  A draft amendment to China’s Trademark Law would boost the
damages available in a trademark-infringement case to
2 million  yuan  ($325,000), the Hong Kong Standard  reported .  Xie Jinggrong, deputy head of China’s top lawmaking body’s
law committee, said the damages ceiling is being raised from a
present top level of 500,000 yuan as part of efforts to protect
marks and inhibit would-be infringers, according to the
Standard.  China’s Trademark Law was initially adopted in 1982, and
amended in 1993 and 2001, the Standard reported.  The bill raising the compensation levels up for a second
reading by the Standing Committee of the National People’s
Congress, the legislative body that can make the changes,
according to the Standard.  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  General Dynamics-Infinity Dispute Ordered Into Arbitration  Infinity Fluids Corp.’s  trade secrets  dispute with a  
General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  unit must go out to arbitration, a
federal judge in  Massachusetts  ruled.  Sturbridge, Massachusetts-based Infinity Fluids sued
General Dynamics Land Systems for trade secret misappropriation
in January 2012, after an agreement to produce a heating system
for General Dynamics’ Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle failed to
come to fruition.  Infinity claimed that General Dynamics violated a
confidentiality agreement by disclosing data to an Infinity
competitor who eventually won the contract to produce the
heating systems. The Massachusetts company argued that the only
way the other vendors could have bid on the system was if
General Dynamics had disclosed Infinity’s proprietary
information to them.  Infinity then filed suit and General Dynamics argued that
arbitration language written into contracts between the two
companies mandated that the dispute must go to arbitration.  Claiming that the arbitration agreement was no longer in
force and that what General Dynamics allegedly disclosed was new
 intellectual property  not covered by the agreement, Infinity
fought to keep the dispute in federal court.  In his June 19 order, U.S. District Judge Timothy S. Hillman agreed with  Falls Church , Virginia-based General
Dynamics. He said that the claims Infinity was making were
covered by the arbitration agreement and that the Massachusetts
company had failed to mention the “new” intellectual property
it claimed was misappropriated.  He said that Infinity hadn’t provided adequate evidence
that it made sufficient efforts to protect its trade secrets, so
its argument that the dispute was about new trade secrets “does
not follow logically.”  He granted General Dynamics’ motion to force the dispute
into arbitration and dismissed the case.  The federal contract for the vehicle, which was being
developed for the U.S. Marine Corps, was canceled in January
2011.  The case is Infinity Fluids Corp. v. General Dynamics Land
Systems Inc., 4:12-cv-40004-TSH, U.S. District Court, District
of Massachusetts (Worcester).  IP Moves  Barnes & Thornburg Hires Two Edwards Wildman IP Litigators  Barnes & Thornburg LLP hired two IP litigators, the
Indianapolis-based firm said in a  statement .  Mark L. Durbin and Peter N. Moore are joining the firm from
Boston’s Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP.  Durbin , who has represented clients in complex commercial
litigation including trade-secret misappropriation, has an
undergraduate degree from the  University of Illinois  and a law
degree from  DePaul University .  Moore has litigated cases involving patents, trademarks and
copyrights in federal courts and before the Washington-based
U.S. International Trade Commission, which has the power to
exclude imports that infringe U.S. intellectual property rights.  He served as a judicial clerk for Judge William C. Bryson
of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which
hears appeals of patent cases.  Moore has both an undergraduate degree and a law degree
from  Northwestern University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 