-- SEC Nominees Say Agency Must Finish Dodd-Frank, Jobs Act Rules
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-27T17:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/sec-nominees-say-agency-must-finish-dodd-frank-jobs-act-rules.html
Two U.S. Senate staff members
nominated to join the Securities and Exchange Commission said
today the agency should focus on finishing rules mandated by
Congress.  Kara M. Stein, a Democrat, and Michael Piwowar, a
Republican, told the Senate Banking Committee the SEC must
complete the required rulemaking, much of it a response to the
financial crisis, even as it studies how to address an evolving
and complex electronic market for equities trading.  “We need to pursue all of those things at one time,” said
Stein, who has worked as a top policy aide to Senator Jack Reed
of Rhode Island.  Stein and Piwowar would join the SEC as it adapts to a new
agenda under Chairman Mary Jo White, who says the agency’s
rulemaking priorities are prescribed by the Dodd-Frank Act of
2010 and the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012. The
SEC is preparing to vote on rules that would allow equity
crowdfunding and advertising for investors by hedge funds. Both
rules are required by the Jobs Act.  “I will definitely work with Chair White who sets the
rulemaking agenda for the SEC to make sure that priorities are
placed on rulemaking that is mandated under the Jobs Act and the
Dodd-Frank Act,” Piwowar told the committee.  Piwowar said the SEC also could move forward on a pilot
program to test widening the minimum price increment at which
some small stocks are quoted. Advocates of the change say it
would boost trading interest in less liquid stocks by providing
more incentives for market makers who facilitate orderly
trading.  SEC Seats  Stein would replace Elisse B. Walter as a Democratic
commissioner and Piwowar would succeed Troy A. Paredes as a
Republican appointee on the five-member commission that oversees
U.S. capital markets. Stein has served as a top aide to Reed, a
Democrat, and Piwowar has been chief Republican economist on the
Senate Banking Committee.  The nominations of Stein and Piwowar are uncontroversial,
and both are expected to win Senate confirmation, possibly as
soon as July. The committee will vote on their nominations at a
future hearing.  “Kara and Mike are familiar faces on this side of the
dais, and I wish them all the best,” said Senator Tim Johnson,
the South Dakota Democrat who leads the banking committee.  Senators reserved most of their questions at the hearing
for Representative Mel Watt, a North Carolina Democrat who has
been nominated to head the  Federal Housing Finance Agency . Watt
faces opposition from Republicans who say they prefer a
technocrat, rather than a politician, to run FHFA.  Senate Jobs  Stein, 49, served as staff director of a Senate securities
and insurance subcommittee that Reed led from 2009 to 2013.
After Reed left the post, Stein moved to his personal office as
a senior policy adviser and legal counsel. She holds
undergraduate and law degrees from Yale University, according to
Reed’s office.  “She has the expertise and importantly the temperament to
be an extraordinarily effective commissioner of the Securities
and Exchange Commission,” Reed said at today’s hearing.  Piwowar, 45, would become one of the few economists to
serve as a commissioner. He earned a Ph.D in finance from
Pennsylvania State University and previously worked as an
economist at the SEC and at the White House under George W. Bush
and President  Barack Obama . He would join the commission as it
seeks to improve its integration of economic analysis into
rulemaking.  Legislation ‘Rigors’  “Both he and Kara Stein have faced the rigors of
legislating the Dodd-Frank Act, the Jobs Act, and a number of
other securities-related matters during their time on the
banking committee,” Senator Mike Crapo, an Idaho Republican,
said. “This battle-scarred expertise will serve them both well
at the SEC.”  Neither Stein nor Piwowar appear to have significant
conflicts of interest that would force them to recuse themselves
from SEC rulemaking or enforcement cases, according to their
federal financial disclosure reports.  Stein’s financial assets include investments in mutual
funds and shares of  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  Her disclosure report
states her assets are worth between $211,015 and $565,000. She
earned $139,998 as a Senate staff member between April 2012 and
March 2013, according to data from Legistorm.  Piwowar reported his financial assets are worth between
$155,029 and $750,000. He earned $171,038 as a Senate aide
between April 2012 and March 2013, according to Legistorm, which
compiles congressional data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  