-- Senate Set to Pass Immigration Bill as House Opposes Core
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-06-27T16:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/senate-set-to-pass-immigration-bill-as-house-opposes-core.html
The most significant revision of
immigration law in a generation, which the Senate is on track to
pass today, faces resistance in the Republican-led House where
opposition to a path to citizenship remains strong.  Many House Republicans prefer a piecemeal approach with an
emphasis on showing that border security measures are working
before considering legal status for an estimated 11 million
undocumented U.S. immigrants. The citizenship path is at the
core of the Senate’s comprehensive bill.  “It’s dead on arrival here as is because you couldn’t get
a majority of Republicans there,” Representative Tom Cole, an
Oklahoma Republican, said in an interview at the Capitol. “Why
in the world would a majority of Republicans embrace something
in the House that a majority of Republicans in the Senate didn’t
embrace?”  The Senate bill, scheduled for a final vote at 4 p.m.
Washington time today, is the product of months of painstaking
negotiations aimed at securing support from as many senators as
possible from both parties.  The measure’s final passage “gets it out of the Senate
with the wind at its back,” Senator Lindsey Graham, a South
Carolina Republican, said today. “Amnesty was the word of the
day in 2006 and 2007. Now there’s been a sea change. Legal
status for the 11 million is seen as a practical solution.”  McConnell’s Regret  Still, the chamber’s top Republican said he’ll oppose the
measure.  Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  said
today that he will vote against the bill because he isn’t
convinced it would secure the U.S. border and deter a future
wave of illegal immigration. His refusal to support the bill may
influence Republican support for the law in the House.  “I had wanted very much to support a reform to our
immigration law,” McConnell said on the Senate floor today.
“So it’s with a great deal of regret, for me at least, that the
final bill didn’t turn out to be something that I could
support.”  The measure seeks to balance the path to citizenship that
Democrats demand with strong enough border security to satisfy
Republicans. At the behest of Republicans, senators yesterday
adopted an amendment that would direct $38 billion in  resources
to securing the border, a proposal that drew the support of 15
Republicans and allowed the bill to advance.  House Measures  Meanwhile, House leaders said their chamber will consider
its own legislation on border control, yet details have yet to
be worked out on how to proceed.  “The House is not going to take up and vote on whatever
the Senate passes,” House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, said today in  Washington . “Immigration reform has
to be grounded in real border security.”  Boehner has let Virginia Representative Bob Goodlatte, the
Judiciary Committee chairman, set the pace and tone for the
House’s efforts on immigration.  Goodlatte prefers dividing immigration legislation into
smaller pieces.  So far, the judiciary panel has approved measures setting
up a new farm guest worker program; strengthening enforcement of
immigration laws, and expanding an electronic employment
verification program. The panel today will consider high-skilled
worker visas. The bills approved by the committee’s Republicans
haven’t attracted Democratic support, defying Boehner’s position
that immigration overhaul should pass with a majority of both
Republicans and Democrats.  Path Forward  “The path forward in the House is going to look different
than in the Senate,” said Angela Maria Kelley, vice president
for immigration policy at the Center for American Progress, a
Democratic-aligned research group in Washington.  Kelley described the fact that the House hasn’t drafted a
proposal to address the 11 million undocumented immigrants
already in the U.S. as “a pretty glaring omission in terms of
effective policy.”  Representative John Fleming, a Louisiana Republican, said
that House Republicans “can’t even open the discussion” of
citizenship for the undocumented “until we have secure
borders.”  The Senate bill, unveiled in April, was drafted after
months of talks between four Republican and four Democratic
senators known as the Gang of Eight.  100 Amendments  The Judiciary Committee spent three weeks considering more
than 100 amendments to the measure in May. Four of the bill’s
authors are members of the panel, and banded together to defeat
proposals from both sides of the aisle that could imperil
support for the legislation.  The Senate bill would double the U.S. Border Patrol’s size
by adding 20,000 agents, require 700 miles of fencing at the
U.S.-Mexico border, and add unmanned aerial drones to help
police the border before any undocumented immigrant could gain
permanent legal status, known as a green card.  The legislation would require all employers to use an e-verify system to check workers’ legal status, and all airports
and seaports to have a visa entry and exit system before any of
the undocumented could be granted a green card, a precursor to
citizenship.  Still, the new border provisions don’t go far enough for
some Senate Republicans, including South Dakota’s John Thune,
who was among the 29 Republicans who opposed the border
amendment.  Thune said yesterday in an interview at the Capitol that
there was “no question that the House is going to be a much
heavier lift in terms of the substance of the bill, particularly
with regard to border-security issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  