-- Serb EU Entry Talks to Open in 2014 After December Summit
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-27T15:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/serb-eu-entry-talks-to-open-in-2014-after-december-summit.html
Serbia  moved closer to opening talks
on joining the European Union in January, confirming progress is
being made toward reaching a settlement between the largest
former Yugoslav republic and  Kosovo .  European government leaders are set to decide to open entry
talks with Serbia, according to a draft statement for an EU
summit starting today in Brussels. A summit on Dec. 20 will
confirm that decision, paving the way for talks to start in
January 2014 “at the very latest,” the draft said. The leaders
will also endorse the start of talks on closer political and
economic ties Kosovo.  Serbia’s “continued visible and sustainable progress in
the normalization of relations, including the implementation of
the agreements reached so far, remains essential so Kosovo and
Serbia can continue on their respective European paths,”
European Affairs ministers said in a June 25 statement.  Serbia and its breakaway province signed a pact on April
19, establishing principles for future improvement relations.
Both need deeper EU ties after the civil wars of the 1990s
stunted the region’s transition from communism and almost
destroyed their economies.  The April agreement showed that “Serbia, and indeed
Kosovo, have done a huge amount of work,” EU foreign policy
chief  Catherine Ashton  said in Brussels on June 26, at a joint
press conference with Serbian Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic .  “The important thing is that  Germany  gave its consent for
the opening of talks and we will practically, formally and
officially open the negotiations tomorrow,” Dacic told
reporters in Belgrade today.  EU leaders will release a final statement on Serbia when
the summit ends tomorrow afternoon.  ‘Historical Event’  Though Serbia is not “overly happy” that the actual start
of negotiations can’t take place in October, the fact that they
are poised to take place “is a historical event,” Dacic said.  The Serbian dinar gained 0.37 percent on the day to trade
at 114.0334 to the euro at 3:40 p.m. in Belgrade, while yields
on the Serbian 10-year Eurobond maturing in 2021 dropped 41
basis points to 6.956 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The main index of 15 most actively traded assets fell 0.6
percent to 476.03 points.  Serbia formally became an EU candidate in March, joining
Slovenia, which joined the world’s largest trading bloc in 2004,
and  Croatia , which enters on July 1.  Slovenia has been an EU member since 2004 and Croatia will
enter the EU in July. Montenegro has started membership talks
and the Republic of Macedonia has been ready to start entry
talks since 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  