-- Play Begins Under Centre Court Roof as Rain Disrupts Wimbledon
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-06-28T12:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/serena-williams-beats-france-s-garcia-in-wimbledon-second-round.html
Play is underway under the closed
roof on Centre Court at the Wimbledon tennis championships,
where rain has disrupted the schedule on day five.  Britain’s Laura Robson is taking on Colombia’s Mariana
Duque-Marino on the main court at the All England Club in London
in a second-round match postponed by rain last night. Men’s No.
2 seed  Andy Murray  of Britain faces  Spain ’s Tommy Robredo in
third-round match on Centre Court later today.  A steady drizzle caused play on all the outside courts to
be delayed, but Wimbledon officials said shortly after 1 p.m.
local time that the covers would be removed and the courts
inspected. Among those scheduled to play today are men’s No. 4
 David Ferrer  of Spain and 2011 women’s champion Petra Kvitova of
the Czech Republic.  Yesterday, top seed Novak Djokovic of Serbia beat Bobby
Reynolds 7-6 (7-2), 6-3, 6-1 to leave the U.S. without a man in
the third round of the grass-court Grand Slam for the first time
since 1912.  Reynolds, 30, had to qualify for the tournament, and his
opening-round defeat of a wild card was his first win at a major
since the 2008  U.S. Open .  Djokovic, 26, is the last former Wimbledon men’s champion
left in the singles draw after  Roger Federer ,  Rafael Nadal  and
 Lleyton Hewitt  were upset this week. Djokovic is seeking his
seventh Grand Slam title.  Strange  “It’s strange that so many top players lost in a couple
days,” Djokovic told reporters. “The lower-ranked players have
nothing to lose and come out and play as well as they can. I
needed to be extra careful.”  Eleven American men started this year’s event. In the 1912
tournament, no men from the U.S. traveled to the All England
Club. A year earlier, the sole American man in the field didn’t
reach the third round of the event, which was first held in
1877.  “It’s a worldwide sport now,” said Reynolds, who wasn’t
aware that he was the final American man. “Sports are becoming
much more global. Every country has top guys playing tennis.
That’s what it is, rather than the lack of talent coming out of
the U.S.”  American Women  Things are better for the American women. Top seed  Serena Williams  defeated French qualifier Caroline Garcia yesterday,
and 18-year-old Madison Keys advanced on a day when much of the
afternoon’s play was rained out. Keys was a 6-4, 6-2 winner
against Mona Barthel of  Germany .  Williams, 31, the defending women’s champion, won 6-3, 6-2
over the 19-year-old Garcia, ranked 100th in the world. Williams
is on a 33-match winning streak.  “I still feel like I’m trying to adjust a lot,” Williams
said. “I played a little better than my first-round match. I
definitely had to play better. But I’m still adjusting.”  Williams next plays 42-year-old Kimiko Date-Krumm of  Japan ,
who became the oldest woman to reach Wimbledon’s third round
since tennis’s professional era began in 1968.  After a record day of defeats and withdrawals two days ago,
the retirements continued yesterday. Frenchmen  Michael Llodra 
and Paul-Henri Mathieu quit while trailing in their matches
against Italy’s Andreas Seppi and  Feliciano Lopez  of Spain,
respectively.  Mathieu’s departure was the ninth retirement or withdrawal
of the second round, equaling the record for most in a single
round at a Grand Slam tournament in the professional era. There
also were nine in the first round of the 2011 U.S. Open.  Altogether, 12 people have now quit Wimbledon this year.
The most players to retire or withdraw in one tournament at the
All England Club was 13, in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  