-- Sirius Minerals Gains in London on China Potash Sale Accord
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-27T16:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/sirius-minerals-gains-to-7-week-high-on-china-potash-sale-accord.html
Sirius Minerals Plc (SXX) , planning a $1.9
billion potash mine in the U.K., advanced in London trading
after signing a sales agreement with a Chinese buyer.  The shares  climbed  1 percent to close at 26.25 pence after
earlier jumping as much as 7.7 percent. Today’s gain values the
London-based company at 353.8 million pounds ($539 million).  Sirius, which is seeking to start building the U.K.’s
second operating potash mine next quarter in the North York
Moors National Park, still requires financing and government
approvals. The company intends to tap rising demand for the
fertilizer ingredient in the global $20 billion export market.  China’s Yunnan TC Yong-Zhe Co. has agreed to buy 1 million
metric tons of Sirius’s polyhalite product annually for 10 years
from 2017, Sirius said today in a statement. The signing was
attended by government officials from Yunnan province as well as
senior executives from Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China ,
the country’s largest lender by assets, the U.K. company said.  “The deal is further validation of the commerciality of
polyhalite,” Ash Lazenby, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd.,
wrote in a note to clients today. “ICBC’s endorsement of the
agreement is also a significant positive, which will add weight
to future negotiations with other potential off-take partners.”  The sale price for the first three years will be fixed and
wasn’t disclosed by Sirius. Liberum estimated a price of about
$150 a ton, which compares to the company’s cost estimate of $37
a ton. The sales accord is conditional on testing and results
from crop trials in Yunnan as well as Chinese government
approvals, Sirius said.  Largest Resource  The project, called York Potash, hosts the world’s largest
estimated resource of polyhalite, with 2.7 billion tons of the
potash material. The U.K.’s only potash mine, Boulby, is
immediately north of York. Potash is a form of potassium used to
strengthen plant roots and protect against drought.  “This is a major milestone for the company that further
demonstrates the market for polyhalite, supports the economics
behind the project and will ultimately help to give confidence
in the financing for construction,” Chief Executive Officer
Chris Fraser, the biggest shareholder in the company with 8.5
percent, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  