-- Slovakia Set to Miss 2013 Budget Goal on Economy, Minister Says
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-06-27T11:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/slovakia-set-to-miss-its-tax-collection-target-as-economy-slows.html
Slovakia is set to miss its goal of
cutting the budget gap to below the European Union’s limit this
year as the slowing economy hurts tax receipts more than
planned, Finance Minister Peter Kazimir said.  Tax revenue this year will probably be 347 million euros
($452 million), or 0.5 percent of gross domestic product, lower
than projected four months ago, he said at a press conference in
Bratislava, Slovakia, citing a revised ministry forecast. The
budget shortfall is set to “closely” exceed the 3 percent-of-GDP ceiling, still allowing the country to exit the EU’s
excessive-deficit procedure, he said.  “Three percent isn’t any magical number,” Kazimir said.
“Our commitment is to exit the budget procedure. I still
consider it achievable even with this forecast.”  Prime Minister Robert Fico wants to cut the budget deficit
to 2.9 percent of GDP this year from 4.3 percent in 2012 to
differentiate the country from its ailing peers in the euro
region, which Slovakia joined in 2009. The European Commission
in its May forecast projected the gap at 3 percent of GDP, while
Moody’s Investors Service said June 11 it sees a “minor”
overshoot of the target.  The change in the outlook for tax revenue reflects the
ministry’s June 11 revision of its economic-growth forecast,
which was cut by 0.7 percentage point to 0.5 percent. The
 slowing  economy will weigh on receipts from the value-added and
income taxes as persistent unemployment hurts consumer spending
and profit outlook for companies worsens, Kazimir said.  In 2014, the tax shortfall will reach 0.8 percent of GDP
and continue widening to 1.3 percent in 2016, according to the
revised forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Luxembourg at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  