-- Solera Says in Talks on Significant Acquisition
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-06-27T21:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/solera-says-it-s-in-talks-on-significant-acquisition-opportunity.html
Solera Holdings Inc. (SLH) , a software
provider for the car-insurance claims-processing industry, said
it’s in negotiations related to a “significant acquisition
opportunity.”  Solera hasn’t signed any material agreement, the Westlake,
Texas-based company said today in a statement. It also announced
a $700 million private offering of senior notes from a
subsidiary, Audatex North America Inc., which will be used to
repay debt and to fund strategic initiatives or business
development.  The company has been seeking to diversify its product base,
Chief Executive Officer Tony Aquila said on a conference call on
May 7. Solera acquired HyperQuest Inc., a software provider for
the property and casualty claims market, earlier this year. The
company could now be in talks with a household-claims software
company, said Andrew Jeffrey, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson
Humphrey.  “Tony’s been pretty clear about wanting that strategic
opportunity to expand products and expand Solera’s
functionality,” Jeffrey, who has a buy rating on the shares,
said in an interview. “They’re looking to do something that
isn’t closely tied to auto as it has been in the past.”  Jeffrey estimated Solera may spend $250 million to $350
million on an acquisition.  Following the new debt issue today,  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded Solera’s corporate credit rating to BB- from BB, with
a stable outlook. Moody’s Investors Service also lowered
Audatex’s corporate family rating to Ba2 from Ba1 and said the
outlook is stable.  Solera  shares  climbed 4.1 percent to $54.84 at the close in
 New York . They have risen 2.6 percent this year, compared with a
7.4 percent  gain  for the Standard & Poor’s Midcap Information
Technology Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  