-- Spain Wins Shootout to Book Confederations Cup Final With Brazil
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-06-28T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/spain-defeats-italy-7-6-in-shootout-in-confederations-cup-semi.html
Spain kept its record unbeaten run
intact as it overcame Italy 7-6 in a penalty shootout to reach
the Confederations Cup soccer final against host nation  Brazil .  Jesus Navas scored with the 14th penalty kick to send top-ranked Spain into the title match after the teams failed to
score in 90 minutes of regulation play and half an hour of extra
time last night at the Estadio Castelao in Fortaleza.  The final of the two-week Confederations Cup, an eight-nation warmup for next year’s  World Cup , will be played June 30
at the Maracana Stadium in Rio de Janeiro. Brazil is chasing a
third straight title and fourth in seven editions since
governing body FIFA first staged the event in 1997.  “Fortune went our way in the shootout,” Spain coach
Vicente  del Bosque  told reporters. “Despite all the things
they’ve won, our players feel like kids. They’re playing Brazil
at the Maracana and that’s taken them back to boyhood days.”  Last night’s win extended the record undefeated run for
world and European champion Spain to 29 competitive games, two
more than the mark set by France in 1999.  While Spain had 62 percent of first-half possession, Italy,
the 2006 world champion and runner-up at last year’s European
Championship, outshot its opponent by nine to two.  Christian Maggio had three chances with headers and Claudio Marchisio also headed wide.  Fernando Torres  had Spain’s best
opportunity before the break as he pulled his shot wide of the
post after 37 minutes.  Italy Dominates  Italy dominated the first 30 minutes of the second half
without managing to breach the defense of Spain, which failed to
score in the 83rd minute when  Gerard Pique  blasted the ball over
the bar from substitute  Juan Mata ’s low cross.  Emanuele Giaccherini had the first chance in extra time,
striking a post with his left-foot shot in the 94th minute.  Two minutes after referee  Howard Webb  waved away claims for
a penalty kick from Spanish players, Pique failed to connect
with a header when unmarked before Italian defender Daniele de Rossi dived to block  Sergio Ramos ’s follow-up attempt. In the
98th minute,  Andres Iniesta  played Jordi Alba in behind the
Italian defense and his first-time volley rose just over.  With five minutes left in extra time, Italian goalkeeper
 Gianluigi Buffon  turned  Xavi Hernandez ’s left-foot strike from
about 25 yards (22 meters) onto a post and Javier Martinez
dragged his shot from the rebound across the goal and wide. Two
minutes later, Buffon dived low to his right to turn Navas’s
shot out for a corner kick.  “It was an excellent performance from both teams, who
proved they are right at the top of the European game,” Del
Bosque said. “We couldn’t control the game properly and we
looked very open.”  Penalty Shootout  In the shootout, neither goalkeeper got close to making a
save as most penalty kicks found the corner of the net. Antonio
Candreva was a notable exception, beginning the shootout with a
delicate chip down the center of the goal and over diving
Spanish goalkeeper  Iker Casillas .  After 12 successful penalty kicks, defender Leonardo Bonucci blasted his effort over the bar. Navas then slid the
ball into the lower left corner to seal the win for Spain.  “This match has been a great test for us, no doubt about
that, and we passed it despite the result,” Italy coach Cesare Prandelli told reporters. “We proved that we have the quality
to battle it out with the best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 