-- Sports Broadcaster Perform Group Dips on Margins: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-06-27T15:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/sports-broadcaster-perform-group-dips-on-margins-london-mover.html
Perform Group Plc (PER) , the online sports
broadcaster that runs the Chelsea Football Club’s website, fell
the most in almost a year after saying that a changing revenue
mix will “modestly” restrain profit growth.  While sales gained 37 percent to 92 million pounds ($140
million) in the first half, advertising and sponsorship is
“making up a higher proportion of total revenues than expected,
creating some pressure on short-term margins,” Feltham,
England-based Perform said today in a statement.  The  stock  plunged 7.2 percent, the most since July 17, to
540 pence in  London , the lowest since May 3. The volume of
shares traded was five times the three-month daily average.  “It has been priced for perfection,”  Paul Richards , an
analyst at Numis Securities Ltd. with an  add recommendation  on
the stock, said in a telephone interview. The investor reaction
is “overdone, although it is understandable,” he said.  Until today’s drop, Perform had been the best-performing
stock this year in the FTSE 350 Media Index, with a gain of 47
percent. The shares had more than doubled through yesterday
since the sports broadcaster’s IPO.  “The change in revenue mix, together with additional
rights and other investment, is likely to modestly impact”
growth this year in  earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, Perform said.  Even so, the company is “on track to deliver another year
of strong revenue growth,” with contracts amounting to 166
million pounds so far this year, compared with 131 million
pounds at the same point last year, joint Chief Executive
Officer Oliver Slipper said in the statement. The company has
more than 17,000 live events under contract for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  