-- StanChart to Build Hong Kong as Metals Center as East Transfers
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-06-27T04:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/stanchart-to-build-hong-kong-as-metals-center-as-east-transfers.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , which
derived more than 60 percent of 2012 revenue from the Asia-Pacific region, moved its global head of metals trading to  Hong
Kong  from London and plans to build up its presence there.  Jeremy East, who’s traded in the U.K. capital for about
three decades, moved this month, and he will expand the metals
desk in Hong Kong to be half the size of the London team in two
years from about a quarter at present, according to an interview.
East declined to give numbers. The London-based bank may expand
into gold storage in Hong Kong and its unit started physical-metals trade in Shanghai this month, he said yesterday.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. bought the  London  Metal
Exchange for $2.2 billion in December, and plans to introduce
raw-material contracts in the region as part of its growth
strategy.  China ’s commodity-derivatives trade led the expansion
of global volumes in 2012, according to data from the Paris-based World Federation of Exchanges. China is the world’s
largest user of base metals and biggest gold producer.  “Last year, with the LME purchase by HKEx and the fact
that volume of copper on the Shanghai Futures Exchange was
sometimes larger than the LME, the structure of the market is
changing,” said East, who joined Standard Chartered in 2006.
“We have a big team in London but I can see the growth here.”  Standard Chartered  is a clearing member at the LME, the
world’s largest base-metals market place. China’s domestic
commodity exchanges, including the Shanghai Futures Exchange,
restrict foreign participation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  