-- Student-Loan Rates Set to Double Unless Congress Acts
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-06-27T16:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/student-loan-rates-set-to-double-unless-congress-acts.html
With just two working days left
before the U.S. government doubles a student-loan interest rate,
lawmakers are haggling over what to do about it.  The argument isn’t over whether to allow the rate on the
most popular type of federal loan to rise above 3.4 percent, the
level set by law until July 1. It’s about how much borrowing
costs will increase.  “The likelihood of students keeping the interest rate they
had for the last two years is diminishing by the hour,” said
 Terry Hartle , senior vice president at the American Council of
Education, the largest lobbying group for colleges and
universities. “The outcome will be students will pay more than
3.4 percent in the short term,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Unless Congress acts, the interest rate for subsidized
Stafford loans, available to undergraduates from low-income
families, will increase to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent. More
than 7 million students use that direct-from-Washington loan
program.  Instead of passing legislation to extend that rate or set a
new flat rate, lawmakers have been negotiating ways to let the
rate float by linking it to the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note.  Getting an informal agreement on the concept of flexible
rates was the easy part. The more challenging part of the
negotiations, according to those involved, has been figuring out
how much flexibility to build in, and how much profit the
government should extract.  Government Profit  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  contends that there
should be no profit at all.  “The issue is this: Republicans want deficit reduction,”
the Nevada Democrat said June 25. “We don’t think there should
be deficit reduction based on the backs of these young men and
women who are trying to go to college.”  Complicating the talks is the more than 50 percent increase
in the yield of 10-year Treasury notes, to 2.5 percent, since
May 1.  Under a House-passed plan, that would have meant a student
loan rate of 4.3 percent, rising to as much as 8.5 percent.  “It’s very clear students would be worse off under that
proposal than simply allowing interest rates to double” because
rates “would be lower initially but rise as interest rates
rise,” said Pauline Abernathy, vice president of the Institute
for College Access & Success, a nonprofit research and advocacy
group in Oakland, California.  Exploding Debt  Over the past decade, there has been an explosion of
student loan debt. It now totals almost $1.2 trillion, with 85
percent consisting of government-backed loans taken out by
students and their parents. The rest are made by private lenders
like banks or  Sallie Mae (SLM) , the largest U.S. education-finance
company.  The share of 25-year-old Americans with student debt
increased to 43 percent last year from 25 percent in 2003,
according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. During that
nine-year period, the average education-loan balance of people
in that age group increased 91 percent, to $20,326 from $10,649,
according to the New York Fed.  With so much outstanding student debt, borrowers are having
trouble contributing to the  U.S. economy  in other ways.  It has become harder for young people, especially those
between 25 and 30, to secure other types of credit, including
home mortgages, according to a February report on  household debt 
and credit by the New York Fed.  Economic Drag  Economists warn that what is owed in  student loans  may
rival home-mortgage indebtedness as a drag on U.S. growth.  “The difficulties borrowers face when trying to manage
 cash flow  may have a broader impact on the economy and
society,” Rohit Chopra, student-loan ombudsman at the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, told the Senate Banking Committee
on June 25. “When young workers are putting large portions of
their income toward student-loan-payment payments, they’re less
able to stash away cash for that first down payment.”  Private borrowing for student loans grew after Congress
overhauled bankruptcy laws and made such debts non-dischargable
in personal bankruptcy.  That change meant that “there were very few reasons for
banks not to make educational loans to anybody who wants them,”
Hartle said. “Most students who get in trouble by borrowing
huge amounts of money get there because they have borrowed from
private lenders” without the knowledge of their college or
institution, he said.  It’s common for students to have more than one kind of
loan, taking out the maximum government loan and then
supplementing with private loans.  Loan Types  The most popular government loan is the Stafford.
Subsidized Stafford loans are limited to students with lower
incomes, and the interest rate is 3.4 percent, set by Congress.
The government pays the interest during school. The interest
rate will increase to 6.8 percent on new originations if
Congress doesn’t act by July 1.  Any undergraduate, regardless of income, can get an
unsubsidized Stafford loan at a rate of 6.8 percent.  The federal loan limits for undergraduates are $5,500 the
first year, $6,500 the second year and $7,500 in the last years.
Graduate students no longer dependent on their parents also can
take out Stafford loans.  Another type of direct federal loan, called PLUS, carries a
rate of 7.9 percent for graduate students and parents of
undergraduates.  One-Year Extension  While running for re-election, President  Barack Obama 
pressured lawmakers to extend the fixed rates for a year.
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  joined the call, and Congress
obliged both candidates, acting two days before the rate on
subsidized Staffords would have doubled.  Since then, the president has continued public pressure on
Congress to address a pressing problem for students.  “It’s a different year,” said  John Kline , the Minnesota
Republican who heads the House Education and the Workforce
Committee.  House Republicans  aren’t open to a temporary change,
Kline said -- “We’ve already been there.”  The talk about student loans this week hasn’t been limited
to federal loans.  Private loans make up about 15 percent of outstanding
educational debt. They are considered riskier because their
interest rates are usually not fixed, and they don’t offer the
same type of protections as federal loans, such as income-based
repayment when borrowers get into trouble.  Alternatives Needed  A Federal Reserve official told the Senate Banking
Committee on June 25 that lenders of private student loans
should reduce the risk of default by helping struggling
borrowers come up with alternative payment plans.  One of the major lenders,  Discover Financial Services (DFS) ,
announced yesterday that its fixed interest rate on student
loans was dropping to as low as 5.49 percent.  A doubling of the government’s interest rate “would be
good news for Discover as its private loans will be more
attractive when compared with subsidized federal loans,”
analyst James Friedman of Susquehanna Financial Group LLC in New
York said in an e-mail. Borrowers could bypass both subsidized
and unsubsidized Staffords “and choose Discover’s student loans
instead.”  On May 23, the Republican-run House passed Kline’s
legislation, which would tie student loan  interest rates  to the
10-year Treasury note plus 2.5 percent. In the Senate, Reid
tried to round up votes for a two-year extension of the current
3.4 percent rate and fell short of a required 60-vote
supermajority.  Senate Proposal  Some Senate Democrats say they will try again for an
extension -- this time going for just one year instead of two,
as was sought in the unsuccessful bill, S. 953. Independent
Senator Angus King of Maine questioned that approach. “What
will we know in a year that we don’t know now?” he said today.  Obama has his own proposal to subject the Stafford loans to
interest-rate fluctuations and save the government $3 billion
over 10 years.  As July 1 draws closer, with Congress planning a break next
week for the July 4 holiday, a bipartisan group of senators say
they have come up with a possible breakthrough -- a floating
rate for Staffords, the 10-year Treasury borrowing rate plus
1.85 percent.  Deficit Reduction  That proposal still has the deficit-reduction element that
Reid opposes; it would pare the government’s  red ink  by $1
billion over 10 years, according to a statement from King,
Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia and Republican
Senators  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma,  Richard Burr  of  North Carolina 
and  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee.  Both Senator  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat who is chairman
of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee,
and the panel’s top Republican, Alexander, predicted that the
Senate would go home for the week-long July 4 break without
acting.  Alexander, a former U.S. education secretary, said that if
lawmakers can reach a consensus this week, Congress can return
July 8 and approve the change retroactively.  Neither party has been able to gain a political advantage
over the other for inaction by Congress.  Unlike a year ago, “this issue has much less traction,”
said political scientist Bruce Altschuler at the State
University of New York at Oswego. “People don’t know who to
blame. They know somebody is at fault. They are not sure who.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Lorin  in New York at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  