-- Student Loan Corp. Shareholder Suit on Reserves Dismissed
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-27T20:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/student-loan-corp-shareholder-suit-on-reserves-dismissed-1-.html
A suit against Student Loan Corp.,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  that claimed the
student loan lender misled investors about losses starting in
2008, was thrown out by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in Manhattan
dismissed the suit, filed in February 2012 by the Oklahoma
Firefighters Pension & Retirement System. The pension fund
claimed Student Loan Corp. failed to maintain adequate reserves
and misrepresented the size and risk of its loan portfolios’
exposure.  “We find that none of plaintiffs’ claims states an
actionable claim for relief,” Buchwald said in a written
opinion dated June 25.  The Oklahoma pension fund sought to represent a class of
shareholders in Student Loan Corp. who claimed they lost money
when information about the losses became public and shares fell.
The suit also targeted three former Student Loan Corp. officers,
including Michael Reardon, the company’s former chief executive
officer.  All Investors  Student Loan Corp., formerly a unit of Citigroup, was sold
to Riverwoods, Illinois-based Discover in September 2010. The
pension fund sought to represent all Student Loan Corp.
investors from Jan. 15, 2008, to Sept. 23, 2010.  “We are pleased with the court’s opinion dismissing the
complaint,” Citigroup spokesman Mark Costiglio said in an
e-mail.  Discover spokesman Jon Drummond declined to comment.  Student Loan Corp. in September 2010 told the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in a public filing that it
was taking a $900 million charge, just days after announcing it
was being sold, according to the complaint.  The case is Oklahoma Firefighters Pension & Retirement
System v. Student Loan Corp., 0012-cv-895, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 