-- Super-Scientific Chinese Study Says Bloggers Are Losers
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-06-27T17:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/super-scientific-chinese-study-says-bloggers-are-losers.html
Chinese microbloggers: deadbeats.  That, at least, seems to be the deduction made in the 2013
edition of the “ Annual Report on the Development of Chinese New
Media ” released Tuesday by the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences , the country’s most influential government think tank.  The  report claims  that of  China ’s 300 million
microbloggers, 74.88 percent only have a high-school education
or less and 94 million are students; 92.2 percent earn less than
$813 a month, while fully 91 million lack any income at all
(which makes sense if 94 million are students).  What, then, do these poor, uneducated and mostly unemployed
microbloggers spend their time doing? The report gives them
credit for exposing 156 corrupt officials between 2010 and 2012,
but notes that such crime-fighting pursuits of microbloggers are
tightly wrapped up with another favorite pursuit: rumor-mongering. Of 100 microblogged “hot topics” tracked over a year,
rumors appeared in more than one-third. Predictably, these
rumors were not high-minded. Rather, 17.3 percent were about the
entertainment industry, and the rest related almost exclusively
to law-and-order issues: murders, abducted children, organ theft
-- the report even mentions corneal-theft rumors.  It’s not surprising that among microbloggers there’s
 considerable skepticism  and anger at the findings. Chinese
microblogs, after all, are dominated by elite voices, especially
those belonging to  entertainment ,  business  and  literary 
celebrities. For all their faults -- they are certainly rumor-filled -- they also happen to be the most socially disruptive
and politically potent tool available in contemporary China, in
large part because they’re available to anyone with a few coins
to drop at an Internet cafe or to spend on a used smartphone at
the local electronics market.  Even more than that, there’s an underlying sense that the
authors of the report weren’t so much interested in putting
together an accurate portrait of China’s microbloggers so much
as having a means to further justify reining in microblogs.
Over the last two days, members of the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences   have been using the report , and the publicity
surrounding it, to argue for more regulation of China’s digital
spaces and social media. The case they make is simple and
clever: Freedom of speech is a good thing, but surely it can’t
be trusted in the hands of unemployed, rumor-loving students.
The Beijing News, a Communist Party-owned newspaper that wrote a
widely circulated story on the report,  put it this way : “The
Internet gives users freedom of speech. However, some users have
abused that right.”  In other words: More censorship is on the way, deadbeats.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 