-- Swiss Bank Sells Hyposwiss Units After Offshore Wealth Review
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-06-27T07:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/swiss-bank-sells-hyposwiss-units-after-offshore-wealth-review.html
St. Galler Kantonalbank AG (SGKN) , which is
majority-owned by the Swiss region of  St. Gallen , said it agreed
to sell parts of its Hyposwiss private bank to different buyers
after reviewing its cross-border wealth business.  SGKB will sell its Hyposwiss Geneva unit to Mirelis
InvestTrust SA, also based in Geneva. The regional lender will
also sell two Hyposwiss businesses run from Zurich. Banque
Privee Espirito Santo based in Pully, Switzerland, will absorb
Latin American Hyposwiss clients while Falcon Private Bank Ltd.,
based in Zurich and owned by  Abu Dhabi ’s government-controlled
Aabar Investments PJSC, will take in eastern European customers.  “SGKB reacts with these strategic adjustments to the
changing conditions in the wealth management business,” the
firm said in an e-mailed  statement  today. Restrained “growth
prospects, lower margins and rising costs due to increased
regulations require a higher volume in the different offshore
markets to make a profitable business. This could only be
achieved with additional investments and acquisitions.”  Switzerland, the world’s largest center for cross-border
wealth, is trying to shed its image as a haven for undeclared
funds amid a crackdown on  tax evasion  by the U.S. and European
governments. The U.S.  Justice Department  has investigated at
least 14 Swiss financial firms, including regional banks
Zuercher Kantonalbank and  Basler Kantonalbank (BSKP) , suspected of
helping Americans hide money from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Industry Consolidation  Wealth managers are predicting a “significant
consolidation” in the industry as pressure on margins and
increased regulatory and tax scrutiny prompt mergers and
acquisitions, according to a survey of 200 firms published today
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an accounting firm.  SGKB, which has  plunged 20 percent  in Zurich trading since
this year’s high on March 15, said it plans to integrate the
remainder of Hyposwiss private bank to focus on private banking
for Swiss and German customers.  SGKB increased operating income 3 percent in the five
months through May from a year earlier, and expects to report
one-time items of about 7 million francs ($7.4 million) for 2013
related to the reorganization, it said today. SGKB plans to
publish half-year results on Aug. 15.  Hyposwiss, established in 1889, had 7.2 billion francs
under management at the end of December, down from 9.1 billion
francs two years earlier, company figures show, and reported a
net outflow of almost 1 billion francs last year.  Swiss prosecutors opened an investigation in January last
year after they were alerted by a  law firm  that was offered data
stolen from Hyposwiss. A former “external” bank employee was
arrested, the office of the federal public prosecutor said in
February last year. The stolen data related to a dispute between
Russian billionaires Oleg Deripaska and  Vladimir Potanin ,
according to a report in Handelszeitung newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  