-- Swiss & Global Expands in Industrial Metals Funds With Trafigura
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-06-27T12:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/swiss-global-expands-in-industrial-metals-funds-with-trafigura.html
Swiss & Global Asset Management AG,
manager of precious metals exchange-traded products, is
expanding into physical industrial metals supplied by Trafigura
Beheer BV.  The JB Industrial Metals Funds will hold aluminum, copper,
nickel and zinc, according to a company statement e-mailed
today. They will start this year, according to Stephan Mueller,
product developer of the industrial and precious metals funds.
Trafigura will sell the metal, stored by its NEMS unit, a
warehouse company approved by the London Metal Exchange, he said
by phone today from Zurich.  “This is a new product generation that gives you
efficiency in an area where there hasn’t been efficiency for the
last decade or years,” Mueller said. “That’s really single-asset instrument, long-only. We’ll store the metal and hold it
for our investors and nothing else. That’s the most important
thing for us. The client has the opportunity to get as close as
possible to the prices of copper, nickel, zinc and aluminum.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  have won approval
from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to introduce
exchange-traded funds linked to copper and have yet to start the
products. ETF Securities Ltd. started the first ETPs backed by
copper, nickel and tin in December 2010. Assets in the copper
fund were 3,600 metric tons as of yesterday, according to the
company. Global copper production was 20.1 million tons last
year, according to the International Copper Study Group.  Qualified Investors  Swiss & Global will first start the subscription period
enabling investors to place orders, Mueller said. The products
will be only accessible by qualified investors. That generally
means investors who have at least 500,000 Swiss francs
($530,673), he said.  The cost of investing in the fund will be reduced as much
as 75 percent, Mueller said. For example, rent charged for
storing aluminum in NEMS’s warehouses may be “in the range of 8
cents per ton per day,” Mueller said. That compares with as
much as 48 cents a ton charged by LME-approved warehouses,
according to the LME website.  Commodity investments fell $27 billion in April, the most
in 11 months, on record sales of gold ETPs, Barclays Plc said
June 7. The LME Index of six industrial metals on the LME has
fallen 15 percent this year, and on June 24 was the lowest since
June 2010. Mueller said it’s possible Swiss & Global will expand
the funds into lead and tin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  