-- U.K. Grants Offshore Wind Triple Market Electricity Price
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-27T13:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/u-k-to-pay-offshore-wind-companies-triple-market-rate-for-power.html
The U.K. will pay offshore wind
developers triple the market price for electricity they generate
under a subsidy program to boost renewable energy that by 2020
will cost consumers 7.6 billion pounds ($11.6 billion) a year.  The  Department of Energy  also detailed rates paid for
solar, hydropower, biomass conversion and onshore wind farms as
well as boosting to 3.8 billion pounds the capitalization of its
Green Investment Bank. The Treasury will guarantee debts for
building a new nuclear station.  The measures are part of an effort by Prime Minister  David Cameron  to lure 110 billion pounds for new power plants by the
end of the decade. Offshore wind and nuclear reactors are at the
heart of the plan to replace aging power plants and cut
pollution from fossil fuels. The nation’s biggest utilities have
yet to pledge enough funding to reduce the risk of blackouts.  “This is another clearing of the fog, but there’s still a
huge amount to be resolved,” Paul Massara, chief executive
officer of  RWE AG (RWE) ’s U.K. Npower unit, said today in an interview
in London. “I don’t believe we’re at that stage where there is
enough detail to make investment decisions.”  Blackout Risk  The U.K. has an EU target to get 15 percent of all energy
for heat, power and transport from renewables. Figures released
today showed that in 2012, 4.1 percent of energy came from
renewables, and the average for 2011 and 2012, at 3.94 percent,
fell short of the EU’s first interim target of 4.04 percent for
the two years.  The statistical probability of major power shortages in the
U.K. will increase to about once in 12 years in 2015 from once
in 47 years now as a result of closing power plants, the energy
regulator Ofgem said today in a separate statement. About a
fifth of Britain’s power generation capacity is scheduled to
close in the next decade, including all except one nuclear
plant.  Ministers are seeking to overhaul the current system of
renewables obligations placed on utilities to use clean energy
and to stimulate investment while keeping a lid on prices paid
by consumers. Separately, the government said shale gas fields
in northern  England  are twice as big as previously thought.  Davey’s View  “The combination of the announcements that we’re making
will mean that the lights of the country will stay on,” Energy
Secretary  Ed Davey  told delegates today at a conference hosted
by The Economist in London.  In a statement, he said a cap on support for low-carbon
electricity that suppliers can pass to consumers will start at
4.3 billion pounds for the tax year that begins in April 2015,
rising to 7.6 billion pounds in 2020.  The flurry of initiatives overshadowed the first results
from the government’s “Green Deal,” which allows consumers to
take out subsidized loans to pay for insulation, double-glazing
and other efficiency measures. It was the centerpiece of the
Cameron’s first energy law. In its first five months of
operation, only four of the nation’s 26.9 million households
took up the incentive.  The so-called “strike price” earned by offshore wind
 power plants  will be 155 pounds ($237) per megawatt-hour
generated starting next year, declining to 135 pounds by 2018,
according to Davey’s department. The government estimates that
funding will spur construction of 8 gigawatts to 16 gigawatts of
turbines at sea.  Strike Prices  Wind farms based on land will get 100 pounds a megawatt-hour, declining to 95 pounds from 2017. Biomass operators
receive 105 pounds, large solar 125 pounds and hydroelectric
dams 95 pounds a megawatt-hour.  Other strike prices announced include 305 pounds per
megawatt-hour for tidal and wave projects, 65 pounds for those
that use gas from landfill sites, 90 pounds for energy from
burning waste, 125 pounds for geothermal power, 120 pounds for
dedicated biomass plants and 145 pounds for anaerobic digesters.
The front-month electricity price in the U.K. has  averaged  47.80
pounds a megawatt-hour over the past year.  Most of the contracts will last 15 years, while those for
plants converted to biomass will get 20-year deals, according to
the proposals.  Drax Group Plc (DRX) , the country’s biggest coal plant,
is spending $1 billion to convert half of its six units to burn
wood pellets. Its shares rose as much as 8.2 percent today.  ‘Step Forward’  RenewableUK, the main industry lobby group, said that while
the proposals are a “step forward,” the 15-year length of the
contracts makes industry development “challenging.”  “The levels of the strike prices are challenging but
possible considering the reduced time periods that renewables
will be supported for under contract for difference system
compared to the Renewable Obligation,” Chief Executive Officer
Maria McCaffery said in an e-mailed statement. “More details do
need to be set out. The most important ingredient remains
investor confidence and that will take time to land.”  Subsidies paid “aim to make the U.K. market one of the
most attractive for developers of wind, wave, tidal, solar and
other renewables technologies, whilst minimizing the costs to
consumers,” Davey said in a statement. He said the goal is for
renewables to contribute more than 30 percent of the nation’s
electricity by 2020.  The price for offshore wind is within the range of 145
pounds to 175 pounds recommended by the government’s global
warming policy adviser, the Committee on  Climate Change .  Nuclear Guarantee  In a speech to Parliament today outlining infrastructure
spending commitments, Treasury Chief Secretary  Danny Alexander 
slipped in that the Treasury will extend a “multi-billion pound
guarantee to advance the new nuclear power station at Hinkley
Point.  Electricite de France SA  is considering whether to build
the plant in southwest England, the first facility of its kind
in two decades and is still in talks with the government about
the strike price.  The government said it will run its first capacity market
auctions next year, for delivery in 2018. The purpose of the
mechanism is to ensure there is enough generation capacity that
can be brought online at times of peak demand.  Existing power plants will receive one-year capacity market
contracts, those that require refurbishment to remain
operational will receive payments for as many as three years,
and new generators will get longer agreements, according to a
document posted on the energy department website.  RWE’s Massara said the 15-year span of the contracts for
difference for renewable power is too short, and that all power
plants should be eligible to contracts of the same duration
within the capacity market, rather than the current proposal,
which rewards new generators with longer deals.  ‘‘The capacity mechanism should be non-discriminatory and
open to old or new plants’’ and different fuel types,” Massara
said. “A megawatt is a megawatt is a megawatt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  