-- U.K. Nuclear Plan Advances With $15 Billion Loan Backing
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/u-k-s-nuclear-plan-advances-with-15-billion-treasury-backing.html
The U.K. government’s decision to
guarantee as much as 10 billion pounds ($15 billion) in debt for
the first nuclear power station in two decades helps ensure
 Electricite de France SA  will support construction of the plant.  Treasury Chief Secretary  Danny Alexander  announced backing
for the project in southwest England yesterday as the Energy
Department outlined subsidised rates for wind and solar power of
at least 100 pounds per megawatt hour for the next three years.
EDF has indicated it needs about 95 pounds a megawatt hour to
move ahead with the project.  The decisions fanned speculation that Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is preparing to announce incentives strong
enough to prompt EDF to build the plant. Nuclear along with
offshore wind is at the heart of Cameron’s program for replacing
the fifth of the nation’s power generation that’s scheduled to
retire from service within 10 years.  “It’s helpful for the project to go ahead, but also
helpful in terms of government eventually being able to sign a
contract that has a strike price that looks half way
reasonable,” said  Peter Atherton , an analyst at Liberum Capital
Ltd. in London.  Loan guarantees are crucial for EDF to reduce the risk of
building and financing the proposed Hinkley Point C reactors.
The guarantee, which acts as an insurance policy for providers
of funding that they will get paid, will reduce the cost of debt
needed to fund the project by allowing EDF to borrow at rates
close to what the government pays, Atherton said.  New Nuclear  Britain hasn’t built nuclear  power plants  since 1995 and is
seeking 110 billion pounds of investment in its aging power
generation and electric grid network.  The government and EDF remain locked in talks about the
price the U.K. will pay for nuclear power, which EDF has said is
the most important issue determining whether it will move ahead.
EDF didn’t have an immediate comment.  The guarantee was announced as Britain unveiled it would
pay offshore wind developers triple the market price for
electricity they generate to 155 pounds ($237) per megawatt-hour, from next year. Onshore wind farms get 100 pounds a
megawatt-hour for the next three year, and large solar plants
125 pounds next year and the year after.  “The read-across to nuclear is positive,” Dominic Nash,
an analyst at  Macquarie Securities. (MAQIISF)  “If you’re at those sort of
levels for a lot of those technologies, it makes it easier to
give a higher price for nuclear.”  Strike Price  EDF is seeking at least 95 pounds a megawatt-hour, a person
familiar with the matter said in February. Discussions between
the government and EDF are “intense and constructive,” Energy
Secretary  Ed Davey  said in London, declining to give a timetable
for an outcome. His department said it will only sign a contract
that provides value for money and that’s fair and affordable.  The U.K. Treasury department said it agreed to pre-qualify
Hinkley Point C plant for the 40 billion-pound guarantee program
it first announced in July 2012.  Drax Group Plc (DRX)  in April won a
guarantee on finance to fund conversion of its coal-fired power
station to biomass.  EDF will pay commercial rates for the guarantee, which
isn’t a subsidy since it’s part of a program available to other
energy projects, Davey said.  ‘Blank Check’  “The government’s award of a guarantee for Hinkley before
a contract has even been signed is a nothing but a blank check
to the industry,” Greenpeace Chief Scientist Doug Parr said in
a statement. “This is not a surprise as no one seriously
believes nuclear can happen without a massive subsidy.”  Nuclear power has been generating in the U.K. for the past
five decades. All except one of the U.K.’s nuclear plants is due
to close by 2023. While there is no government target for
nuclear, industry has plans to develop about 16 gigawatts of new
atomic power. The U.K. has about 82 gigawatts of generation
capacity, according to the Ofgem electricity regulator.  “A really big part of the issue there is the cost of the
financing,” Atherton said. “Anything you can do to bring the
cost of financing down has a big impact on the overall economics
of the nuclear station. That’s where so much of your cost is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  