-- U.K. Plans to Sell $23 Billion State Assets to Cut Debt
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-27T15:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/u-k-plans-to-sell-23-billion-state-assets-to-cut-debt.html
The U.K. government announced it
will sell off 15 billion pounds ($23 billion) of state-owned
assets by 2020 to help bring down its debt, as it detailed
 future spending on infrastructure  to boost growth.  Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander said 10
billion pounds would be generated by selling corporate and
financial assets such as the mortgage-style student loan book,
along with 5 billion pounds of land and property. He pledged 300
billion pounds of  capital spending  by the end of the decade,
highlighting the construction of the high-speed rail link from
 London  to northern  England .  “Government is the custodian of the taxpayers’ assets,”
Alexander told lawmakers in Parliament in London today. “When
we no longer need them, we should sell them back at a fair price
-- not act like a compulsive hoarder.”  Alexander’s statement was the second in as many days by
U.K. Treasury ministers of plans for the years following the
next election in 2015. He gave specifics today about 100 billion
pounds of spending proposals after Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  set out 11.5 billion pounds of budget reductions
for 2015-16. The government has extended its austerity program
to 2017-18 amid weaker-than-expected  economic growth .  Already Announced  The investment program doesn’t reflect an increase in net
capital spending, the independent  Institute for Fiscal Studies 
said today, saying Osborne’s announcement had been accompanied
by “woeful” levels of information and explanation. Most
spending plans were already known, IFS Director  Paul Johnson 
told reporters in London.  “We are hardly entering a new era of massive
infrastructure investment,” Johnson said. “Despite the hype,
net capital spending is not set to rise.”  Public-sector net investment will fall in 2015-16 to 1.5
percent of gross domestic product from 1.6 percent in 2014-15,
Johnson said. The IFS projects that it will also fall further as
a share of national income in the two following years.  The government is hoping infrastructure investment will
help kick-start the recovery it needs to meet its austerity
targets. The deficit-cutting program, the most ambitious since
World War II, has helped keep  bond yields  low. Ten-year gilts
yielded 43 basis points more than German bunds on average since
the Conservative-led coalition took office in May 2010, versus
96 basis points the day before the election.  HS2 Budget  The minister set a budget of 42.6 billion pounds for
construction of the HS2 north-south rail link and said 7.5
billion pounds will be spent on rolling stock at 2011 prices.
The budget for the plan over the next Parliament, between 2015
and 2020, was set at 16 billion pounds. Alexander also announced
a 28 billion-pound investment in roads, as well as spending on
expanding the broadband network and in renewable energy.  “As we move from repair to renewal, we also need to invest
in the fabric of our nation,” Alexander said. “And I can do
that because we have chosen to find savings from day-to-day
budgets which allow us to recycle billions back into long-term
capital spending, not the easy choice, but the right one.”  Alexander also said the U.K. has 1,300 trillion cubic feet
of shale gas, double previous estimates. He said the government
will provide an additional 800 million pounds to the Green
Investment Bank so it can expand further and give it the power
to borrow 500 million pounds from the government in 2015-16.  Nuclear Plant  Other announcements included 3 billion pounds for 165,000
new affordable homes; 10 billion pounds on repairing 261
schools; 250 million pounds for superfast broadband; and new
government guarantees for the Hinkley Point nuclear-power
station on the west coast of England to be built by  Electricite
de France SA. (EDF)   According to the IFS, the U.K. is only halfway through a
squeeze that will reduce central  government spending  by about 20
percent, the fifth-largest program of cuts among 29 advanced
economies.  Taxes will need to rise by 6 billion pounds after the 2015
election if the government is to meet its target of an 80
percent to 20 percent split between spending cuts and tax
increases, the IFS said.  “We are on course not for sharing the consolidation 80
percent on spending and 20 percent on tax as the government
originally planned but for an 85:15 split,” Johnson said.  The coalition government is seeking to convince voters it
is investing in measures to boost jobs and growth, while also
pushing the Labour opposition to come up with an acceptable
alternative in the run-up to national elections.  The Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition should “pull
its finger out” as its plans for construction and growth have
been a “total flop,” Labour Treasury spokesman  Chris Leslie 
told Alexander in Parliament. Leslie said the U.K. has spent 5.6
billion pounds less on  capital investment  over the past three
years than the  Labour Party  would have done.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  