-- U.S. to Revoke Bangladesh Trade Benefits
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-27T20:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/u-s-said-to-revoke-bangladesh-benefits.html
The U.S. will suspend trade benefits
on $34.7 million in goods from  Bangladesh  because of inadequate
labor and safety standards in the Asian nation where a garment-factory collapse killed more than 1,000 workers in April.  “This was not a decision taken lightly by the
administration,” U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman  said
today on a call with reporters. While the U.S. had been
reviewing Bangladesh’s trade status prior to the factory
collapse, the April 24 incident highlighted U.S. concerns about
labor and safety conditions in the country, he said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is beginning talks
with the Bangladesh government to improve conditions and qualify
for the trade benefits, which eliminate duties on the imports,
Froman said. “There’s no particular timetable in mind,” he
said.  The collapse of the Rana Plaza factory, the worst
industrial accident in nation’s history, prompted increased
scrutiny of the country’s labor conditions. Labor groups also
have criticized retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Gap
Inc. (GPS)  for not joining a legally binding agreement to improve
worker safety in Bangladesh.  ‘Important Message’  “The global workplace cannot be a deathtrap for poor
workers producing products for the global economy,”  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor
federation, said in a statement. The U.S. action “sends an
important message to our trading partners,” he said, saying
nations that tolerate unsafe working conditions will lose access
to the U.S. market.  Bangladesh participates in a U.S. program known as the
Generalized System of Preferences, which allows zero or reduced
tariffs on some products imported from  developing countries .  The trade preferences exclude imports of Bangladesh’s
apparel, which the U.S. Commerce Department said represented 91
percent of the $4.9 billion in U.S. imports from the nation last
year.  The U.S. action is largely symbolic because textiles and
apparel aren’t included, and it may influence the European
Union’s review of trade preferences, Jonathan Fee, a trade
lawyer at  Alston & Bird LLP  in Washington, said in a phone
interview.  “It would be a giant kick in the teeth for Bangladesh to
lose GSP status with the EU,” which includes apparel, he said.  Progress Lacking  The U.S. had considered steps to raise tariffs on some
Bangladeshi goods even before the collapse. In a Jan. 8 notice
in the Federal Register, the U.S. Trade Representative’s office
said that “the lack of progress by the government of Bangladesh
in addressing worker rights issues in the country warrants
consideration of possible withdrawal, suspension or limitation
Bangladesh’s trade benefits.”  Democrats in Congress praised the administration’s
decision.  “Bangladesh’s labor laws must be dramatically improved and
suspending GSP benefits will hopefully help kick-start these
overdue reforms,” Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman
 Robert Menendez  of New Jersey said in a statement.  The U.S. action is “an appropriate and welcome step,”
Representatives Sander Levin of  Michigan  and  George Miller  of
California said in joint statement. “We expect this decision
will be viewed with interest by others considering similar
action, such as the European Union,” they said.  Miller and Levin said they would continue to push U.S.
corporations to join a legally binding accord that allows
companies to source products from Bangladesh only if labor
rights and conditions in the country improve.  Wal-Mart of Bentonville, Arkansas, and San Francisco-based
Gap are among U.S. retailers forging an agreement to establish a
$50 million, five-year fund to improve safety conditions in
Bangladesh garment factories, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday, citing a person familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  