-- U.S. Bank to Reimburse Military Members in CFPB Crackdown
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-06-27T17:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/u-s-bank-to-reimburse-military-members-in-cfpb-crackdown.html
U.S. Bancorp (USB)  and a partner company
will repay about $6.5 million to resolve Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau claims that they misled miltary-service
members who participated in an auto lending program.  The two companies “failed to properly disclose costs
associated with repaying auto loans” made to service members
under U.S. Bancorp’s Military Installment Loans and Educational
Services program, CFPB Director Richard Cordray said today in a
statement announcing the settlement.  The Miles program allows young service members with minimal
credit history to finance auto purchases, with repayment debited
from paychecks through the military’s allotment system, which
deducts money before the rest is deposited in a bank.  U.S. Bancorp, based in  Minneapolis , will reimburse
customers $3.2 million, while its partner, Lexington, Kentucky-based Dealers’ Financial Services will pay $3.3 million. The
money will go to more than 50,000 service members, providing an
average reimbursement of less than $130 per customer, the CFPB
said.  The bank failed to properly disclose a fee that resulted in
paying an additional $180 over the life of a 60-month loan, the
consumer bureau said. DFS understated the costs of a vehicle
service contract and insurance sold with the loans, both of
which raised costs to consumers, the agency said.  Tom Joyce, a spokesman for U.S. Bancorp, said the bank will
end its program, while noting that it wasn’t fined by CFPB.  ‘High Expectations’  “At U.S. Bank, we have high expectations for ourselves and
our company’s product offerings, and we apologize for any
confusion this program may have caused our customers,” Joyce
said in an e-mail.  DFC Global Corp. (DLLR) , the parent company of DFS, said it
cooperated with the CFPB in the investigation and would seek new
lender partners now that U.S. Bank is exiting the program.  “We have refocused our attention on negotiations with new
potential lending partners that the company believes will
provide more competitive financing alternatives to our service
member customers,” DFC Chief Executive Officer Jeff Weiss said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  