-- U.S. Brands Near Pact on Bangladesh Fund, WSJ Says
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-06-27T00:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/u-s-brands-near-pact-on-bangladesh-fund-wsj-says.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
are among U.S. retailers finalizing an agreement to establish a
$50 million, five-year fund to improve safety conditions in
Bangladesh garment factories, the Wall Street Journal  reported ,
citing a person familiar with the matter.  The fund for factory safety is contingent on the Bangladesh
government meeting certain criteria that would ensure
accountability for safety improvements, the Journal reported. A
deal could be announced as soon as next month, the newspaper
said.  The two companies and other U.S. retailers have been
meeting with industry associations and the Bipartisan Policy
Center, a nonprofit policy and advocacy think tank. Under the
Safer Factories Initiative they are developing a plan to improve
fire and safety regulation in Bangladesh factories, following
the April 24 collapse of the Rana Plaza factory -- the worst
industrial incident in the country’s history.  The group plans to present a pact in early July, Jason Grumet, president of the center, said in a statement today.  “At this point only a few final details remain to be
worked out and agreed upon,” Grumet said.  Wal-Mart and Gap are among U.S. retailers that have faced
criticism for not joining 50 other garment-sellers in a legally
binding agreement to improve safety at Bangladesh factories that
has won support from labor-monitoring groups.  Hennes & Mauritz
AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) , Europe’s two largest clothing retailers, have
signed that accord and pledged at least $60 million over five
years to monitor safety in Bangladesh plants.  Public Inspections  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , said in May it
will make public safety inspections at all of its suppliers’
authorized factories in the country. Reviews of the 279 plants
will be completed within six months, and the factory names and
inspection information will be posted on its website.  The Safer Factories Initiative, announced on May 15,
brought together five apparel and retail trade associations in
the U.S. and Canada along with workers, factory owners, buyers
and the Bangladeshi government with the aim of developing an
industry standard on fire and building safety.  Sears Holdings
Corp. (SHLD)  is also participating in the discussions, Chris Brathwaite, a spokesman for the  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based
company, said today.  Wal-Mart and San Francisco-based Gap are under pressure
from activists to sign onto the legally-binding agreement.
United Students Against Sweatshops will hold protests with labor
unions and community groups at Gap and Wal-Mart stores in more
than 30 cities June 29, the group said in a statement today.  The Rana Plaza accident killed at least 1,127 and followed
a series of deadly fires that already had prompted activists to
push Western retailers to take more responsibility for  work
conditions  in that country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  