-- U.S. Businessman Leaves Beijing Factory After Labor Standoff
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-27T17:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/u-s-businessman-to-leave-beijing-factory-after-labor-standoff.html
An American businessman said he was
able to leave his factory on the outskirts of Beijing yesterday
after a standoff with his employees kept him inside for more
than five days.  The factory’s Chinese workers had refused to let Charles
Starnes, chief executive officer of Coral Springs, Florida-based
Specialty Medical Supplies, leave the grounds over a wage
dispute after the company decided to move part of its production
to Mumbai, where labor costs are lower, Starnes said on June 26.  “Yes I am gone!” Starnes said in a mobile-text message
yesterday, without commenting further. He declined to speak when
contacted by mobile phone later in the day.  Higher pay and the relocation of factories are undermining
 China ’s three-decade export model that kept production, cheap
labor, infrastructure and supply chains in one place, allowing
savings that made it the world’s supplier of low-end goods.  Specialty Medical, which has been in talks with local
government officials and the labor union, discussed giving a
lump-sum payment to government officials, who would decide how
to distribute the money to affected workers, Starnes said on
June 26. He declined to provide details on the payment, saying
only that it was “six-figure.”  Workers accepted mediation and will receive their June pay
plus some compensation, Xinhua News Agency said yesterday,
citing the district trade union. The plant will continue to
operate with newly hired workers, the news service said.  The agreement follows several rounds of talks with worker
representatives, district labor administrators, the union and
lawyers, Xinhua reported.  The company makes alcohol prep pads and lancing devices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  