-- U.S. State Pension Underfunding Worsens With New Moody’s Formula
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-06-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/u-s-state-pension-underfunding-worsens-with-new-moody-s-formula.html
Underfunding of state pension plans
in the U.S. grew worse under a new Moody’s Investors Service
formula, the rating company said in its first report using the
standards.  The report, released today, examined pensions in every
state and found that the total funded ratio, which measures
assets relative to liabilities, fell to 48 percent under its new
methodology from 74 percent before the changes. The ratio
measures fund management and whether a state is keeping up with
promises to retirees.  “States that have the largest relative pension liabilities
have at least one thing in common: a history of contributing
less to their pension plans than the actuarially required
contributions,” New York-based Moody’s said in the report.
“Funding history is an important credit factor.”  The 18-month recession that ended in 2009 cut pension
investment returns and caused states to cut back on
contributions as a way to balance their budgets. States are
looking for ways to reduce promised benefits and increase
contributions.  Illinois ,  Connecticut ,  Kentucky , New Jersey,  Hawaii  and
 Pennsylvania  have been downgraded over the past three years, in
part because of how they managed growing pension liabilities,
Moody’s said.  Illinois, which has the worst-funded state pension plans,
paid 17 percent more in extra yield in a $1.3 billion general-obligation bond sale yesterday than in April. State lawmakers
this year failed to pass legislation to address funding of the
pension plan by reducing benefits.  Moody’s also looked at pension obligations relative to
government revenue, a measure it said reflects the burden of the
plans. Illinois had the highest with 241 percent, followed by
Connecticut at 190 percent and Kentucky at 141 percent. The
median was 45.1 percent.  Moody’s used fiscal 2011 data and calculations that it said
“achieve greater comparability and transparency.” Moody’s used
a market-determined discount rate and the market value of
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  