-- UBS France Revenue Up 10% as Bank Talks With Authorities
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2013-06-27T07:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/ubs-france-revenue-up-10-as-bank-talks-with-authorities.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s French unit has boosted
revenue by 10 percent in the first half as it returns to profit,
and is cooperating with legal authorities who penalized the bank
for failing to prevent tax fraud, according to its top
executive.  The French unit of  Switzerland ’s largest bank, which was
fined 10 million euros ($13 million) for deficient controls
yesterday, has more than 9 billion euros under management from
wealthy clients, up from about 8 billion euros a year ago, Jean-Frederic de Leusse, UBS  France ’s chief executive officer, said
in an interview in Paris. Asked about the fine, he said he
understands “neither the scope nor some of the reasoning behind
this decision.”  “We are cooperating in full transparency with the
judges,” said de Leusse, a former senior executive at  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  who became the head of UBS France last year. “It’s
in the bank’s interests to clarify this situation as fast as
possible.”  De Leusse said French clients opening accounts at UBS in
Switzerland since the middle of 2012 have been required to prove
they’re compliant with their nation’s tax laws, and longer-standing clients have been requested to provide such proof since
the start of this year.  UBS France was at “the threshold of profitability” in
2010 before the sovereign-debt crisis “had an impact on our
assets under management and our performance” over the next two
years, de Leusse said. “Today we are profitable. Our
performance has been good” in 2013, he said.  Tax Investigation  French regulators said yesterday that in late 2007, UBS
France was alerted to “serious suspicions” that bank personnel
may have been involved in illicit marketing and covering up  tax
fraud , and the bank waited more than 18 months before setting up
the controls required to monitor and suppress such activities.  UBS, which is based in Zurich, said it may appeal the
decision yesterday and disagrees with “many” of the
regulator’s conclusions. “UBS does not tolerate any activities
intended to help its clients circumvent their tax obligations,”
the bank said in a statement.  UBS and its French unit are under a formal investigation by
Paris prosecutors as France steps up efforts to combat  tax
evasion . French tax investigators searched UBS offices in cities
including Strasbourg, Lyon and Paris last year, and three
individuals were put under formal investigation.  In France, UBS has about 60 wealth-management bankers
advising clients and also operates in  investment banking  and
asset management.  De Leusse said that as part of UBS’s overhaul of investment
banking, the French unit cut 25 jobs this year, with staff
reductions mostly in fixed income and mergers and acquisitions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  