-- Lukoil Joins East Siberia Oil Hunt as Russia Boosts Asian Supply
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-06-27T16:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/lukoil-joins-east-siberia-oil-hunt-as-russia-boosts-asian-supply.html
OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  will step up its search
for crude in Russia’s Far East as the world’s largest oil-producing nation develops reserves nearer to Asian markets.  Lukoil plans to add assets through exploration rather than
acquisition, billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Vagit Alekperov 
said today in Moscow. “We are looking at a number of big blocks
in East Siberia.”  The focus on exploration represents a change in tactics at
Lukoil, which has spent billions of dollars on buying businesses
as recently as April to bolster domestic output. The shift will
give the company more scope for growth since the remaining
acquisition options are too small and not “economically
effective,” according to the CEO.  President  Vladimir Putin , seeking to supply Asian demand,
opened a pipeline linking Russia’s Far East with China in 2012.
That’s allowed oil producers  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  and OAO Surgutneftegas
to tap fields and strike supply deals that may eventually make
Asia’s most populous nation Russia’s largest single market.  “Other Russian companies’ experience probably convinced
Lukoil that East Siberian projects can be attractive,”  Alexei Kokin , an oil and gas analyst at UralSib Financial Corp., said
by e-mail today. “As a late entrant, Lukoil will be able to
learn from the pioneers’ mistakes and be more efficient.”  Lukoil, Russia’s largest oil producer after Rosneft, is
looking in the Yakutia, Irkutsk and Krasnoyarsk regions for
exploration opportunities, Alekperov told reporters. The Moscow-based company is preparing bids for three blocks, he said,
without specifying their location.  Regardless of exploration prospects, Lukoil will begin
sending supplies east across Siberia at the start of the third
quarter, according to the CEO. It plans to send its first crude
shipment, 100,000 metric tons, through the new pipeline in July
and may increase volumes in the future, he said.  Lukoil completed its $2.05 billion purchase of  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s
Russian subsidiary, Samara-Nafta, on April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  