-- Hungary Has Room to Cut Record-Low Rate, Central Bank Chief Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-06-27T13:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/hungary-has-room-to-cut-record-low-rate-central-bank-chief-says.html
Hungary has room to reduce its
benchmark  interest rate  from a record low as policy makers seek
to bolster the economy emerging from a recession, Magyar Nemzeti
Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said.  “The easing cycle isn’t over, we see further scope for
cutting the key interest rate,” Matolcsy said at a conference
in Budapest today. Policy makers will take into consideration
global financial market risks and the fate of stimulus programs,
Matolcsy said.  The central bank lowered the benchmark two-week deposit
rate to a record 4.25 percent on June 25 in an 11th consecutive
quarter-point cut and said further easing is possible as long as
the outlook for inflation and economy justify it. Still, policy
makers pledged “increased caution” because of the market
volatility caused by the U.S. Federal Reserve saying it may
phase out stimulus.  Hungary may have to embark on “monetary tightening” if
global risk appetite and a protracted recession in the euro area
raise risk premiums on local assets “significantly,” the
central bank said in a report today. On June 25, it lowered its
inflation forecast and raised its projection for economic growth
for this year.  Matolcsy, who took over in March, wants to help ignite an
economy emerging from its second recession in four years with
inflation at the slowest in almost 39 years. The scope to ease
policy was threatened by an emerging-market selloff after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the U.S. central bank
may start slowing the pace of its unprecedented bond buying this
year if the world’s biggest economy keeps improving.  ‘More Stimulus’  “There are no bad news in terms of global stimulus, as the
Fed, the  Bank of Japan  and the  European Central Bank  are all
moving toward more stimulus in an orchestrated manner,”
Matolcsy said.  The forint gained 0.4 percent to 295.15 per euro by 2:34
p.m. in Budapest, extending its second-quarter appreciation to
3.1 percent, the third-best performance among about 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank this week cut its forecast for average
inflation this year to 2.1 percent from 2.6 percent and raised
its economic-growth estimate to 0.6 percent from 0.5 percent.
Price growth will probably accelerate to 3.2 percent next year
with expansion picking up to 1.5 percent, it said.  Policy makers complemented 2.75 percentage points of rate
cuts since August with a 750 billion forint ($3.3 billion)
program to boost lending to small and mid- sized companies.  The Funding for Growth program together with falling
interest rates will “render Hungary’s financial system a lot
cheaper,” Matolcsy said. Banks will have to reduce credit costs
and start lending “in this new world,” Matolcsy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  