-- Turkish Protests Planned Using Twitter, Negotiator Says
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-06-27T09:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/turkish-protests-planned-using-twitter-negotiator-says.html
Anti-government protests in Istanbul
were co-ordinated by unknown groups in  Europe  using social
media, Turkey’s European Union negotiator Egemen Bagis said.  The groups set up 20 Twitter accounts in “various European
capitals” about six months ago and used them to send messages
to Turkish intellectual and cultural figures, Bagis said at a
private equity conference in Istanbul today. The speed with
which the protests escalated showed that they were planned in
advance, he said.  Bagis’s remarks come after the government cracked down on a
three-week-long protest movement that ignited on May 31 after
police used tear gas and water cannon to disperse protesters
occupying an Istanbul park to prevent its redevelopment. Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has said the protests were
exaggerated by the international media and were backed by
financial lobbies seeking to undermine Turkey’s economy and
raise its  interest rates .  The protests turned violent after someone burned down the
protesters’ tents in Istanbul’s Gezi Park, Bagis said. Hashtags,
used on Twitter to organize postings on a specific subject, were
created three days before that occurred while banners with
identical messages were printed on short notice, he said.  Logistics tents with “water and lots of beer” were
established within hours, Bagis said. He said his experience as
a former community organizer told him that creating an event of
such a scale on such short notice was “impossible.”  Bagis declined to say who the groups behind the alleged
conspiracy were, saying only that they wouldn’t destabilize
 Turkey ’s economy.  Police made mistakes in their initial response to the
protests, Bagis said, and “there will be no tolerance for
wrongdoing.” About 20 officers have been suspended pending
investigations, he said. Further progress is needed to enhance
civil rights and strengthen the rule of law, he said.  “Turkey is not perfect,” Bagis said. “But it is better
than it used to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  