-- Verizon Canada Foray Would Deal Rogers and Telus Bigger Blow
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-27T22:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/verizon-canada-foray-would-deal-biggest-blow-to-rogers-and-telus.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and  Telus
Corp. (T)  would be hardest hit among  Canada ’s main wireless carriers
from  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s potential foray north while
 BCE Inc. (BCE)  may be better insulated by its broadcast and land-line
moat.  A report yesterday that Verizon has made a bid for Toronto-based Wind Mobile has sent shares of Rogers and Telus  tumbling
for a second day and prompted downgrades to both stocks.
Verizon, whose market value of $145.9 billion is more than
double that of BCE, Rogers and Telus combined, last week
confirmed it’s mulling an entry into Canada. It declined to
comment on whether it has made an offer for Wind that would
value it at C$700 million ($668 million) or that it started
talks with Mobilicity, another new entrant.  BCE, which has spent close to C$8 billion in acquisitions
in the past four years to expand into broadcasting, is less
dependent on wireless profits than Toronto-based Rogers and has
a more diversified business than Vancouver-based Telus. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization from
mobile-phone businesses accounts for more than 60 percent of
total profit at Rogers and Telus, while only 30 percent for
Montreal-based Bell, according to Tim Casey, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto.  “Of the large cap wireless companies, BCE has the lowest
exposure to wireless on a relative basis,” Casey said in a note
today. Casey downgraded Telus and Rogers to the equivalent of a
hold and upgraded BCE to a buy.  Deep Pockets  Verizon’s interest in Canada comes weeks after Telus’s bid
to buy Mobilicity, which bought wireless spectrum in 2008, was
blocked by the Canadian government. Industry Minister Christian Paradis is leading the government’s charge to spur fresh
competition for BCE, Telus and Rogers, who together control
about 90 percent of the Canadian wireless market.  “The entry of Verizon into the Canadian wireless market
would be the best-case scenario for the Industry Minister and
the worst case scenario for the incumbent players,” Casey said.
Verizon has “deep pockets, and considerable scale and expertise
in the business.”  Other analysts agree that Rogers, the first carrier to
offer the BlackBerry and then  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone in Canada, has
the most to lose.  ‘At Risk’  “Given Rogers’ higher-than-average exposure to wireless,
we see Rogers as most at risk,” for subscriber losses, said
Greg MacDonald, an analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets in
Toronto.  Using a combination of prospective subscriber losses and
roaming revenue decline, MacDonald estimates the arrival of
Verizon could be worth C$4.25 a share to Rogers’ valuation,
C$2.41 to Telus and C$2.20 to BCE.  Telus yesterday tumbled 8 percent in Toronto, its biggest
drop since April 2009, as Rogers fell 9.2 percent, the steepest
decline since October 2008. BCE fell by 4.1 percent yesterday
and climbed 0.9 percent to C$41.96 today. Rogers dropped 3.2
percent today to C$40.35, while Telus fell 2.9 percent to
C$29.82.  “Wireless service is already intensely competitive in
Canada with three large national carriers and a few dozen
regional and smaller carriers,”  Shawn Hall , a spokesman for
Telus, said in an e-mail. “Telus has never shied away from
competition, and that won’t change if a U.S. carrier opens shop
in Canada.”  ‘More Spectrum’  Wind Mobile, Mobilicity and Public Mobile, the third of the
three Ontario-based new entrants, have all struggled to make
inroads against the big three. Wind sought a deal with Vimpelcom
to give the Amsterdam-based carrier control of Wind before
Vimpelcom withdrew its request for approval from Canadian
regulators. Mobilicity’s rescue by Telus was blocked. Public
Mobile successfully secured a deal this month to be acquired by
a U.S. private equity firm and an investment firm linked to the
billionaire Thomson family.  Spectrum rules designed to support new Canadian competitors
would be unfair if it means “giving major U.S. carriers access
to more spectrum and at a lower price than Canadian companies,”
BCE said in an e-mail. “Bell is always ready to compete” but
“favoring big foreign companies was clearly not the intention,
and the government needs to address the issue as soon as
possible.”  ‘Competitive Environment’  “The Verizon story is speculation at the moment,”
Patricia Trott, a Rogers spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.
“We’re watching with interest, like others. We already operate
in an extremely competitive environment and know we have what it
takes to succeed.”  Drew McReynolds, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , today
cut his rating on Rogers and Telus to the equivalent of a hold
while questioning whether Verizon will move forward with a bid.  Based on conversations he said he’s had with executives at
Verizon, McReynolds said in a note that Verizon is awaiting the
Canadian government’s clarification on spectrum transfer rules
and an auction of wireless airwaves expected in early 2014.  “While we continue to question whether the prize of
entering Canada is worth the effort,” said McReynolds,
“Verizon’s entering Canada would be a game changer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  