-- Vietnam Economic Growth Quickens as Investment Aids Exports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-27T13:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/vietnam-s-economic-growth-quickens-as-investment-boosts-exports.html
Vietnam ’s economic growth
accelerated in the second quarter after the central bank cut
interest rates to revive lending to businesses and rising
foreign investment boosted the nation’s exports.  Gross domestic product  grew 5 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, according to the General Statistics Office
in Hanoi. The central bank said today it would weaken its dong-dollar  reference rate  and that it would lower its rate caps on
U.S. dollar and dong deposits effective June 28.  Vietnam’s central bank has cut its  refinancing rate  eight
times since the beginning of 2012 to spur lending, and the
government is setting up an  asset management company  to clear
bad debt. The legislature last week voted to lower the corporate
income tax rate to help businesses, while disbursed foreign
investment rose 5.6 percent in the first half of 2013 to $5.7
billion, according to the Ministry of Planning & Investment.  “This isn’t going to be a strong growth year, but the
economy is stabilizing,” said Gaurav Gupta, the Hanoi-based
managing director at General Motors Co.’s Vietnam unit, citing
lower  interest rates  and inflation than in previous years.
“This year should set the base for the government to take
actions to drive growth faster in the future.”  The dong has slipped about 0.4 percent this quarter, a
smaller decline compared to other regional currencies including
the Philippine peso and the  Thai baht . The benchmark VN index
has gained more than 16 percent this year.  Business Index  The central bank weakened the dong-dollar reference rate to
21,036 from 20,828, which has remained unchanged since Dec. 26,
2011. The dong is allowed to trade as much as 1 percent on
either side of the rate.  The adjustment is “to more accurately reflect the supply
and demand of foreign currency in the market,” to create
stability for the foreign-exchange market, and to improve the
balance of payments, it said. The monetary authority said it
will use all necessary measures to ensure currency stability.  For  U.S. dollar  accounts, the central bank cut the
corporate deposit rate to 0.25 percent from 0.5 percent for all
tenors and reduced individual deposit rates to 1.25 percent from
2 percent.  On dong deposits, the rate was cut to 1.2 percent from 2
percent for tenors of less than one month, and to 7 percent from
7.5 percent for tenors of one month to less than six months.  Dong Support  “The cut in USD deposit rates is in line with the
government’s anti-dollarization policy,” Eugenia Fabon
Victorino, an economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Singapore , said in an e-mailed note. The larger cut in
dollar deposit rates for individuals in comparison to dong rates
is expected to support the local currency, she said.  Vietnam’s economy expanded 4.9 percent in the first half
from a year earlier, compared with a median estimate of 5
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven economists. GDP grew
a revised 4.76 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
and the  International Monetary Fund  predicts the economy is set
for a  third straight  year of sub-6 percent growth for the first
time since 1988.  The government targets 5.5 percent for this year after a
5.03 percent pace last year, the slowest since 1999. Vietnam’s
GDP may rise 6 percent in 2014, according to a directive by
Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung posted on the government website
this week. It also urged implementing monetary policy with the
aim of stabilizing the currency in order to “efficiently”
supply capital in the economy.  Exports Climb  Exports in the first half rose 16.1 percent to $62.05
billion from the same period a year earlier, while  imports 
climbed 17.4 percent to $63.5 billion for a trade deficit of
$1.4 billion, the Statistics Office said today.  “Most of the growth is coming from the foreign-invested
sector,” said Dominic Mellor, a Hanoi-based economist at the
 Asian Development Bank . “That’s how Vietnam has been able to
sustain its  exports (VEEXTYOY)  and, to some degree, its growth.”  Credit for the five months through May 31 rose 2.98
percent, compared with a 0.56 percent increase in the same
period a year earlier, according to the central bank. A
business-climate index climbed in the second quarter from the
first, according to the European Chamber of Commerce in Vietnam.  The central bank today said it will also lower the
interest-rate cap on short-term dong loans to 9 percent from 10
percent for industries including agriculture and exports, and
for small and medium-sized enterprises.  Low Consumption  “Businesses and production still have a lot of
difficulties because consumption in the market is still at low
levels and companies’ ability to absorb bank loans is still
limited,” it said. The rate-cap reductions are “in order to
curb deposit and lending rates at reasonable levels to help
stabilize the money market and the foreign-currency market and
to continue implementing measures to help resolve difficulties
for businesses and production.”  Industry and construction, which made up 38.7 percent of
the economy in the first half of the year, grew 5.18 percent,
today’s data showed. Services, which accounted for 43.1 percent
of GDP, grew 5.92 percent.  Agriculture , fisheries and forestry,
which made up 18.2 percent of GDP, expanded 2.07 percent.  “There are some signs that growth may be bottoming out,”
said Deepak Mishra, the Hanoi-based lead economist in Vietnam
for the  World Bank . “But it’s premature to conclude whether
this is the beginning of a sustained recovery.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  