-- Lions Revamp Second Test Lineup Seeking Rugby Series Victory
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-27T08:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/wallabies-retain-o-connor-at-fly-half-to-face-lions-pick-tomane.html
The British and Irish Lions included
fit-again winger Tommy Bowe and scrum-half Ben Youngs among five
starting changes for the second rugby Test against  Australia ,
which made two injury-enforced alterations of its own.  Irishman Bowe, who broke a bone in his hand June 8, takes
over from Alex Cuthbert and Youngs replaces Mike Phillips, who
was left out of the 23-man squad for this weekend’s match in
Melbourne. Flanker Dan Lydiate comes in for Tom Croft, while
lock Geoff Parling and prop Mako Vunipola step in for the
injured Paul O’Connell and Alex Corbisiero.  “Tommy is obviously a quality player and brings
experience,” Lions head coach Warren Gatland told reporters in
Melbourne. “The medics have done a brilliant job bringing him
back and he has slotted in really well this week.”  The Lions, who won the June 22 opener in Brisbane 23-21,
would secure their first series victory in 16 years by winning
at Etihad Stadium in two days. Australia also lost the first
Test when the teams last met in 2001 before rebounding for a 2-1
triumph. The third match is scheduled for July 6 in Sydney.  Prop Ryan Grant, back-rower Sean O’Brien and scrum-half
Conor Murray were called up to the replacements after playing in
the 35-0 victory against the  Melbourne  Rebels two days ago.
Croft and Cuthbert will join them on the bench alongside fly-half Owen Farrell, hooker Richard Hibbard and prop Dan Cole.  “This is a do or die match for Australia,” Gatland added.
“It’s going to be a real battle out there. We’ve decided to add
a little bit more physicality up front and Dan Lydiate brings
that. Then we’ve got the explosiveness off the bench with Tom
Croft and Sean O’Brien.”  Prudent Pick  Although Phillips, who started all three Tests in South
Africa four years ago, was “fit and available,” the Welsh
scrum-half didn’t take full part in training this week because
of knee soreness from the first Test.  “He is potentially an important component for next week,”
Gatland said of Phillips. “Given the quality of the nines we
have got, all of them have done a great job for us, we felt it
was prudent to make sure he was 100 percent fit for next week.”  Phillips’s replacement Youngs joins his brother, Tom, in
the starting lineup, making the Englishmen the 14th set of
siblings to play for the Lions, whose last Test series triumph
was in South Africa in 1997.  “The last thing we want to do is think about being 1-1 and
having to play another game in Sydney,” Gatland said.
“Everything for us is about Saturday night.”  O’Connor, Beale  Australia, which finished the first match with a flanker
playing in the backline and a scrum-half on the wing because of
injuries, retained James O’Connor at fly-half and made two
enforced changes to its starting lineup.  Kurtley Beale, who missed a last-minute penalty kick that
would have won the opener for the Wallabies, was picked at full-back to replace the concussed Berrick Barnes. Joe Tomane comes
onto the left wing in place of the injured Digby Ioane.  Midfield back Rob Horne and rookie full-back Jesse Mogg
were added to Australia’s replacements’ bench. The pair already
faced the Lions on their 2013 tour, appearing for the New South
Wales Waratahs and ACT Brumbies, respectively.  Wallabies coach Robbie Deans said he hadn’t considered
dropping O’Connor and Beale after they were photographed posing
with fans at 3:50 a.m. yesterday in a Melbourne fast-food
restaurant after attending the Lions-Rebels match. Although the
Australian Rugby Union cleared them of breaching team protocols,
Deans said it wasn’t ideal preparation.  Uncomfortable Conversation  “We’ve had a conversation for sure,” Deans said in a news
conference. “It’s not best practice in terms of sleeping
habits. They understand that it was too late for them to get to
bed. Suffice to say it wasn’t a comfortable conversation.”  O’Connor again starts in the No. 10 playmaking role after
being criticized by local media for his performance in Brisbane.
Christian Leali’ifano, who got knocked out less than a minute
into his Test debut in the series opener, will play at inside
center after passing post-concussion tests. He’ll partner Adam Ashley-Cooper, who’s recovered from a shoulder injury.  “We can take a lot out of game one,” Ashley-Cooper said.
“The nerves and the buildup have settled and we certainly know
what we’re going to encounter. We’ve had a really good
preparation this week and we’re clear and we’re really ready and
excited by the opportunity on Saturday night.”  BRITISH AND IRISH LIONS: Leigh Halfpenny, Tommy Bowe, Brian
O’Driscoll, Jonathan Davies, George North, Jonathan Sexton, Ben
Youngs, Jamie Heaslip, Sam Warburton (captain), Dan Lydiate,
Geoff Parling, Alun Wyn Jones, Adam Jones, Tom Youngs, Mako
Vunipola.  Replacements: Richard Hibbard, Ryan Grant, Dan Cole, Tom
Croft, Sean O’Brien, Conor Murray, Owen Farrell, Alex Cuthbert.  AUSTRALIA: Kurtley Beale, Israel Folau, Adam Ashley-Cooper,
Christian Leali’ifano, Joe Tomane, James O’Connor, Will Genia,
Wycliff Palu, Michael Hooper, Ben Mowen,  James Horwill 
(captain), Kane Douglas, Ben Alexander, Stephen Moore, Benn
Robinson.  Replacements: Saia Fainga’a, James Slipper, Sekope Kepu,
Rob Simmons, Liam Gill, Nick Phipps, Rob Horne, Jesse Mogg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Melbourne at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  