-- West Nile Virus Logs Deadlist Year After Hotter Summer
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-06-27T16:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/west-nile-virus-logs-deadlist-year-after-hotter-summer.html
The West Nile virus that swept
through the U.S. last year was the deadliest on record, killing
286 people as the warmer-than-average summer may have helped the
mosquito-borne virus spread, U.S. health officials said.  The U.S. had 5,674 cases in 2012, the largest number of
infections since 2003, the  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention  said. Cases were reported in every continental U.S.
state except for  Oregon , including the first-ever instance of
the virus recorded in  Maine , the CDC said in a report today.  The U.S. next week enters the typical peak season for West
Nile, where warm weather makes infection more likely. While
there are only six reported cases of the virus this year through
June, according to the CDC’s  website , more than 90 percent of
infections from last year occurred between July and September.  “West Nile virus is going to be a factor in the U.S. every
year now,” Marc Fischer, a medical epidemiologist with the
CDC’s arboviral diseases branch, said in a telephone interview.
“People need to take precautions and protect themselves.”  The reasons for last year’s surge in infections and deaths
are unclear due to the ecological factors that drive the virus’
spread, according to the CDC analysis in today’s Morbidity and
Mortality Weekly Report. The report notes the number of birds
and mosquitoes that spread the virus, as well as weather and
human behavior as factors that influence disease severity.  Hot Weather  The first eight months of 2012 in the lower 48 U.S. states
were the warmest start to any year in records dating to 1895,
according to data released in September by the National Climatic
Data Center in Asheville,  North Carolina . June to August of 2012
was the third-warmest summer on record as temperatures averaged
74.4 degrees Fahrenheit (23.6 Celsius) or 2.3 degrees warmer
than the average in the 20th century, according to the center.  There is no vaccine for West Nile, first detected in the
U.S. in 1999, which kills almost 10 percent of people who are
hospitalized for the infection and can also cause paralysis or
neurological damage.  While four out of five people who develop the virus never
develop symptoms, less than 1 percent of cases result in
symptoms such as high fever, disorientation, and convulsions. In
more severe cases, the virus can invade the central nervous
system and cause maladies such as meningitis, encephalitis, or
acute flaccid paralysis.  The rate last year at which people contracted the
neuroinvasive form of the virus -- 0.92 for every 100,000 people
-- is triple the median rate from 2004 to 2011 and approaches
the peak incidence in 2002.  The median age of patients with the virus was 56, and the
median age of those who died from it was 77.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  