-- Where Are the Libor Cases Against U.S. Banks?
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-06-27T22:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/where-are-the-libor-cases-against-u-s-banks-.html
It would look awfully strange if the
U.S. government wound up targeting only foreign banks as part of
its investigation into the manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate. It’s too soon to say if that will be the end
result. But time is marching quickly.  A year ago this week, London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  cut a $160
million nonprosecution  agreement  with the U.S. Justice
Department and became the first bank to  admit  to falsifying its
Libor submissions. Two other European banks -- Zurich-based  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  -- have
reached Libor-related settlements with U.S. prosecutors since
then, each with much harsher penalties than Barclays got.  Libor is the interest-rate benchmark used in hundreds of
trillions of dollars’ worth of financial contracts, from
derivatives to mortgage loans. It is based on daily surveys of
large banks about their borrowing costs. That it was rigged for
years by large banks is well-established. Still unclear is which
other lenders will be held accountable, or when.  Will the feds go after any U.S. banks? Last week’s criminal
charges in the U.K. against Tom Hayes, a former derivatives
trader at UBS and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , only add to the curiosity.
They came six months after U.S. prosecutors filed their own
criminal  complaint  against Hayes and another former UBS trader.
A comparison of the allegations in the two cases yields some
noteworthy differences.  Criminal Behavior  The eight criminal  counts  filed by U.K. prosecutors include
the period of time that Hayes worked for Citigroup in late 2009
and into 2010, as well as the three years he worked at UBS
before then. U.K. officials said he conspired with employees of
at least five other banks and three interdealer brokers to
manipulate yen Libor rates. The U.K. court documents identified
all the companies allegedly involved, including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  (Hayes, 33, appeared in a London court last week and hasn’t
indicated how he will plead.)  In the U.S., by comparison, the  complaint  against Hayes
listed three criminal counts, the timeline for which ended in
September 2009, when Hayes left UBS. The complaint cited UBS by
name but not Citigroup or other companies.  Put another way, the criminal counts against Hayes in the
U.K. include conduct while he worked at both UBS and Citigroup.
The three counts against him in the U.S. refer to the time he
worked at UBS but not at Citigroup.  A separate section in the U.S. complaint does cite illegal
acts that Hayes allegedly committed in 2010, when he was a
Citigroup employee. However, those weren’t referred to in the
fraud, conspiracy and antitrust counts that Hayes was
specifically charged with. The Justice Department’s Dec. 19 news 
release  about the charges against Hayes didn’t mention
Citigroup, either.  Might U.S. officials have carefully crafted the counts
against Hayes to avoid calling attention to Citigroup? There’s
no way to know from the outside looking in. A Citigroup
spokeswoman, Shannon Bell, declined to comment. So did a Justice
Department spokesman, Michael Passman.  The U.S. complaint against Hayes was unsealed on the same
day as a $1.5 billion settlement with UBS, under which its
Japanese subsidiary  pleaded  guilty in the U.S. to wire fraud.
The allegations against the company and the individuals went
hand in hand. That UBS admitted to criminal behavior was
consistent with charges that certain UBS employees broke the
law, too.  On the flip side, the notion that Citigroup didn’t violate
U.S. laws makes more sense if the criminal counts against Hayes
don’t mention any conduct while he worked there. It’s also
possible, of course, that prosecutors had other, perfectly good
reasons for structuring the complaint against Hayes as they did.  You won’t find much useful information about the probes in
the companies’ disclosures. JPMorgan and Citigroup noted the
existence of the Justice Department’s Libor investigation in
recent securities filings. However,  neither  company  specified 
whether the probe is civil or criminal in nature -- even though
it’s pretty clearly the latter.  Singled Out  There are indications that foreign corporations may face
stricter penalties than domestic companies have in U.S. criminal
cases.  Brandon Garrett,  a law professor at the University of
Virginia who is working on a book about corporate prosecutions,
said he examined more than 2,250 corporate convictions and
criminal settlements from 2001 to 2012 and found that foreign
firms were fined an average of $35 million, compared with $4.7
million for domestic firms.  Even when Garrett made adjustments to control for the type
of crime and whether a company was publicly held, foreign
corporations still paid far larger fines on average. To be sure,
the numbers don’t tell us whether prosecutors unfairly single
out foreign companies, Garrett said.  In a speech last month,  Mythili Raman , the acting head of
the Justice Department’s criminal division, said U.S.
authorities aren’t done with their  Libor probe , which also
resulted in a  guilty plea  to wire fraud by Royal Bank of
 Scotland ’s Japanese unit. “Banks will be held to account through
public admissions of guilt, payment of significant monetary
penalties and, as seen with RBS and UBS, criminal convictions,”
she said.  Whether those include U.S. banks remains to be seen.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  