-- Witch Hunt Burning Turkish Bonds as Erdogan Lashes at Koc
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-06-27T15:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/witch-hunt-burning-bonds-as-erdogan-lashes-at-koc-turkey-credit.html
Investors are driving up bond yields
of Turkish companies as concern mounts that Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  will take action against some for their alleged
complicity in the unrest that spread this month in the nation.  The yield on dollar debt due April 2020 by  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) ,
a group of companies with annual sales equivalent to about 6
percent of  Turkey ’s economic output, rose 210 basis points since
protests ignited on May 31 to 6.27 percent today. That compares
with a 100 basis-point increase to 5.04 percent for similar-maturity debt by higher-rated Vale SA of  Brazil , a country that
has also been roiled by anti-government protests. Koc traded at
a premium of six basis points at the end of May.  While Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff  said she’d listen
to the voice of the streets and pledged to give citizens a
stronger say in government, Erdogan lashed out against what he
says is a pre-planned effort to undermine Turkey’s economy. The
Koc-owned Divan Hotel in Istanbul will be investigated for
“providing shelter” to demonstrators fleeing police, Erdogan
said June 25.  “It is most likely that there will be a witch hunt,”
Haydar Acun, chief executive officer of Sardis Securities in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “It is a risk
which should be priced in.”  Koc’s press office in Istanbul declined to comment.
Lutfullah Goktas, an adviser to the prime minister, did not
answer calls to his cell phone seeking comment yesterday.  Foreign Media  Erdogan has blamed foreign media this month for instigating
and exaggerating the protests, naming companies including the
 BBC , and says the government will investigate the role of an
“ interest rates  lobby” and “provocateurs” on social media.  The BBC said it is “very concerned by the continued
campaign of the Turkish authorities to discredit the BBC and
intimidate its journalists,” according to a statement on its
 website .  “It is clear that only one politician is currently driving
the agenda in Turkey, and that is the prime minister,” Timothy Ash, chief emerging-markets economist for Standard Bank Plc in
 London , said by e-mail yesterday. “Rationality seems to have
gone out of the window in the search for scapegoats.”  The protests, which spread into a nationwide movement after
police cracked down on a group of environmentalists opposed to
the redevelopment of Gezi Park in Istanbul, were planned years
in advance,  Egemen Bagis , Turkey’s negotiator with the European
Union, said June 25.  Market Probe  “The worrying thing is that many in the Erdogan
administration actually believe this idea that there has been
some foreign plot against Turkey,” Ash said. “Foreign
investors are nervous given the global setting, and don’t need
to be given another reason to reduce exposure.”  Turkey’s Capital Markets Board is carrying out a probe into
trades preceding and during the protests. The investigation into
trades encompassing the time of the Gezi Park protests
constitute a “routine” probe into market volatility, Capital
Markets Board chief Vahdettin Ertas was quoted by BloombergHT
television as saying yesterday.  “This moves the issue beyond pure rhetoric and to the
extent that the investigation is into the buy and sell orders of
foreign customers of the local banks, it raises question marks
about the safety of one’s investments,” Alexander Perjessy, a
senior Eastern  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  economist and
strategist at AllianceBernstein Holding LP in  New York , said by
e-mail yesterday. “The risk is that this turns away even those
investors who are long-term Turkey bulls.”  Investment Outflows  Foreign investors sold $1.7 billion in Turkish bonds and
$993 million in Turkish equities in the three weeks to June 14,
according to central bank data published on June 20.  The  yield  on Turkey’s two-year lira note fell 54 basis
points to 7.60 percent at the close in Istanbul today amid
speculation that the U.S. Fed may not be quick to reduce
monetary stimulus. That pared the increase since clashes with
police broke at the end of May to 153 basis points, or 1.53
percentage points. The increase is the biggest for local-currency debt among major emerging markets, which has sold off
globally in anticipation that the U.S. would curb stimulus.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19
policy makers may curb monthly assets purchases of $85 billion
this year and stop them in 2014 should risks to the  U.S. economy 
continue to abate. A report yesterday showed gross domestic
product expanded less than earlier projected in the first
quarter.  Rising Yields  The  yield  on Turkish companies’ dollar debt climbed 208
basis points this month to 6.42 percent on June 25, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. That widened the yield  spread  with
high-grade, emerging-market corporate debt to 127 basis points,
within 26 basis points of a 17-month high reached a day earlier,
the indexes show.  The lira rose 0.6 percent to 1.9241 per dollar at 6:50 p.m.
in Istanbul, leaving it 2.5 percent weaker this month, the
second biggest depreciation among  emerging markets  in Europe,
the Middle East and Africa, following  Russia .  Koc won’t be the only corporate credit to suffer from a
combination of Fed tapering fears and domestic political unrest,
according to Sergey Dergachev, who helps oversee about $9
billion as a senior portfolio manager at Union Investment in
 Frankfurt .  The yield on September 2022 dollar bonds from  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s largest bank by market value, rose
189 basis points this month to 6.46 percent yesterday. After the
first week of protests, Erdogan singled out Garanti’s Chief
Executive Officer Ergun Ozen, saying he would oppose any bank
manager who stood with the protesters.  Risk Premium  The yield on November 2022 debt from  Anadolu Efes Biracilik
Malt Sanayii AS (AEFES) , the nation’s biggest brewer, increased 124
basis points to 5.55 percent as government regulations
restricting the sale and advertising of alcohol were signed into
law on June 10.  The “situation in Turkey dealt a heavy blow to the
political risk premium for Turkish debt, since this dimension of
protests and the reaction of Erdogan towards it had not been
expected,” Dergachev said by e-mail yesterday. “If the
perception for Turkey and emerging markets changes for the
worse, all Turkish credits will be hit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  