-- World Bank Sees ‘Vulnerable’ Food System on Climate Change
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-27T20:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/world-bank-sees-vulnerable-food-system-on-climate-change-1-.html
The global food system will remain
“vulnerable” in the years to come as a growing population
boosts demand for crops and  climate change  makes weather
disruption more frequent, according to the World Bank.  The world will need to produce 70 percent more food by 2050
to feed a global population expected to grow to more than 9
billion from 7 billion now, the  United Nations ’ Rome-based Food
& Agriculture Organization estimates. The three biggest annual
gains in food prices in the past 20 years occurred since 2007,
with the FAO’s food prices  index  of 55 items climbing to a
record in February 2011.  “Although we are having some good crops, we continue to
expand our consumption, so our ability to replenish stocks is
challenged,” Marc Sadler, practice leader at the agriculture
and environmental services unit of the  World Bank , said in an
interview in  London  today. “Demand continues to grow and a lot
of that has been driven by emerging, new middle-income consumers
who change their dietary patterns.”  Global demand will continue growing as increasingly wealthy
consumers in developing economies eat more meat. The world’s
food-import bill is expected to remain stable this year as
cheaper sugar and cooking oils compensate for higher dairy, fish
and meat costs, according to the FAO. Countries will spend
$1.094 trillion buying food this year from $1.092 trillion in
2012. Food-import costs rose to a record $1.26 trillion in 2011.  Corn Record  Wheat and soybeans led commodities gains last year and corn
jumped to a record in August after the worst U.S. drought since
the 1930s left limited supplies. Frosts in  Brazil  helped cut the
sugar cane crop in the country’s main producing region for the
first time in a decade in the 2011-12 season, data from industry
group Unica showed. Disruptive weather events are increasing in
frequency and amplitude, Sadler said.  “The real challenge for agriculture is that the
environment, the production system, the variables that surround
us, are increasingly volatile,” he said. “It will continue to
be a challenge to raise agricultural productivity in a resilient
way in the face of climate change and this is the reality we
face.”  While  food production  is increasing, a large proportion of
stockpiles are in countries that won’t export them, Sadler said.
About 50 percent of global grain supplies are in India and
 China , he told the Agriculture Investment  Summit  in London.
Global cereals production will be a record 2.46 billion metric
tons this year, the FAO estimates.  Better Crops  “The reality is we have better crops, but when we look at
available liquid stocks for the global export market as a
percentage of stocks to disappearance, it’s pretty low,” Sadler
said. “The good news is, food continues to move around the
planet, that trade continues to be relatively free. Last year we
had two big problems in the U.S. and in  Russia  and yet we saw
very little in the markets in terms of barriers to trade, so a
huge improvement, an important improvement and a difference from
what happened in 2008 and 2010.”  Countries from India and  Egypt  to Vietnam and  Indonesia 
banned exports of rice, a staple for half the world, during the
2008 food crisis. Russia in 2010 banned cereal exports after the
country’s worst drought in at least half a century destroyed
crops and cut production.  “Sudden changes to trade policy certainly in many previous
circumstances have had a negative impact on price, by that I
mean pushing prices up,” Sadler said. “That has had an impact
not only in consumers in middle-income countries but it’s had a
severe impact on the highly vulnerable and the poor and
developing countries.”  In a  separate report , the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said today the number of people experiencing food insecurity,
defined as consuming less than 2,100 calories per person per
day, in 76 low- and middle-income countries will rise 23 percent
to 868 million by 2023. In 26 of the nations studied, more than
40 percent of the population faces hunger, with the biggest
concentration in Sub-Saharan Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  