-- WTI Rises for a Fourth Day on U.S. Refining Boost
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-06-27T13:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/wti-crude-trades-near-one-week-high-u-s-inventories-advance.html
West Texas Intermediate climbed for
a fourth day as U.S. refiners boosted crude processing to the
highest rate this year and industrial profits increased in
 China , the world’s second-largest oil consumer.  Futures gained as much as 0.7 percent in  New York  to post
the longest rising streak since May 20.  U.S. refineries  operated
at 90.2 percent of combined capacity last week even as
stockpiles rose, government data showed yesterday. Profit at
Chinese industrial companies was up 16 percent in May from a
year earlier, according to China’s National Bureau of Statistics
today. WTI breached a technical-resistance level that capped
price gains the past week.  “We have spent the last four days recovering what was lost
in two days last week,” Ole Hansen, the head of commodity
strategy at Saxo Bank A/S, said by telephone from Copenhagen.
“The oil market is returning to the focus of before last week’s
sell-off, which is the increase in demand with refiners
returning from maintenance and ramping up runs.”  WTI for August delivery rose as much as 64 cents to $96.14
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $95.92 at 1:36 p.m. London time. The
contract climbed 0.2 percent to $95.50 yesterday, the highest
close since June 19. Futures have declined 1.3 percent in the
second quarter.  Brent for August settlement increased as much as 82 cents,
or 0.8 percent, to $102.48 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade was at a
premium of $6.35 to WTI futures, from $6.16 yesterday. The
volume traded was 32 percent below the 100-day average.  Oil Processing  U.S. refiners boosted operating rates by 0.9 percentage
point in the week ended June 21, the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, said in
a report yesterday.  Processing units are often restarted late in the spring,
after being idled for maintenance in winter, as attention moves
away from heating oil and before the peak season for U.S.
gasoline demand. The so-called summer driving season runs from
late May to early September.  U.S. crude  stockpiles gained  by 18,000 barrels to 394.1
million, the EIA data shows. Supplies were forecast to drop by
1.75 million barrels, according to the median estimate of 12
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Stubbornly High’  Gasoline inventories rose 3.7 million barrels last week,
the data show. They were projected to climb by 875,000 barrels,
according to the survey. Distillate supplies were up 1.6 million
barrels, compared with a forecast 650,000-barrel increase.  “Inventories are staying stubbornly high as we move into
the driving season, so that’s a negative development,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.  The U.S. was the biggest oil user last year, accounting for
21 percent of global demand, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy. China consumed 11 percent.  WTI is extending its rally after futures breached technical
resistance, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The August
contract yesterday settled above its 30-day middle Bollinger
Band for the first since June 19. Investors typically buy
contracts when chart resistance fails.  Syrian Conflict  U.S. crude prices have gained 4.3 percent in June on
renewed concern that the fighting in Syria will spread and
threaten Middle Eastern oil supplies. The U.S. plans to arm
Syrian rebels within a month, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday, citing diplomats and officials briefed on the plan.  The U.S. and 10 other countries pledged June 22 to expand
support for  Syria ’s rebel forces, without providing details. The
Central Intelligence Agency has begun moving weapons to Jordan
from a network of secret warehouses, according to the Journal.  Iran ’s President-elect Hassan Rohani will not change the
Persian Gulf nation’s policy of supporting Bashar al-Assad in
Syria’s civil war, Ahmad Bakhshayesh, a member of the Iranian
parliament, said yesterday by phone from Tehran.  Japan ’s crude imports from Iran more than doubled in May
from a year earlier despite sanctions against the Persian Gulf
country. Imports rose to about 222,000 barrels a day, according
to data today from Japan’s Ministry of Finance. A sustained
increase on a quarterly or annual basis is unlikely because
Japanese buyers can find alternate supplies, said Osamu Fujisawa, an independent energy economist in Tokyo who worked
for Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K.  Russia plans to ship less than a million barrels a day of
Urals crude from the Baltic port of Primorsk for a second month,
little changed from June, which was the lowest in more than five
years, a preliminary loading program showed. In addition,
several tankers are waiting at Primorsk after loading was halted
because of a tug boat dispute, Igor Dyomin, a spokesman for OAO
Transneft, said today by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  