-- Myanmar Picks Telenor and Ooredoo for Phone Licences
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e ,   K y a w   T h u   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-06-28T07:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/myanmar-picks-telenor-and-ooredoo-for-phone-licenses-over-soros.html
Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and  Ooredoo QSC (QTEL) 
of Qatar won licenses to expand telecommunications in Myanmar,
one of the world’s last remaining untapped markets where only
about one in 10 people has a mobile phone.  The two carriers  beat  nine other bidders including
 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , billionaire  George Soros  and
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  in the auction. A  France Telecom  SA-Marubeni
Corp. group was named as a backup in case one of the winners
doesn’t fulfill final requirements.  The decision ends a six-month race that drew 91 expressions
of interest to operate in the country of 64 million people. The
licenses are among the biggest prizes for foreign companies
since President Thein Sein moved to allow greater political and
economic freedom after taking power in 2011. They’ll be awarded
according to a telecommunications law that parliament expects to
adopt soon, according to a statement yesterday.  “The growth factor will be pretty significant since we all
start from zero,” said Jon Fredrik Baksaas, chief executive
officer of Telenor, the Nordic region’s biggest carrier. “We’ll
see a rapid build up in penetration.”  The government went ahead with the award even after
parliamentarians tried to delay the decision. Set Aung, deputy
minister of national planning and economic development who is
overseeing the process, said the process would only stop on
Thein Sein’s orders.  Local Preferences  Set Aung said that while he’d prefer local companies, the
process complied with international practices. Four of the
groups had local partners, including those led by SingTel;
Digicel Group Ltd. and Soros; Japan’s  KDDI Corp. (9433) ; and South
Africa’s  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  “The playing field should be level,”
he said.  Myanmar plans to boost telecommunications coverage to as
much as 80 percent of the country by 2016. It has a mobile-phone
penetration rate of 9 percent, compared with 70 percent in
 Cambodia , 87 percent in Laos and more than 100 percent in
Thailand, the Communication Ministry said in January.  Telenor’s Baksaas said he expects Myanmar to mirror the
company’s experience in  Pakistan , where it invested $2 billion
over eight years. While Myanmar is smaller, Telenor may take
three years of operations to break even if its reduces costs by
sharing basic infrastructure, the CEO said in a phone interview.
Telenor also has units in Thailand, Malaysia, India and
Bangladesh.  Pakistan Lesson  In Pakistan, penetration started at between 15 percent to
17 percent in 2005, climbing to 50 percent within four years.  For Ooredoo, formerly known as  Qatar Telecom , Myanmar will
become the Doha-based company’s second-biggest market by
population after Indonesia. The carrier plans to invest
“heavily” for at least four years, Chief Strategy Officer
Jeremy Sell said in a phone interview.  “After that you start to generate cash returns and get
money back a fair few years out,” Sell said. “We are in Iraq,
Algeria; Tunisia had a revolution; Indonesia has instability. We
are mature and savvy enough to appreciate the risk and mitigate
against it.”  Ooredoo shares rose 1 percent to 120.5 riyals in Doha
yesterday. Telenor slipped 0.3 percent to 121.4 kroner on the
Oslo exchange. France Telecom gained 0.2 percent to 7.395 euros
in Paris.  SingTel, Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company, rose 1.3
percent to S$3.77 as of 2:56 p.m. in Singapore, while  Yoma
Strategic Holdings Ltd. (YOMA) , which was part of the Digicel-Soros
group, fell 5.7 percent to 90.5 Singapore cents. KDDI closed 4.5
percent higher at 5,160 yen in Tokyo, while  Marubeni (8002)  fell 0.9
percent to 663 yen.  ‘Telecom Desert’  The U.S. and European Union have moved to ease sanctions,
attracting companies such as Coca-Cola Co. and Ford Motor Co. to
the former military-run state even as human rights groups warn
of abuses against ethnic and religious minorities.  “I have never seen any investors who are not coming to a
country before everything is perfect,” Set Aung said by phone.
“All the companies understand there are risks. Some companies
probably think there is too much risk, and other companies think
it’s a calculated risk.”  France Telecom strategy chief Elie Girard this month
described Myanmar as “the biggest telecom desert” with less
telephone use than in  North Korea  or Cuba. The company, bidding
with Japan’s Marubeni, is prepared to spend $1 billion to build
a network by 2019 to cover more than 75 percent of the country’s
geography in five years.  As the “reserve applicant,” France Telecom will be given
an operational role if either winner fails to meet Myanmar’s
requirements within 100 days, the Paris-based company said in a
statement.  15-Year License  The two licenses allow carriers to build and operate a
nationwide wireless network for 15 years. Vodafone Group Plc and
China Mobile Ltd., the two biggest mobile-phone companies,
withdrew their bid on May 31, saying the returns wouldn’t
justify the investment required.  Other bidders included  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA) , Sumitomo Corp.,
 Millicom International Cellular SA (MIICF)  and Vietnam’s Viettel Group.  Myanmar had 5.44 million mobile-phone subscribers as of
December, the government said in January. About 1.3 percent of
the population has access to fixed-phone lines and 0.03 percent
has broadband Internet, according to the  Asian Development Bank .  In May, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  warned that
companies bidding for the licenses risk being linked to human
rights abuses if they invest before laws are in place to protect
against illegal surveillance and censorship.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Kyaw Thu in Bangkok at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  