-- Yellen Betting Defies 100-Year Jinx of Fed No. 2 Never Elevated
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-06-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/yellen-betting-defies-100-year-jinx-of-fed-no-2-never-elevated.html
Janet Yellen , the favorite to lead
the  Federal Reserve  in a survey of economists, would need to
overcome 100 years of history in which the central bank’s No. 2
official has never risen to the top job.  Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairman since October 2010, was
given 65 percent odds of taking the helm at the Fed in January
2014 when Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s second four-year term
expires, according to a June 19-20 survey of 54 economists who
follow the central bank. Her appointment would break another
100-year pattern by making her the first woman to lead the Fed.  None of the 19 vice chairmen in Fed history has ever been
elevated, beginning with railroad magnate Frederic A. Delano who
held the office in 1914-16. The list includes Ronald Ransom and
C. Canby Balderston, now footnotes in the history of monetary
policy after each served more than a decade in the No. 2 job.
Those passed over most recently include Roger W. Ferguson Jr.
and  Donald Kohn , a 40-year Fed veteran.  “It’s often been the case that the members, including the
vice chairman, are much less prominent than the Fed chairman,”
said  Allan Meltzer , a professor of political economy at Carnegie
Mellon’s Tepper School of Business in Pittsburgh and the author
of a multivolume history of the Fed. Yet the most important
consideration may be the president’s relationship with the
person he ends up appointing, Meltzer said.  “Presidents look for people who will be congenial to them,
and the vice chairman might be somebody appointed by a previous
administration,” he said.  Yellen’s Chances  That’s not the case with Yellen, whom Obama nominated for
the vice chairmanship in 2010, meaning she may have a better
chance of winning the office that has eluded all her
predecessors.  During the last transition at the Fed, Vice Chairman
Ferguson, an appointee of President  Bill Clinton , was passed
over as President  George W. Bush  opted for Bernanke, who advised
the president during a stint as chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers.  Alan Greenspan  led a commission on Social
Security during President  Ronald Reagan ’s first term before his
appointment as Fed chairman in 1987.  Presidents have often opted to reappoint the central bank
chairman, rather than elevate the vice chairman. Greenspan was
reappointed by Presidents  George H.W. Bush , twice by Clinton,
and again by George W. Bush. Bernanke was appointed for a second
term by Obama in 2010. Those reappointments scotched the chances
of vice chairmen including  Alan Blinder ,  Alice Rivlin  and Kohn.  Global Pattern  That pattern has been repeated in recent central bank
appointments around the world.  The U.K. in November turned to  Mark Carney , the head of the
 Bank of Canada , to take the reins at the  Bank of England  from
Mervyn King, instead of King’s deputy  Paul Tucker . Stephen Poloz, who led Canada’s export financing agency was picked in
May as Carney’s replacement, bypassing Carney’s top deputy Tiff
Macklem.  At the Bank of Israel, Governor Stanley Fischer is
retiring, and Deputy Governor Karnit Flug was passed over in
favor of JPMorgan Chase International Chairman  Jacob Frenkel ,
who will be returning to the post that he also held from 1991 to
2000.  Obama Comment  Speculation over succession at the U.S. central bank has
grown after President Barack Obama said last week that Bernanke,
59, has stayed in his post “longer than he wanted,” one of his
clearest signals yet that the Fed chief will leave. Obama hasn’t
indicated who might replace Bernanke, and there are no signs
that the White House has begun a formal search.  In the meantime the handicapping has focused on Yellen, 66,
whose resume includes being a Fed governor from 1994 to 1997,
the chairman of President Clinton’s Council of Economic Advisers
from 1997 to 1999, and president of the San Francisco Fed from
2004 to 2010.  “Among people who have been vice chairman, I can’t think
of any who have been more qualified than Janet,” said J. Alfred Broaddus Jr., former Richmond Fed president. “She’s got more
experience in the Fed than maybe anybody else you could think
of.”  The chairman requires Senate confirmation, making it likely
that the White House would announce a nomination several months
before Bernanke’s term officially expires in January, to avoid
market turmoil that might result from an uncertain transition.  Second Woman  Fourteen men have served as the head of the central bank.
The Fed has had 19 vice chairmen, of whom Yellen is the second
woman to hold the office. Rivlin, a former director of the
Office of Management and Budget, served in the post from 1996 to
1999.  The Senate confirmed Yellen’s nomination as vice chairman
with a voice vote on Sept. 29, 2010. The Senate Banking
Committee, which vetted her nomination, approved her with a vote
of 17-6. All of the opposition came from Republicans.  Adam Posen , a former member of the Bank of England’s rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee, said Yellen’s apparent lack
of a personal relationship with Obama could be an impediment to
her appointment.  “It’s not a question of qualifications,” Posen said on a
panel at a Bloomberg Washington Economic Summit in April. “I’m
sure President Obama has high regard for Vice Chair Yellen, but
I don’t get the sense that they’re particularly close.”  Personal Relationship  “In general, presidents appoint Federal Reserve chair
people who they have some personal relationship with,” said
Posen, who is president of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics. Posen said today in an e-mail that his
views haven’t changed since April.  Two other possible Fed picks have close ties to the
president.  Timothy F. Geithner , 51, Treasury secretary during
Obama’s first term, was given a 10 percent chance of becoming
the next chairman.  Lawrence Summers , 58, who was an adviser to
Obama on economic policy and served as Treasury secretary under
Clinton, was given 9 percent odds, according to Bloomberg’s
survey.  Ferguson, 61, the chief executive of TIAA-CREF, has 7
percent odds, while the Bank of Israel’s Fischer, 69, has a 4
percent chance, according to economists in the survey.  None is as closely tied to current policy as Yellen. As
vice chairman, Yellen led a subcommittee that helped implement
the Fed’s communications strategy and has never dissented from
an FOMC action under Bernanke.  “I certainly think on the grounds of continuity, she is
the obvious choice,” Danny Blanchflower, a former Bank of
England policy maker and a professor at Dartmouth College, said
in a June 21 interview with  Kathleen Hays  on Bloomberg Radio.
“I think she’s highly capable and presumably would sail through
confirmation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  