-- Yuan Falls to Six-Week Low on Concern Cash Crunch to Slow Growth
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-06-27T04:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/yuan-falls-to-six-week-low-on-concern-cash-crunch-to-slow-growth.html
China ’s  yuan  fell to a six-week low
as the central bank weakened the currency’s fixing amid concern
a cash squeeze will slow lending and economic growth.  The People’s Bank of China set the  reference rate  0.03
percent lower at 6.1797 per dollar today, reducing it for the
seventh time in eight days. The monetary authority said this
week it has provided some liquidity to financial institutions to
stabilize money-market rates that surged to record highs last
week, and also called on commercial banks to improve their
liquidity management.  “Growth concerns are definitely there given the rate spike
in the past couple of weeks,” said Andy Ji, a foreign-exchange
strategist in Singapore at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)   The yuan fell 0.04 percent to 6.1494 per dollar as of 11:34
a.m. in  Shanghai , according to China Foreign Exchange Trade
System prices. The onshore spot rate, which is allowed to
diverge from the fixing by a maximum 1 percent, reached 6.1508
earlier, the weakest level since May 15. The yuan has lost 0.24
percent this month, paring its advance this quarter to 1 percent.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, reached an all-time high of 5.06 percent on June 20, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It fell six basis points today to 3.85 percent, still
above the one-year average of 3.18 percent.  The seven-day repo rate, a gauge of interbank funding
availability, fell 55 basis points to 6.74 percent, according to
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It touched a record high of 12.45 percent on June
20 and has a one-year average of 3.6 percent.  Spillover Effect  “We think that the liquidity crisis will spill over to the
broader financial sector and the real economy,”  Jian Chang , an
economist at Barclays Plc in  Hong Kong , wrote in a report today.
“While interbank  interest rates  have peaked and are falling,
rates will likely remain elevated for some time.”  The pain of the credit crunch is needed to pave the way for
a more sustainable economy, the official Xinhua News Agency said
in an unsigned commentary yesterday.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.06 percent to
6.3075 per dollar in Hong Kong, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts are at a 2.5 percent  discount  to the
onshore spot rate. The offshore yuan traded in Hong Kong was
little changed at 6.1478.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.89
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  