-- Zalando Tech Team Plans for Boom as Banks Said to Pitch IPO
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-06-28T10:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/zalando-seeks-10-fold-sales-growth-as-banks-said-to-pitch-ipo.html
Zalando GmbH, the German online
clothing retailer that’s said to have been contacted by banks
about the possibility of an initial public offering, plans to
relocate its technology staff for a second time in a year to
provide scope for a 10-fold increase in sales volume.  Workers at premises near Berlin’s Treptower Park will move
before the end of the year to an office more than twice the size
near the city’s Alexanderplatz, Chief Product Officer Christoph
Lange said in an interview. Zalando plans to add about 150
programmers to the current 350 through the end of 2014, he said.  “This is getting too small,” Lange said as he toured the
floor where a team of programmers wearing jeans and sneakers
works on processes such as improved tracking of packages. “In
the new office, we will have more space and will have more areas
with sofas where people can sit together and exchange ideas.”  The company’s technology infrastructure has to be able to
support transactions that are 10 times the current level, said
Chief Information Officer Philipp Erler. Revenue at the Berlin-based business more than doubled last year to 1.15 billion euros
($1.5 billion), making Zalando the biggest online fashion
retailer in Europe, ahead of London-based  Asos Plc. (ASC)   The planned expansion “is something that makes us quite
confident about our growth strategy,” Erler said.  No Plans  Founded in 2008 by David Schneider and Robert Gentz with
the backing of the German Samwer brothers, Zalando has been
regularly touted by the media as an IPO candidate, even though
it has yet to become profitable.  Banks have been reaching out to the company regarding such
a possibility, according to two people familiar with the matter,
who declined to be identified because the matter is private.  Still, the online retailer currently has no plans for an
IPO, spokesman Steffen Heinzelmann said.  The company may go public in the next one-to-three years,
according to Christian Schulze, assistant professor of marketing
at the  Frankfurt School of Finance and Management . The business
model is attractive for investors as it’s a high-margin
business, the company is doing “a good job” at building a
brand and the technology “will be on their side too,” he said.  Zalando co-Chief Executive Officer Rubin Ritter said in an
interview in February that the retailer isn’t for sale and its
shareholders are “very happy” with their investment.  Kinnevik Option  Those investors include  Investment AB Kinnevik (KINVB) , DST Global
LP, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Quadrant Capital. Kinnevik said
today that it exercised an option to acquire an additional 3.5
percent for 100 million euros, boosting its stake to 38 percent
and implying a valuation for Zalando of about 2.9 billion euros.  Asos, the U.K.’s largest online-only fashion retailer, has
a market value of about 3.3 billion pounds ($5 billion), more
than six times its last-reported annual sales of 552.9 million
pounds. The  shares  have more than doubled in the past year.
Asos, which made a pretax profit of 41 million pounds in fiscal
2012, targets 1 billion pounds of annual sales by 2015.  Zalando’s operations in  Germany ,  Austria  and Switzerland
broke even before interest and tax last year, though the company
posted a group Ebit margin of minus 8 percent of sales because
of the cost of opening business in additional countries.  The company will focus on countries where it’s already
present this year, Ritter said in February.  Customers returning about 50 percent of the products they
order will be the main challenge for Zalando’s profitability in
future, according to Schulze.  Facebook, Twitter  “Handling returns in a smart way and trying to convince
customers to behave in a way that is still profitable for the
company is going to be the main thing that Zalando has to focus
on in the future,” Schulze said. “Getting better at managing
returns is also a good way to improve profitability. We haven’t
reached the end of what is possible yet.”  The online retailer is seeking to increase the ratio of
shoppers that return to its website by improving the customer
interface, suggesting more suitable products and enabling faster
processing of transactions, the Zalando executives said.  The company also intends to integrate social media
information from  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. to better tailor
offers to people visiting the site, Lange said.  Zalando, which sells designer clothing from labels
including  Michael Kors (KORS)  and Patrizia Pepe as well as Ray-Ban
sunglasses, plans to offer a mobile application in the 13
markets it serves outside Germany in coming months, Lange said.
Those include the U.K.,  France , Switzerland, Spain and  Poland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Jarvis at   pjarvis@bloomberg.net  