-- ZTE Targets European Smartphone Retailers to Chip at Samsung
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-06-27T16:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-27/zte-targets-european-smartphone-retailers-to-chip-at-samsung-1-.html
ZTE Corp. (763) , the largest Chinese
handset maker, plans to sell more smartphones directly through
retailers in Europe to improve its brand awareness, the
company’s head of mobile phones said in an interview.  “Right now it’s the operators in Europe who choose our
brand,” He Shiyou said in  Stockholm  this week. “In the coming
three years we’ll make a transition from focusing on operators
to focusing on the open market.”  ZTE wants to boost the proportion of smartphones sold
through non-carrier partners globally to 40 percent over the
next three years, from 10 percent now, He said through an
interpreter. The executive declined to discuss specific
retailers. While most handsets in Europe are sold along with
subscriptions by carriers, consumers often seek bargains at
stores such as  Carphone Warehouse Group Plc (CPW)  and  Groupe Fnac. (FNAC)   Already a major brand in its home market, ZTE is less
recognized by European and U.S. consumers. The Shenzhen-based
company is doubling its marketing budget this year and is
opening up new sales channels, moves seen as crucial for lifting
revenue and profit.  “ZTE has to change the brand awareness in the market if
they’re going to expect any real smartphone growth outside of
 China ,” said Francisco Jeronimo, an analyst at IDC in London.  Fifth-Largest  ZTE is the fifth-largest maker of mobile phones, selling
13.5 million handsets in the first quarter for a 3.2 percent
market share, according to data compiled by IDC.  Of those, 9.1 million were smartphones that can access the
Internet. Its 4.2 percent market share in that segment put the
company behind Huawei Technologies Co., which had 4.6 percent,
and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  with 4.8 percent.  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are the biggest smartphone makers controlling
half of the market between them.  ZTE forecast its smartphone shipments will reach 45 million
to 50 million units this year, compared with 35 million last
year, as the company focuses on more lucrative models that run
on fourth-generation networks based on long-term evolution
technology.  China had 1.17 billion wireless users at the end of last
month. About 27 percent have switched to high-speed networks,
leaving more than 850 million users who could upgrade to
smartphones, according to data released by the nation’s three
wireless carriers.  ZTE, which makes handsets based on Google Inc.’s Android
system, plans to sell its first smartphone using Mozilla Corp.’s
Firefox operating system through  Telefonica SA (TEF)  next month, He
said. It’s planning another model or two in  Latin America  by the
end of 2013, he said. There is no plan to adopt the Intel Corp.-
backed Tizen software.  ZTE  shares  rose 0.8 percent to HK$12.56 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong. The stock is down 3.8 percent this year,
compared with the benchmark  Hang Seng Index ’s 9.8 percent slide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  