-- 
Absa’s Tanzanian Unit Expects 20% Increase in Profit This Year, CEO Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-04-29T09:46:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/absa-s-tanzanian-unit-expects-20-increase-in-profit-this-year-ceo-says.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) ’s Tanzanian unit
expects profit to increase as much as 20 percent in 2011 as it
recovers from a tripling in bad debts last year when it adopted
new reporting standards.  National Bank of Commerce Ltd.’s net income plunged to 2.2
billion Tanzania shillings ($1.46 million) in the 12 months
through December, from 40.8 billion shillings a year earlier,
according to a statement on its  website . Impairment losses on
loans and advances surged to 38.3 billion shillings from 13.8
billion shillings.  “The drop in profit in 2010 was mainly due to a significant
impairment charge on loans and advances, and a higher cost of
operation in quarter one,” NBC Managing Director Lawrence Mafuru
said in a phone interview yesterday from Dar es Salaam, the
commercial capital. “We now expect to return to normal
performance and increase profitability by 15 to 20 percent.”  Absa, the South African bank controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
owns 55 percent of NBC, which is planning an initial public
offering that would make it the fifth bank to trade on the Dar
es Salaam Stock Exchange. Tanzania’s government plans to sell 20
percent of the lender, while Absa and the World Bank’s
International Finance Corp. will sell 2.5 percent each.  Last year, NBC adopted a new “group impairment model” and
aligned the company with the central bank’s financial reporting
standards, said Mafuru, who was appointed as managing director
in June.  “Over the past three to four years, we were very aggressive
in expanding our credit portfolio, and in such a market you
always face challenges of defaulters,” he said. “So we got to
the stage where we had to be realistic.”  NBC also installed a $20 million banking system in the
first quarter of 2010 that required a change in its Automatic
Teller Machine technology, according to Mafuru. That contributed
to a 35 percent increase in costs for the year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 