-- 
Boise, PartnerRe, Volcom, Washington Post: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-05-02T13:09:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/acura-marshall-ilsley-puda-coal-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 8:50 a.m. in  New York .  Shares of defense-related companies may move after
President  Barack Obama  said al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden has
been killed. Those stocks include  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  ,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   and
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  .  Acura Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACUR)  : The pharmaceutical
company said Chief Executive Officer Andrew Reddick, who joined
in August 2003, died.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)   rose 2.2 percent to $17.38. The largest
U.S. aluminum producer was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which also lifted it share-price
estimate to $22 from $17.        Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)   fell 2.5 percent to
$15.30. The world’s largest producer of chipmaking equipment was
downgraded to “neutral” from “overweight” at JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  Boise Inc. (BZ)   slipped 3.7 percent to $9.46. The paper
and packaging maker reported first-quarter adjusted earnings of
22 cents a share, missing the average analyst estimate by 1
cent.  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)   rose 5.3 percent to $81.09.  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  , the world’s largest
generic-drug maker, agreed to buy the biopharmaceutical company
for $6.8 billion, trumping a hostile offer from  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  .  Valeant slumped 8.8 percent to $48.  Dolby Laboratories Inc. (DLB)   gained 1.9 percent to $51.
The maker of audio signal processing systems is trading at a
discount and may already reflect concern about a PC market
slowdown, Barron’s reported in its “The Trader” column.       EMC Corp. (EMC US) climbed 1.2 percent to $28.68. The
world’s biggest maker of storage computers was raised to “buy”
from “neutral” at Bank of America Corp.  International Coal Group Inc. (ICO)   surged 31 percent to
$14.46.  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)   said it will buy the coal miner
for $14.60 a share in an all-cash transaction valued at $3.4
billion.  International Paper Co. (IP)  (IP) added 4.1 percent to $32.14.
The world’s largest paper and pulp producer may rise to $42
during the next year as demand for packaging expands globally,
Barron’s reported, citing Chip Dillon, an analyst at Credit
Suisse.  Kindred Healthcare Inc. (KND)   increased 2.3 percent to
$25.79. The health care provider may rise to the mid-$30s within
a year if its planned $1.3 billion acquisition of RehabCare
Group Inc. adds to earnings growth, Barron’s reported.  Loews Corp. (L)   fell 4.8 percent to $42.12. The holding
company run by New York’s Tisch family reported first-quarter
earnings of 92 cents a share. The average analyst estimate
called for a profit of 91 cents.  Macy’s Inc. (M)   gained 2.5 percent to $24.50. The
department-store retailer may be trading at a discount as
consumer spending rebounds and the company cuts debt to improve
its  credit rating , Barron’s reported.  Marshall & Ilsley Corp. (MI)  : The Milwaukee-based bank
being bought by Bank of Montreal reported a first-quarter loss
of 27 cents a share, missing the average estimate among analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, which was for a loss of 17 cents.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   jumped 2.9 percent to $239.45. The
mail-order and online movie-rental service was raised to “buy”
from “hold” at Citigroup Inc.  Online Resources Corp. (ORCC)  : The maker of Internet
banking software said first-quarter revenue was about $39.3
million, above the average analyst estimate of $38.1 million in
a Bloomberg survey. Online Resources also said a Virginia court
found former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Matthew P. Lawlor wasn’t wrongfully fired, while awarding him $5.3 million
on other claims that the company intends to contest.  PartnerRe Ltd. (PRE)  : The reinsurer that acquired Paris
Re Holdings Ltd. said the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan  will cost the company $230 million more than it projected
last month. The cost will be about $730 million, the Bermuda-
based insurer said.  Puda Coal Inc. (PUDA)   declined 1.2 percent to $5.93. The
Chinese coal company said Chairman Ming Zhao offered to buy the
company for $12 a share. The company is continuing its
investigation into allegations made by blogger Alfred Little
that Zhao sold half the company and pledged the other half to
Chinese private-equity investors.  Skilled Healthcare Group Inc. (SKH)  : The operator of
nursing and assisted living homes has an unclear outlook as
investors assess a rate cut by Medicare and possible takeover
bids, Barron’s reported in its “The Trader” column.  Talecris Biotherapeutics Holdings Corp. (TLCR)   rallied
4.8 percent to $29.25. Grifols SA won tentative U.S. antitrust
approval to buy the biopharmaceutical company for $4 billion
after agreeing to sell some assets, reducing the number of major
companies in the blood-plasma industry to three.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)   dropped 6.6 percent to
$6.47.  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)   said it raised its
all-cash offer to acquire the hospital operator to $7.25 a share
from $6.  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)   jumped 16 percent to $11.06.  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)   and  EchoStar Corp. (SATS)   agreed to
pay the pioneer in the market for home DVRs $500 million,
including an initial payment of $300 million, as part of an
agreement to dismiss all pending litigation between the
companies.  Dish rallied 8.2 percent to $27.10.  Volcom Inc. (VLCM)   surged 24 percent to $24.40. PPR SA,
the French owner of Gucci and Puma, agreed to buy all of the
clothing manufacturer for $607.5 million in cash to strengthen
its lifestyle sports unit with skate- and snowboarding gear.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  : The media company may be fairly
valued and the advance of the shares may slow after gaining
about 15 percent this year, Barron’s reported in its “The
Trader” column.  Washington Post Co. (WPO)  :  Warren Buffett  said he
intends to retain Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s stake in the
publishing company after announcing in January that he plans to
step down from its board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 