-- 
Afghan War Progress At Risk From Corruption, Training Lags

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-04-29T17:16:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/afghan-war-progress-at-risk-from-corruption-training-lags-1-.html
Security progress in  Afghanistan 
risks being undermined by the Afghan government’s failure to
develop rapidly enough and tackle corruption and by shortfalls
in the number of coalition trainers, the Pentagon said.  Last year’s addition of 30,000 troops from the U.S. and
10,000 more from other coalition nations cut the Taliban’s
strength and further eroded support for the insurgents among the
Afghan public, according to a Defense Department report released
today. Those efforts were backed by a bigger, more capable
Afghan national security force that now numbers almost 285,000.  The number of suicide attacks fell slightly during the
period to 45 from 51 a year earlier, the department said in a
report covering the six months ended March 31. Public opinion
polls show Afghan perceptions of security “improved slightly”
even as the stepped-up fight against the Taliban brought an
increase in total violent incidents.  “Significant political challenges” for the Afghan
government “could potentially threaten the progress made in the
last six months,” the department said in the  report to
Congress . The training mission also is still short of the
coalition expertise it needs to nurture the Afghan army and
police to the next level, the report said.  Difficult Fighting  “The months ahead will see setbacks as well as
successes,” the Pentagon said. “There will be difficult
fighting and tough losses as the enemy tries to regain momentum
and key areas lost in the past six months.”  President  Barack Obama  is counting on progress in
Afghanistan to allow the withdrawal of more than a token number
of U.S. troops in July, a deadline he set in December 2009 for
beginning to pare the almost 100,000 American troops on the
ground. Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  announced in March that
seven areas covering as much as a quarter of the country’s
population would begin the transition to Afghan control in July.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said April 26 that he hadn’t
received recommendations yet from Army General David Petraeus,
the top U.S. and NATO commander in Afghanistan, on the number of
troops that could be withdrawn. Obama announced yesterday that
he’s nominating Petraeus to become CIA director and will replace
him in Afghanistan with Lieutenant General John Allen in
September, pending Senate confirmation.  Handing Over Control  Coalition leaders have to determine where they can most
safety spare troops for the drawdown. Most of the first areas
being transferred to Afghan control already have relatively few
forces from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and its other
partner nations in the coalition, according to the Pentagon
report.  NATO in November endorsed a goal of handing over security
control throughout the country to Afghanistan in 2014. Gates has
said the U.S. probably will continue to keep some troops there,
as it has in  Iraq  after handing over the lead to that country’s
forces in 2009.  The Taliban controls less area and fewer people than it has
in recent years, and it commands fewer of the key districts it
had controlled since the mid-1990s, a U.S. defense official said
at the Pentagon today. The official spoke on condition of
anonymity under ground rules for briefing reporters on the
report.  The progress made is consistent with results the coalition
expected from last year’s troop increase, the official said.  Violent Incidents  The total number of violent incidents rose during the six-
month period compared with a year earlier, according to the
report. The department attributed the trend to increased numbers
of allied forces, Afghan soldiers and police, as well as to
“the higher operations tempo.” Violent incidents did fall
compared to the six months immediately prior to the period.  The insurgency continues to be sustained financially by
taxation, extortion, smuggling, drug trafficking and “a
substantial external funding system of foreign donations,”
according to the report.  The growth of the Afghan National Army and the Afghan
National Police, augmented by local police, has helped stymie
the insurgents. The NATO Training Mission expanded the number of
Afghan soldiers by 21,199 during the period to 159,363. The
national police force grew by 15,030 to 125,589, and about 1
percent of officers are women.  Afghan forces are more often taking the lead, and their
skills have improved significantly, according to the report.  Additional Trainers  Hundreds of additional trainers still are needed to take
the forces to the next level, mostly in specialized areas such
as logistics, medicine and transport, the defense official said.  The lag in governing capability at the provincial and more
local levels, and continuing issues of corruption, threaten
security progress, according to the report. The Afghan
government did institute merit-based hiring and finished plans
to build justice centers in the country, the Pentagon said.  “The percentage of Afghans who think the government has
more influence than the insurgents, 74 percent, was the highest
it has been since the survey began two years ago,” the Pentagon
reported. The same was true of the 45 percent who feel safe
traveling outside their village.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  