-- 
Rajaratnam, BofA, AIG, BofA, SAC Capital in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-04-29T12:13:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/aig-bofa-primus-sac-capital-starbucks-kpmg-in-court-news.html
After about 18 months preparing to
defend Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam at his federal
insider-trading trial in  Manhattan , attorney John Dowd said he
could use a vacation.  Dowd, who spent a fourth day yesterday waiting for jurors
to deliver a verdict in the case, said he hasn’t gotten much
sleep lately and plans to take a trip to Cape Cod in
Massachusetts when the trial’s over.  “You don’t sleep,” said Dowd, chatting with a group of
reporters in the courtroom of U.S. District Judge Richard
Holwell. “It will take me six months to recover from this.”  Dowd spoke after approaching a group of reporters talking
with Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , one of the
prosecutors in the case. Reporters, lawyers and trial observers
spent yesterday along with Rajaratnam waiting for a verdict,
which could come at any time.  Dowd told reporters he has been working non-stop on the
Rajaratnam case for the past 10 months. The defense team has
about 10 people in the courthouse with another 14 outside, he
said.  “Raj was a huge resource” in preparing the defense, Dowd
said, providing details of the transactions in the government’s
charges against him. “He knew it.”  Dowd said he didn’t have his client testify during the
trial because he didn’t want to give prosecutors the opportunity
to try to reinforce their points on cross-examination.  “There’s no sense giving these guys any oxygen to retry
their case,” he said.  Dowd declined to discuss other aspects of the case or to
speculate on what jurors were thinking. He said the Rajaratnam
legal team is set up at a hotel in lower Manhattan, where three
other teams of lawyers trying cases are also located.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Bank of America, Citibank, UBS Manipulated Libor, Suit Says  A West  Virginia  pension sued Bank of America Corp., a
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  unit and  UBS AG (UBSN)  claiming they manipulated the
London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, in violation of U.S.
antitrust law.  The Carpenters Pension Fund of West Virginia filed a
complaint in federal court in Manhattan April 27 claiming the
banks and a group of unnamed co-conspirators deliberately
understated their borrowing costs to depress Libor, lowering
their interest costs on products tied to the rate.  The pension fund seeks to represent a class of all clients
of the banks that invested in Libor-based products between 2006
and 2009. The suit seeks unspecified damages, which may be
tripled under antitrust law.  “About $350 trillion worth of financial products globally
reference Libor, and the lower Libor rates during the relevant
period robbed lenders of significant amounts of interest
income,” the pension fund claimed in its complaint.  The case is Carpenters Pension Fund of West Virginia v.
Bank of America, 11-CV-2883, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  AIG Sues ICP Asset Management for $350 Million in CDO Costs  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s swaps unit sued ICP
Asset Management LLC for fraud in connection with collateralized
debt obligations that the insurer says cost it more than $350
million.  AIG Financial Products Corp., in a complaint filed
yesterday in New York state  Supreme Court , said the investment
advisory firm and other defendants victimized AIG and U.S.
taxpayers over two CDOs known as Triaxx that were created and
managed by ICP entities.  The ICP defendants benefited through “windfall profits and
artificially inflated management fees, and through conferring
benefits upon favored clients,” including Moore Capital
Management LP, according to the complaint.  The allegations are related to a lawsuit the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filed in June claiming ICP
and founder  Thomas Priore  arranged more than $1 billion in
trades that defrauded clients or broke rules limiting CDO risks.  Priore denied wrongdoing when the SEC suit was filed. He
didn’t return calls for comment on yesterday’s complaint. A
voice-mail message left with ICP Capital, ICP Asset Management’s
New York-based parent company, wasn’t immediately returned.  “We have not seen AIG’s complaint and therefore cannot
comment it,” said Shawn Pattison, a Moore Capital spokesman.
“The SEC action against ICP has not alleged any wrongdoing by
Moore.”  ICP entities executed $1.5 billion in unauthorized or
above-market purchases for the Triaxx CDOs, which were designed
to benefit them at AIG’s expense, AIG said in its suit. New
York-based AIG, which was bailed out by the U.S. government in
2008 after bets on subprime mortgages brought the insurer to the
brink of collapse, said the filing is part of an effort to
recoup “potentially billions of dollars” from alleged fraud.  The case is AIG Financial Products Corp. v. ICP Asset
Management, 651117/2011, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Toyota Will Face Acceleration Loss Claims With Final Order  A federal judge overseeing lawsuits against  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  said in a tentative ruling that the automaker must face
economic-loss claims over unintended acceleration allegations.  Toyota owners claimed the company failed to disclose or fix
defects related to sudden acceleration, driving down the value
of their vehicles. U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in Santa
Ana,  California , said the claims could go forward because
vehicle owners met court standards on pleading loss or injury.  “Taking these allegations as true, as the court must at
the pleading stage, they establish an economic loss,” Selna
wrote in his tentative decision yesterday. “A vehicle with a
defect is worth less than one without a defect.”  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles, starting in 2009, after claims of defects and
incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration. The recalls
set off a wave of litigation, including hundreds of economic
loss suits and claims by individuals or their families for
injuries and deaths caused by such incidents.  Most of the federal lawsuits were combined before Selna,
who is overseeing pre-trial evidence-gathering, or discovery.
Selna issued a similar ruling in November rejecting Toyota’s
motion to dismiss an earlier complaint by the vehicle owners.  Yesterday’s tentative finding, which won’t take effect
unless it becomes final, follows an amended complaint by the
plaintiffs and a subsequent renewed motion to dismiss. Selna is
scheduled to conduct a hearing today on the Toyota City, Japan-
based company’s request to dismiss the cases.  Celeste Migliore, a Toyota spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment after regular business hours. A
judge’s ruling on a motion to dismiss doesn’t consider evidence
or the merits of the plaintiffs’ allegations, Migliore said
after the decision in November.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For more, click here.  BofA Said to Target Individual States in Foreclosure Inquiry  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  was accused by a top official at the
Iowa attorney general’s office of engaging in a divide-and-
conquer strategy by undermining support for the settlement of a
nationwide probe into foreclosure practices, a person familiar
with the matter said.  The bank tried to get attorneys general to break away from
those supporting the proposed accord, Iowa Assistant Attorney
General Patrick Madigan said during a recent conference call,
according to the person. A second person familiar with the
settlement talks said the bank sought to sow dissent among the
states, eight of which have publicly criticized the proposal’s
terms. Both people asked not to be identified because the talks
are private. Madigan declined to comment.  “We have held face to face negotiating sessions and our
negotiations continue,” Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, a
Democrat who leads the 50-state effort, said in a statement.
“We believe all the banks are negotiating in good faith.”  Madigan, who was giving an update to state officials, said
the largest U.S. lender by assets was taking a “divide-and-
conquer” approach in a bid to disrupt negotiations, according
to the person on the call. Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, declined to comment.  State and federal agencies including the  Justice Department 
last month submitted a 27-page settlement proposal, or term-
sheet, to five mortgage servicers, including Bank of America.
The document was offered to start negotiations with banks as
part of the 50-state investigation.  The six-month probe was triggered by claims of faulty
foreclosure practices following the housing collapse, which
state officials said may violate their laws. The people said
Madigan’s comments were made on a call that took place within
the past two months, after the term sheet was made public.  For more, click here.  Golf Channel Denies Prior Knowledge of Alleged Ponzi Scheme  The Golf Channel said $5.9 million received from companies
run by indicted financier R. Allen Stanford was for media
services and not proceeds from an alleged Ponzi scheme as the
receiver for Stanford’s businesses claims.  TGC LLC, known as the  Golf Channel , said in response to the
receiver’s lawsuit that it had no knowledge of what the
government charges was a $7 billion fraud scheme. Golf Channel
officials also threatened to counter-sue the receiver for $14.3
million for breach of contract if the judge presiding over
Stanford’s civil fraud trial grants permission.  “The payments at the center of this case have nothing to
do with a Ponzi scheme,” Theodore Daniel, the Golf Channel’s
lawyer, said in papers filed April 27 in federal court in
 Dallas . Payments received from the Stanford Financial Group in
2007 and 2008 “were entirely legal” and the result of “arm’s-
length, market-based, written contracts,” he said.  Stanford’s court-appointed receiver, Ralph Janvey, sued the
Orlando, Florida-based Golf Channel in February to recover what
he claimed were fraudulent transfers from allegedly bogus
certificates of deposit the financier’s Antiguan bank sold
investors. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission seized
Stanford’s businesses in February 2009 on suspicion of fraud.  Stanford, who denies any wrongdoing, is in jail awaiting
trial on criminal fraud charges mirroring the allegations by
securities regulators.  The cases are Janvey v. Golf Channel, 3:11-cv-0294; Janvey
v. Brown, 3:11-cv-0301; and The Official Stanford Investors’
Committee v. American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities Inc.,
3:11-cv-0303; all U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Texas  (Dallas).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Primus Loses Bid to Halt $1.7 Billion Malaysia Bank Takeover  A Malaysian court ruled that  Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK) ’s 5.06
billion ringgit ($1.7 billion) takeover of  EON Capital Bhd. (EON)  is
legal, thwarting an attempt by the financial group’s biggest
shareholder to block the sale.  Primus Pacific Partners Ltd., a Hong Kong-based investment
fund, had sued EON and nine of its directors, claiming they had
exceeded their powers and breached fiduciary and statutory
duties in allowing the takeover by billionaire Quek Leng Chan’s
Hong Leong to proceed. In the suit filed through its local unit
Primus (Malaysia) Sdn. in June, the fund sought 1.11 billion
ringgit in damages if the transaction went ahead at the current
offer price.  “The petitioner’s motive is purely to buy time in order to
secure another bidder who’d pay more than 7.30 ringgit per
share,” Judicial Commissioner Varghese George Varughese said
when delivering his judgment yesterday in a high court in
Malaysia’s northern Penang state. “Corporate democracy must
prevail.”  Primus, which owns 20.2 percent of EON shares, opposes the
deal having paid 9.55 ringgit a share for its stake in 2008.
That’s 31 percent more than Hong Leong’s all-cash offer which
equals to 7.30 ringgit per share. It was outvoted by minority
shareholders who favor the takeover at a meeting last year.  The takeover process planned didn’t violate the law or the
constitutional provision of the company, the judicial
commissioner said in the 100-page judgment.  “The legitimate rules by the majority, however unpleasant
and unpalatable to an outvoted shareholder, must only be
interfered with if there are definite visible breaches of
accepted standards of commercial fairness,” he said. There was
“no visible departure from standard practice of fair play” on
the part of the independent directors sued in this case.  Primus will file an appeal “as soon as possible,” Ranjit
Singh, a lawyer representing the fund, told reporters in Penang
yesterday.  This is the second of two court petitions filed by Primus.
It already appealing an earlier case it lost in  Kuala Lumpur  in
January after trying to get the shareholder vote declared
illegal.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-SAC Capital Analyst Hollander Reaches SEC Settlement  Jonathan Hollander, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
analyst, agreed to pay more than $220,000 to settle U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission claims that he traded on
inside information about a pending takeover of the Albertsons
grocery chain, his lawyer said.  The SEC alleged that Hollander tipped others about the
acquisition and that he and others earned $95,807 in illegal
profits. The settlement must be approved by U.S. District Judge
 Richard Sullivan  in New York, said  Aitan Goelman , a lawyer for
Hollander.  “Jonathan has decided to settle this matter rather than
engage in costly and protracted litigation with the SEC,”
Goelman said yesterday in a phone interview. “He is gratified
to have the matter behind him and looks forward to moving on
with his successful principal-investing and strategic-consulting
business as well as his active philanthropic endeavors.”  Hollander agreed to settle without admitting or denying the
allegations, the SEC said in a  statement . The SEC ordered him to
pay $95,807, a civil penalty of $95,807 and prejudgment
interest, Goelman said.  The SEC said that in January 2006, while Hollander was
still employed as an analyst for an unnamed investment adviser,
he traded in Albertsons LLC’s securities on the basis of a
material, non-public tip regarding the pending corporate
acquisition of the company before the official Jan. 23, 2006,
announcement.  In the commission’s complaint, Stamford, Connecticut-based
SAC wasn’t named.  The case is SEC v. Hollander, 11-cv-O2885, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Longueuil Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy, Securities Fraud  Donald Longueuil, a former junior portfolio manager at SAC
Capital Advisors LP, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit
securities and wire fraud and to securities fraud as the U.S.
cracks down on insider trading at  hedge funds .  Longueuil entered the plea yesterday before U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan. Rakoff said that there was a plea
agreement between the U.S. and the defendant and that Longueuil
could face a prison sentence of 46 months to 57 months.  “I am sorry for my actions and the pain that I have caused
my family and loved ones,” Longueuil told Rakoff. “I have
learned a lot from my experience and I look forward to applying
these lessons as I move forward with my life.”  Charges were first filed against Longueuil, 35, in February
by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in a case that also included
another former SAC Capital portfolio manager, Noah Freeman, and
Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management, and Jason
Pflaum, who worked for Barai. Freeman and Pflaum have pleaded
guilty and are cooperating with the U.S.  Longueuil and Winifred Jiau, a former consultant for
Primary Global Research LLC, were charged with conspiracy in a
new federal indictment in March. Prosecutors said Jiau passed
inside information to an unnamed hedge-fund portfolio manager
and to Freeman, a Boston hedge-fund manager. Jiau has pleaded
not guilty.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Allergan Loses $212 Million Federal Botox Lawsuit in Virginia  Allergan Inc. was ordered by a Virginia jury to pay $212
million to a 67-year-old man who said he got permanent brain
damage after being injected with Botox to treat cramps and
tremors in his hand in 2007.  The Richmond federal jury yesterday awarded Douglas M. Ray
$12 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive
damages, according to a verdict form provided by the court. Ray,
of Fredericksburg, Virginia, said Allergan failed to warn him
that injections could trigger an autoimmune reaction leading to
brain damage. Botox use left him disabled, Ray said.  Allergan denied a failure to warn or any connection between
Ray’s illness and Botox use. The company hasn’t decided whether
to appeal, said Caroline Van Hove, a spokeswoman for Irvine,
California-based Allergan.  “The verdict reached today is inconsistent with Allergan’s
past and current actions to properly warn physicians and
patients about the potential risks of Botox,” Van Hove said in
an e-mail. “Every known and knowable risk associated with Botox
treatment based on the scientific properties of the drug was in
fact warned about.”  Botox, used as a wrinkle smoother, is a purified form of
the poison botulinum and is given as an injection. It also won
regulatory approval last October for use as a treatment for
chronic migraine headaches. The drug is also approved to treat
“muscle stiffness” in the fingers and arms and “upper limb”
spasticity.  The $200 million in punitive damages will be capped at
$350,000 under Virginia law, Van Hove said.  “If they appeal, we’ll attack the constitutionality of the
cap,” said Ray’s attorney, Ray Chester, in an interview.  The case is Ray v. Allergan Inc., 3:10-cv-00136, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  Starbucks Wins Reversal on Applicant Marijuana Disclosure  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  won a court  ruling  that it doesn’t have to
disclose the identities of potential plaintiffs in a lawsuit
filed originally by three job seekers claiming the company
illegally required applicants to disclose marijuana convictions.  A California appeals court overturned a lower-court ruling
that Starbucks, the world’s largest coffee shop operator, must
disclose the identities of former job applicants who might be
covered by the plaintiffs’ lawsuit.  Three plaintiffs sued in 2005 seeking class-action, or
group, status and as much as $26 million in damages over claims
the company violated a California law barring employers from
asking prospective hires about convictions for minor marijuana
offenses that are more than two years old.  After the appeals court said in 2008 that the three had no
basis to sue because they didn’t have marijuana convictions
themselves, a lower-court judge ordered Starbucks to review its
job applications for possible candidates to lead the lawsuit.
Starbucks was ordered to randomly sort through about 135,000 job
applications until it found 25 candidates, who were then to be
told in a letter that they had a right to opt out of the suit.  The appeals court panel in Santa Ana reversed that order on
April 25, saying that requiring the Seattle-based company to
disclose the applicants’ identities “ironically violates” the
legislation meant to protect them from being stigmatized.  Mike Arias, the lawyer who filed the suit, said the appeals
court incorrectly assumed that an opt-out letter would have to
state the individuals were contacted because they had a
marijuana conviction. Arias said April 27 he may take the case
to the California Supreme Court.  “We are pleased with the court’s ruling setting aside
further discovery in this matter and paving the way for
dismissal of the lawsuit,” Lily Gluzberg, a spokeswoman for
Starbucks, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Starbucks v. Orange County Superior Court,
G04350, California Court of Appeals, Fourth Appellate District,
Division Three (Santa Ana.)  KPMG Auditor Cleared of Taking Bribe for Work on Hontex IPO  A KPMG senior manager was cleared by a  Hong Kong  judge of
accepting a HK$300,000 ($38,601) bribe for his work on the
listing prospectus of Chinese fabric maker Hontex International
Holdings Co.  The prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt
that Leung Sze-chit, 33, intended to accept envelopes containing
cash as a reward from Chan Chau-wan, a consultant hired by
Hontex for its listing, in February 2010, District Court Judge
Stephen Geiser said yesterday.  KPMG resigned as Hontex’s audit firm in May amid an
investigation by Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission
into alleged false statements made by the company in its listing
prospectus. The regulator has obtained a court order freezing
almost HK$1 billion in funds raised from the company’s 2009 IPO.
Shares have been suspended from trading since March 2010.  Jonathan Li, spokesman for the regulator known as SFC, said
yesterday the commission is preparing to file additional court
documents in an effort to restore the IPO funds to investors.  The government didn’t present evidence at trial about the
specific activities the payments were intended to reward.
Justice department lawyer Isaac Tam declined to say whether
prosecutors will appeal the verdict.  KPMG China said in a statement that the firm “has
cooperated fully with the authorities throughout their
investigations.”  The case is Hong Kong SAR v. Leung Sze Chit, DCCC615/2010
in the Hong Kong District Court.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Lehman Paid Managers, Lawyers $31.9 Million in March  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , whose fees to advisers have
exceeded $1.2 billion during its bankruptcy, paid its lawyers
and managers $31.9 million in March.  Restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, whose co-founder
Bryan Marsal runs the defunct investment bank, made $422.9
million in “interim management” fees for 30 1/2 months of
work, including $10.2 million last month, according to the
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, based in New York, was paid
$286 million for acting as Lehman’s lead bankruptcy law firm
through March, including $6.1 million last month.  London-based LBIE paid its advisers $774 million in fees
through March 14. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the unit’s
administrators, paid themselves 325 million pounds ($540
million). The bank’s law firms, including London-based
Linklaters LLP, got $242 million as of March 14, the accounting
firm said in an April 14 report.  The bankrupt brokerage’s total administrative fees for just
the first 24 months were $420 million, according to the SEC’s
Office of the Inspector General. Brokerage trustee James Giddens
and his law firm Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP received about $121
million in fees through September 2010, according to a March 31
bankruptcy court filing in Manhattan.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, with assets
of $639 billion.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Singapore’s MAS Fines Law Firm Employee for Insider Trading  The Monetary Authority of Singapore fined Song Qing, an
employee of law firm Shook Lin & Bok LLP, S$50,000 ($41,000) for
contravening insider trading laws.  Song bought 40,000  Bright World Precision Machinery Ltd. (BWPM) 
shares after reviewing the translation of legal documents
containing non-public price sensitive information, the central
bank said in a  statement  yesterday. He made a profit of S$1,000
from the share purchase, the regulator said.  Bright World’s share price jumped 80 percent to 66.5
Singapore cents in July 2008 after China Holdings Acquisition
Corp. announced its takeover plans, the monetary authority said.
Shook Lin was the legal adviser to Bright World’s majority
shareholder in the acquisition, according to the central bank.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  