-- 
Alcatel Laughing Stock No More as Verwaayen Brings Back Buzz

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-29T08:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/alcatel-is-laughing-stock-no-more-as-verwaayen-brings-back-buzz.html
When Adolfo Hernandez joined
Alcatel-Lucent SA in late 2008, the networking-equipment maker
was almost comically dysfunctional.  In one of his first meetings as president of  Europe ,
 Africa , and the Middle East, a customer started screaming at him
before he even got to his chair. At an all-hands gathering at an
Eastern Europe facility, employees threw fruit and vegetables at
executives announcing another round of restructuring.  “The whistling was so loud that they couldn’t hear
themselves speak,” Hernandez says. More than one of his new
colleagues asked him why anyone in their right mind would take a
job at such a screwed-up company,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports
in its May 2 issue.  Less than three years later -- and after a decade of
losses, downsizing, and one messy merger -- Alcatel-Lucent has
become one of the most startling turnarounds in technology. The
Paris-based company is gaining share in markets such as routers
and superfast 4G networks, where it has won billion-dollar
contracts with  Verizon Wireless  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  Telecom
executives are buzzing about a new Rubik’s Cube-sized gizmo
called lightRadio that can extend wireless coverage without need
of massive, energy-hogging cell towers. The stock has doubled
this year.  If the company proves its performance is no fluke when it
announces quarterly earnings on May 6, the stock could more than
double over time as oft-burned investors come back, says Tim
Savageaux, an analyst at Terrapin Research in San Francisco.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  “The company has become super-relevant to its customers,
but it’s still almost completely irrelevant to the stock
market,” he says. “That’s usually a good buying opportunity.”  The shares slipped 9.3 cents, or 2.1 percent, to 4.27 euros
at 10:46 a.m. in Paris, valuing the company at 9.9 billion euros
($14.7 billion).  The main thing that went right, say analysts, customers,
and executives such as Hernandez, was the arrival of Chief
Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen, who also came aboard in 2008.
At the time of the merger in 2006, Alcatel was a sleepy French
phone-equipment giant and Lucent, an AT&T spinoff that includes
Bell Labs, was a near-bankrupt former darling of  Wall Street .  Instead of synergies, the deal resulted in endless
“passport wars” among overlapping sales and product groups, so
named because they often pitted French against U.S. teams.
“There used to be a French part and a U.S. part, but Ben really
integrated the company,” says Eelco Blok, CEO of Dutch carrier
Royal KPN NV.  Polish Secretary  Verwaayen, 59, was well aware of those issues. He was an
executive at Lucent in its salad days, and later, as CEO of BT
Group Plc, a customer. Although telecom suppliers flocked to his
London office to get in on an overhaul of BT’s network on his
watch, he saw little innovation coming out of Alcatel-Lucent.  “They had nothing to say to me,” Verwaayen says. And yet
he was still surprised at the depth of the chaos. On his first
day on the job, he got an e-mail asking him to sign off on the
hiring of a secretary for a  Poland  office, after 16 executives
had already done so.  “People had signed off who couldn’t find Poland on a
map,” he says. He forwarded the e-mail to all employees, saying
“This ends now. Hiring from now on is the responsibility of a
manager and his or her boss.”  Router Revival  Verwaayen made some larger decisions that had been put off
too long. The company stopped hedging and bet correctly that a
4G wireless technology called LTE would emerge as the global
standard instead of rival WiMax. Alcatel-Lucent makes wireless
equipment found in cell towers and optical-networking gear --and
those businesses are poised for growth as telecoms roll out 4G
networks.  He also demanded that executives put aside parochial
interests and come up with a strategy that spanned Alcatel’s
varied product lines. The process was led by Basil Alwan, a
Silicon Valley-based executive who had managed the company’s
successful assault on the router business.  Though routers are a basic building block of any network,
Alwan’s unit had been left alone by Alcatel-Lucent’s warring
tribes before Verwaayen joined. Since mid-2009, the routers have
been integrated with other gear, letting carriers simplify and
more easily manage their networks -- say, by handling some jobs
with a “blade” that slides into a router rather than buying a
stand-alone piece of equipment.  Convergence  Alcatel-Lucent’s share of routers sold to carriers grew
from 12 percent in 2008 to 16 percent in 2010, and in the fourth
quarter it passed  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  to become the No. 2
after  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , according to research firm Infonetics.  In the past, carriers typically dealt with obstacles
separately by, for example, stringing high-speed broadband lines
to homes, or boosting cellular coverage. Now that consumers
expect to get their YouTube videos and Yelp reviews whether
they’re watching TV, using a laptop, or pecking at their iPhone,
wired and wireless are no longer different worlds.  Alcatel-Lucent’s position in both realms make it a
contender for most contracts, says KPN’s Blok. “They’ll always
be on the short list,” he says.  Verwaayen’s fiercest rival now may be Huawei Technologies
Co., the networking giant in Shenzhen,  China . Huawei has won
business from some big Western carriers, including Vodafone
Group Plc and Telstra Corp., but has yet to crack the U.S.
market where security concerns favor domestic and European
suppliers such as Alcatel-Lucent. One remaining concern about
Alcatel-Lucent is that it may be too dependent on demand from
U.S. carriers, which happen to be in the midst of a buying binge
to build out those 4G networks.  No More Tomatoes  At least for now, there’s little sign of concern about the
threat from China. In part, that’s because of a field trip
Verwaayen and 30 Alcatel executives took to Shenzhen in 2010 at
the invitation of Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei. The contingent
came back from the two-day event emboldened: while they might
never match Huawei on price, Huawei didn’t have a Bell Labs to
create the next lightRadio. And while he hasn’t faced off
against Huawei much in the U.S., Alcatel-Lucent Americas chief
Robert Vrij says he’s scoring wins in  Latin America .  “We’re kicking some serious you-know-what,” he told a
packed room of smiling staffers at the company’s Murray Hill,
 New Jersey , research lab in April. Maybe it was the bonuses he’d
just announced or the rising stock price, but nobody threw
tomatoes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Aley at   jaley@bloomberg.net  