-- 
Malta Says Bonello Will Step Down as ECB Governor End June

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-29T15:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/malta-says-bonello-will-step-down-as-ecb-governor-end-june-2-.html
Michael Bonello will step down as
governor of  Malta ’s central bank at the end of June, the
government of the smallest euro-region economy said today.  Bonello, 65, took office on Oct. 1, 1999, and has been a
member of the European Central Bank’s Governing Council since
Malta joined the euro region in 2008. His term was due to end in
2013. The government nominated Josef Bonnici to succeed Bonello.  Bonello will be the fourth member of the ECB’s 23-strong
Governing Council to leave this year following  Belgium ’s  Guy Quaden ,  Germany ’s Axel Weber and Executive Board member Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell. Bonnici, 58, is currently a director of the
Maltese central bank and a professor of economics at the
University of Malta.  “I would like to remain associated in some capacity with
the Maltese economy,” Bonello said in an interview on April 15.
“I think I might be able to contribute something on a European
level as well, on a part-time basis of course.”  Bonello, who accepted a renewal of his term as governor in
2008, “had indicated his willingness to oversee the transition
of the euro to its completion, but not necessarily to complete
the full five-year term,” the Maltese government said in a
statement published on its website.  Maltese Prime Minister Lawrence Gonzi will advise the
country’s president, George Abela, to appoint Bonnici as
governor as from July 1, it said.  Bonnici, who holds economics degrees from the University of
Malta and Simon Fraser University in  Canada , was named economic
advisor to the prime minister in 1988 and subsequently became
Parliamentary Secretary in Finance and Minister for Economic
Services in two legislatures. He is married and has two
children.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  