-- 
AMR Attendants Deride Vote on Uniform Photos as ‘Beauty Contest’

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-04-29T18:09:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/amr-attendants-deride-vote-on-uniform-photos-as-beauty-contest-.html
American Airlines flight attendants
demanded an end to what they said is a company “beauty
contest” that harks back to the era of an all-women workforce
facing weigh-ins and wearing girdles.  The airline’s push to find the best-looking female and male
attendants at each crew base as uniform models undermines their
chief duty of ensuring safety, Laura Glading, president of the
 Association of Professional Flight Attendants , said in an e-mail
today to the union’s 18,000 members at American.  “This campaign just transported us back 50 years to the
days of girdles, weight-checks and single, female-only
stewardesses having to quit when they were married, pregnant or
reached the ripe old age of 30,” Glading wrote. She urged
members to boycott the “ridiculous, insulting beauty contest.”  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American began the “Face of Your Base”
contest this week, asking attendants to vote on who looks the
most “superb” in new scarves, ties and striped shirts for
their uniforms. Winners will participate in a photo shoot to
produce marketing materials for the pieces, according to an e-
mail the airline sent to attendants.  The campaign was created by a team at the airline’s crew
base in  Chicago  that includes attendants and managers, and the
company wanted to include workers across the system, Missy Cousino, a spokeswoman for  Fort Worth , Texas-based American,
said in an e-mail.  “We understand that every campaign may not be of interest
to every flight attendant, but encourage those who want to
participate to do so,” she said. “We’ve had several flight
attendants express how flattered they were to be nominated to be
featured in our internal company materials.”  American and its attendants have been in talks on a new
contract since June 2008, and the union has failed to win
clearance from the  National Mediation Board  to move closer to a
strike against the third-largest U.S. airline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 