-- 
Apple, Sony Face Possible Action By EU Data Privacy Regulators

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-04-29T10:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/apple-sony-face-possible-action-by-eu-data-privacy-regulators.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  face
“possible action” by data protection regulators in the
European Union over possible privacy lapses by the storing of
iPhone location data and the hacking of the PlayStation Network.  A group of data protection officials from the 27-nation EU,
which guides the work of national authorities across  Europe  that
have the power to levy penalties for non-compliance, said they
have “taken note” of the reports on the collection and storage
of location data on Apple’s iPhones and the leak of personal
information from the Sony PlayStation Network.  Several “members are currently looking at the specifics of
what has happened and are considering possible actions,” said
Jacob Kohnstamm, chairman of the so-called Article 29 Working
Party. “So far, no decisions have been taken.”  Regulators in  Germany ,  France  and  Italy  said last week they
are checking whether Apple’s iPhone and iPad products violate
privacy rules by tracking, storing and sharing data about the
locations of users. Irish officials are also examining “a
number of complaints about this issue,” Diarmuid Hallinan, a
spokesman for the country’s data protection commissioner, said
in an e-mail yesterday.  The group of European privacy regulators said it “aims for
coordinated action where possible within the boundaries of
national legislation” and that the two cases have shown “the
need for companies to ensure from the outset the personal data
of their consumers are well protected.”  A report by O’Reilly Radar, a website owned by Sebastopol,
California-based publisher O’Reilly Media has said Apple devices
log latitude-longitude coordinates along with the time of visits
to locations across the globe.  U.K., Irish and Italian information watchdogs said this
week that they will investigate the hacking of Sony’s
PlayStation Network after the company warned 77 million
customers may have had their personal data stolen.  Apple said in a statement it is “not tracking the location
of your iPhone” and “has no plans to ever do so.” The
Cupertino, California-based company said the iPhone saves
information on WiFi hotspots and cellular towers near a
handset’s current location, which helps the phone determine its
location when needed by the user.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  