-- 
Apple Passes ZTE in Global Handset Market Share as Nokia Falls

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-04-29T08:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/apple-passes-zte-in-global-handset-market-share-as-nokia-falls.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  passed ZTE Corp. to
become the world’s fourth-largest mobile-phone maker by unit
shipments in the first quarter, while  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s lead shrank,
according to analyst reports.  Global mobile-phone shipments climbed 20 percent from a
year earlier to 371.8 million units in the quarter, driven by
continued growth in smartphones such as Apple’s iPhone and
models running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, International
Data Corp. said in a  report .  Strategy Analytics  published
similar figures shortly after Samsung Electronics Co.’s
quarterly report today.  “Feature-phone makers will either need to become
smartphone-dependent or help consolidate that part of the
market,” Kevin Restivo, an analyst at Framingham,
Massachusetts-based IDC, said in the report yesterday. Quick-
messaging devices, which combine a feature phone with some
smartphone-like apps and a  Qwerty keyboard , “appear to be
losing steam,” the researchers said.  Apple accounted for 5 percent of unit shipments, up from
2.8 percent a year earlier, according to the IDC figures.
Samsung and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  maintained their second and
third places, respectively. Nokia, which has topped mobile-phone
shipment tables since 1998 on the strength of its basic and
feature-phone volumes, dipped to 29 percent from 35 percent a
year earlier, according to IDC.  Record Year  Cupertino, California-based Apple vaulted past  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB to gain
fourth place in the third quarter, the analysts said on Oct. 29.
It fell back to fifth place in the fourth quarter, behind ZTE,
as the Chinese phonemaker expanded in smartphones, IDC  said  on
Jan 28.  “This year will be the first year when every quarter
exceeds 300 million units,” London-based analyst  Neil Mawston 
of  Strategy Analytics  wrote in a report that pegged first-
quarter mobile shipments at 350 million units, or 17 percent
growth. The effects of the Japanese earthquake on parts
availability “remain minor rather than major for most
players,” he said.  Smartphones differ from feature phones in having more
powerful processors and software, enabling them to replace
portable computers for many uses from editing documents to
showing movies.  The analysts’ totals and market-share figures differed
because IDC counted a larger number of shipments by companies
beyond the top five, including new vendors in  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  