-- 
Argentina Proceeds With Nuclear Plans After Japanese Crisis

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-04-29T13:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/argentina-proceeds-with-nuclear-plans-after-japanese-crisis-1-.html
Argentina  will press ahead with
plans to develop a small-scale nuclear reactor over the next
three years, after last month‘s disaster in  Japan  prompted
countries such as Germany and Brazil to reconsider projects.  The country aims to start building “in the next few
months” installations to house a 25-megawatt nuclear reactor
prototype known as Carem, Lucian Turina, a spokesman for the
 state-run  project said. The prototype is scheduled to start
operating by 2014, 28 years after it was first envisioned.  Three reactors failed at a Japanese Tokyo Electric Power
Co. plant hit by a tsunami last month after the country’s
largest recorded earthquake. Subsequent concern over nuclear
security drove countries including Germany and  Brazil  to close
down nuclear facilities and temporarily suspend projects.  Argentina’s Carem project is part of a handful of projects
around the globe to construct small-scale reactors. Similar
projects exist in  South Korea , Russia and the U.S. The prototype
will be located in a 10-hectare complex surrounded by soybean
and corn farms 150 kilometers (93 miles) from Buenos Aires.  The project was revived in 2006 by a presidential decree as
Argentina seeks to establish itself among “the group of
countries that have access to their own technology for nuclear
energy,” Heriberto Boado Magan, a physicist and former army
pilot who directs the Carem project, said in an interview.  “The project will cost about $350 million, including the
cost of building the complex,” Boado Magan said from  Buenos
Aires . “Were we to replicate the Carem in the future, the cost
would probably be about $200 million” because there wouldn’t be
a need to build facilities, said Boado Magan.  The  Carem  project was halted in the mid-1990s amid cutbacks
in  government spending .  The main technical difference with  other projects  in other
parts of the world is “this is an integrated reactor, where we
put everything we could into one body,” Boado Magan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  