-- 
Argentine Tax Raid, U.S. Swaps Evasion Rule, Sokol Analysis: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-29T12:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/argentine-raid-swaps-evasion-rule-sokol-analysis-compliance.html
Argentina’s tax agency sent 1,200
inspectors to raid the offices of cereals producers and
exporters including Cargill Inc. and  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  as part of
a tax-evasion investigation.  The companies, which export products such as soybeans and
corn, owe 310 million pesos ($73 million) in unpaid taxes, the
tax agency, known as AFIP, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  The raids are the latest in an investigation that started
in October.  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and Cargill, Argentina’s second- and
first-largest exporters, respectively, were among companies
suspended this year from the tax agency’s exporters’ registry.  Cargill press officer Mark Klein couldn’t be reached by e-
mail and didn’t respond to a telephone call seeking comment
yesterday. Gabriela Campoamor, a spokeswoman for Hong Kong-based
Noble, a supplier of energy, food and mined commodities,
couldn’t be reached in  Buenos Aires .  Compliance Policy  U.S. Regulator Seeks ‘Anti-Evasion’ Rules for Swap Loopholes  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  is aiming to
forestall a battle between regulators trying to write
derivatives rules without loopholes and companies trying to find
them.  Under powers granted to the agency under the Dodd-Frank
Act, the agency proposed new “anti-evasion”  rules  April 27
that would allow officials to regulate financial products that
are “willfully structured” to skirt the law. In other words,
trades designed to evade new derivatives rules will have to
comply with them anyway.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are leading
U.S. efforts to write new regulations for the  $583 trillion
global swaps market  after largely unregulated trades helped fuel
the 2008 credit crisis. The agencies proposed a definition April
27 for the types of trades that would be considered swaps,
overseen by the CFTC, or security-based swaps, governed by the
SEC.  The rule issued April 27 would allow the CFTC to apply the
agency’s clearing and trading regulations to swaps “that are
willfully structured as foreign-exchange forwards or foreign-
exchange swaps to fall within a determination by the Secretary
of Treasury to exempt such products,” according to a CFTC
summary of the proposal.  Anti-evasion powers could prevent a trader from creating a
swap designed to get around each agency’s jurisdiction.  For more, click here.  EU Banks May Curb Expansion on Too-Big-to-Fail ‘Uncertainty’  Banks in the European Union may be curtailing expansion
outside their home country because of “global uncertainty”
over rules for lenders whose collapse would jeopardize the
stability of financial markets.  Lack of clarity over “regulatory developments concerning
systemically important financial institutions,” is among
“major constraints holding them back,” the  European Commission 
said in a  report  on the EU’s website.  The report is based on a survey of eight “large pan-
European banks” that accounted for a fifth of the region’s bank
assets at the end of 2009, the Brussels-based commission, which
didn’t identify the lenders, said. Anxiety over the level of
future minimum liquidity rules is cited as another impediment to
banks’ expansion, the commission said.  The Group of 20 nations said last year that so-called too-
big-to-fail lenders whose failure would imperil the wider
financial system should face tougher capital rules than other
banks, to help them to cover any losses. Global regulators don’t
yet have a list of such banks, Financial Stability Board
Chairman  Mario Draghi  said after the board’s meeting in Rome
earlier this month.  Compliance Action  U.S. Education Department Is Said to Probe Rules Release  The U.S. Education Department will investigate whether Wall
Street investors had advance knowledge of proposed rules for
for-profit colleges that were released by the agency last year,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The probe by the department’s Office of the Inspector
General will focus on whether short-sellers, who look to profit
when stock prices fall, found out about the rules before they
were publicly announced, said the person, who declined to be
identified. The rulemaking process itself won’t be investigated,
the person said.  Republican Senators Richard Burr of  North Carolina  and Tom
Coburn of Oklahoma sent a letter to the Inspector General in
November requesting an investigation of the proposed rules,
called “gainful employment.” The regulations tie for-profit
colleges’ access to federal grants and loans to their former
students’ incomes and loan-repayment rates.  Dow Jones Newswires reported on the probe early yesterday.  Gen-Probe Is Latest U.S. Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers  Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO) , the maker of diagnostic products based on
genetic probe technologies, was halted by circuit breakers
yesterday.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares before
prices rebounded. The pause lasts five minutes for Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  companies as well as 
more than 300  exchange-traded funds when they rise or fall at
least 10 percent within five minutes.  New rules proposed by exchanges on April 5 would shift the
market to a limit-up/limit-down system that prevents shares from
moving more than a certain amount.  For a table listing the securities that have been halted by
U.S. circuit breakers since they were implemented in June 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, click here.  America Movil Spars With Antitrust Regulator Over Market Power  America Movil SAB, facing a record $1 billion fine for
anticompetitive practices in Mexico, said its majority share of
the country’s wireless market doesn’t give it the power to
control what competitors pay to connect calls.  Mexico’s antitrust regulator’s decision to levy the fine is
based on a false premise, Alejandro Cantu, the company’s top
lawyer, said in an interview. Though America Movil’s Telcel unit
has 71 percent of the country’s wireless market, the company
still can’t fix prices for calls from rivals’ networks, he said.  Like all companies in Mexico’s wireless industry, Telcel
has to agree with each competitor on the amount it will pay to
connect calls from a rival’s network, said Cantu. That system,
which allows companies to seek government intervention in price
disputes, precludes one company from fixing prices, he said.  Mexico’s  Federal Competition Commission  argued in a
statement April 27 that America Movil’s practices hurt
consumers. America Movil plans to formally ask the agency to
review its decision, and if the ruling stands, the company will
appeal to Mexico’s courts, Cantu said April 27.  Mexico, like many Latin American and European countries,
has a “calling party pays” system, which means the person who
makes the phone call will pay for the airtime. When the call is
from one carrier’s network to another, the caller’s wireless
company pays the receiver’s company.  The antitrust agency said April 27 that America Movil’s
share of the market gives it an unfair advantage: It can offer
cheaper rates for calls made between its own customers, since it
doesn’t have to pay itself so-called termination fees and it has
the majority of Mexico’s wireless users.  SEC Requests Harrisburg Agency Documents in Disclosure Probe  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, probing
disclosures about bond risks made by Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
subpoenaed a municipal agency for documents related to debt at
the center of the investigation, said Marc Kurowski, chairman of
the Harrisburg Authority.  The papers involve the Harrisburg Authority’s
communications with city representatives about the bonds,
Kurowski said in a telephone interview yesterday. He said the
authority would comply with the request. Judith Burns, an SEC
spokeswoman in  Washington , declined to comment.  The city of Harrisburg approached bankruptcy and sought
state assistance after guaranteeing $282 million in bonds sold
by the Harrisburg Authority for a trash incinerator whose
revenue was insufficient to cover debt service.  In November, the SEC asked city officials for documents to
show they provided enough information about the bonds’ risk to
investors.  Consultants hired under the state’s program for distressed
municipalities, known as Act 47, said they will propose a
recovery plan May 27. The plan must be passed by the mayor and
City Council before it can take effect.  CAD Software Industry Faces Preliminary EU Antitrust Probe  European Union antitrust regulators said they are reviewing
the practices of producers of computer-aided design software.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the  European Commission  in
Brussels, said in an e-mail today that an investigation into the
market has been opened and is in “the very preliminary
stages.”  “We are aware that the commission is reviewing the CAD
industry and we’ll certainly provide anything the commission
requests,” Greg Eden, a spokesman for Autodesk Inc., based in
San Rafael, California, said by phone yesterday in response to
questions from Bloomberg News.  Autodesk, the developer of software used in bridge design
and the special effects in the movie “Avatar,” generated
revenue of $1.95 billion in the year ended Jan. 31.  Competition among technology companies is “particularly
important because the dynamism in this industry is an asset for
the whole economy,” the EU’s antitrust chief,  Joaquin Almunia ,
said in November.  Requests for information are an initial step in EU
antitrust investigations that don’t always lead to a formal
probe, which can eventually result in fines for companies
accused of breaking competition rules.  Interviews/Speeches  Dutch Central Bank Says Shadow Bank Rules to Be Proportional  Dutch Central Bank Governing Board Member Lex Hoogduin said
any regulatory actions against shadow banking should be
proportional to the risks it tries to mitigate.  “We should use the momentum but don’t overshoot to the
other direction; we need to realize shadow banking fulfills an
important function in the system as well,” Hoogduin said in a
speech in Amsterdam yesterday.  ECB’s Costa Says Portugal Adjustment Program Must Bring Growth  European Central Bank council member Carlos Costa said the
fiscal program to reduce Portugal’s debt and budget deficit must
also stimulate economic growth.  “It’s very important for the Portuguese economy that this
program will bring growth at the same time that we’re putting
public finances on a sustainable path,” Costa, who heads
Portugal’s central bank, said at an event in  Luxembourg  today.
“Growth needs to come from the private sector. If there is no
financing available, there’ll be a credit squeeze. We need to
ensure a good combination of fiscal consolidation, banking
deleveraging, without putting at risk growth prospects and the
capacity of the economy to create jobs.”  Comings and Goings  Board Audit Finds Sokol Misled Buffett, Violated Rules  David Sokol  violated  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s insider-
trading rules and misled the company about his personal stake in
 Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) , which he recommended as a takeover target to
Chairman Warren Buffett, the firm said.  An 18-page report released April 27 by Berkshire’s audit
committee portrayed Buffett as a victim of deception and said
the company should weigh suing Sokol, 54, to recover his trading
profits.  Bloomberg’s Jon Erlichman reports.  For the video, click here.  For commentary on the audit report and Sokol’s departure
from Berkshire by  Alice Schroeder , a Bloomberg News columnist
and author of “The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business of
Life,” click here.  For a timeline of events leading up to Berkshire’s
acquisition of Lubrizol, Sokol’s resignation, and the
publication of the audit report, click here.  For a discussion by Jeffrey Matthews, founder of hedge fund
Ram Partners LP, who describes the Berkshire report as
“devastating” for Sokol, click here.  Spain, Luxembourg Follow France in Backing Draghi for ECB Helm  Spain and Luxembourg indicated their support for Mario
Draghi as the next European Central Bank president, leaving
 Germany  as the only one of the four biggest euro countries that
has yet to back the Bank of Italy governor.  The momentum built for Draghi yesterday, with comments by
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who also heads
the group of euro-area finance ministers. The praise came after
French President Nicolas Sarkozy’s endorsement and backing from
Portugal and Belgium.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who oversees the biggest
European economy, hasn’t indicated a preference and her
spokesman April 28 asserted her right to block any successor to
Jean-Claude Trichet, as  Europe ’s top monetary-policy official.  For more, click here.  GE’s Immelt Resigns From  New York  Fed Board of Directors  General Electric Co. (GE)  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt
resigned from the Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York’s board of
directors, citing “increased demands” on his time.  Immelt, 55, stepped down effective March 9, the New York
Fed said in a statement yesterday. He noted in his resignation
letter to New York Fed President William C. Dudley that his
other commitments include the  President’s Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness , which he has led since January. Immelt had
served as a regional bank director since January 2006.  Immelt was a Class B director at the New York Fed,
representing “the public,” and selected by member banks,
according to the New York Fed statement. Class A directors at
the Reserve Bank represent the member banks.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 