-- 
Target-Date Retirement Funds in U.S. Recover 2008 Losses, Morningstar Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-04-29T18:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/target-date-funds-in-u-s-recover-2008-losses-morningstar-says.html
Target-date funds designed for
investors retiring last year have recouped losses from the
credit crisis,  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  said.  The funds labeled 2010 gained 5 percent on average from
U.S. stocks’ high in October 2007 through Feb. 17, the  report 
said. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 7 percent over the
same period.  Target-date funds, one of the most popular investment
options in 401(k) retirement-savings plans, move money from
riskier investments such as stocks to more conservative
alternatives like bonds as an investor reaches retirement. The
funds took in $47.5 billion in 2010 as total assets rose to $341
billion, an increase of 22 percent, the report released today
said.  “It doesn’t refute the fact that if you were planning to
start withdrawing your money around 2008 or 2009 that you would
be hurt,” said Josh Charlson, senior mutual-fund analyst for
the Chicago-based research firm. “It lessens the sting.”  The 2010 funds lost 37 percent on average during the
decline of U.S. stocks from October 2007 to March 2009, the
report said.  Regulators and legislators have scrutinized the funds’
fees, disclosures and risk structure after some lost as much as
42 percent in 2008, Morningstar said, while the  S&P 500  dropped
37 percent.  Fidelity Investments ,  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
Vanguard Group Inc. and Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price Group Inc.
are the three largest target-date providers by assets and
account for a combined 76 percent of assets, Morningstar said.  Fidelity’s Share  Fidelity’s market share has fallen to 37 percent, or $125
billion in assets, from 48 percent, since 2007. During the same
period, Vanguard has gained 6 percentage points to 23 percent
market share or $80 billion in assets, according to the report.
Vanguard’s target-date funds hold baskets of index funds and
Boston-based Fidelity’s primarily hold actively managed funds.  Plan sponsors have moved toward indexing in part because
some actively managed funds lost more than the market during the
decline, Charlson said. The cost advantages of  index funds  have
also driven the shift, he said.  Vanguard’s funds remained the least expensive in 2010 with
average fees of 18 basis points, compared with the most
expensive provider OppenheimerFunds Inc., based in  New York ,
whose funds had average expenses of 1.68 percent. The average
expense ratio for target-date funds in 2010 was 1.02 percent,
according to Morningstar. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  More than three quarters of  retirement plans  administered
by Vanguard offer a target-date fund and about one third of the
firm’s 3.5 million participants had part or all of their savings
in the investment, said spokeswoman Linda Wolohan.  Top Funds  The top-rated target-date providers by Morningstar based on
performance, expenses and other factors were American Funds, a
unit of Los Angeles-based Capital Group Cos., T. Rowe Price and
Vanguard, the report said.  Last year  funds from  Kansas City ,
Missouri-based American Century Investments also received a top
rating. Funds from New York-based AllianceBernstein fell to the
lowest ranking this year and OppenheimerFunds received the
lowest ranking again, as well.  The U.S. Department of Labor and Securities and Exchange
Commission proposed rules last year to help American workers
better understand how target-date funds offered in 401(k) plans
work. The Labor Department’s  proposal  in November would require
disclosures about the  asset allocation , how it will change over
time with a graphic illustration and information about the
significance of the “target date,” according to a  statement .  Date Range  Target-date fund names usually include a date that
represents the year around when the investor expects to retire.
Under the SEC’s  measure  announced in June, the types of
investments such as equity or fixed-income securities would have
to appear with the fund’s title when first used in marketing
materials, according to the agency.  About 72 percent of all target-date fund assets were held
inside an employer-sponsored defined-contribution account at the
end of 2010, according to the  Investment Company Institute , a
Washington-based trade group.  Retirement savings totaled $17.5 trillion at the end of
2010, or 37 percent of U.S. household financial assets,
according to ICI. Assets in defined-contribution plans such as
401(k)s increased about 5 percent to $4.5 trillion in the fourth
quarter of 2010, the ICI said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
7569 or  eody@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 