-- 
Army Corps Can Breach Levee to Cut Flood Risk, Judge Says

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-04-29T15:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/army-corps-can-breach-mississippi-levee-to-cut-flood-risk-u-s-judge-says.html
The  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
may intentionally burst a  Mississippi River  levee to flood
central Missouri farmland in hopes of preventing floods in
upriver towns, a federal judge ruled.  “We just got the judge’s ruling at 8 a.m.,” Chris Roark,
a spokeswoman for Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster, said
in a telephone interview today. She said Koster hasn’t decided
whether to appeal U.S. District Judge Stephen Limbaugh Jr.’s
ruling, which he opposes.  Missouri claims opening floodgates near Cape Girardeau,
Missouri, would flood 130,000 acres of prime farmland and damage
about 100 nearby homes. Koster and the state’s Department of
Natural Resources filed a federal lawsuit on April 26 to block
the move.  The Corps claims opening the Birds Point-New Madrid
Floodway would lower the Mississippi River’s flood stage and
relieve pressure on the entire system during the ongoing major
flood event. The agency claims the intentional flooding could
spare upriver towns including Cairo,  Illinois .  Persistent rain in the past week has threatened to push
flood levels to the highest since 1937, according to an April 26
statement from the Army Corp. The agency has been moving barges
with material needed to detonate the levee into position.  Layer of Silt  The man-made floods caused by breaching the levee would
“leave a layer of silt on the farmland that could take as much
as a generation to clear, causing significant injury to the
quality of the farmland for many years,’’ Koster said in a
statement earlier this week.  The area that would be flooded by the proposed breach is
located midway between  St. Louis  and  Memphis ,  Tennessee , along
the Mississippi River. Crops including corn, soybeans, wheat and
rice are grown there, said Blake Hurst, the president of the
 Missouri Farm Bureau .  The area normally yields about 200 bushels of corn per
acre, above this year’s national average of 152.8, and crops
typically have been planted by now, said Frank Wideman, an
extension engineer at the  University of Missouri  in Jackson.
If the area is flooded, farmers will have to wait for the land
to dry out and then replant, increasing costs and curbing
yields, he said.  The case is State of Missouri, ex rel. Koster v. U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, 1:11cv00067, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Missouri  (Southeastern Division).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 