-- 
Army Corps Can Breach Levee to Cut Mississippi River Flooding, Judge Says

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-04-29T21:53:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/army-corps-wins-leave-to-breach-levee-in-case-splitting-states-on-flooding.html
The U.S.  Army Corps of Engineers 
can burst a  Mississippi River  levee to flood central  Missouri 
farmland in hopes of preventing floods in upriver towns, a
federal judge ruled.  Missouri opposes the action, claiming that destroying
floodgates near Cape Girardeau, Missouri, would flood 130,000
acres of prime farmland and damage about 100 nearby homes. State
Attorney General Chris Koster, who sued April 26 to block the
demolition, asked a U.S. appeals court for an emergency stay
while he appeals the ruling by U.S. District Judge Stephen Limbaugh Jr. in Cape Girardeau, Missouri.  The Corps claims opening the Bird’s Point-New Madrid
Floodway would lower the Mississippi River and relieve pressure
on the river system. The Corps of Engineers claims the flooding
could spare upriver towns including Cairo,  Illinois .  “Given the devastation these families may soon endure, we
believe it is imperative to ask the Eighth Circuit to review the
district court’s decision,” Koster said today in a statement,
referring to the St. Louis, Missouri-based appeals court. Koster
said he feared the  Army Corps  would “act within the next 48
hours” unless stopped by court order.  Limbaugh ruled that he lacks the authority to block the
breaching of the levee. He cited a 1984 appeals court decision
granting the agency permission to inundate “the very same
floodway” if necessary.  “The Corps is committed to implementing the plan ‘only as
absolutely essential to provide the authorized protection to all
citizens,’” Limbaugh wrote.  Praise from Illinois  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan applauded Limbaugh’s
ruling, which favors Illinois and  Kentucky . The two states were
granted permission to intervene in Missouri’s lawsuit on the
side of the Army Corps.  “It is imperative in the midst of this potential disaster
that the Army Corps be able to take quick action if and when
necessary to protect our communities,” Madigan said in a
statement. She noted that the Missouri levee targeted by the
Corps “was constructed specifically to be demolished” in a
flood emergency.  If levees are breached in Cairo, a town of 3,000 near the
confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, flooding “will
rise to 18 to 20 feet, a height that reaches above most two-
story buildings,” Madigan said,  Witnesses at a hearing before Limbaugh yesterday testified
that farmers and others whose property would be flooded knew
their property might be flooded if the corps found it necessary
to prevent worse flooding elsewhere.  Flood Levels  Persistent rain in the past week has threatened to push
flood levels to the highest since 1937, according to an April 26
statement from the Army Corps. The agency has been moving barges
into position with material needed to detonate the levee.  The manmade flooding would “leave a layer of silt on the
farmland that could take as much as a generation to clear,
causing significant injury to the quality of the farmland for
many years,” Koster said earlier this week in a statement.  The area that would be flooded lies between  St. Louis  and
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , along the Mississippi River. Crops including
corn, soybeans, wheat and rice are grown there, said Blake
Hurst, president of the Missouri Farm Bureau.  The area normally yields about 200 bushels of corn per
acre, above this year’s national average of 152.8, and crops
typically have been planted by now, Frank Wideman, an extension
engineer at the  University of Missouri , said from Jackson,
Missouri. If the area is flooded, farmers will have to wait for
the land to dry and then replant, increasing costs and curbing
yields, he said.  The case is State of Missouri v. U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, 1:11-cv-00067, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Missouri (Cape Girardeau).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 