-- 
Harper’s Savaging of Canadian Liberals Helps NDP Rise, Imperiling Majority

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-29T16:15:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/harper-savaging-of-liberals-helps-ndp-rise-imperiling-majority.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s quest for a majority in next week’s election is
colliding with the rise of the  New Democratic Party  -- now the
smallest in Parliament -- a rise Harper may have abetted through
his savaging of Liberal opponent  Michael Ignatieff , 63.  After attacking the Liberals during much of the five-week
campaign, Harper, 51, has turned his focus this week to the NDP,
which has surpassed the Liberals as the second-most-popular
party, polls show. A minority government led by the NDP would be
“extreme in terms of permanent increases in spending and tax
hikes,” Harper said in  Montreal  today, reiterating his appeal
for Canadians to elect a majority Conservative government.  “They forgot that there were two opponents out there and
not just one,” said Michael Behiels, a professor of political
history at the University of Ottawa. By focusing on the
Liberals, the Conservatives “gave a lot of traction to the NDP.
It looks like it’s going to prevent Harper from gaining the
majority.”  At stake in the May 2 election are tax reductions worth C$6
billion ($6.3 billion) annually for businesses such as Toronto-
based  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  that both the NDP and the Liberals
have pledged to reverse if elected. The Conservative
government’s plans to acquire 65 of Bethesda, Maryland-based
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter jets would
also be threatened.  Ads Against Ignatieff  Canada ’s dollar has fallen against all but two of 17 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg News since April 20, as polls
showed NDP support growing.  The Conservatives, using a larger war chest than the
Liberals, ran television ads in the months before the election
that sought to paint Ignatieff as an elitist with few links to
Canada. The ads claimed Ignatieff, who lived outside of Canada
for 34 years before returning in 2005 to enter politics, is
“just visiting” the country.  While a pickup in support for the NDP can help the
Conservatives in Ontario, where Harper’s main rival in a
majority of districts is the  Liberal Party , it can hurt the
Conservatives in other, mostly western, regions like British
Columbia and Saskatchewan where the NDP is the main opponent.  Harper may have misjudged voter anger over the global
recession, which NDP Leader  Jack Layton  has tapped into, said
Robin Sears, a communications adviser for Toronto-based
Navigator Limited who has run campaigns for the NDP.  ‘Still Hurting’  “Many voters are still hurting and angry from recession,”
Sears said. The anger, combined with Harper’s reputation for
being “tough and autocratic” were a “big repulsion” for some
voters, he said.  Harper has sought to inoculate himself from the slump,
saying the country has fared better than most countries. Harper
said today the NDP’s  platform  underscores why voters should
elect a Conservative majority government, which he says is
needed to secure the country’s recovery.  Harper oversees the fastest growing economy with the lowest
deficits among Group of Seven nations. The currency has been the
strongest in the G-7 over the past two years.  Government bonds 
have returned 5.5 percent over the past year as of April 27,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data, compared
with a 3 percent average for the G-7.  ‘Just Fantasy’  “This is just fantasy, the views of all of the opposition
parties, that you can somehow impose tens of billions of dollars
of taxes in the Canadian economy without impacting anybody,”
Harper said. “These are big and significant harms.”  The NDP had 31 percent support among decided voters,
according to the CTV/Globe/Nanos tracking poll published today.
The Conservatives had 36 percent support, while the Liberals had
22 percent. The poll surveyed 1,200 eligible voters and has a
margin of error of 2.8 percent.  Canadians will vote May 2 in the country’s 41st general
election, with all 308 seats in the House of Commons being
contested. More than 2 million people voted in advance polls
held April 22 - April 25, an increase of 34 percent from the
last election, the country’s  elections agency  said this week.  In the 2008  election , the Conservatives won 143 seats with
38 percent of the vote, the Liberals took 77 seats with 26
percent of the vote and the NDP won 37 seats with 18 percent.
Harper has been governing since 2006 without a majority.  NDP Platform  The growing NDP support has led opponents to focus on its
C$68.9 billion ($72.5 billion) platform, which says its promises
will be financed by raising corporate taxes, cracking down on
 tax havens , ending subsidies for fossil-fuel exploration that
benefit companies like Calgary-based  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , and
revenue from a cap-and-trade system for carbon.  Harper said the NDP’s cap-and-trade proposal, projected to
raise about C$20 billion over four years, will increase the cost
of gasoline by at least 10 Canadian cents per liter.  “The NDP’s positions on these things are the most starkly
clear,” Harper said in Niagara Falls yesterday. “Higher taxes,
higher spending, higher prices, protectionism.”  Speaking in a Bloomberg interview aboard his campaign
plane, Layton, 60, said an NDP government would slow planned
increases in spending if government revenue falls short of
projections.  “We are scheduling to eliminate it on the same schedule as
the Conservatives,” Layton said of the country’s deficit.
“When we talk about spending, we talk about ‘as finances
permit.’”  The NDP platform compares with the ruling Conservatives’
C$6.6 billion of  promises  over five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Niagara Falls, Ontario, at   targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, at
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 