-- 
Harper Best for Canadian Stocks Given History After Conservative Victories

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-04-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/harper-best-for-canadian-stocks-given-history-after-conservative-victories.html
Investors in Canadian stocks, which
beat all but three developed markets over the past year, may be
best served by Prime Minister Stephen Harper winning re-election
next week, if history is any guide.  In the 10 federal elections since 1979,  Canada ’s benchmark
equity index gained on average in the one and three months
following the five Conservative Party victories, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. When the  Liberal Party  won, shares
fell during those periods. One-year returns also favor Harper,
with stocks increasing more than four times as much after
Conservative wins.  “The Conservatives are basically viewed as being a party
more favorable to business: lower tax rates, lower  government
spending ,” said Karl Berger, a  money manager  at Toron
Investment Management in Toronto, which oversees C$370 million
($389 million).  Harper has pledged to maintain corporate tax cuts and
balance the budget by the 2014-15 fiscal year if he wins for a
third time in the May 2 election. The opposition Liberals and
the  New Democratic Party  have promised to rescind the tax cuts
and increase spending on environmental initiatives.  Based on recent opinion polls, Wilfrid Laurier University’s
Institute for the Study of Public Opinion and Policy  forecast 
April 27 that the Conservatives will win 147 seats in the House
of Commons, the NDP 69, the Liberals 60 and the Bloc Quebecois
32. A party would need to win 155 seats to form a majority
government. Otherwise, it needs opposition support to pass
legislation.  Good for Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite
Index rose in the 12 months after Harper’s Conservatives won
elections in 2006 and 2008. The Canadian stock benchmark has
increased 19 percent since the 2006 vote, more than two times as
much as the  S&P 500  gauge of U.S. shares.  The S&P/TSX and its predecessor, the TSE300, on average,
beat the S&P 500 after the five Conservative wins since 1979 and
lagged behind its U.S. peer after the five Liberal victories.
The NDP, a pro-union party and member of the Socialist
International, has never won a federal election.  After Joe Clark’s Conservatives won a minority government
in 1979, the S&P/TSX surged 41 percent before the next election.
In 2000, the index plunged 18 percent in the 12 months after the
victory by Jean Chretien’s Liberals.  “There must be a part of that that is due to the
perception that one of the parties is more business-oriented
than the other,” said Jean-Martin Aussant, a former  fund
manager  who sits in  Quebec ’s provincial legislature as a member
of the separatist Parti Quebecois. “The Tory government is
probably seen as the most business-friendly, right or wrong.”  Corporate Taxes  Under the Conservatives, federal government revenue has
fallen to its lowest level since at least 1961 as a share of
gross domestic product, according to the Finance Department.
Canada’s corporate income tax rate will fall to 15 percent next
year from 16.5 percent this year because of legislation passed
in 2007. The Liberals have called for the rate to be returned to
its 2009 level of 18 percent, while the NDP would roll it back
to its 2008 level of 19.5 percent.  A return to the 2008  tax rate  would reduce 2012 S&P/TSX
earnings per share by about 4.1 percent and cut gross domestic
product growth by at least 0.1 percentage points this year and
next year, Ryan Bohren, a Toronto-based economist at Bank of
America Corp., said in an e-mail message.  Canada posted a record budget deficit of  $55.6 billion  in
fiscal 2010, as  tax revenue  declined and stimulus spending by
Harper’s government increased.  Coincidence?  The stock gains following Conservative victories are
probably linked to external factors, said Hilliard MacBeth, a
Richardson GMP Ltd. fund manager and the husband of Nancy MacBeth, the former Alberta Liberal Party leader.  “It’s probably more a coincidence,” said MacBeth, whose
group in  Edmonton ,  Alberta , manages C$150 million. “Under the
Liberals, we had the big improvement in our financial
condition.”  In 1993, when the Liberals took over after nine years of
Conservative rule, the country’s budget deficit was 8.7 percent
of GDP. Four years later, the government had a surplus.  The Liberals’ re-election in June 1997 was followed by the
Asian financial crisis, which hurt Canada’s export-oriented
economy, MacBeth said. Returns from raw-material producers in
the TSE300 lagged behind the entire index, falling 7.7 percent
in the three months following the vote.  Internet Bubble  The next Liberal win, in November 2000, took place during
the bursting of the Internet bubble and the collapse of Nortel
Networks Ltd.’s shares, which accounted for 19 percent of the
TSE300’s market value at the time.  Whichever party wins the election faces a stock market that
is expensive by historical standards. Earlier this month, the
premium investors paid for S&P/TSX stocks over S&P 500 stocks
based on prices relative to earnings climbed to 38 percent, the
most since 2002, Bloomberg data show.  Even if markets jump or slide after the election, any
effect will likely be temporary, said Aussant, who was chief
portfolio manager for the Public Sector Pension Investment Board
in  Montreal  and a strategist at MSCI Barra.  “Whoever’s the government, the economy or the broader
picture is the same,” he said. “I don’t think it has a big
impact on the stock market, because it’s the entrepreneurs that
create wealth, it’s not the government.”  A Harper defeat next week may jeopardize recent Canadian
stock gains, said Norman Levine, managing director at Portfolio
Management Corp. in Toronto, which oversees C$300 million. A
worst-case-scenario would be a government that depends on NDP
votes to stay in power, he said.  “This is a potentially doomsday scenario,” he said. “The
dollar goes into free-fall. Bond yields rise because the NDP’s
platform has unbelievable amounts of spending with no real way
of raising money to cover it. And equity investors would sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  