-- 
Tasc’s $675 Million Leveraged Loan Might Mean ‘Pulled Deals’ Coming Back

-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-04-29T12:54:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/tasc-s-675-million-leveraged-loan-might-mean-pulled-deals-coming-back.html
Tasc Inc. is bringing back a $675
million refinancing that it pulled six weeks ago signaling that
the U.S. leveraged loan market is again open for such deals.  The systems engineering and advisory services provider to
the intelligence community, bought by KKR & Co. and General
Atlantic LLC in 2009, is looking to cut costs and push out
maturities on debt that was used to fund the buyout. Tasc joins
companies including U.S. Foodservice Inc. this week in raising
$11.4 billion of loans to reduce costs, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  High-yield, high-risk borrowers are returning to refinance
after more than $15 billion of loans to cut borrowing costs were
pulled in March amid concerns that recovery in the global
economy would be derailed following the earthquake in  Japan  and
unrest in the Middle East and  Libya . The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA
U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index, which reached a low for the year
of 94.84 cents on the dollar on March 18 rose to 95.94 cents
yesterday.  “Even before the earthquake in Japan, there were concerns
the market was overheating,” said Gil Tollinchi, head of
trading at Crescent Capital Group in  New York , which has more
than $10 billion of assets under management. “The market needed
to take a breather and recalibrate. We could start seeing more
issuers that pulled deals come back.”  Moody’s Investors Service on April 28 graded Tasc’s loan
Ba2, the same level it assigned in March, noting that the
transaction is “substantially” the same as the original
financing, which “did not move forward due to market
conditions.”  Tasc Loan Rate  Tasc may pay 3.25 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate on the $575 million  term loan  B due 2015,
with a 1.25 percent minimum on the lending benchmark, the same
terms that the company proposed in March, Bloomberg data show.
The loan is expected to price at 99.5 cents on the dollar.
Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG, KKR’s financing arm and Royal
Bank of Canada are arranging the financing, which includes a
$100 million revolving line of credit due 2014, according to the
data.  U.S. Foodservice is seeking a $425 million, six-year term
loan to refinance loans from its 2007 buyout by KKR and Clayton
Dubilier & Rice. The company is proposing to pay 3.75 percentage
points to 4 percentage points more than Libor with a 1.25
percent floor, said a person with knowledge of the transaction
who declined to be identified because the terms are private.  Rosemont, Illinois-based U.S. Foodservice may sell the debt
at 99.5 cents on the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds
for the borrower and boosting the yield for investors. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. is leading the financing.  Loan Issuance  Loan issuance during the first quarter was $124 billion,
and is on pace to reach $500 billion for the year, which is back
to pre-recession levels, according to Ted Basta, vice president
of market data and analysis at the Loan Syndications and Trading
Association. In 2007, companies borrowed $519.8 billion of
loans, according to Basta.  There’s been only $32 billion of net new money sold this
year, Basta said, citing Thomson Reuters LPC data. Loan issuance
to finance mergers and acquisitions is expected to pick up in
the second half of the year.  Lawson Software Inc. obtained $1.68 billion of loans to
support its buyout by private equity firm Golden Gate Capital
Corp. and software maker Infor Global Solutions.  Lawson will get a $1.04 billion term loan, a $75 million
revolving credit facility and as much as $560 million in bridge
loans, according to an April 26 regulatory filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Credit Suisse AG, Bank of
America Corp., Morgan Stanley, Royal Bank of  Canada  and Deutsche
Bank are providing the financing for the  St. Paul , Minnesota-
based company. The transaction is expected to close in the third
calendar quarter of 2011, the company said.  “There’s clearly expectation of a robust new-issue
pipeline,” Tollinchi said. “Everyone’s saying M&A is coming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 