-- 
U.S. Stocks Extended Weekly Gain; Gold Rises

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-04-29T20:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/asian-stocks-crude-oil-decline-as-u-s-economic-growth-slows-won-weakens.html
U.S. stocks added to the best
weekly gain in a month as results at  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and
 Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  beat estimates. The Dollar Index
extended its worst monthly loss since September amid bets the
 Federal Reserve  will maintain stimulus as the economy slows.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,363.61 at 4 p.m. in New York on the final session of a 2
percent weekly gain and a 2.9 percent monthly advance. The
Dollar Index, which gauges the currency against six major peers,
fell for a ninth day in its longest slump in four years.  China ’s
yuan strengthened beyond 6.5 per dollar for the first time since
1993. Gold futures reached a record $1,569.80 an ounce and oil
added to an unprecedented eighth straight monthly advance.  Caterpillar raised its forecast amid a surge in revenue in
 developing countries  and Goodyear posted record sales. Lower-
than-estimated data on U.S. business activity and  consumer
confidence  underscored the Fed’s assessment this week that it
will probably keep interest rates near zero for an extended
period to bolster a “moderate” economic expansion.  “The earnings season has been really good so far,” said
Liam Dalton, president of Axiom Capital Management Inc. in New
York, which oversees $1.3 billion. “The numbers are very strong
from the perspective of bottom-line beats and relative to
expectations. It adds to all the stimulative forces we have in
place and which keep pushing stocks higher.”  Earnings Season  Earnings-per-share have exceeded analysts’ estimates at
about three-quarters of the 298 companies in the  S&P 500  that
have reported results since April 11, Bloomberg data show. Net
income has grown 21 percent for the group as sales increased 10
percent.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest construction-equipment
maker, climbed 2.5 percent after reporting first-quarter profit
of $1.84 a share, more than the $1.31 average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. Goodyear Tire surged 12 percent to $18.15, the
highest price since August 2009.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer fell to 67.6 in April from 70.6 the prior
month, trailing the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists for a decline to 68.2. The Thomson Reuters/
University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment rose to
69.8 from March’s 67.5 reading that was the lowest since
November 2009. The gauge was projected to increase to 70,
according to the median economist estimate.  Consumer Spending  Separately, U.S. consumer spending rose in March, with
purchases increasing 0.6 percent after a revised 0.9 percent
gain the prior month that was higher than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed.  The Dollar Index slipped 0.1 percent to 73, extending its
monthly decline to 3.8 percent. The U.S. currency slipped 0.1
percent to $1.4811 per euro. The yuan closed up almost 0.2
percent to 6.491 per dollar.  “Clearly with the Fed on hold and the economy just moving
along slowly and the deficit so large, it’s a tough
combination,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  Treasuries completed their biggest monthly return since
August as cooling economic growth and the Fed’s commitment to
sustain monetary stimulus spurred demand for the safety of
government debt.  Treasury Yields  Ten-year yields slipped two basis points to 3.29 percent,
the lowest in more than a month. They fell 18 basis points in
April in the first monthly decrease since sliding 44 basis
points in August.  Yields on two-year notes lost two basis points to 0.60
percent and decreased 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point,
in April for the biggest monthly drop since January 2010.
Bernanke said this week that the central bank will finish buying
$600 billion of debt in June, as planned, while holding  interest
rates  near zero, where they’ve been since December 2008.  European confidence in the economic outlook declined and
inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in two and a half
years, while  South Korea ’s output climbed at the slowest pace in
six months, government reports showed today.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index capped the biggest monthly
increase this year, rising 2.9 percent. SSAB Svenskt Staal AB
jumped 9.7 percent today as the world’s largest supplier of
high-tensile steel reported earnings that topped projections.  Crude for June delivery rose $1.07, or 1 percent, to
$113.93 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and gained
6.8 percent in April. Cotton, corn and wheat climbed more than 3
percent to lead the S&P GSCI Index up 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  