-- 
Asian Stocks Advance as Fed Keeps Rates Low, Pledges to Stimulate Growth

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-04-29T22:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/asian-stocks-advance-as-fed-keeps-rates-low-pledges-stimulus.html
Asian stocks rose for a second
consecutive week after the  Federal Reserve  renewed its pledge to
stimulate growth in the world’s biggest economy with low
interest rates, boosting the outlook for the region’s exporters.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s biggest manufacturer of cameras,
surged 8.3 percent in Tokyo.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s No.
1 automaker, climbed 5.8 percent after profit surged. Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest contract
manufacturer of chips, rose 3.2 percent after profit beat
estimates and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded the stock.  “We have a combination of loose monetary settings and low
interest rates and strong earnings,” said Nader Naeimi, a
Sydney-based strategist for AMP Capital, which has almost $100
billion under management. “It’s a pretty good cocktail for a
good equity market.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.47 percent to 139.48
this week. The gauge gained 2.2 percent the previous week as U.S.
housing starts gained and companies such as Apple Inc. reported
earnings that beat estimates, boosting confidence in global
economic growth.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average increased 1.7 percent,
extending a rebound following a record earthquake and tsunami on
March 11 that left thousands dead and damaged supply chains.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 1.8 percent this week,
while Singapore’s Straits Times Index lost 0.5 percent.  Hong
Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined 1.7 percent.  China ’s  Shanghai 
Composite Index dropped 3.3 percent, the biggest weekly decline
since November.  Canon Forecast  Markets in Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong were closed
for a holiday on April 25. Australia was also closed the
following day. Markets in Japan were closed yesterday.  Canon, which gets more than 80 percent of its sales outside
of Japan, advanced 8.3 percent to 3,800 yen. The company made
profit and sales forecasts that were too conservative, some
analysts said.  “The market reacted because it’s very likely Canon will
reach its next fiscal year earnings forecast,” said Masahiro Shibano, a Tokyo-based analyst for Citigroup. “The market
expects that Canon can get back to its full production level in
the second half of the year.”  Hyundai Motor advanced 5.8 percent to 246,500 won. The
stock rose to a record on April 28 after the company reported a
46 percent increase in net income for the three months to March
31.  Taiwan Semiconductor  Taiwan Semiconductor gained 3.2 percent to NT$73.20. The
company reported on April 28 an 8 percent increase in first-
quarter profit, more than analysts estimated, after demand for
smartphones and tablets drove sales of pricier chips. Goldman
Sachs boosted its rating on the stock to “buy” from
“neutral” before the results, citing valuations and the
company’s growth outlook.  “The  U.S. economy  is recovering and corporate earnings are
strong,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in  Tokyo  at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “More and more manufacturers are
resuming operations at factories” after Japan’s disaster last
month. “That’s positive for stocks.”  Stocks also got a boost after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled on April 27 that the Fed will maintain its
record monetary stimulus after ending large-scale bond purchases
in June.  In China, Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. led Chinese steelmakers
lower on speculation accelerating inflation will hurt economic
growth. The shares dropped 5.7 percent to 6.9 yuan in Shanghai.
Anhui Conch Cement Co., the biggest cement maker, fell 5.6
percent to 37.78 yuan. Sany Heavy Industry Co., the largest
maker of machinery for handling concrete, slid 5.1 percent to
18.34 yuan.  ‘Major Concern’  The Shanghai Composite has risen 3.7 percent this year on
speculation the government will cool inflation without
triggering a slump in economic growth. The central bank has
raised the reserve-requirement ratio 10 times since the start of
2010 and boosted  interest rates  four times to cool inflation as
consumer prices rose at the fastest pace since 2008 in March.  “Inflation is still the major concern and there’s no sign
that the government will relax its tightening,” said Wu Kan, a
fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285
million. “The tightening will hold back stocks’ valuations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  