-- 
Layton Says New Democrats Will Balance Canada Budget as Quickly as Harper

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-29T19:20:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/layton-says-new-democrats-will-balance-canada-budget-as-quickly-as-harper.html
Canadian New Democratic Party
leader  Jack Layton , whose surging popularity may deny Prime
Minister Stephen Harper a majority government in the May 2
election, said his economic plan will cut the deficit as quickly
as Harper’s Conservatives and create more jobs.  The NDP will slow planned spending increases if government
revenue falls short of  projections , and a plan to end tax cuts
for big companies and redirect part of the money to small
businesses will boost employment faster, Layton, 60, said on his
campaign jet over the Northwest Territories yesterday.  “The Harper government, they are the ones that have
actually set the record for the deficit,” Layton said. “We are
scheduling to eliminate it on the same schedule as the
Conservatives.”  Layton, whose party has balanced budgets in Canadian
provinces and never formed a national government, also signaled
he would be tougher on companies in the Alberta  oil sands  and on
foreign investors buying local businesses. Polls show the NDP
leading the main opposition Liberals and nearing Harper’s level
of support.  The NDP fiscal plan has been criticized by rivals as
“science fiction” that will bring “a lot of destruction” to
Canada’s economy. Canada’s dollar has fallen against all but two
of 17 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg since April 20.  Layton encountered new attacks today after he told
Bloomberg yesterday he wanted an “arms-length” relationship
with the  Bank of Canada , while Reuters  reported  him saying the
bank should avoid raising its 1 percent benchmark interest rate.  Decision for the Bank  “The Bank of Canada dealing with monetary policy is arms-
length from the government, that’s the way it should be,”
Layton told reporters today in Kamloops, British Columbia.
“There are a lot of Canadians, many people who feel that
 interest rates  shouldn’t be increased, but this is a decision
for the governor of the Bank of Canada.”  Deputy Liberal leader and former finance minister  Ralph Goodale  said by e-mail that “questioning the independence of
the Bank of Canada and suggesting government interference in
monetary policy is dangerously foolish,” adding “It damages
the credibility of the Bank, and it would leave Governor  Mark Carney  -- whom the NDP have previously attacked personally -- in
an absolutely untenable position.”  NDP lawmaker and finance spokesman  Thomas Mulcair  in
October asked Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  about the bank’s
hiring of an adviser, Timothy Hodgson, from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. for an 18-month term. Flaherty said in response that the
bank makes its own staffing decisions and that Hodgson has
“severed” his ties to the private sector.  ‘Political Theater’  The rise of Layton’s party “makes great political theater,
but from a markets perspective, while it could create some
volatility, I can’t see a resurgent NDP being relevant,” said
Ed Devlin of Pacific Investment Management Co., in a telephone
interview two days ago. Pimco runs the world’s largest bond
fund.  The Canadian dollar has appreciated 12 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  since the end of June and touched 94.55 cents on
April 21, the strongest level since November 2007. The
currency’s gains have hurt exporters such as Catalyst Paper
Corp. by making their products more expensive in the U.S.,
 Canada ’s best customer.  Layton in the interview said the strength in the Canadian
dollar is “creating difficulties for the economy.” He also
suggested he wouldn’t pressure Governor Carney to take action to
curb its appreciation.  ‘Arms-Length Relationship’  “We aren’t snap your fingers interventionists on interest-
rate policy,” he said. “The Bank of Canada’s arms-length
relationship is the way to go.”  Layton also declined to say whether the NDP would support
another seven-year term for Carney if he wanted one, saying
“these are hypotheticals that I’m not going to get into.”  Layton also said he’s wary of further foreign takeovers of
the country’s major companies, a subject the government has been
reviewing since Industry Minister Tony Clement last year
rejected Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile
takeover offer for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. The NDP has
been critical of companies like  Vale SA (VALE)  and  United States Steel
Corp. (X) , which the party has said purchased Canadian companies and
failed to live up to employment commitments.  “We are letting too many of our economic jewels simply be
gobbled up,” Layton said yesterday. He called for more
“transparent” takeover rules.  Oil Sands  Regarding development of the country’s oil sands deposits
by companies such as  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Layton said while his
party has no plans to stop existing projects, “we do have
concerns about unbridled continued approval of more and more
projects without full plans,” citing the environmental impact
and a reliance on temporary foreign workers.  Harper, 51 and Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff , 63 have
questioned the party’s platform, saying it isn’t fiscally
credible and would lead to higher taxes. Layton denied the NDP
would be spendthrift, pointing to examples his party’s past and
present provincial governments in Saskatchewan, Nova Scotia and
Manitoba.  The NDP has “the best record of any political party in
power provincially in  balancing budgets ,” he said. “We will be
able to provide good, steady certainty for business.”  Clear Alternative  Layton’s effort to show himself as a clear alternative to
Harper is part of the reason he’s gained in the campaign, led by
his performance in national television debates, said David
Laycock, a political science profession at Simon Fraser
University.  “If you asked anyone who follows federal politics what the
last week of the campaign would have been about, nobody would
have said it would be two federal leaders attacking Jack
Layton,” he said. “The NDP has sufficient momentum that a vote
for them is an effective vote against the Harper regime.”  The NDP had 31 percent support among decided voters,
according to the CTV/Globe/Nanos tracking poll published April
28. The Conservatives had 36 percent support, while the Liberals
had 22 percent. The poll surveyed 1,200 eligible voters and has
a margin of error of 2.8 percent.  The Conservatives won 143 of the 308 seats in the House of
Commons in the  last  election in October 2008, with 38 percent of
the vote. The Liberals won 77 seats with 26 percent of the vote
and the  New Democrats  had 37 seats with 18 percent.  The pro-labor NDP’s platform contains C$68.9 billion ($72.4
billion) of campaign promises over four years, compared with the
ruling Conservatives’ C$6.6 billion of  promises  over five years.  ‘Science Fiction’  Ignatieff called the program “science fiction” at an
April 25 event, while Harper said yesterday in Niagara Falls,
Ontario, the NDP would bring “a lot of destruction” for the
economy through higher taxes and prices.  Layton, surrounded during his speeches by rings of
supporters, talked of being a “fighter” while seeking to reach
the prime minister’s office. He drew cheers by waving his cane
in defiance of concerns since the start of his campaign about
hip surgery and treatment for  colon cancer .  His supporters include Kahleigh Krochak, 22, who offered
her friends high-fives and “chest bumps” at a rally earlier
this week. She stood in the front row to hear Layton speak to
about 400 people holding “Together” and “We Can Do This”
signs. Yesterday Layton spoke to more than 2,000 people in
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, a province where the party currently
holds no seats.  “Jack Layton did super” said Krochak, a student and first-
time voter and a student at the University of Winnipeg. The
momentum “is going to swing a lot of people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Kamloops, British Columbia at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 