-- 
Barclays to Make ‘New’ Claim Against Lehman Brokerage

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-29T17:10:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/barclays-seeks-2-3-billion-in-trade-margin-from-lehman-brokerage-trustee.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , which bought Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s North American business, plans to
pursue “new arguments” claiming “several billion dollars”
from the trustee liquidating the remnants of the brokerage, the
trustee said.  Barclays and trustee James Giddens are disputing
$3.5 billion in assets after a judge’s ruling that failed to
specify how much Barclays was entitled to when it bought
bankrupt Lehman’s business in September 2008. In a court filing,
Giddens said the U.K. bank’s lawyers told him that Barclays in
addition will claim unspecified billions for closing out $6
billion of so-called short positions in derivatives.  The claim will be “purportedly to compensate Barclays for
assuming some $6 billion in short derivative positions that
Barclays claims it was not otherwise required to cover,” he
said in the filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan 
yesterday. Short positions are closed out by purchasing the
securities previously sold.  Barclays said the claim isn’t new, and is part of the
ongoing dispute. “To the contrary, we are trying to implement
the court’s decision in a way that is consistent with the law,”
Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  Peck Ruling  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck directed Barclays and
Giddens to interpret a ruling he made in February granting the
London-based bank some assets and denying it some others,
including cash. The dispute resumed with court filings
yesterday, in which Barclays asserted its right to assets
claimed by the trustee.  Barclays must deliver $1.8 billion in so-called margin
assets and pay interest at 9 percent, the trustee said as part
of his demands. Barclays, saying it was entitled to the $1.8
billion, accused the trustee of seeking a “windfall” of
interest payments for 2 1/2 years, at punitive rates.  “The court should resist the trustee’s effort to reap such
a windfall,” Barclays said in the filing. “There is no
economic justification.”  ‘Unnecessary Complexities’  In all, the trustee said he is entitled to as much as $3.5
billion in margin assets. Barclays claimed $2.3 billion in
assets deposited by Lehman customers who transferred to
Barclays, most of which it already has. In a second dispute,
Barclays said it was denied $1.5 billion in securities that were
erroneously called cash.  “We are disappointed with the introduction of unnecessary
complexities at this stage of the process,” Giddens said in a
statement. “We are hopeful that final orders will remain
consistent with the court’s previous ruling and ultimately
benefit LBI’s public customers.”  LBI is  Lehman Brothers Inc ., the remnants of the bankrupt
brokerage.  The trial involved a three-way fight, with lawyer  David Boies  representing the U.K.’s third-biggest bank. Barclays said
it was owed $3 billion on the brokerage deal, and the trustee
demanded about $7 billion from Barclays. The Lehman parent
sought an alleged $11 billion “windfall” it said Barclays made
on the purchase.  Peck denied Lehman’s claim entirely and reduced the
trustee’s right to assets.  Agreement Invalidated  According to Barclays, Giddens signed an agreement, called
the “Transfer and Assumption Agreement,” entitling Barclays to
all margin deposits. The judge’s ruling invalidated that
agreement, O’Looney said.  “The law says that when an agreement is voided, the
parties are entitled to recover the consideration they gave
under the TAA,” he said. “All Barclays wants is for the court
to implement the established legal principle that Barclays is
entitled to some kind of offset for that consideration, however
it may be measured.”  The amount sought by Barclays for covering the short
positions “could be defined to be as much as $6 billion, but at
a minimum is $1 billion,” he said.  Peck made his ruling after a bankruptcy court trial with
more than 30 days of testimony last year. He granted Barclays at
least $800 million of “clearance box” assets, which are
certain assets held to clear trades.  Margin Assets  Barclays may be entitled to a similar amount of assets
later, and must return any cash it took from the brokerage, Peck
said. Regarding margin assets, he didn’t specify all amounts
that Barclays could keep or demand, or must relinquish.  Barclays’ claim to $2.3 billion in assets relates to
Lehman’s former business as a futures commission merchant, where
trading positions were secured by long-term deposits. The
trustee said Barclays was entitled to $2 billion. He had already
transferred more than that amount in deposits to the bank, so it
must return the excess, he said.  Barclays said it was entitled to the full amount, because
the assets backed futures trades by Lehman customers, whom the
bank took on when it bought the brokerage. Barclays cited its
futures balance sheet, showing a $2.3 billion liability to those
customers for margin assets they deposited with the Lehman
brokerage.  Peck, when he ordered Barclays to return any Lehman cash it
had taken, said he approved the sale on the understanding
Barclays wouldn’t take any cash.  Cash Equivalents  According to Barclays, $1.5 billion in margin assets wasn’t
cash or cash equivalents, defined as securities maturing in
three months of less.  “Both Barclays and Lehman defined cash equivalents as
securities with a maturity of three months or less,” it said.  To date, Barclays has received $175 million of the $1.5
billion, entitling it to the remaining $1.3 billion, it said in
the filing.  The trustee said these were government securities that
Barclays wasn’t entitled to.  “Barclays is using arguments that the court has already
rejected, and which would in large part undo the court’s ruling
with respect to the margin assets that the court has ruled
belong to the LBI estate,” said William Maguire, the trustee’s
lawyer, in an e-mail today.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 