-- 
Baucus Targets Billions in U.S. Oil Tax Breaks as Gasoline Prices Increase

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-29T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/baucus-targets-billions-in-oil-tax-breaks-as-gas-prices-rise.html
Senate Finance Committee Chairman
 Max Baucus , citing rising gasoline prices and corporate profits,
said he will seek to repeal billions of dollars in tax breaks
for multinational oil and gas companies.  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, released yesterday what he
called a blueprint for legislation that his tax-writing
committee will craft. The proposal, offered the day  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  reported its highest net income in almost three years,
seeks to eliminate a manufacturing tax deduction, reduce a tax
credit for royalties paid to other governments and impose an
excise tax on “certain Gulf leases,” according to an e-mailed
statement.  Baucus’s plan follows President  Barack Obama ’s call for
Congress to end “unwarranted” tax breaks to oil and gas
companies. Lawmakers have offered opposing plans to respond to
consumer discontent over rising gasoline prices, with Democrats
focusing on alternatives to oil and Republicans pledging to give
companies more offshore access.  “Now is not the time to stand idly by while large oil and
gas companies get billions of dollars in tax breaks,” Baucus
said in the statement. He said high gas prices were hurting his
constituents.  The  average cost  of a gallon of gasoline rose to $3.886, up
from $2.869 a year ago, according to AAA’s daily tally posted
online yesterday.  Baucus’s plan would use the revenue from oil and gas
producers to promote clean-energy development.  Democrats “appear committed to a campaign to increase  oil
prices  and drive investment, jobs and oil production overseas,”
Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, the top Republican on the
Senate Energy Committee, said in a statement.  Republican Measure  Next week,  House Republicans  plan to vote on legislation
requiring the Interior Department to approve or deny production
permits within 60 days.  A second bill backed by House Republicans would require the
Interior Department to lease areas in the western and central
parts of the  Gulf of Mexico  and off  Virginia ’s coastline.  Obama’s fiscal 2012 budget request called for the repeal of
about $46.2 billion in oil and gas subsidies over 10 years.
Baucus’s plan, which doesn’t have a price tag, shares
similarities with the president’s proposal.  Both target a domestic manufacturing deduction that oil and
gas companies can receive for drilling. Democrats have long
maintained that the companies shouldn’t get a benefit designed
to boost manufacturing.  Most manufacturers are eligible to deduct 9 percent of
their income from “qualified production activities,” while oil
and gas companies can deduct 6 percent.  Five Largest Targeted  Baucus’ plan would end tax breaks for “the five largest
oil and gas companies that announced tens of billions of dollars
of first-quarter profits this week,” according to the
statement. Obama’s proposal on the domestic manufacturing
deduction would cover all producers, regardless of size.  The president’s plan to repeal the tax break for all oil
and gas companies would generate $18.3 billion over a decade,
according to the Treasury Department.  Obama’s proposed budget also targets “dual capacity
taxpayers,” often oil and gas producers that make royalty tax
payments to other governments. That proposal would generate
$10.8 billion over a decade.  Alternative Fueling  Baucus said higher tax receipts from oil and gas companies
would go toward encouraging the use of fuel-efficient vehicles
and support expansion of “alternative energy fueling stations”
among other efforts to promote clean-energy infrastructure.  Obama has said clean-energy development can reduce the
nation’s dependence on foreign oil and make the U.S. less
susceptible to price disruptions.  Proposals to repeal oil and gas tax breaks are unlikely to
advance in Congress unless they are part of a broader corporate
tax overhaul, given opposition from Republicans and some
Democrats, Whitney Stanco, an analyst at MF Global Inc.’s
 Washington  Research Group, said in a phone interview yesterday.  John Felmy , chief economist at the  American Petroleum
Institute , the largest oil and gas trade group in Washington,
called Baucus’s plan an “attack on the industry” that won’t
bring down gas prices.  “It’s not going to help consumers,” he said in a phone
interview yesterday.  The industry defended itself this week by releasing a study
showing that oil and gas stocks outperformed other stocks in
public pension funds in four states,  Michigan ,  Missouri ,  Ohio 
and  Pennsylvania .  “ Oil companies  aren’t owned by space aliens,” Felmy said.
“They are owned by millions of Americans.”  Exxon Mobil, the world’s largest company by market value,
reported its net income jumped 69 percent to $10.7 billion in
the first quarter.  Kenneth Cohen, Exxon’s vice president of public and
government affairs, said in a blog posting on the company’s
website that Exxon paid $59 billion in U.S. taxes over the past
five years, $18 billion more than it earned in the U.S. in that
period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  