-- 
Belgian Economic Growth Accelerates Amid Political Stalemate

-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 
2011-04-29T13:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/belgian-economic-growth-accelerates-amid-political-stalemate.html
The Belgian economy heated up in
the first quarter even as a political standoff continued,
leaving the country without a full-time government since
inconclusive elections last June.  Gross domestic product in  Belgium , the first euro-area
country to report first-quarter growth, expanded 1 percent from
the fourth quarter, when it grew 0.5 percent, the  National Bank
of Belgium  in Brussels said today, citing preliminary data. GDP
grew 3 percent from a year earlier.  Belgium’s economic growth may slow to 1.7 percent this year
from 2 percent in 2010, according to an  International Monetary
Fund  forecast. Slower growth may complicate the nation’s effort
to narrow the  budget deficit  and stabilize its debt load as a
political stalemate has left the country with a caretaker
government for  320 day s.  Belgium owns the peacetime world record for days spent
without a full-time government, according to the Guinness World
Records  website .  Belgium may record “annual growth of 2 percent twice,”
former central bank Governor  Guy Quaden  said on Feb. 14. The
central bank forecast 2011 GDP expansion of 1.8 percent in
December.  The country’s unemployment rate held at 7.7 percent in
March, the bank said today.  Consumer confidence  rose in April,
partially recovering from March’s steepest decline in 10 months.  The bank’s GDP estimate follows an April decline in Belgian
business confidence that exceeded economists’ forecasts, led by
a deterioration of demand expectations as executives in the
manufacturing and construction industries signaled slowing
orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Henry in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  