-- 
Bernanke Says High Unemployment, Housing Restrain U.S. Economic Recovery

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-29T16:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/bernanke-says-high-unemployment-housing-restrain-u-s-economic-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said high levels of joblessness and home foreclosures
are restraining the U.S. recovery and putting many people and
communities at risk of being “left behind.”  “The broader economy is in a moderate recovery, and we
have recently seen some welcome, if gradual, improvement in the
labor market,” Bernanke said in a speech today in Arlington,
 Virginia . “But our economy is far from where we would like it
to be, and many people and neighborhoods are in danger of being
left behind.”  Bernanke’s comments on the economy echoed remarks he made
two days earlier at the Fed’s first regular press conference
after a monetary policy meeting. The chairman signaled this week
that the Fed would maintain record monetary stimulus after
completing $600 billion of Treasury purchases as scheduled in
June.  “Unemployment remains quite high, particularly among
minorities, the young and those with less education,” Bernanke
said today in prepared remarks at a Fed conference on community
development. While the broader U.S. jobless rate declined to 8.8
percent in March from November’s 9.8 percent, Fed officials aim
for a long-run goal of 5.2 percent to 5.6 percent.  In addition, the housing market is “also holding back the
recovery,” Bernanke said. “The foreclosure rate remains very
high, and many homeowners who have avoided foreclosure find
themselves ‘under water,’ meaning their mortgage debt exceeds
the value of their homes,” he said.  Property Values  A report this week showed residential real-estate prices
dropped in the 12 months through February by the most in more
than a year, putting the market on the verge of eclipsing the
nadir reached during the U.S. recession. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities fell 3.3 percent from
February 2010, the biggest year-over-year decline since November
2009.  CoreLogic Inc. last month estimated about 1.8 million homes
were delinquent or in foreclosure, a so-called “shadow
inventory” set to add to the 3.5 million existing homes already
on the market.  The Fed, besides using its bank-regulation and monetary-
policy authorities to help Americans, will keep working with
community groups and businesses to provide research, data and
other support, Bernanke said.  Bernanke’s characterization of growth as “moderate” and
the labor market as “improving gradually” echoes the  Federal
Open Market Committee ’s April 27 statement. Bernanke said at his
press conference that the Fed would initially hold its balance
sheet steady after completing the bond purchases.  “We are digging ourselves out of a deep hole,” Bernanke
said on April 27, referring to the jobs lost during the
recession.  The chairman devoted most of his speech to discussing
results from a Fed survey of consumers’ finances, as well as
efforts by community groups around the U.S. to prevent
foreclosures and help small businesses get loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Arlington, Virginia, at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  