-- 
Best Bond Rally Since July Shows Tame Inflation: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-04-29T21:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/best-bond-rally-since-july-shows-carstens-taming-inflation-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s benchmark peso bonds
staged their biggest monthly rally since July as the slowest
inflation in four years prompts central bank Governor Agustin Carstens to keep interest rates at a record low.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso notes due in
2024 dropped 38 basis points, or 0.38 percentage point, in April
to 7.46 percent, according to Banco Santander SA. In Brazil,
yields on benchmark real-denominated bonds maturing in 2021 fell
32 basis points this month. U.S. Treasuries due in 2024 rallied
in April, with yields dropping 15 basis points.  Investors are reversing bets that inflation will accelerate
after consumer prices rose less than forecast in the past two
months, allowing Carstens to leave the benchmark rate at 4.5
percent for a record 18 consecutive meetings. Yields on Mexican
bonds have fallen from a one-year high of 7.99 percent on March
3 as inflation slowed to 3.04 percent that month. Mexico is the
only major Latin American nation not to raise  interest rates  in
the past year.  “There’s an inflation picture in Mexico that looks very
benign,” Alejandro Urbina, who helps oversee and manage $800
million of assets, including Mexican peso bonds, at Silva
Capital Management LLC, said in telephone interview from
 Chicago . “If part of what was being priced into the curve was
an inflation problem, then the market got it wrong. The data in
Mexico confirms that inflation is not a problem there.”  The yield gap between fixed-rate bonds due in 2014 and
similar-maturity inflation-linked debt, a measure of investor
expectations for annual price increases during the next three
years, shrank 88 basis points from a 14-month high on March 7 to
3.78 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Outlook  Consumer prices rose 3.2 percent in the 12 months through
mid-April, near the four-year low set in March and half the 6.4
percent pace in  Brazil , Latin America’s largest economy.  Mexico’s economy is unlikely to grow as much as forecast,
helping keep inflation in check, said  Benito Berber , an
emerging-market analyst at Nomura Securities.  Gross domestic product will expand as much as 5 percent
this year after growing 5.5 percent in 2010, Finance Minister
 Ernesto Cordero  said last month. Carstens said at a banking
conference April 7 that the economy has “enough slack” to grow
without driving up prices, citing high unemployment and low
private investment. The  unemployment rate  was 4.61 in March,
compared with 3.24 percent in May 2008, according to the
national statistics agency.  “The hard data tells us that there’s not a lot of
inflation pressure,” Berber said in a telephone interview from
 New York . “The reality that we just don’t see those dynamics
has been, little by little, pushing the whole curve down.”  Central Bank Minutes  Even as commodity prices rise globally, “ core inflation ,
which monetary policy has the ability to affect in a fundamental
manner, continues to show a favorable evolution,” according to
the minutes of the central bank’s April 15 board meeting
released today.  The yield on Mexico’s bonds due in 2024 may drop 25 more
basis points in the next few weeks, Silva Capital’s Urbina said.  An expanding economy, growing exports and a strengthening
currency have helped drive down yields, Alejandro Diaz de Leon,
head of public debt at the  Finance Ministry , said in an
interview yesterday.  “These factors have helped rates drop dramatically in the
last few weeks,” Diaz de Leon said. “As global uncertainty has
diminished, we have seen a drop.”  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened four basis points to
140 at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+
index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 2 basis points to 98, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with
debt agreements.  The peso rose 0.6 percent to 11.4958 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on the interbank rate futures contracts, known as
TIIE, due in October fell 2 basis points to 5.05 percent,
indicating that traders expect a rate increase that month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. As recently as today,
traders expected the bank to raise rates in September.  Inflation will climb to more than 4 percent by the end of
September as electricity prices and school fees rise, said
 Ricardo Aguilar , an economist with Invex Casa de Bolsa SA in
Mexico City.  ‘Pressure Inflation’  “This is all going to pressure inflation to the upside,”
Aguilar said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  Inflation will end the year at 3.85 percent, according to a
survey of 21 analysts by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit on April
14.  Credit Suisse Group AG recommends that investors buy
Mexican peso bonds due in 2038 as the inflation outlook prompts
Afores, government-regulated pension funds, to boost holdings of
the securities,  Alonso Cervera , the bank’s Mexico City-based
chief  Latin America  economist, wrote in a report yesterday.  “The recent positive inflation surprises will lead to
improved inflation expectations and will draw Afores and foreign
investors to the long side of the curve,” Cervera wrote.  Editors: Lester Pimentel, Brenda Batten  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  