-- 
MBIA Says Dismissal of Bank Suit Over Split Should Be Upheld by Top Court

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-04-29T22:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/mbia-says-dismissal-of-bank-suit-over-split-should-be-upheld-by-top-court.html
MBIA Inc. told New York state’s
highest court that a lower court correctly dismissed a lawsuit
brought by banks, including  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
challenging the bond insurer’s 2009 split.  MBIA’s restructuring was done to help unfreeze the public
finance markets during the financial crisis and was approved by
the New York State Insurance Department after an extensive
review that found MBIA Insurance would remain solvent and have
sufficient resources to meet claims, according to a brief filed
today with Court of Appeals in  Albany .  Bank of America, UBS and about a dozen other banks are set
on May 31 to present their argument that a lower court erred in
throwing out a lawsuit opposing the restructuring. The banks are
challenging the insurance department’s decision in a separate
lawsuit.  “In effect, the banks are asking the trial court to
overrule the department’s approval of the transformation, in a
proceeding to which the department is not a party,” lawyers for
MBIA wrote in today’s Court of Appeals brief. “Such a ruling
would not only contradict established law, but it would
fundamentally upset the functioning” of the insurance
department and all state agencies, MBIA said.  Bank Accusations  The banks claim the split was a move by MBIA to avoid its
obligations to pay policyholders and to defraud creditors. They
say in court papers they were stripped of their rights as
creditors when the lower appeals court tossed the suit.  Robert Giuffra Jr. lead counsel for the banks and a partner
at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, said he believes the lower appeal
court’s decision to toss the case will be reversed.  “We’re confident the policyholders will prevail in this
case, which involves the unlawful approval of one of the biggest
fraudulent conveyances in history,” Giuffra said in an e-mailed
statement.  “As leading civil rights groups and legal academics
advised the Court of Appeals this week, it would set a very
dangerous precedent if regulated parties like MBIA are immune
from private lawsuits in any case where a state agency makes a
decision a secret without giving all affected parties an
opportunity to be heard,” Giuffra said.  The New York Civil Liberties Union joined a group
supporting the appeal in filing a so-called friend-of-the-court
brief.  Administrative Decision  The separate lawsuit against the insurance department and
MBIA in New York state  Supreme Court  was brought under the
state’s Article 78 statute, which asks the court to review a
state administrative decision.  Because the banks’ debtor and creditor claims “cannot be
brought in an Article 78 proceeding challenging the
superintendent’s determinations, the majority stripped
plaintiffs entirely of their” debtor and creditor law and
common law rights, lawyers for the banks argued in their March
brief. A five-judge appellate panel dismissed the suit Jan. 11
in a 3-2 decision.  Eric Dinallo, the state’s former insurance superintendent,
approved the split in 2009, allowing MBIA to move the company’s
guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of the unit that
guaranteed some of Wall Street’s riskiest mortgage debt.  The banks said in court filings that the split transferred
$5 billion in cash and securities out of MBIA’s primary
operating unit, MBIA Insurance, to another entity, now known as
National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v.  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , 601475-2009, New
York state Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  