-- 
Billionaire Li to Invest in Ex-Ping An President Cheung’s Fund

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-04-29T07:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/billionaire-li-to-invest-in-ex-ping-an-president-cheung-s-fund.html
Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s charity
foundation said it agreed to invest in a China-focused private
equity fund set up by former executives of Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co. and TPG Capital.  Boyu Capital Ltd. told investors it plans to raise about $1
billion, said a person with knowledge of the matter who declined
to be identified because the information is private. The fund
hired Alvin Jiang, grandson of former Chinese leader  Jiang Zemin ,
the person said.  The backing of Li,  Hong Kong ’s richest man, may bolster
Boyu Capital as it competes with  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle
Group  for investments in  Asia ’s largest economy. Companies and
wealthy individuals account for a growing share of financing for
dollar-denominated private equity funds targeting China,
according to the Asian Venture Capital Journal.  “Li’s commitment will be a good endorsement of the fund,”
said Vincent Chan, chief executive officer of Spring Capital
Asia Ltd., a Hong Kong-based private-equity firm. “It’s also
easier to raise money from family offices than from
institutional investors, especially for a first-time team.”  Laura Cheung, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for the Li Ka-
shing Foundation, confirmed the investment in Boyu Capital while
declining to provide an amount. Li, 82, was listed as the
world’s 11th-richest person in March by Forbes magazine with an
estimated wealth of $26 billion.  Li’s Investments  Boyu Capital was set up by former Ping An President Louis Cheung and Mary Ma, an ex-partner at TPG in charge of
investments in  China . Sean Tong joined the fund this year from
Providence Equity Partners Inc. Alvin Jiang previously worked as
an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s private equity unit.
International Finance News last month reported that Jiang had
joined Boyu.  Cheung declined to comment when reached on his mobile phone
today.  Private-equity investments in China jumped 40 percent to
$19.7 billion last year, AVCJ estimates. Corporations and
individuals accounted for 25 percent of dollars raised for
China-focused funds last year, up from 22 percent in 2009, while
global pension funds’ share of contributions fell, according to
the researcher.  “China private equity is hot, and it’s a good place for Li
to diversify his investments,” said Alfred Lam, a research
associate at the  Asian Venture Capital Journal , which tracks the
region’s private equity industry.  Li’s foundation also invests in other funds, Cheung said,
declining to identify them. The charity directly manages about
95 percent of an endowment exceeding $7 billion and external
firms oversee the rest, she said in September.  Last year, the foundation hired PineBridge Investments LLC
to manage $300 million of its assets after Li’s son,  Richard Li ,
took over the money-management firm from American International
Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  