-- 
Blagojevich Shows Hometown a Gentler Side as His Corruption Retrial Nears

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-04-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/blagojevich-shows-hometown-a-gentler-side-as-his-corruption-retrial-nears.html
Standing between the hot-food bar
and the stir-fry line in the Chicago federal courthouse
cafeteria,  Rod Blagojevich  jokes with a Bloomberg reporter. He
offers her a Pepsi, after learning she lives in Coca-Cola’s
hometown, Atlanta.  “At least he’s friendly,” a young woman remarks to a
companion in the pay line as potential jurors interviewed that
morning for Blagojevich’s trial swirl around the cafeteria.  Blagojevich, 54, charged with trying to trade his power as
Illinois governor for favors and campaign donations, has been
showing a softer side rather than the pugnacious and profane
politician the public got to know. He smiles, jokes and offers
thumbs-ups and handshakes to anyone amenable inside or outside
the Everett Dirksen Federal Courthouse where he’ll go on trial
next week.  The man who once called his power to appoint Barack Obama’s
Senate replacement “f-----g golden” and challenged a
prosecutor to be “man enough” to face him in court now dandles
a dog named Skittles as he confesses to the press of “moments
of fear.”  Before jury selection started April 20, Blagojevich hosted
journalists for interviews at his home. In an  Associated Press 
story in the suburban  Northwest Herald , he was quoted as saying
it’s “brutal” to have to sit through all that testimony again.
An  AP photo  showed him in jeans and a knit shirt with the family
dog on his lap.  “Blago: ‘I have my moments of fear’” was the headline in
the Chicago Sun-Times’s Southtown Star. The story opened with
Patti, his wife, making coffee and him in “his reading room”
ruminating on the “multitude of books he’s read.” When the
couple moved to the living room, Skittles took turns jumping
onto their laps.  Fireplace, Dog  For still another  story , in the  Chicago Tribune , the ex-
governor was photographed with a fireplace in the background and
dog on lap. Patti, the paper reported, was on hand too.  The vulnerable, subdued Blagojevich contrasts with the
character created through Elvis impersonations, reality TV
appearances ( Donald Trump  fired him during a “Celebrity
Apprentice” episode) and attacks on his prosecutors.  He called government lawyers “cowards and liars” last
year and challenged U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald to be “man
enough” to face him in court instead of sending assistants, the
Associated Press reported. The ex-governor said the prosecutor
told a “big lie” and was trying to “cover up.”  Blagojevich still marshals passion and vehemence in
proclaiming his innocence and accusing prosecutors of hiding
evidence. He has toned down the pugnacity he showed in the wake
of his indictment in 2008, when he declared, “I will fight, I
will fight, I will fight until I take my last breath.”  National Television  Nor has he made the rounds of national television interview
shows as he did during state impeachment proceedings in 2009 and
after his first federal court trial last year.  After the Illinois House voted to impeach him and before
the Senate tried and removed him, Blagojevich appeared on NBC’s
“Today” show, ABC’s “Good Morning America,” “Fox News
Sunday,” ABC’s “The View” and others. He complained of
“persecution” by prosecutors and a state proceeding where
“the fix is in.”  On “Today” he said that, when he was arrested, he thought
of  Nelson Mandela ,  Martin Luther King Jr . and Gandhi.  Blagojevich launched another round of nationally televised
appearances after his 2010 trial at which the jury convicted him
of lying to federal agents while failing to reach verdicts on 23
other charges.  “Twenty-three down and one to go,” he told  Jon Stewart  of
“‘The  Daily Show ,” as if he had rid himself of those 23
charges. Prosecutors slimmed them to 20, which he faces now.  Jury Pool  Is he playing to the jury pool with the new round of local
interviews?  “Of course,” said Richard Waites, a Chicago-based jury
consultant not part of the former governor’s case.  “It may seem manipulative, because it is,” says Waites.
Trained as a psychologist and lawyer, he’s chief executive
officer of a multicity trial consulting firm,  the Advocates .  Asked over lunch whether he was attempting an image re-
make, Blagojevich said, “No.” His wife then cut short the
conversation, saying news interviews aren’t allowed in the
cafeteria. Neither Blagojevich nor his spokesman Glenn Selig
replied later to phone and e-mail messages.  In the jury-pool questioning, most of those who told the
judge they have an impression of Blagojevich weren’t favorably
inclined toward him.  One called him a “nut case” on a questionnaire. Another,
who had seen him on reality TV, thought him “off center.”
Several said they believe him to be guilty.  “It would take a strong case by Mr. Blagojevich to prove
he’s not guilty,” one prospective juror wrote.  Jurors’ Comments  Such comments alone didn’t persuade U.S. District Judge
 James Zagel  to send them home. When pressed individually on
whether they could decide the case only on the evidence at the
trial, those who said they could stayed in the pool.  From that group of more than 40, prosecutors and defense
lawyers next week will pick 12 jurors and six alternates, with
each side allowed cuts -- 13 for the defense and nine for the
government -- without having to say why. Then will come opening
statements and evidence, including the recorded conversations.  In one captured talk, Blagojevich describes his power to
appoint Obama’s replacement in the Senate seat he vacated to
become president.  “I’ve got this thing, and it’s f-----g golden, and I’m not
giving it up for f-----g nothing,” the governor is heard to
say.  That excerpt is so well-known that a potential juror
downloaded it from the Internet and used it as his telephone
ringtone, he told the judge.  Blagojevich made fun of it, too, when he and his wife  co-
hosted  a local radio show on WLS-AM last month and he
complimented himself on air on how well he had handled the show.  “Hey, Patti, you’ll be proud of me,” he said. “Not one
single swear word. It’s effing golden how I’m doing here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Woolner  in Chicago federal court
at   awoolner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 