-- 
Blockbuster Sale to Dish Needs Review, Lions Gate Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-29T19:17:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/blockbuster-sale-to-dish-needs-review-dvd-payments-owed-lions-gate-say.html
Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) ’s $320 million
sale to  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  needs review because the deal doesn’t
oblige Dish to keep paying for rights to titles from  Lions Gate 
Films Inc., including “Weeds,” “Nurse Jackie” and “For Colored
Girls,” the movie studio said.  Dish only bought an interest in physical and digital units
of copyrighted motion pictures, and therefore owes Lions Gate
money under revenue-sharing agreements, according to papers
filed by the studio today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .
Dish contends the sale transferred the DVDs free of any revenue-
sharing obligations, Lions Gate said.  Lions Gate’s agreement with Blockbuster only gave it rights
to titles for 26 weeks after the release date, a period during
which the retailer was required to share revenue from rentals,
Lions Gate said.  As of April 26, “the revenue share period was still
running for any film delivered by LGF having a street date later
than October 26, 2010,” lawyers for Lions Gate said. A street
date is the date of public release for a film.  Lions Gate didn’t state how much it may be owed. It said
the sale agreement should be reconsidered and the  bankruptcy
court  should decide what its rights are for films still covered
by the 26-week revenue sharing period.  Marc Lumpkin, a Dish spokesman, declined to comment. Dish,
based in Englewood, Colorado, is the second-largest satellite-
television provider in the U.S.  Disputes Resolved  Other movie studios resolved similar disputes over revenue-
sharing for their titles and agreed to support the sale in
exchange for economic concessions. Lion’s Gate’s objection was
never adjudicated, the company said.  Dish’s bid was declared the highest and best offer after an
auction April 6. The company won final approval April 26 from a
bankruptcy court judge.  Carl Icahn , who also made offers for Blockbuster’s assets
at the auction, made a hostile bid for Vancouver-based Lions
Gate. The bid was pulled on Dec. 13.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  