-- 
Bloomberg View to Begin Publishing Editorials in Late May

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-29T13:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/bloomberg-view-to-begin-publishing-editorials-in-late-may.html

Press Release  Announces New Editorial Board and Expanded Roster of Columnists;  Columns, Op-Eds and Editorials Will Reach Influential Audience
Through Bloomberg.com, the Bloomberg Professional Service and
Across Bloomberg’s Media Platforms  New York -- Bloomberg View, the new opinion section of Bloomberg
News, will begin publishing editorials, columns and Op-Ed
articles in late May, the company announced today.  Daily editorials will be written and edited by the Bloomberg
View editorial board; an expanded roster of columnists,
including Stephen Carter, William Cohan,  Jeffrey Goldberg , and
Virginia Postrel, will provide commentary.  The new opinion
section will also publish Op-Ed articles by outside
contributors. The Bloomberg View editorial board and columnists
were officially announced today.  “This talented team of editors and writers, with their varied
backgrounds in journalism, government and public policy, will
enable Bloomberg View editorials to provide a unique
contribution to public debate here in America and across the
globe,” said James P. Rubin, executive editor of Bloomberg View.  “We’re also thrilled to be working with a stellar corps of
columnists,” said David Shipley, executive editor of Bloomberg
View. “Some of them are new; some of them have great histories
at Bloomberg - all are engaging writers who have a wealth of
expertise, represent a broad range of perspectives and have the
capacity to shape national and global discussion.”  Bloomberg View will debut on Bloomberg.com, which reaches more
than 13 million unique visitors per month, and on the Bloomberg
Professional service, which reaches over 300,000 of the most
influential business and finance professionals globally.
Content will appear across Bloomberg’s media platforms,
including Bloomberg Government, the company’s Washington-based
data and news website that provides insight into the business
implications of government action.  And Bloomberg View content
will be available for syndication to newspapers, magazines and
online publishers around the world.  Members of the Bloomberg View editorial board include:  George Anders, former editor for the Wall Street Journal and
Fast Company magazine and the author of “Merchants of Debt: KKR
and the Mortgaging of American Business.”  Max Berley, former political enterprise editor in the Bloomberg
News Washington bureau, and an editor at the Washington Post and
the International Herald Tribune.  Lisa Beyer, former assistant managing editor and Jerusalem
bureau chief at Time magazine, and senior vice president for
public affairs at the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative.  Mary Duenwald, former deputy op-ed page editor at the  New York 
Times.  Paula Dwyer, former deputy business editor at the New York Times
and assistant managing editor at Bloomberg Businessweek.  James Greiff, former opinion team leader at Bloomberg.  Tobin Harshaw, former staff editor for the New York Times Op-Ed
page and the author of the nytimes.com column “The Thread.”  Michael Kinsley, former editor of Harper’s, New Republic and
Slate, and editorial page editor of the Los Angeles Times.  Timothy Lavin, former senior editor at The Atlantic magazine.  James P. Rubin, former assistant secretary of state for public
affairs and chief spokesman for the U.S. State Department.  Stuart Seldowitz, formerly a career diplomat in the U.S. State
Department, most recently assigned to the National Security
Council.  David Shipley, former deputy editorial page editor and op-ed
page editor at the New York Times.  Francis Wilkinson, former executive editor and columnist at The
Week magazine.  Bloomberg View’s expanded roster of columnists will join a team
of commentary writers that includes  Susan Antilla ,  Caroline
Baum ,  Margaret Carlson ,  Albert R. Hunt , Simon Johnson, Paul
Kedrosky, Laurence J. Kotlikoff,   Michael Lewis , William Pesek,
 Alice Schroeder , Amity Shlaes and  Jonathan Weil .  New Bloomberg View columnists announced today include:  Jonathan Alter, a former senior editor, media critic and
columnist for  Newsweek , is an analyst for NBC News and MSNBC.
He is author of “The Defining Moment: FDR’s Hundred Days and the
Triumph of Hope” and “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.”  Stephen L. Carter is a professor of law at  Yale University  and
the author of 12 books, including “The Emperor of Ocean Park,” a
novel, and “Reflections of an Affirmative Action Baby.”  William D. Cohan is the author, most recently, of “Money and
Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World” and the New
York Times bestsellers “House of Cards” and  “The Last Tycoons.”  Noah Feldman is a professor of constitutional and international
law at Harvard and the author of five books, most recently
“Scorpions:  The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s Great Supreme
Court Justices.”  A.A. Gill is the television and restaurant critic for the Sunday
Times of  London  and a contributing editor at Vanity Fair.  Edward L. Glaeser is a professor of economics at  Harvard
University  and the author of “Triumph of the City: How Our
Greatest Invention Makes Us Richer, Smarter, Greener, Healthier
and Happier.”  Jeffrey Goldberg is a national correspondent for The Atlantic
and the author of “Prisoners: A Story of Friendship and Terror.”
He was formerly a staff writer for the  New Yorker , and is a
winner of the National Magazine Award for reporting.  Sheril Kirshenbaum is a research scientist at the University of
Texas’s Center for International Energy and Environmental Policy
and the author of “The Science of Kissing: What Our Lips Are
Telling Us.”  Ron Klain  is a former chief of staff to Vice President Al Gore
and Joseph Biden.  Ezra Klein is a columnist and blogger at the Washington Post and
a policy analyst for  MSNBC , whose work focuses on domestic and
economic policymaking and the political system.  Pankaj Mishra is the author of “Temptations of the West: How to
be Modern in  India ,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,”  “The
Romantics: A Novel” and “An End to Suffering: The Buddha  in the
World.”  Vali Nasr is a professor of international politics at the
Fletcher School at Tufts University and a former senior adviser
on the Muslim world to Richard Holbrooke and the U.S. State
Department. He is the author of “The Shia Revival.”  Peter R. Orszag is vice chairman of global banking at Citigroup
and an adjunct senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations.  He was President Obama’s director of the Office of
Management and Budget.  Meghan O’Sullivan is a professor of international affairs at
Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government.  She served on the
National Security Council from 2004 to 2007, and was deputy
national security advisor for Iraq and  Afghanistan .
Virginia Postrel is a former columnist for the Wall Street
Journal, The Atlantic, the New York Times and Forbes and the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style.”  She is writing a book on glamour.  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than
300,000 subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions
build on the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to
allow customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data
and information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in New York,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg  Ty Trippet, +1 212-617-2443,  ttrippet@bloomberg.net 
