-- 
Borders Adviser-Fee Pay Bid Should Be Denied, U.S. Tells Bankruptcy Court

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-29T18:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/borders-hasn-t-shown-it-can-pay-bankruptcy-case-costs-u-s-trustee-says.html
Borders Group Inc. (BGP)  hasn’t shown
that it can pay the costs of its bankruptcy case and should be
denied requests to pay lawyers and other professionals, the U.S.
said.  The U.S. Trustee, a bankruptcy watchdog for the  Justice
Department , today objected to monthly statements of compensation
and expense reimbursements for 11 professionals working on the
case. Andrew Glenn, a lawyer for Borders, said the company will
file its financial report today and will pay fees owed to the
U.S. Trustee, answering two of the concerns raised in papers
filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  “There was an issue with a reconciliation of the bill we
received,” Glenn, a lawyer with Kasowitz, Benson, Torres &
Friedman LLP, said in an e-mail.  The operating report for the period of Feb. 16 to March 31
hasn’t been filed, acting U.S. Trustee Tracy Hope Davis said in
the filing. Kasowitz, Borders’s main bankruptcy counsel, has
requested $1.27 million in fees for Feb. 16 through March 31.
Financial adviser Jefferies & Co. has requested $250,000.  “It is impossible to determine if the debtors are paying
their non-professional administrative expenses on a timely basis
and have the financial wherewithal to pay the fees and expenses
requested by their professionals,” lawyers for Davis wrote.  ‘Vague and Lumped’  Kasowitz’s application contains “both vague and lumped
time records,” the trustee said, questioning a request to
reimburse $679 for cab and limousine services and $2,369 for
meals. The firm also seeks fees for an “excessive” number of
attorneys at 76 hours of court hearings, according to the
trustee. Seven Kasowitz attorneys attended Borders’s first-day
hearing and four or five were at others, the trustee said.  The trustee also seeks more information about Jeffries’s
expense reimbursement requests. Mercer Inc., which seeks about
$77,799 for work as a compensation consultant, needs to clarify
some of its entries, the trustee said.  Borders, the second-largest book chain after  Barnes & Noble
Inc. (BKS) , filed for bankruptcy in February and has since begun
closing about 225 stores, or a third of its total.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 