-- 
Bovespa Index Gains, Trimming Monthly Decline, on Budget Cuts

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-04-29T21:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/bovespa-futures-little-changed-as-commodities-offset-earnings.html
The Bovespa stock index gained,
paring a monthly decline, after the Brazilian government’s
spending cuts eased concern that accelerating inflation will
limit earnings growth.  Lojas Americanas SA soared the most since 2009, leading
retailers higher, after earnings gains by two rivals boosted the
industry’s prospects even as the government takes steps to curb
credit growth. Hypermarcas SA, Brazil’s fourth-largest consumer-
goods company by market value, gained 3.9 percent. Advances were
offset as phone operator  Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA (TNLP3) 
slumped for a sixth session after posting a loss in the first
quarter.  The Bovespa rose 0.7 percent to 66,132.86 at the 4:15 p.m.
New York time close, capping its first monthly decline since
January with a 3.6 percent drop. The gauge is down 1.4 percent
this week. The real strengthened 0.1 percent to 1.5766 per
dollar today.  “We need to have less government spending -- that’s always
positive,” said Alvaro Bandeira, director of Rio de Janeiro-
based brokerage Ativa Corretora. This month’s decline “has a
lot to do with  Japan , the global economy, worries about
inflation worldwide. Here there’s the threat of additional
government measures, which leaves investors fearful,” he said.  Brazil  will shelve some public works that were behind
schedule, a move that may reduce spending this year by as much
as 10 billion reais ($6.3 billion). The federal government will
suspend projects that were approved in budgets from 2007 to 2009
and haven’t started yet, the  Finance Ministry  said today in a
statement on its website.  Inflation Forecasts  Investors pulled 3.87 billion reais from  Latin America ’s
biggest equity market this year through April 18, data from the
Sao Paulo exchange show. Economists have boosted their 2011
inflation forecasts for seven straight weeks, according to
surveys published by the central bank.  “The main reason behind the lagging flows into Brazil
continues to be the lack of visibility on current economic
policy, especially as inflation expectations continue to rise,
making it unclear whether tighter monetary policy will be needed
or higher inflation will be tolerated,” analysts at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., led by Emy Shayo Cherman, wrote in a note to
clients dated yesterday.  The central bank reported the  budget surplus  before
interest payments rose to 13.6 billion reais in March from 7.9
billion reais in February, and compared with the 12.1 billion
reais median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 12 analysts.  That, together with the budget cuts, spurred traders to
drive down yields on most interest-rate futures contracts.  Lojas Rises  Lojas Americanas SA, Brazil’s biggest discount retailer,
surged 6.5 percent to 14.00 reais after competitors Cia. Hering
and Lojas Renner SA reported first-quarter earnings gains of 74
percent and 29 percent, respectively. Renner, Brazil’s biggest
publicly traded clothing retailer, rose 2.8 percent to 58.05
reais while Hering advanced 4.5 percent to 34.05 reais.  Hypermarcas rose 3.9 percent to 21.10 reais.  Magazine Luiza SA, an electronics and furniture retailer,
raised 925.8 million reais in an IPO. The Franca-based company’s
shares were priced at 16 reais each, at the bottom of the range
of 16 reais to 21 reais in the company’s April 17 prospectus.
The shares are scheduled to begin trading on May 2.  The Bovespa dropped as much as 0.3 percent in the first
half hour of trading as telecom shares declined.  Oi’s Loss  Oi, as the holding company that controls Brazil’s biggest
fixed-line telephone carrier is known, swung to a first-quarter
loss, excluding minority interest, of 170 million reais. Credit
Suisse Group AG was expecting net income of 207 million reais,
according to a note to clients today. The shares dropped 1.5
percent to 26.27 reais.  The Bovespa slumped 5.2 percent this year through yesterday
after declines in  oil companies , homebuilders and banks
outweighed a rally in telecom shares. The index trades at 10.7
times analysts’ earnings estimates, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 13.8 for the
Shanghai Composite Index, 7.5 for  Russia ’s Micex, and 15.5 for
 India ’s Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  