-- 
Brazil to Reduce Spending by $6.4 Billion More, Helping to Slow Inflation

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-04-29T16:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/brazil-to-cut-spending-further-after-posting-wider-than-expected-surplus.html
Brazil  will shelve some public
works that were behind schedule, a move that may reduce spending
this year by as much as 10 billion reais ($6.4 billion).  The federal government will suspend projects that were
approved in budgets from 2007 to 2009 and haven’t started yet,
the  Finance Ministry  said today in a statement on its website.  Separately, the central bank reported the  budget surplus 
before interest payments rose to 13.6 billion reais in March
from 7.9 billion reais in February, and compared with the 12.1
billion reais median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 12
analysts.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is relying on a mix
of spending cuts, higher borrowing costs and measures to curb
credit growth to bring inflation back to target in 2012.
Consumer prices rose 6.44 percent in the year through mid-April,
compared with a target of 4.5 percent.  The central bank said yesterday that taming inflation will
require a “prolonged” cycle of interest-rate increases after
lifting the Selic rate by 1.25 percentage point this year to 12
percent. The last rate increase was 0.25 percentage point, after
two half-point changes.  The wider-than-expected March surplus and the additional
spending cuts “reinforce the strategy of smaller rate
increases,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Banco WestLB
do Brasil SA, said in a phone interview.  Yields on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell 2 basis
points to 12.66 percent at 11:08 a.m. New York time.  Positive Outlook  Brazil is on course to meet its primary surplus budget
target of 117.9 billion reais this year, Tulio Maciel, the head
of the central bank’s economic department, told reporters in
Brasilia today. The primary surplus in the first quarter amounts
to 33 percent of the annual target, Maciel said.  The “sound result” helps cool inflationary pressure and,
if it persists, could take pressure off the policy makers to
raise borrowing costs, said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank in Sao Paulo.  “Since public expenditure cuts mean less money in the
economy automatically, the disinflationary impact tends to be
quicker than that obtained with monetary policy,” Santos said
in an e-mail.  Net debt in March was unchanged at 39.9 percent of gross
domestic product. The central bank expects the ratio to remain
at 39.9 percent in April, Maciel said.  Rousseff’s administration pledged earlier this year to
slash 50.7 billion reais from this year’s budget to help the
central bank contain inflation. Today’s reductions are in
addition to those in the initial spending cut plan.  Economists expect consumer prices to rise 6.34 percent this
year and 5 percent in 2012, according to a central bank weekly
survey published April 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  