-- 
Brazilian Retailers Rally on First-Quarter Earnings Growth

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-04-29T21:37:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/brazilian-retailers-rally-on-first-quarter-earnings-growth-1-.html
Brazilian retailers rallied in  Sao
Paulo  trading after Cia. Hering and Lojas Renner SA reported
first-quarter earnings gains, raising optimism the industry will
sustain its growth even as the government takes steps to curb
inflation.  Hering, the second-largest apparel maker, jumped 4.5
percent to a 13-year high of 34.05 reais at 4:15 p.m. New York
time. The company’s quarterly profit rose 74 percent from a year
earlier, according to a regulatory filing. Renner,  Brazil ’s
biggest publicly traded clothing retailer, gained 2.8 percent to
58.05 reais after reporting a 29 percent increase in profit.  “It looks like the first quarter wasn’t as bad as expected
for the industry,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at SLW Corretora in
Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “There is still concern
about how higher  interest rates  and slower economic growth will
affect those companies, but so far they seem to have overcome
these obstacles.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of higher borrowing costs, measures to curb credit growth
and spending cuts to bring the fastest inflation in 29 months
back to the 4.5 percent target in 2012. Taming inflation will
require a “prolonged” and “consistent” effort, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said on April 26.  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4) , Brazil’s biggest discount retailer,
climbed 6.5 percent to 14 reais, the most since November 2009,
leading gains on the Bovespa index. The stock slumped 14 percent
this year through yesterday amid concern tightening measures
taken by the Brazilian government will damp the outlook for
companies that depend on domestic demand.  Retailer Magazine Luiza SA raised 925.8 million reais in an
initial public offering, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday. It’s the biggest IPO so far this year in the
Brazilian market. The shares were sold at 16 reais each and are
scheduled to begin trading on May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  