-- 
Brown May Use Signature Drive to Put California Tax Increase to a Vote

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-04-29T05:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/brown-may-use-signature-drive-to-put-california-tax-increase-to-a-vote.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown 
said he’s willing to gather signatures for a voter initiative to
extend $11 billion in expiring tax increases, blocked by
Republican lawmakers, in order to balance the state’s budget.  Brown, speaking in Los Angeles yesterday, said he may
bypass the Legislature and go through the  ballot measure  process
to put the issue to a statewide vote, though he’d prefer that
lawmakers act.  “We are going to put it before the people one way or
another,” the 73-year-old Democrat said in an interview. When
asked if it might be placed on the ballot as soon as November,
he nodded.  Brown, who was governor from 1975 to 1983, took office in
January vowing to fix the fiscal strains that have left
California with the biggest state deficit, and the lowest  credit
rating  from  Standard & Poor’s . The governor worked with
lawmakers to reduce the $26.6 billion budget shortfall to about
$15 billion through cuts to health care, education and other
programs.  The linchpin of his plan would fill $11 billion of the
remaining gap by getting voter approval of a five-year extension
of tax and fee increases due to expire by July 1. The proposal
fell short when Republican lawmakers withheld support.  Brown has since been traveling up and down California, the
most populous state, trying to persuade at least two Republicans
each in the Senate and Assembly to change positions, which would
be enough to allow a vote.  Fixing the Deficit  A statewide survey by the nonpartisan Public Policy
Institute of California released yesterday found that 61 percent
of likely voters favor Brown’s approach to fixing the deficit
with a mix of spending cuts and temporary tax increases, though
they oppose certain income- and sales-taxes that are part of the
plan. The  poll  had a margin for error of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points.  The governor wants to retain increases of 0.25 percentage
point in personal income-tax rates; 1 percentage point in the
retail-sales levy, to 8.25 percent; 0.5 percentage point in
auto-registration fees, to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value;
and a reduction in the annual  child tax credit  to $99 from $309.  Unions such as the  California Federation of Teachers  have
indicated they may gather signatures to put a measure on a
statewide ballot seeking higher taxes on the wealthy.  Brown got a standing ovation yesterday at the California
State Parent Teacher Association’s convention in  Long Beach  when
he said he would not support reduced spending on schools.  ‘You’ve Got a Friend’  “I want you to know you’ve got a friend, an ally and a
partner as we go forward together,” he said.  Leaving the podium, he held up a sign he was handed that
read, “Cuts Hurt Kids.”  Later in the day, Brown spoke at a ceremony held by the
 Edmund G. “Pat” Brown Institute of Public Affairs  based at
 California State University ,  Los Angeles . The nonpartisan think-
tank was named after his father, who was California’s governor
from 1959 to 1967.  “My father was a builder, he liked the public sector, he
didn’t mind paying taxes,” Brown said.  In his father’s day, inheritance taxes ate up 55 percent of
an estate, Brown said. “I didn’t get my 55 percent,” he said.
“And you know what, I’m glad somebody got it.”  -0- Apr/29/2011 05:23 GMT  -0- Apr/29/2011 05:41 GMT  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  