-- 
Buffett to Face Questions for Calling Sokol Extraordinary Before Departure

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-04-29T04:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/buffett-to-face-questions-for-calling-sokol-extraordinary-before-report.html
Warren Buffett  has asked for tough
questions at the annual meetings of his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
He may get his wish after praising the outgoing executive who
was later faulted by a board committee for misleading the
company about stock trades.  Buffett uses his meeting and annual Omaha,  Nebraska , press
conference to promote Berkshire’s growth, pitch the company as
an acquirer to potential takeover targets and tout his emphasis
on ethics. The 80-year-old chief executive officer started
having journalists screen shareholder inquiries in 2009 and
encouraged them to pick the most challenging ones to replace
inquires from prior years about baseball and religion.  The departure of  David Sokol , 54, in March, after he
invested in a firm he pitched as a buyout candidate, raised
questions about Buffett’s oversight and succession planning.
Sokol, once considered a possible replacement for Buffett as
CEO, violated Berkshire’s ethics, the  audit committee  said April
26, weeks after Buffett praised his “extraordinary”
contributions in announcing his resignation.  “Buffett is going to get questions about his own
behavior” at tomorrow’s meeting said Lyman Johnson, professor
of corporate law at Washington and Lee University School of Law.
“I do think that Buffett erred in his initial announcement.”  Buffett oversees the heads of Berkshire’s more than 70
subsidiaries with the help of Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 87,
and a staff of about 20 at the company’s headquarters. Berkshire
employs more than 250,000 people across industries spanning
insurance, energy and consumer goods, and Buffett entrusts
operational authority to the CEOs of the individual units.  Governance, Credit  Berkshire is facing “governance challenges” that may hurt
the company’s credit quality, Moody’s Investors Service said
April 1, citing Sokol’s stock trades and resignation. The
Securities and Exchange Commission is probing whether Sokol
bought  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  shares on inside information, a person who
declined to be identified said on March 31.  Buffett, who disclosed the trades in a March 30 statement
announcing Sokol’s departure, praised the manager for his work
leading Berkshire’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings, its roofing
unit Johns Manville and luxury-flight unit NetJets. “Neither
Dave nor I feel his Lubrizol purchases were in any way
unlawful,” Buffett said.  “The whole notion of Berkshire Hathaway operating on a
higher plane was based upon the idea they didn’t just do what
was legal, they did what was ethical,” said Cornelius Hurley, a
professor at Boston University School of Law and former
assistant general counsel at the Federal Reserve Board of
Governors. “When one of your senior officers gets caught with
his hand in the jar and you say, ‘Oh it’s legal,’ you’ve kind of
blown away that principle of higher standards.”  Share Surge  Sokol’s purchase of about $10 million in Lubrizol stock
while representing Berkshire in discussions about buying the
lubricant maker violated company policies on  insider trading ,
the committee found. Prior to his agreement to buy Lubrizol,
Buffett was unaware of the timing of Sokol’s trades and that he
was working with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  bankers to deal with the
Wickliffe, Ohio-based company, according to the report. Lubrizol
jumped 28 percent on March 14 when Buffett announced the $9
billion deal.  Sokol’s “misleadingly incomplete disclosures to Berkshire
Hathaway senior management concerning those purchases violated
the duty of candor he owed the company,” the committee said.  Sokol “would not, and did not, trade improperly, nor did
he violate any fair reading of the Berkshire Hathaway
policies,” according to a statement from William Levine, a
lawyer for Sokol at Dickstein Shapiro LLP in  Washington .  ‘The Great Inquisition’  Buffett, who built the world’s third-biggest personal
fortune by boosting Berkshire’s stock price in four decades as
CEO, told executives in a 2010  memo  that the while the company
can withstand financial losses, “We can’t afford to lose
reputation -- even a shred of reputation.”  Andrew Ross Sorkin , the New York Times writer who is
scheduled to be on the panel asking questions, said in an April
5 column that this year’s meeting could be called “The Great
Inquisition” because of questions about Sokol rather than the
“Woodstock” for capitalism, as it has been called by Buffett.  Buffett was asked at last year’s meeting about Berkshire’s
$5 billion investment in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which was
sued by the SEC earlier in 2010 over its disclosures tied to
collateralized debt obligations. Buffett praised Goldman Sachs,
which settled the suit in July by agreeing to pay $550 million
and said it made a mistake by omitting some information from
investors.  PetroChina Stake  Shareholders at the 2007 meeting called on Buffett to
divest a $3.3 billion stake in PetroChina Co. because its parent
company held oil reserves in pipelines in  Sudan  where the
government was accused of supporting genocide. Buffett said at
the meeting he had no disagreement with PetroChina’s actions. He
sold the stake later that year.  In 2009, when Buffett instituted the new format, Berkshire
was recovering from a year in which its shares fell 32 percent.
The company’s Class A shares advanced 21 percent in 2010 and 3.6
percent this year through yesterday. Buffett in his annual
letter requested shareholder questions and said that he and
Munger “know the journalists will pick some tough ones, and
that’s the way we like it.”  More than 30,000 people travel from around the world to
Omaha for the annual meeting at the Qwest Center, where Buffett
and Munger take questions for about five hours. Buffett’s annual
press conference is scheduled for May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  