-- 
HTC Forecasts Record Sales, Shipments on Smartphone Demand

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-04-29T08:32:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/htc-forecasts-record-sales-shipments-on-smartphone-demand-1-.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese smartphone
maker, forecast record sales and shipments for a third
consecutive quarter, as demand for phones based on Google Inc.’s
Android operating system continues to climb.  Second-quarter revenue will be about NT$120 billion ($4.2
billion) and shipments are expected to be about 11 million to
11.5 million units, the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a
 statement  today. The average of nine analyst estimates in the
past 28 days compiled by Bloomberg is for sales of NT$122
billion. Eight of those analysts raised their projections in the
past four weeks.  HTC, which unveiled its first tablet device in February,
posted record sales and profit for the past two quarters as
demand for Android-based phones rise. Smartphones, which connect
to the Internet and have more advanced features, will be the
major driver of mobile-phone sales this year, according to
International Data Corp.  “Mobile-phone makers and carriers are making smartphones
affordable to a wider variety of people, which has helped drive
the market to new heights,” Framingham, Massachusetts-based
researcher IDC said in a statement today, announcing a 20
percent increase in first-quarter global handset shipments.
“IDC expects almost all of the worldwide mobile-phone market’s
growth to be driven by smartphones,” it said.  Gross margin, a key measure of profitability that tracks
sales less the cost of goods sold, will be 28.5 percent to 29.5
percent this quarter, compared with 29.3 percent in the
preceding three-month period, HTC said.  Shipments last quarter almost tripled to 9.7 million units,
compared with its Jan. 21 forecast for 8.5 million units. Sales,
reported earlier, more than doubled to NT$104.2 billion. The
average price dropped 1.4 percent from the prior quarter to
$359, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 