-- 
Canada February Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-04-29T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/canada-february-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the February GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product decreased 0.2% in February
following a 0.5% increase in January. Manufacturing and,
to a lesser extent, wholesale trade were the main sources
of the decline. The decrease in manufacturing resulted in
a 0.6% decline in goods-producing industries.  Service producing industries were essentially unchanged
as increases in retail trade, professional and financial
services as well as in the public sector were offset by
decreases in wholesale trade and transportation services.  Manufacturing declines  After a 2.5% increase in January, manufacturing
production fell 1.6% in February, with 16 of the 21 major
groups decreasing. Although the reduction was broadly
based in both durable and non-durable goods, manufacturers
of motor vehicles and associated parts (-7.5%), machinery
(-3.3%) and fabricated metal products (-2.7%) recorded the
largest decreases. In contrast, wood product manufacturing
increased.  Wholesale trade down while retail up  Wholesale trade fell 1.0% in February following four
consecutive monthly increases. The majority of the
subsectors reported declines, with the largest in motor
vehicles. Retail trade was up 0.6%, mainly as a result of
increases at clothing and accessories stores.  Finance and insurance sector grows  The finance and insurance sector grew 0.2% in February.
This was primarily a result of increased financial
intermediation (lending and sales of mutual funds) and
higher volume of trading on  stock exchanges . Lower output
was recorded for insurance carriers.  Construction edges up while real estate activity declines  Construction edged up 0.1%, as both non-residential
building construction and engineering and repair work
advanced. Residential construction was unchanged, as drops
in single dwellings and renovations were offset by
increases in other types of dwellings. Following six
consecutive monthly increases, the output of real estate
agents and brokers decreased, reflecting a reduction in
sales of existing homes in all provinces except British
Columbia.  Mining, oil and gas extraction is unchanged  Mining, oil and gas extraction was unchanged in
February. Advances in mining (+0.9%) and in support
activities (+2.1%) were offset by a 0.4% decline in oil
and gas extraction.  Increases in the output of copper, nickel, lead and
zinc mines led to the gain in mining. Conventional oil
extraction also increased. However, non-conventional oil
output declined, partly as a result of production
difficulties and maintenance work. Natural gas extraction
fell as well.  Transportation services decline  With the declines in manufacturing and wholesaling
activities, truck transportation decreased in February.
There was also a reduction in pipeline transportation of
natural gas, as both domestic production and exports of
that commodity fell.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry
data at basic prices are chained volume estimates with
2002 as their reference year. This means that the data for
each industry and aggregate are obtained from a chained
volume index multiplied by the industry's value added in
2002. For the 1997 to 2007 period, the monthly data are
benchmarked to annually chained Fisher volume indexes of
GDP obtained from the constant-price input-output tables.  For the period starting with January 2008, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index
to the prior period. The fixed weights are the industry
output and input prices of 2007. This makes the monthly
GDP by industry data more comparable with the expenditure-
based GDP data, chained quarterly.  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2010. For more information
about monthly GDP by industry, see the National Economic
Accounts module on our website 
{www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm}.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  