-- 
Canadian Dollar Heads for a Third Monthly Advance on Interest-Rate Outlook

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-29T21:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/canadian-dollar-climbs-before-data-forecast-to-show-nation-s-economy-grew.html
Canada ’s dollar gained for a third
straight month on speculation the  Bank of Canada  will raise
interest rates to contain inflation before the  Federal Reserve .  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, reached the
strongest level in more than three years against its U.S.
counterpart, which fell this week after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he was unsure when stimulus would unwind. The
Canadian currency weakened earlier against most of its major
counterparts as the nation’s economy unexpectedly shrank in
February after four months of expansion.  “The Canadian dollar, while lagging certainly commodity
peers and lagging  Europe , is still outperforming the U.S
dollar,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange
at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto. “The dollar continues to
be a sell into the Fed, past the Fed, and much of that is driven
by Bernanke’s dovish comments.”  The loonie appreciated 0.6 percent to 94.51 cents versus
the greenback at 5:11 p.m. in Toronto, from 95.06 cents
yesterday. It touched 94.46 cents, the strongest since Nov. 12,
2007. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0581.  The yield on June 2011 bankers’ acceptances, a barometer of
short-term rate expectations, fell to 1.35 percent, from 1.36
percent yesterday, indicating investors may have tempered their
anticipation for higher Canadian policy rates.  Bond Yields  Canadian  government bonds  advanced, with the yield on the
benchmark 10-year security down two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.2 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent
security maturing in June 2020 increased 19 cents to C$102.33.  The BOC has held its target rate for overnight loans
between commercial banks at 1 percent since September, when the
rate increased for a third time last year. The central bank will
keep its benchmark at that level during the second quarter and
boost it to 1.50 percent during the third quarter, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed left its benchmark interest rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent on April 27, where it’s been since December
2008, and said it will likely continue reinvesting maturing debt
after its $600 billion program of bond buying expires in June.  Output in Canada’s economy fell 0.2 percent to a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of C$1.26 trillion ($1.32 trillion) in
February,  Statistics Canada  said. The result was weaker than
estimates of all 22 economists in a Bloomberg News survey, which
had a median forecast of no change.  Annual Growth Rate  The economy grew 2.9 percent in February from the same
month a year earlier, the slowest annual pace of expansion in a
year, according to Statistics Canada.  “GDP was a little weaker than expected,” said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in
Toronto. “It’s looking more like September if not later for a
rate hike by the Bank of Canada.”  The loonie has fallen 1.5 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a measure of
the 10 developed-nation currencies. The U.S. currency has lost
7.3 percent.  To contact the reporters for this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  