-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Rises on Fluctuating Temperatures, Supplies

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-04-29T16:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/canadian-natural-gas-rises-on-fluctuating-temperatures-supplies.html
Canadian natural gas rose for the
third consecutive day on cooler weather in the southeastern U.S.
and lower-than-expected American inventories, which may increase
demand for the heating fuel.  Demand for heat in the southeastern U.S. will exceed normal
by 45 percent through May 6, according to Belton, Missouri-based
forecaster Weather Derivatives. Temperatures in the region will
be below normal by 1 degree Fahrenheit, the forecaster said.  “After the smaller-than-expected increase in the supply,
everyone is wigging out on the gas market,”  Phil Flynn , an
analyst and vice president for research at PGF Best Research in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve seen stronger-
than-normal demand because we’ve had summerlike temperatures in
the South, winterlike temperatures in the Midwest, and some of
these storms have curtailed production.”  Alberta  natural gas for May delivery rose 8 cents to C$3.82
per gigajoule ($3.62 per million British thermal units) as of
12:45 p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. The June contract rose 6.75 cents to C$3.78. Gas on the
exchange goes to users in  Canada  and the U.S. and is priced on
TransCanada’s Alberta system.  Gas for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
rose 5.7 cents to $4.628 per million Btu as of 12:32 p.m. on the
New York Mercantile Exchange.  Temperatures in Charlotte,  North Carolina , fell early today
to a low of 46 degrees Fahrenheit (8 Celsius), which is 7
degrees below normal, according to  Weather Underground  in  Ann
Arbor , Michigan. Tonight’s overnight low is forecast at 47
degrees, 8 below normal.  The U.S. Energy Department reported yesterday that
stockpiles of natural gas rose 31 billion cubic feet last week
to 1.685 trillion. The average of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was for an increase of 38 billion cubic feet.  Nymex Prices  Volume on  TransCanada Corp.’s  Alberta system, which
collects the output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.8
billion cubic feet as of 10:30 a.m. in New York, about 559
million below target. Volume on the system, or linepack, fell
288 million cubic feet in the past four hours.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 3.01 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the  Chicago  area, the
daily flow rate was 1.81 billion cubic feet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 