-- 
Jimmy Carter Criticizes U.S., South Korea for Refusing Food Aid to North

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-04-29T03:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/carter-criticizes-u-s-s-korea-for-refusing-food-aid-to-north.html
Former President  Jimmy Carter 
accused the U.S. and South Korea of a “human-rights violation”
for refusing food aid to  North Korea  amid heightened tensions
over nuclear weapons development and deadly attacks on South
Koreans last year.  “To deliberately withhold food aid to the North Korean
people because of political or military issues not related is
really indeed a human rights violation,” Carter told reporters
yesterday in  Seoul .  Carter, 86, made a second trip to North Korea in less than
a year this week to help push forward stalled multinational
talks on ending  Kim Jong Il ’s pursuit of atomic weapons. Carter
and three former European leaders urged immediate donations of
food to North Korea, where the  United Nations  says more than 6
million people need food assistance.  The UN’s appeal in March for 434,000 tons of food
assistance for North Korea came after an outbreak of foot-and-
mouth disease in the country killed cows and oxen, which the
 Food and Agricultural Organization  said are a “key source of
draft power in agricultural production.”  South Korea has resisted giving aid to North Korea after
Kim’s regime torpedoed one of its warships in March last year
and shelled an island in November. The attacks killed 50 South
Koreans.  North Korea rejected the findings of an international panel
that said in May last year a torpedo from a North Korean mini-
submarine sank the Cheonan warship near the nations’ disputed
western maritime border.  Politically Motivated  South Korean Unification Minister Hyun In Taek said on
April 25 that North Korea’s plea for international donations of
food seems to be politically motivated, adding that current food
shortages aren’t much worse than in previous years. While  South
Korea  is open to providing humanitarian aid across the border,
North Korea should allow more transparency in ensuring that the
donations reach the people in need, he said.  North Korea has relied on outside handouts since the
mid-1990s when estimated 2 million people died from famine.  Carter was accompanied on his trip to North Korea by former
Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari, 73, ex-Norwegian Prime
Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, 72, and former Irish President
Mary Robinson, 66.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  