-- 
Caterpillar Boosts Forecast as Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-04-29T14:47:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/caterpillar-raises-forecast-after-first-quarter-earnings-exceed-estimates.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
largest maker of construction equipment, posted first-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates and raised its full-year
earnings forecast as sales surged in  developing countries .  Net income rose more than fivefold to $1.23 billion, or
$1.84 a share, from $233 million, or 36 cents, a year earlier,
the Peoria, Illinois-based company said in a statement today.
The average estimate of 21 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was
$1.31 a share. Revenue increased 57 percent to $12.9 billion
from $8.24 billion.  The full-year forecast is $6.25 to $6.75 a share, which
would exceed the record $5.66 in 2008, on sales of $52 billion
to $54 billion. The previous forecast was profit “near” $6 on
revenue of more than $50 billion. The average estimates compiled
by Bloomberg were $6.30 and $51.9 billion.  “We expect that the pace of world economic growth will
support continued recovery in the key industries we serve,”
Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said in the statement.
“We are positive about the short-term U.S. economic outlook but
believe bipartisan actions are needed in  Washington  to improve
the long-run fiscal position of the U.S. government.”  The full-year forecast includes 2010’s purchase of Electro-
Motive Diesel and excludes contributions from the pending
acquisitions of MWM Holding GmbH and Bucyrus International Inc.  Spending Plan  Caterpillar said it expects global economic growth this
year of about 4 percent, with developing countries expanding by
6.5 percent and the U.S. by 3.5 percent. The company plans about
$3 billion in capital spending this year, with more than half of
that in the U.S.  The company is betting on higher mining-equipment sales
with its $8.6 billion acquisition of Bucyrus as Asian demand
drives up commodity prices. The Bucyrus deal is expected to be
complete in mid-2011. Business outside the U.S. is “booming,”
Oberhelman told investors and analysts at the CONEXPO-CON/AGG
construction-equipment conference in  Las Vegas  last month.  Caterpillar rose $2.86, or 2.5 percent, to $115.50 at
10:46 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares climbed 20 percent this year before today, the best
performer after Boeing Co. in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  “The stock should trade up, although enthusiasm could be
tempered by the fact that most of the full-year raise came in
the first quarter,”  Stephen Volkmann , a New York-based analyst
for Jefferies & Co., said in a report today. He rates the shares
“buy.”  Japan  Quake  The company said that while the Japanese earthquake and
tsunami in March didn’t damage its facilities, it affected
“many” of the company’s suppliers. The disruption will likely
cost about $300 million in sales and about $100 million of
operating profit, the company said.  “Caterpillar posted results that were much better than our
expectations, and its guidance raise was also more than we
anticipated,”  Joel Levington , a managing director in New York
at Brookfield Investment Management Inc., said in an e-mail.
“The company is benefitting from a very robust  capital spending 
environment in the metals market, and that is overpowering
headwinds from raw materials and the tragedy in Japan.”  Earnings Target  The company has said it aims for earnings of $8 to $10 a
share in 2012 as demand for excavators, trucks and wheel loaders
grows amid greater consumption of commodities and construction
of roads, bridges and buildings in countries such as China,
India and  Brazil .  Earnings were little changed during the last surge in
demand, when sales rose 24 percent from 2006 through 2008.
Oberhelman is trying to change that during this rebound.  The new forecast implies an incremental margin, or the
profit made on new sales, in the 25 percent to 30 percent range,
Volkmann said. Caterpillar said that the incremental margin was
about 28 percent in the first quarter and that, excluding the
effect of major acquisitions, it expects a full-year rate of
close to 25 percent.  Caterpillar’s global full-time workforce rose 11 percent to
105,394 at the end of the quarter from a year earlier. The
company also increased its flexible workforce by 10,709 and
gained 1,454 employees from acquisitions in the period. Most
workers were added outside the U.S.  Because of high unemployment, central banks “will remain
cautious in raising rates,” Caterpillar said. The U.S. Federal
Reserve will keep its target for the federal funds rate between
0 and 0.25 percent through at least end of this year and will
complete its quantitative easing program in June 2011, and then
stabilize reserves in the banking system for at least several
months to assess economic developments, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  