-- 
Charter Said to Hire Citigroup, Goldman to Sell California Cable Systems

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-04-29T20:22:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/charter-said-to-hire-citi-goldman-to-sell-california-systems.html
Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the
cable-TV operator that emerged from bankruptcy in 2009, hired
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to sell its southern
California systems, said two people familiar with the matter.  The auction for the assets, which could fetch as much as $2
billion, is in the very early days, said one person, who asked
not to be identified because details of the sale aren’t public.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , with about 1.8 million customers in
 Los Angeles , will evaluate whether to bid on Charter’s assets,
Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said yesterday on a
conference call. St. Louis-based Charter had about 4.5 million
basic video subscribers in 2010 and doesn’t disclose customers
by region. Charter is now controlled by Apollo Global Management
LLC, Oaktree Capital Management LP and other private equity
firms.  “We’re going to evaluate it like we look at all
acquisitions and look at what it would look like under our
ownership,” Britt said. “And then evaluate it versus other
investment alternatives, including buying our shares back, and
we’ll come out wherever we come out.”  Charter doesn’t comment on speculative transactions, Anita Lamont, a Charter spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Mark Costiglio, a Citigroup spokesman, and  Andrea Rachman , a Goldman
Sachs spokeswoman, declined to comment.  In California, Charter operates systems around Los Angeles,
Lompoc, San Louis Obispo, Chico and Redding. Multichannel News
reported on April 26 that Charter was about to hire investment
banks to sell its Los Angeles system, citing anonymous sources.  Charter rose 30 cents to $58.94 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 51 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 