-- 
Business Activity in U.S. Expands Less Than Forecast in ISM-Chicago Index

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-29T14:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/chicago-purchasing-managers-index-decreased-to-67-6-in-april.html
Business activity in the U.S. grew
less than forecast in April, at a pace that’s consistent with
steady expansion in the world’s largest economy.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer dropped to 67.6 from March’s 70.6 level.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion, and the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists called for a
decline to 68.2.  The pace of inventory rebuilding, which picked up in the
first quarter, may cool in coming months as companies bring
stockpiles in line with sales. At the same time, expanding
economies overseas and more business investment are helping
manufacturers such as engine-maker  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  boost sales and
profits.  “The manufacturing sector still seems to be enjoying a
solid recovery but the pace of expansion seems to have eased
recently,”  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise
Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said before the report.  The median forecast for the Chicago group’s factory gauge
was based on projections from 49 economists. Estimates ranged
from 62 to 71.3.  Stocks were little changed after the report, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropping less than 0.1 percent to
1,359.94 at 10:12 a.m. in New York.  The Chicago group’s employment measure fell to 63.7 from
65.6 a month earlier, which was the highest level since 1983.
The production gauge decreased to 70 from 74.2.  The gauge of new orders declined to 66.3 from 74.5. The
index of backlogs decreased to 62.4 from 69.6.  The group’s prices paid index fell to 81.8 from 83.4.  Personal Spending  Other figures today showed  consumer spending  climbed in
March as Americans spent more on food and fuel, indicating
further income gains are needed to boost the biggest part of the
economy. Purchases rose 0.6 percent after a revised 0.9 percent
gain in February, the Commerce Department said.  Spending adjusted for changes in prices rose 0.2 percent in
March after a 0.5 percent gain.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the outlook
nationally. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge of measure
of overall growth. Its members have operations across the U.S.
and abroad.  Other measures of regional manufacturing were mixed in
April. The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  on April 15 said
manufacturing expanded in that region this month at the fastest
rate in a year. On April 21, the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  said its measure dropped to the lowest level since
November.  National Gauge  The ISM’s national factory index may fall to 59.5 this
month after March’s 61.2, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed before the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
figures on May 2.  “Household spending and business investment in equipment
and software continue to expand,” Federal Reserve policy makers
said this week after their policy meeting.  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession in mid-2009 may be helped this year in part by
President Barack Obama’s December compromise with congressional
Republicans on taxes. Companies will be able to depreciate 100
percent of investments in capital equipment in 2011.  Export Growth  Demand from fast-growing countries like  China  and  Brazil  is
spurring U.S. exports of machinery and consumer goods. Sales
overseas reached the highest level on record in January before
falling in February for the first time in six months.  Columbus, Indiana-based Cummins Inc., a maker of  diesel
engines , more than doubled its first-quarter income from a year
earlier and increased its forecasts for sales and profit this
year because of the recovering North American truck market.  “Our first-quarter results reflect continued strong growth
in key international markets, especially China, India and
Brazil,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso said in
a conference call this week. “We are seeing significant growth
in demand for our products and services in nearly every
geographic market we serve.”  Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, this week reported first-quarter profit of $2.55
billion, as fuel-efficient new models won higher prices.  “Our first-quarter performance is a step forward in our
delivery of profitable growth,” Ford’s vice president Robert Shanks said on a conference call this week. “We’re investing
for future growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  