-- 
Chile Peso in Biggest Week Gain Since January as Controls Nixed

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-04-29T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/chile-peso-in-biggest-week-gain-since-january-as-controls-nixed.html
Chile’s peso headed for its biggest
weekly gain in three months, after breaking through the level
where the central bank announced a dollar-buying program in
January, as policymakers quashed speculation they might
introduce  capital controls .  The peso gained 0.2 percent to 459.75 per  U.S. dollar  as of
10:45 a.m. New York time from 460.83 yesterday. The peso is the
fastest-rising of seven regional currencies tracked by Bloomberg
in the last 12 months as the central bank lifted  interest rates 
more than any other.  The currency had traded in a range between about 469 and
476 per dollar for the first three weeks of April before
breaking out of that range on April 21 after bank policymaker
Sebastian Claro said capital controls were “unsuitable.” It
then burst through the next key level on April 26 as the dollar
slumped, triggering selling as investors closed positions.  “After breaking through 466 per dollar, where the central
bank intervened and a key psychological level for the market,
the dollar fell eight pesos on stop-losses,” said Eugenio Cortes, head of currency forwards trading at EuroAmerica
Corredores de Bolsa SA. “It’s the general weakness of the
dollar and the differential in rates. The peso, which didn’t
rise as much as it should have, has been playing catch-up.”  The peso’s 1.6 percent gain this week has mirrored a 1.9
percent gain in the euro and the 2 percent gain in Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures. Claro’s comments were echoed by
central bank President Jose De Gregorio and Finance Minister
Felipe Larrain.  On Jan. 3 the peso closed at 465.75 per dollar, which
coincided with an announcement by the central bank that it would
buy $12 billion to stem the currency’s advance. The bank has
been buying $50 million a day since Jan. 5.  The peso may weaken today as traders close short dollar
positions ahead of the weekend and the end of the month, Cortes
said.  Foreign investors in the forwards market had a $1.6
billion net bet against the peso as of April 27, according to
central bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  