-- 
China Steel Demand Growth May Ease to 4.6% as Economy Slows

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-29T06:29:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/china-steel-demand-growth-may-ease-to-4-6-as-economy-slows-1-.html
Growth in Chinese demand for steel
may ease to 2.6 percent to 4.6 percent annually through 2015 as
the economy slows, the  China  Iron and Steel Association  said .  Gross domestic product will grow at an average 7 percent a
year through 2015 from 11.2 percent in the past five years, the
association said in a statement today. Growth in apparent steel
consumption, which includes stockpiles, averaged 17 percent a
year from 2006 to 2010, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on figures from the association’s website.  A slowdown in demand will add to pressure on Chinese
steelmakers, already experiencing shrinking profit amid high raw
material costs and overcapacity. The largest companies’ margins
narrowed to only 2.9 percent in the first quarter, compared with
6.4 percent average of all industries in China, the association
said today. Major steelmakers, including Angang Steel Co., this
week reported profit drops for the first quarter.  “The situation of low-profitability of steelmakers can
hardly be changed by any human efforts, but rather a trend that
mills have to adjust to themselves,” Zhang Changfu, vice
chairman and secretary general, told reporters in Beijing.  Key steelmakers’ iron producing costs rose 27.5 percent in
the quarter from a year ago, the association said. The price of
coking coal rose 15.2 percent in the period, while domestic  iron
ore  increased 42.7 percent and imported iron ore rose 54.4
percent, according to the statement.  Daily Record  Chinese steel production reached a record daily 1.94
million tons from January to February, or an annualized 706
million tons, the association said. The country had 768 million
tons of steelmaking capacity in 2010.  “Capacity has far exceeded domestic demand,” Zhang said.
“Power, resources and environmental limitations will restrain
expansion. Our major task is to control production.”  China may face power shortages of 30 million kilowatts
during the summer as supply lags behind demand growth, the China
Electricity Council said today. Some regions are facing
shortfalls that are “bigger and earlier” than last year, it
said in a report on its website yesterday.  “So far, the association hasn’t got any reports from
steelmakers on power rationing, or the impact on their
production,” Zhang said.  --Xiao Yu and Helen Yuan. Editors: Alan Soughley, Indranil Ghosh  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 