-- 
China May Face Power Shortages During Summer as Demand Gains, Council Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-29T09:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/china-may-face-power-shortages-during-summer-as-demand-gains-council-says.html
China , the world’s fastest-growing
major economy, may face a summer power shortage of 30 million
kilowatts as supply lags behind demand growth, the China
Electricity Council said.  Some regions are facing shortfalls that are “bigger and
earlier” than last year, the council said in a  report  on its
website yesterday. Supplies in provinces in the north, east and
south will be “tight.”  China’s power use may increase 12 percent to 4.7 billion
megawatt-hours this year, while generation capacity may gain 9
percent, the council said. Demand rose 13 percent to 1.1 billion
megawatt-hours in the first quarter, according to the council.  “The power shortage is worse compared with the previous
couple of years, but has yet to have a material impact on the
real economy,” Michael Tong, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG,
said by telephone from  Hong Kong . “The country may need to
consider speeding up generation capacity expansion to stop power
shortages from worsening next year.”  Datang International Power Generation Co., a unit of the
nation’s second-largest power producer, gained 9.5 percent in
Shanghai trading, the most in a year.  Huaneng Power
International Inc. (600011) , the listed unit of the biggest electricity
generator, climbed 6.3 percent.  Southern Guangdong province, the nation’s manufacturing hub,
may face shortages of as much as 6.5 million kilowatts this
summer, Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing Li Xiangming,
deputy head of the local economic and information commission.  Impact From Inflation  “If the shortage lasts for more than one year, China may
need to approve more coal-fired power projects, but before that,
they need to raise tariffs more so that independent power
producers will be willing to spend on additional capital
expenses,” Dave Dai, an analyst at Securities Capital Markets,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “It still depends on
where inflation is going over the next few months.”  The  consumer price index  reached 5.4 percent last month,
the fastest pace since 2008 and higher than the full-year target
of 4 percent. The government controls electricity prices to
limit their impact on inflation.  China’s generation capacity is expected to rise 85 million
kilowatts, or 9 percent, to 1.04 billion kilowatts this year,
the council said. The increase is less than the council’s
forecast at the beginning of the year because of slower
expansion at thermal power units, it said. China added 13.79
million kilowatts of capacity in the first quarter, down 15
percent from a year earlier, it said.  Rising Coal Prices  Power plants are also challenged by rising coal prices,
according to the council. Coal-fired generators in six provinces
in central China, three provinces in northeastern China and
Shandong province in the east are having losses because of
higher fuel costs, the council said.  “Operational losses may have discouraged  power plants  from
maximizing output,” Deutsche Bank’s Tong said. “And some
plants are short of coal stockpiles because of higher prices.”  Spot prices of power-station coal at Qinhuangdao port, a
Chinese benchmark, rose above 800 yuan ($123) a metric ton this
week, the highest in four months, according to data from the
China Coal Transport and Distribution Association.  Coal stockpiles at the nation’s major power plants
increased to 53.11 million tons as of mid-April, sufficient for
14 days of use, compared with 13 days at the end of March, the
association said.  --Winnie Zhu. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 