-- 
Chinese Manufacturing Withstands Wen’s Campaign to Rein in Surging Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-29T04:07:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/china-manufacturing-keeps-growth-pace-even-after-rate-rise-survey-shows.html
China ’s manufacturing sustained its
expansion this month even as the government raised  interest
rates  and let the yuan strengthen at a faster pace, a purchasing
managers’ index showed.  The index was 51.8 in April, unchanged from March, HSBC
Holdings Plc. and  Markit Economics  said today. A reading above
50 indicates expansion.  The world’s second-biggest economy faces risks including an
“abrupt” decline in the real-estate market as the government
seeks to cool property and consumer prices, the  World Bank  said
yesterday. The central bank let the yuan breach 6.5 per dollar
for the first time since 1993 today, helping to lower import
costs after inflation accelerated to the fastest pace since 2008.  The survey “confirmed the picture of steady growth across
the manufacturing sector,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist at
HSBC, said in a statement. “This, plus stronger-than-expected
March growth and inflation data, calls for a continuation of
Beijing’s tightening efforts in the coming months.”  China’s currency was headed for a seventh straight weekly
gain after the nation’s foreign-exchange holdings surged by the
second-highest amount on record in the first quarter, and the
 Federal Reserve  signaled plans to maintain its monetary stimulus.  The yuan strengthened 0.15 percent to 6.4920 per dollar as
of 11:34 a.m. in  Shanghai . The benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index rose after the data, reversing an earlier decline,
climbing 0.1 percent to 2,890.29 at the 11:30 a.m. local-time
break.  Higher Interest Rates  Policy makers may raise rates as early as a May 2 holiday
after last moving on April 5, Credit Suisse Group AG said
yesterday. Consumer prices rose an annual 5.4 percent in March,
underscoring Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s concern that rising costs for
food and homes may undermine social stability.  The People’s Bank of China has boosted borrowing costs four
times and raised banks’ reserve requirements seven times since
mid-October.  China’s economy  continues to expand at a “pretty healthy
rate,” Louis Kuijs, the World Bank’s Beijing-based senior
economist said yesterday. The Washington-based lender increased
its growth estimate for this year to 9.3 percent after a faster-
than-forecast expansion in the first quarter.  Costs Increase  The World Bank also raised its inflation estimate to 5
percent, higher than the government’s target of about 4 percent.  Input-price inflation remains stronger than the long-run
trend even after prices grew at the slowest pace in eight months,
according to today’s report.  Maanshan Iron & Steel (323)  Co., the second-biggest Hong Kong-
traded steelmaker, said this week its first-quarter net profit
fell 80 percent from a year earlier because of higher fuel and
raw material costs. Angang Steel Co. said its first-quarter
profit fell 94 percent from a year earlier.  Many companies are raising prices to their customers, with
21 percent of respondents reporting an increase in output prices
in April from the previous month, the report showed.  Average prices of steel reinforcing bars rose 22 percent to
4,746 yuan a ton in the first quarter, according to Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co.  HSBC’s survey, which covers more than 430 companies, also
pointed to a “relatively lackluster growth of new business and
a slower expansion in manufacturing production,” according to
today’s statement. Still, companies added workers at the fastest
rate since December.  China’s logistics federation and the National Bureau of
Statistics will release their manufacturing PMI on May 1. The
index is expected to be little changed from March at 53.9,
according to the median estimate of 20 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  --Victoria Ruan. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  