-- 
Yuan Strengthens to Post-’93 High Against Dollar as China Fights Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-29T08:43:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/china-s-yuan-strengthens-beyond-6-5-per-dollar-for-first-time-since-1993.html
China ’s yuan strengthened beyond
6.5 per dollar for the first time since 1993, supported by
speculation the central bank will allow appreciation to help
tame the fastest inflation in more than two years.  The currency’s seventh weekly gain, its longest winning
streak since July 2008, may damp U.S. criticism of China’s
exchange-rate policy before Vice Premier Wang Qishan heads to
Washington next month for talks with Treasury Secretary  Tim
Geithner . Consumer prices in Asia’s biggest economy rose 5.4
percent from a year earlier in March, exceeding the government’s
4 percent goal for this year.  “Inflation is still higher than what the government would
like to see,” said  David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist at
Action Economics, who previously worked for the  Federal Reserve .
“The central bank is tolerating faster currency appreciation to
contain import costs.”  The yuan strengthened 0.16 percent to close at 6.4910 per
dollar in  Shanghai , earlier touching a 17-year high of 6.4892,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It rose
0.9 percent this month, the best performance of 2011. In Hong
Kong’s offshore market, the currency jumped 0.28 percent to
6.4645, the biggest gain in Bloomberg data going back to Aug. 24.  The People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s reference rate at
6.4990 per dollar, the strongest level since July 2005. The
currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of
the official rate.  Dollar Slide  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.22 percent to
6.3095 per dollar as of 4:40 p.m. in  Hong Kong , trading at a 2.9
percent premium to the onshore spot rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Local billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hui Xian
Real Estate Investment Trust, the city’s first listed shares
denominated in yuan, began trading today.  The “unusually fast pace” of yuan gains confirms that the
yuan is being used to fight inflation, Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, wrote in a note
to clients today. He said there may be a “sharp gain” once
6.50 is breached and recommends buying the yuan against the
greenback using non-deliverable forwards.  The dollar weakened this month against all 16 major
currencies monitored by Bloomberg as the Fed maintained a near-
zero benchmark interest rate and boosted the supply of the U.S.
currency by buying Treasuries, a policy known as quantitative
easing that is set to end in June.  ‘Managed Appreciation’  A halt to the U.S. central bank’s Treasury purchases will
alleviate pressure for yuan gains, Huang Zhilong, a researcher
with the China Center for International Economic Exchanges,
wrote in a commentary published in today’s China Securities
Journal. The center is affiliated with the National Development
and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planning agency.  Chinese officials told Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
and nine other U.S. senators who visited China this month that
the yuan’s “managed appreciation” will continue, according to
an April 26 statement on Reid’s website. The senators called for
“more aggressive” appreciation, the statement said. The group
met with leaders including Vice President Xi Jinping and
People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan.  New York  Senator Chuck Schumer, who was on the trip, said
yesterday the talks convinced him to push more forcefully for
legislative action to curb yuan manipulation that gives Chinese
exporters an unfair advantage. Treasury Secretary Geithner and
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  are due to meet with Chinese
Vice Premier Wang and State Councilor Dai Bingguo during the
annual U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue being held May
9-10 in  Washington , the U.S. State Department said this week.  U.S.-China Talks  China’s currency appreciation often gathers pace in the
run-up to high-level talks between the two nations. This year’s
biggest weekly advance of 0.58 percent was recorded in the week
ended Jan. 16, before Presidents  Hu Jintao  and  Barack Obama  met
in Washington on Jan. 19. The yuan strengthened 1.4 percent in
the month before Obama discussed currency policy with Premier
 Wen Jiabao  in New York on Sept. 23.  “China always lets the yuan appreciate faster before they
meet the U.S.,” said Kenix Lai, a foreign-exchange analyst at
Sun Hung Kai Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “It’s like a gift to
cultivate a friendly atmosphere for the meetings. This time is
no exception.”  China’s Commerce Ministry said on April 22 that there is
“relatively large” pressure for the yuan to appreciate, noting
that currency gains have had some impact on export orders. The
country’s imports exceeded overseas sales by $1.02 billion in
the January-March period, the first quarterly trade deficit in
seven years, customs bureau data showed on April 10.  Smaller Exporters  “A one-off revaluation is definitely impossible because it
will devastate those smaller exporters that are on the edge of
life and death,” said  Zhao Qingming , a senior analyst in
Beijing at China Construction Bank Corp., the country’s second-
largest lender. He estimated the yuan will rise by about 7
percent against the dollar for the whole of 2011.  The yuan has advanced 1.5 percent so far this year and will
strengthen a further 3 percent to 6.30 per dollar by the end of
December, according to the median estimate of 25 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest gain projected for
 Asia ’s 10 most-used currencies, polls show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 Jregan19@bloomberg.net . 