-- 
China Shenhua Profit Rises as Economic Growth Boosts Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-29T13:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/china-shenhua-profit-rises-as-economic-growth-boosts-demand-1-.html
China  Shenhua Energy Co., a unit of
the country’s biggest coal producer, posted a 17 percent
increase in first-quarter profit as rising demand in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy boosted prices.  Net income climbed to 11.03 billion yuan ($1.7 billion), or
0.555 yuan a share, from 9.46 billion yuan, or 0.476 yuan, a
year earlier, Shenhua said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange today. Sales rose 41 percent to 47.4 billion yuan.  China’s economy  expanded 9.7 percent in the first quarter,
beating a 9.4 percent forecast in a survey of economists,
boosting demand for energy and raw materials. Shenhua increased
the selling price of coal by 4.8 percent on average in the three
months from a year earlier, according to the filing.  “The fast-growing economy facilitated sound growth in coal
demand,” Shenhua said. “Throughout 2011 the spot price of
thermal coal will be volatile at (a) high level.”  Power-station coal prices at Qinhuangdao, a domestic
benchmark, rose for a fourth week as supplies declined, data
from China Coal Transport and Distribution Association showed on
April 25. Inventories have fallen 24 percent since the end of
March, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the data.  Demand for coal imports will likely be strong in coming
weeks because of low inventories at Chinese ports and seasonal
stockpiling in preparation for the summer, Commodore Research
said in an April 20 report.  Shares of Shenhua have risen 9.4 percent in the past 12
months, trailing behind the 14 percent gain in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . The stock was unchanged at HK$36.25 in Hong
Kong trading today, before the earnings announcement.  Rising Production  Shenhua, which posted a record profit of 38 billion yuan
last year, said this month that production jumped 30 percent in
March from a year earlier as sales soared 64 percent. China uses
coal to fuel about 70 percent of its  power plants .  Production may rise to as much as 270 million metric tons
this year, beating Shenhua’s target of 258 million tons,
Chairman Zhang Xiwu said on March 28.  Shenhua said on March 18 it is a partner in one of six
groups shortlisted to develop the Western Tsankhi area of the
Tavan Tolgoi coal field in Mongolia. The coal producer is
building railways across the Mongolian border to support the
project, Zhang said last month.  --Chua Baizhen and  Wang Ying  in Beijing. Editor: Bloomberg News,
Josh Fellman  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 