-- 
Christie Brings Message of Change to Harvard Education School

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-04-29T20:05:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/christie-will-address-future-teachers-at-harvard-graduate-school.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
who has called his state’s teachers’ union “a bunch of
political thugs,” took his message of change to  Harvard
University ’s school for educators today.  “There are now smoldering around the country the embers of
revolution” in public schools, Christie said in a speech at the
Ivy League institution’s Graduate  School  of Education in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “The need for revolutionary change is
as appropriate as anything in public life today.”  The first-term Republican, whose proposals to change
government pension and benefit plans sparked a surge in teacher
retirements last year, spoke to a packed audience that included
those in a 270-seat auditorium and three satellite rooms around
the campus across the  Charles River  from Boston. Christie, 48,
has said 2011 will be “the year of education reform” as he
pushes to change tenure, link teacher pay to performance and
make it easier to fire educators deemed ineffective.  “We have an education system that is set up for the ease,
comfort and security of those who operate it,” the governor
said. This week,  New Jersey  voters approved 80 percent of 
school budgets. A year ago, they rejected a record 59 percent
after Christie urged them to do so in districts where 
teachers rejected wage freezes.  New Jersey spends $17,620 per pupil annually, more than any
other U.S. state, yet more than 100,000 students are trapped in
failing schools, Christie has said.  Money No ‘Answer’  “Money is not the answer to that problem,” Christie said
in his remarks. “New Jersey is the laboratory that proves
that.”  While New Jersey has 150,000 teachers, just 17 have been
removed for incompetence in the past decade, he has said,
blaming tenure rules. The  New Jersey Education Association , the
union representing 200,000 current and retired school employees,
spent $6.6 million on broadcast advertising last year, the most
of any lobbying group in the state, according to the Election
Law Enforcement Commission in Trenton. Many ads attacked
Christie.  Christie likened leaders of the teachers’ union to
“political thugs” in an ABC News interview this month with
 Diane Sawyer .  “The reason I’m engaged in this fight with the teachers’
unions is because it is the only fight worth having,” Christie
said to applause. He said that he has tried to focus his attacks
on a system that protects poor-performing teachers and favors
the system instead of the students.  Surging Retirements  Teacher retirements surged 95 percent last year, the
largest increase of any government group, according to state
Treasury Department data.  “I’m in no way condoning every aspect of Christie’s
agenda, but he’s at least putting himself out there and I
respect that,” student David Donaldson, who invited the New
Jersey governor to speak, said in a telephone interview. When
Christie entered the room, he was met with a standing ovation.  Donaldson, 26, is head of the  Education Policy and
Management Student Association  speaker series at Harvard, the
oldest and richest U.S. university. Other speakers this year
include  Randi Weingarten , president of the  American Federation
of Teachers , and former Florida Governor Jeb Bush.  The typical speaker event attracts about 125 people,
Donaldson said. More than 400 were expected at Christie’s
speech, he said.  “Christie is among the most prominent governors when it
comes to education issues,” said Michael Rodman, a spokesman
for the graduate school. “Certainly he’s controversial but we
welcome controversy and we think his ideas should be discussed
and debated.”  Christie urged his audience, many of whom may become
leaders of schools, to be “disruptors.” He said they should
disrupt “fat, rich and entitled unions” because that’s what’s
needed to fix U.S. public schools.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in  New York  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 