-- 
Citic Securities Said to Snub Foreign Banks in Stock Sale

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-04-29T08:47:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/citic-securities-said-to-snub-foreign-banks-in-hong-kong-offer.html
Citic Securities Co. may exclude
foreign underwriters in favor of Chinese bankers for its $2.2
billion  Hong Kong  stock sale, bolstering the nation’s push to
build global investment banks that can compete overseas.  China’s biggest brokerage by market value turned down
foreign banks that asked to be considered for a role on the deal,
two people with knowledge of the matter said. The firm chose BOC
International Holdings Ltd., CCB International (Holdings) Ltd.
and ICBC International Holdings Ltd. as bookrunners, three
people familiar with the sale said. Citic Securities’ overseas
unit will also help manage the offering.  The arrangers would be the first all-Chinese group to run a
Hong Kong stock sale worth at least $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Four Chinese firms are among the city’s top 10
underwriters of equity so far in 2011, more than in any other
year, according to Bloomberg data going back to 1999.  “The Chinese banks will have to take the first step sooner
or later,” said Li Kwok-suen, a  fund manager  at Phillip Capital
Management (HK) Ltd. “Armed with years of experience in
handling IPOs, they should be able to get the deal done.”  Beijing-based Citic Securities is 24 percent owned by Citic
Group, created in 1979 as China’s first state-owned investment
corporation. The company sold shares in an initial public
offering in  Shanghai  in 2003.  Citic Securities may consider adding a foreign bank to the
deal later if needed, one of the people said.  Yuan IPO  “Citic Securities has been receiving a great deal of
support from domestic banks,” David Dou, vice president of
Citic Group, said in an interview in Hong Kong on April 27.
“Support from foreign banks is rather limited.” Dou didn’t
identify Citic Securities’ underwriters.  The offering may bolster Chinese equity underwriters in
Hong Kong in more ways than one as Citic Securities can use the
proceeds to expand and hire senior investment bankers. The firm
is in talks with Paris-based Credit Agricole SA about combining
investment-banking operations.  Citic Securities International, the company’s overseas
division, is scouting for acquisitions that would help it grow
abroad, Yin Ke, chief executive officer of the unit, told the
Wall Street Journal in an interview.  The unit advised on the initial public offering of Li Ka- shing’s Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust, Hong Kong’s first
stock sale denominated in yuan. Hui Xian fell as much as 11
percent on its first day of trading today after raising 10.5
billion yuan ($1.6 billion).  ‘Willing to Pay’  Local rival Haitong Securities Co. said April 26 it plans
to sell stock in Hong Kong to raise money for overseas growth.
The companies are poised to become the first Chinese securities
firms traded outside mainland China. Haitong’s sale may raise up
to $1.8 billion, based on yesterday’s closing price in Shanghai.  Haitong Securities’ international unit is “willing to pay
what’s needed” to lure bankers from U.S. and European rivals as
it seeks to double its investment-banking workforce, incoming
Chief Executive Officer Lin Yong said in an April 20 interview.  The unit,  Haitong International Securities Group Ltd. (665) , aims
to boost its 75-person investment banking division by 50 percent
to 100 percent, Lin said.  ABCI Securities Co., the investment banking unit of
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288) , will also have a role on the
Citic Securities sale, the people said. The stock offering may
raise $2.2 billion, based on the market value of Shanghai-traded
Citic Securities and a March 28 announcement that it may account
for 10 percent of the company’s enlarged share capital.  Price Compromise  The underwriters’ desire to ensure the deal is a success
may make them more willing to compromise on price, said Raymond So, dean of the business school at Hang Seng Management College
in Hong Kong.  “If needed, they may under-price it to make people eager
to subscribe,” So said. “This deal won’t fail.”  Raymond Tang, a Beijing-based spokesman for Citic
Securities, declined to comment.  Four Chinese banks -- BOC International, Citic Securities,
 China  International Capital Corp. and Bocom International
Holdings Co. -- are among the top 10 underwriters of stock sales
in Hong Kong this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Last year, BOC International and CICC were the only Chinese
banks among the 10 largest underwriters, the data show.  In 2007, BOC International was sole bookrunner on the Hong
Kong IPO of Xinjiang Xinxin Mining Industry Co., which raised
HK$4.5 billion including proceeds from overallotment shares. In
2004, CICC managed the sale of Irico Group Electronics Co.,
which raised HK$767 million in the first IPO outside the
mainland handled by a Chinese investment bank without the help
of foreign underwriters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net 
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  