-- 
Coffee May Surge 40% on Frost After Kraft Raises Prices

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-04-29T20:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/coffee-may-climb-another-40-on-frost-after-kraft-smucker-raised-prices.html
Brazil, the world’s biggest coffee
grower, is facing the risk of frost after hail this month,
raising the prospect of a 40 percent jump in bean costs after
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and J.M. Smucker Co. already increased prices.  The chance of frost in Brazil increased with the weakening
of La Nina, a cooling of waters in the  Pacific Ocean , Brazil’s
Somar Meteorologia said this week. Frost in 1994 damaged 35
percent of the crop by 1997, sending prices up 39 percent that
year, according to Somar. Should cold weather damage trees this
year, coffee may rise to a record $4.20 a pound, the median in a
Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts, traders and investors.  Arabica beans have jumped 25 percent this year on signs
demand is outpacing supply. The shortage will be 6.2 million
bags in the crop year starting in October, according to Rabobank
International. Kraft, maker of Maxwell House coffee, raised
prices three times last year. It estimated in February that
North American commodity costs would increase $700 million to
$800 million this year, or about 1.5 percent of 2010 revenue.  “There is no room for disruption,” said  Rodrigo Costa ,
vice-president of institutional sales at Newedge USA LLC in New
York, who correctly forecast a year ago that coffee would climb.
“If Brazil has a frost, not only will we see uncharted prices
but the situation might become unbearable.”  Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery closed at $2.9985
a pound in New York. Yesterday, the price surged to a 14-year
high of $3.034 and has more than doubled in the past year. Cocoa
futures are up 4 percent for the same period, and raw sugar is
46 percent higher.  Folgers Coffee  Kraft, based in Northfield,  Illinois , increased U.S. prices
on Maxwell House and Yuban ground coffees by about 22 percent on
March 16, spokeswoman Bridget MacConnell said. Orrville, Ohio-
based Smucker, maker of Folgers coffee, raised them by 10
percent in February, Vincent Byrd, director and president of
U.S. retail coffee, said on a conference call that month.  Global food costs tracked by the  United Nations  reached an
all-time high in February and the  World Bank  says that
contributed to 44 million more people being driven into poverty
in the past year. Inflation is accelerating worldwide, spurring
central banks from  China  to the euro region to increase  interest
rates , potentially curbing  consumer spending .  Arabica coffee, preferred by coffee shops such as Starbucks
Corp., climbed as rains associated with La Nina damaged crops in
 Colombia , the fourth largest producer last year, according to
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Brazil’s crop will be 13
percent smaller than last year, Brazil’s Agriculture Ministry
estimates.  Colder Atmosphere  La Nina is now declining and all climate models suggest
further weakening,  Australia ’s Bureau of Meteorology said on
April 27.  “As La Nina fades and the atmosphere becomes colder, the
cold masses from the  South Pole  gain intensity and may reach the
Center South region” of Brazil, Marco Antonio dos Santos, an
agronomist at Somar in  Sao Paulo , said on April 27. The Center
South includes the state of  Minas Gerais , Brazil’s biggest
grower of arabica beans.  Cold weather from the South Pole is due in the Center South
in the week of May 9 and temperatures are forecast to fall to
about 5 degrees Celsius (41 degrees Fahrenheit), Santos said.
Coffee trees can be damaged if temperatures fall below 1 degree
Celsius, he said.  Frost in Brazilian growing regions can damage trees bearing
the following year’s crop. Coffee futures soared to a record
$3.375 a pound in 1977 after damage from the “black frost” in
Brazil two years earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  “Even without weather disruptions there will be a
deficit,” Newedge’s Costa said.  April Hail  There was hail this month in some  Brazil  growing regions,
and the damage was estimated at 50,000 to 60,000 bags, according
to Somar. Brazil produced 55.5 million bags last year, according
to the USDA. This year’s crop is estimated at between 41.9
million bags to 44.7 million bags by Brazil’s Agriculture
Ministry.  “The wild card will be the weather in Brazil,” said
Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps oversee $17 billion at BB&T
Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama  and correctly forecast
higher gold and oil prices in February. “If Brazil does not
have a big crop we will see pressure on prices.”  The earliest frost to damage the crop in Brazil was May 31,
1979, according to Newedge estimates. Brazil’s winter season
traditionally extends through August. While Brazilian coffee
isn’t deliverable against futures contracts in  New York , it’s
used in blends by roasters.  Falling Inventories  Stockpiles in producing countries have been falling since
2003, when inventories were at 52.7 million bags, data from the
London-based International Coffee Organization show. The 13
million bags in storage now represent 1 1/2 months of global
exports, the lowest in at least half a century, according to
Jose Sette, the ICO’s executive director.  Inventories in producing nations are 69 percent lower than
in 1997 and 71 percent lower than in 1977, years in which coffee
prices climbed following frost damage, according to ICO data.
Stockpiles were 42 million bags in 1997 and 45 million bags in
1977, Sette said.  “Given what frosts have done to prices in the past,
coupled with the tight inventories of arabica, the upside
potential if there is a frost is extreme, and records are very
likely to be broken,” said Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank
in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  