-- 
Colombia Raises Interest Rate to 3.75% to Head Off Inflationary Pressure

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-04-29T21:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/colombia-raises-interest-rate-to-3-75-to-head-off-inflationary-pressure.html
Colombia’s central bank increased
borrowing costs for a third month in a bid to head off
inflationary pressure while also pledging to maintain efforts to
restrain the peso’s rally.  The seven-member board increased the benchmark interest
rate a quarter point to 3.75 percent today, meeting expectations
of 23 of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Six analysts
forecast no change. The bank cited a higher 2011 growth
forecast, higher  home prices  and expanding loan growth in
raising the rate.  This “suggests that the adjustment toward a less expansive
monetary policy should continue,” policy makers said in their
statement that accompanied today’s decision. “The rate
increases will help to maintain inflation within the target
range this year and next and contribute to avoiding future
financial imbalances.”  Speculation that policy makers would announce plans to
extend or expand daily dollar purchases in a bid to curb the
peso’s 6.7 percent rally in the past month -- the best
performance against the dollar among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg -- prompted the peso to decline
as much as 0.5 percent earlier this week.  Following the bank’s announcement, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the government has pledged “to not bring
in one single dollar from overseas” this year.  Policy Options  The finance minister also said that the government has
pledged to give the central bank the capacity to continue dollar
purchases of “at least” $20 million beyond June 17 if
necessary. The bank in February had extended the dollar purchase
program it had initiated last September.  Additionally, Colombia will buy up to $1.2 billion in the
 spot market  this year to make payments that are due overseas,
Echeverry said.  “By refraining from monetizing dollars onshore
the government is contributing to reduce the supply of U.S.
dollars and through it alleviate the pressure on the dollar to
weaken,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Alberto Ramos  said
in an e-mailed report.  Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe this week reiterated
that the purchases can be extended as signaled by the “at
least” phrasing.  Policy makers raised the benchmark rate to an 18-month high
as annual inflation has exceeded 3 percent in each of the past
four months, above the midpoint of the bank’s target range of 2
percent to 4 percent.  2011 Growth  The central bank today also revised its 2011 economic
growth forecast to a range of 4 percent to 6 percent. Uribe
earlier this month said the bank might revise its growth outlook
to as high as 5.5 percent from 4.5 percent.  Yields on  Colombia ’s 10 percent benchmark bonds due July
2024 have risen 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, in
the last week to 8.41 percent amid concern over quickening
inflation.  Echeverry has said he expects growth as high as 6 percent,
after a 4.3 percent expansion in 2010, in part due to spending
to repair washed-out roads, bridges and buildings.  Policy makers today didn’t announce taxes on foreign
securities purchases, deposit requirements for inflows or other
 capital controls  designed to discourage short-term investment.  Echeverry, a member of the bank’s board, said April 26 he
is not a “fan” of capital controls and signaled there would be
none imposed.  Controls, Inflows  The finance minister said in an April 16 interview the
government hadn’t yet reached its “pain threshold” with regard
to the peso.  The currency yesterday touched 1,762.71 per dollar, the
strongest level since July 2008. In trading today, it closed
little changed at 1767.00 from 1767.13 yesterday.  Controls would “reflect that the government is not doing
its fiscal work,” Echeverry said. The government is seeking to
pass through congress this year a “fiscal responsibility” plan
that would cut debt, limit spending, reduce the  budget deficit 
and help ease gains in the peso.  Much of the extra cash pressuring the peso has been due to
companies bringing in funds to pay taxes through April 25,
Echeverry said. The government will make any decisions on the
peso after April, he said.  FDI, Response  Echeverry today said that much of the currency’s gains this
month have been due to a surge in  tax revenue . April tax revenue
reached 5 trillion pesos ($2.83 billion), more than 1.2 trillion
pesos above government expectations, he said.  Higher dollar inflows from rising foreign direct investment
have also contributed to the stronger peso, as well as higher
interest rates than those available in developed markets such as
the U.S. or  Japan , according Serfinco SA analyst Ricardo Bernal.  Foreign direct investment rose to $3.23 billion in the year
through March, with 86 percent going into oil and mining,
according to trade balance figures from the central bank. That
compares to $2.17 billion in the first three months of 2010.  Colombian peso bonds due in July 2024 yielding 8.41 percent
today, compared with 3.74 percent for similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries. The  Federal Reserve  has kept its benchmark lending
rate between zero and 0.25 percent since the end of 2008.  The peso has gained 8 percent this year and 11 percent over
the past 12 months, the best and second-best performances among
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg respectively. It
has strengthened 30 percent over the past two years, trailing
only the Brazilian real’s 39 percent advance.  The bank will raise interest rates to as high as 4.5
percent this year to avoid inflationary pressures as heavier-
than-average rainfall pushes food prices higher and as the
economy expands, said Daniel Velandia, head analyst at Bogota-
based brokerage Correval SA.  Goldman Sachs expects “the central bank to drive the
policy rate to around 4.5 percent to 5 percent,” Ramos said.  Annual inflation was 3.19 percent in March, up from a
decade low of 1.84 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  