-- 
Colombia May Raise Rate to 3.75%, Announce Measures to Stem Peso’s Rally

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-04-29T14:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/colombia-may-raise-rate-to-3-75-announce-measures-to-stem-peso-s-rally.html
Colombia ’s central bank will
probably raise borrowing costs for a third month to head off
inflationary pressure and may announce new measures to stem a
rally in the peso that’s hurting exporters and job growth.  The seven-member board will increase the benchmark interest
rate a quarter point to 3.75 percent today, according to 23 of
29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, while six forecast no
change. Analysts including Banco de Bogota SA’s Camilo Perez and
Serfinco SA’s Ricardo Bernal predict the central bank will
announce plans to extend or expand daily dollar purchases in a
bid to curb the peso’s 7 percent rally in the past month, the
best performance among seven Latin American currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  “We’ve reached the government’s pain threshold when it
comes to the peso,” said Perez, the head analyst at Colombia’s
second-biggest bank. “We’ve already been seeing verbal
intervention and additional measures may be the next step.”  Policy makers will raise borrowing costs to keep annual
inflation, which has exceeded 3 percent in each of the past four
months, within the bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4
percent, Perez and Bernal said. The central bank will likely
increase the amount of daily dollar purchases to as much as $40
million, from the “at least” $20 million announced in
September, or extend the purchases by three months beyond the
targeted June 17, said Bernal, the head analyst at Serfinco.  Not a ‘Fan’  Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe this week reiterated
that the purchases can be extended as signaled by the “at
least” phrasing. In an interview earlier this month, he said
the bank may revise its growth forecast to as high as 5.5
percent from the current 4.5 percent now to contain inflationary
pressures amid expanding  consumer spending .  Yields on Colombia’s 10 percent benchmark bonds due July
2024 have risen 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, in
the last week to 8.43 percent at 10:36 a.m. New York time amid
concern over quickening inflation. That’s its biggest increase
since the period ended Feb. 18.  Policy makers are unlikely to announce taxes on foreign
securities purchases, deposit requirements for inflows or other
 capital controls  designed to discourage short-term investment,
Bernal said.  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry, a member of the
bank’s board, said April 26 he is not a “fan” of capital
controls and signaled there would be none imposed.  FDI, Response  Much of the extra cash pressuring the peso has been due to
companies bringing in funds to pay taxes through April 25,
Echeverry said. The government will make any decisions on the
peso after April, he said.  Higher dollar inflows from rising foreign direct investment
have also contributed to the stronger peso, as well as higher
interest rates than those available in developed markets such as
the U.S. or  Japan , according to Bernal.  Foreign direct investment rose to $3.23 billion in the year
through March, with 86 percent going into oil and mining,
according to trade balance figures from the central bank. That
compares to $2.17 billion in the first three months of 2010.  The 8.43 percent yield on Colombia’s benchmark bond due
July 2024, compares to 3.75 percent for similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries. The  Federal Reserve  has kept its benchmark lending
rate between zero and 0.25 percent since the end of 2008.  Tolerance, ‘Responsibility’  In an effort to “avoid unnecessary pressures on the
peso,” Colombia may forgo plans this year to repatriate all of
a $1.5 billion account held abroad as higher-than-projected  tax
revenue  reduces funding needs, Public Credit Director German Arce said in an interview April 26.  In October, Echeverry indicated the money would stay
overseas “at least for the first months of 2011,” as part of
the efforts to stem the peso’s rally.  Echeverry said in an April 16 interview the government
hadn’t yet reached its “pain threshold” with regard to the
peso. The currency yesterday touched 1,762.70, the strongest
level since July 2008. It climbed 0.1 percent today to 1,767.97.  Controls would “reflect that the government is not doing
its fiscal work,” Echeverry said. The government is seeking to
pass through congress this year a “fiscal responsibility” plan
that would cut debt, limit spending, reduce the  budget deficit 
and help ease gains in the peso.  ‘Wait’ to See  The peso has gained 8 percent this year and 11 percent over
the past 12 months, the best and second-best performances among
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg respectively. It
has strengthened 30 percent over the past two years, trailing
only the Brazilian real’s 38 percent advance.  Pressure from exporters for the government to limit gains,
is growing. Companies dependent on overseas sales are facing a
“difficult” situation, Javier Diaz, head of the National
Exporters Association, known as Analdex, said April 25 in an
interview on RCN radio.  Policy makers would consider imposing limits on short-term
overseas borrowing should it become “excessive,” central bank
co-director Carlos Gustavo Cano said April 6. That isn’t
currently the case, he said.  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a strategist at RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , predicts the central bank will
hold off on announcing changes today to its current measures.  “While additional actions cannot be ruled out, we would
expect authorities to wait for a move closer to 1,700 pesos per
dollar before changing the current strategy and avoid signaling
1,800 as a floor,” Cattan-Naslausky wrote in an April 27
report.  Balancing Act  Increasing the amount of pesos in the economy by buying
dollars is “counterproductive” with an interest rate
tightening cycle, according to Daniel Velandia, head analyst at
Bogota-based brokerage Correval SA.  Velandia forecasts policy makers will announce additional
currency measures once the peso reaches 1,750 per dollar.  The bank will raise interest rates by 25 basis points today
and as high as 4.5 percent this year to avoid inflationary
pressures as heavier-than-average rainfall pushes food prices
higher and as the economy expands, Velandia said.  Annual inflation was 3.19 percent in March, up from a
decade low of 1.84 percent a year earlier.  Still, with growth in the $231 billion economy accelerating
and annual inflation expected near the mid-point of its 2
percent to 4 percent target range, the board has room to pause
this month, said  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in an April 25 note to investors.  The government expects gross domestic product to climb as
much as 6 percent this year, after a 4.3 percent expansion in
2010, in part due to spending to repair washed-out roads,
bridges and buildings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  