-- 
Cowboys’ Romo, Ex-Pitcher Smoltz Are Among Applicants for Golf’s U.S. Open

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-04-29T19:55:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/cowboys-romo-ex-pitcher-smoltz-are-among-applicants-for-golf-s-u-s-open.html
Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo and former Major League Baseball pitcher John Smoltz are
among 8,300 golfers applying to play in June’s  U.S. Open .  Romo, who won a four-man playoff to reach the final
qualifying round for the 2010 tournament before withdrawing due
to a weather delay, will be trying for the third time to qualify
for golf’s second-oldest major championship. He never has made
the field.  The 31-year-old quarterback will take part in the 18-hole
local qualifying round at  Stonebridge Ranch and Country Club  in
McKinney,  Texas , on May 9. He would then need to advance through
a second 36-hole qualifying round to compete in the U.S. Open,
to be played June 16-19 at Congressional Country Club in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  The U.S. Open field will consist of 156 players, including
65 who are already exempt. To be eligible for qualifying,
amateurs must have a handicap index -- a measure of a golfer’s
skill in relation to par -- no higher than 1.4. The deadline to
enter was April 27.  Smoltz, who retired from baseball after the 2009 season
with the  Boston Red Sox , has failed in previous attempts to
qualify for the U.S. Open.  Earlier today, the 44-year-old Alpharetta, Georgia,
resident shot a  12-over par 84  in the first  round  of the  South
Georgia Classic . He received a sponsor’s exemption to play in
the event on the Nationwide Tour, a professional circuit one
level below the U.S.  PGA Tour .  Smoltz will compete in local qualifying for the Open at the
River Club in Suwanee, Georgia, on May 17. The second qualifying
round would be held June 6.  Graeme McDowell, who captured the 2010 Open at  California ’s
Pebble Beach Golf Links, is among eight former champions exempt
into the event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta  at
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  