-- 
Crude Oil Futures Trade Near 31-Month High, Heads for Eighth Monthly Gain

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-04-29T12:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/crude-oil-falls-from-highest-in-31-months-heads-for-eighth-monthly-gain.html
Oil traded near a 31-month high in
 New York , heading for an unprecedented eighth monthly gain amid
signs of increasing U.S. demand.  Futures rose as much as 0.5 percent, reversing an earlier
decline, after U.S. data showed stronger than forecast growth in
 consumer spending . The euro gained against the dollar after a
report showed inflation in the  euro zone  accelerated to the
fastest pace in 2 1/2 years, fanning speculation the  European
Central Bank  may raise interest rates again.  “We are now in a rate-hike mood in  Europe , while the U.S.
is the other way around,” said Torbjoern Kjus, senior oil-
market analyst at DnB NOR Markets in Oslo. “That’s the key
reason for the rally in the euro against the dollar. It’s
supportive to  oil prices .”  Crude for June delivery rose as much as 54 cents to $113.40
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $113.22 at 1:39 p.m. London time. Yesterday,
the contract climbed 10 cents to $112.86, the highest settlement
since Sept. 22, 2008. Brent for June settlement was up 48 cents
at $125.50 a barrel on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract yesterday slid 11 cents to $125.02.  Consumer spending in the U.S. rose 0.6 percent in March
after a revised 0.9 percent gain the prior month, higher than
previously estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The increase compared with the 0.5 percent median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Incomes
climbed 0.5 percent, more than projected.  U.S. futures are up 6.1 percent this month, headed for an
eighth monthly increase, the longest sequence of gains on
record, as the armed conflict in  Libya  threatens to prolong
supply cuts from Africa’s third-largest producer.  Euro Inflation  The euro was up 0.3 percent at $1.4864. A weaker dollar
makes commodities priced in the U.S. currency more appealing.  European inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in two
and a half years and confidence in the economic outlook declined
as surging energy prices threatened to undermine growth.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.8
percent in April from 2.7 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today in an initial
estimate.  Crude futures fell as much as 0.5 percent earlier today
after data showed  South Korea ’s industrial production and U.S.
economic growth missed analysts’ forecasts. A report yesterday
showed the  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.8 percent annual rate
from January through March, less than the 2 percent projected by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “There is fear that the slightly bearish U.S. first-
quarter GDP is an indication of the recovery slowing down, with
bearish implications on oil demand,” said Filip Petersson,
commodity strategist at Stockholm-based SEB AB.  Brent Premium  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $12.30 a
barrel to U.S. futures. The difference between front-month
contracts in  London  and New York surged to a record $19.54 on
Feb. 21. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  Rising crude prices have narrowed refiners’ profits from
turning crude into fuels such as gasoline and diesel, according
to Total SA, Europe’s third-largest oil producer.  Total’s European refining margin indicator, a measure of
profit from turning crude into oil products, dropped to $24.60 a
metric ton in the first quarter from $32.30 in the fourth
quarter of 2010, the company said today.  “European refining margins have decreased compared to the
first quarter, reflecting mainly the impact of the sharp
increase in oil prices” since the start of the second quarter,
Total said.  Asia  Demand  Asia’s oil consumption growth will slow to 4 percent in the
second half of 2011 compared with 5 percent in the first six
months of the year, JPMorgan analysts, led by New York-based
Lawrence Eagles, said in a report dated yesterday. Government
efforts to shield buyers from gains in prices through subsidies
won’t prevent the slowdown, the analysts said.  Crude may rise next week as the dollar weakens further. The
 Federal Reserve  said the “moderate” economic recovery still
requires record-low  interest rates , a Bloomberg survey showed.  Twenty-one of 35 analysts, or 60 percent, forecast oil will
increase through May 6. Nine respondents, or 26 percent,
predicted prices will decline and five projected little change.
Last week, 38 percent of respondents said futures would gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  