-- 
Oil May Rise as Dollar Drops on Fed Low Interest Rate Policy, Survey Shows

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-29T21:58:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/crude-oil-may-climb-next-week-as-dollar-drops-on-fed-policy-survey-shows.html
Crude oil may rise next week as the
dollar declines after the  Federal Reserve  said the “moderate”
economic recovery still requires record-low  interest rates , a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Twenty-one of 35 analysts, or 60 percent, forecast oil will
increase through May 6. Nine respondents, or 26 percent,
predicted prices will decline and five projected little change.
Last week, 38 percent of respondents said futures would gain.  The dollar dropped after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said April 27 that the central bank would keep
borrowing costs low and maintain record monetary stimulus. A
falling U.S. currency bolsters demand for commodities as an
alternative investment. The dollar fell against the euro during
the previous eight days.  “The dollar is clearly expendable under the Fed’s easing
regime,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “It’s likely
further declines will advance oil and commodity prices in the
coming week.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, slid 0.1 percent
to 73.044 at 5 p.m. in New York after earlier falling 0.4
percent to 72.834, the lowest level since July 2008.  Oil has advanced 25 percent in New York this year. Unrest
in the Middle East and North  Africa  has toppled leaders in Egypt
and Tunisia and spread to Libya,  Algeria , Bahrain,  Iran , Oman,
Syria and Yemen.  NATO Warplanes  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said its warplanes
attacked combat vehicles near the besieged Libyan port city of
Misrata on April 27, following reports that one of its strikes
killed rebel fighters battling Muammar Qaddafi’s forces in the
area.  Libya  has Africa’s biggest proven oil reserves.  Crude oil for June delivery rose $1.64, or 1.5 percent, to
$113.93 a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008. Futures rose 6.8
percent in April, in an unprecedented eighth consecutive month
of gains. Prices are up 34 percent from a year ago.  The oil survey has correctly predicted the direction of
futures 47 percent of the time since its start in April 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  