-- 
Crude Oil Falls From Highest in 31 Months; Heads for Eighth Monthly Gain

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-04-29T06:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/crude-oil-falls-from-highest-in-31-months-on-signs-of-slowing-fuel-demand.html
Oil dropped from a 31-month high in
New York, trimming an unprecedented eighth monthly gain, as
evidence the global economic recovery is faltering stoked
speculation demand for crude will decline.  Futures fell as much as 0.4 percent after data showed  South
Korea ’s industrial production and U.S. economic growth missed
analysts’ forecasts. Reports today may show U.S. spending cooled
and businesses grew at a slower pace in the world’s biggest
crude-consuming nation. Asian oil demand growth will slow in the
second half of the year as consumers “feel the pinch” of
higher fuel prices, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  “You still have a U.S. economy that is extremely
delicately poised in terms of growth,” said David Land, chief
market analyst at CMC Markets Ltd. in Sydney. “If higher  oil
prices  become the norm you reach the level where people will
forgo spending.”  Crude for June delivery fell as much as 50 cents to $112.36
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $112.53 at 3:42 p.m. Sydney time. Yesterday,
the contract climbed 10 cents to $112.86, the highest settlement
since Sept. 22, 2008.  U.S. futures are up 5.4 percent this month, headed for an
eighth monthly increase, the longest sequence of gains on
record, as the armed conflict in  Libya  threatens to prolong
supply cuts from Africa’s third-largest producer.  Oil is likely to extend its gains next week as the  Federal
Reserve ’s pledge to keep  interest rates  in the world’s biggest
economy near zero weakens the dollar, boosting the appeal of
commodities priced in the currency, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of 35 analysts conducted this week.  U.S. Economy   The U.S. economy expanded at a 1.8 percent annual rate from
January through March, less than the 2 percent projected by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. A report today may show
 consumer spending  climbed 0.5 percent in March, after a 0.7
percent gain in February, according to a separate survey. The
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. may say its
business barometer fell to 68.2 in April from 70.6 in March.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose 6.16 million barrels last week
to 363.1 million barrels, the biggest gain since the period
ended July 23, 2010, according to an Energy Department report
April 27.  “Growth economies are slowing and the U.S. economy isn’t
picking up,”  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity
Broking Services Pty in Sydney, said by telephone today.
“Inventories continue to rise.”  Asia  Demand  Asia’s oil consumption growth will slow to 4 percent in the
second half of 2011 compared with 5 percent in the first six
months of the year, JPMorgan analysts, led by New York-based
Lawrence Eagles, said in a report dated yesterday. Government
efforts to shield buyers from gains in prices through subsidies
won’t prevent the slowdown, the analysts said.  Brent crude  for June settlement declined 22 cents, or 0.2
percent, to $124.80 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract yesterday slid 11 cents to $125.02.  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $12.24 a
barrel to U.S. futures. The difference between front-month
contracts in London and  New York  surged to a record $19.54 on
Feb. 21. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  The U.K. was closed for a public holiday today to celebrate
the wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton.  OPEC Supply  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will cut
exports by 1.2 percent in the four weeks to May 14 because of a
seasonal decline in demand, tanker-tracker Oil Movements said.  OPEC, responsible for 40 percent of global supplies, will
ship 22.75 million barrels a day in the four weeks to May 14,
down from 23.03 million barrels a day in the period to April 16,
the consultant said yesterday in a report. The data exclude
Ecuador and Angola.  Unrest in the Middle East and North  Africa  has toppled
leaders in Egypt and Tunisia and spread to Libya, Algeria,
Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Yemen and Syria. Libya’s crude production,
which averaged 1.6 million barrels a day last year, shrank to
390,000 barrels a day in March, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of producers, analysts and companies.  Yemen’s main opposition movement said it may pull out of a
plan brokered by Gulf Arab states for President Ali Abdullah
Saleh to step down because his forces haven’t stopped killing
protesters, while at least 14 people died after a blast ripped
through a restaurant in downtown Marrakech,  Morocco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  