-- 
D.R. Horton Reports Unexpected Profit on Tax Benefit as Home Sales Decline

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-04-29T13:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/d-r-horton-posts-unexpected-profit-after-booking-59-million-tax-benefit.html
D.R. Horton  Inc., the second-
largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, reported a surprise second-
quarter profit as a tax benefit helped offset slumping sales.  Net income for the quarter ended March 31 was $27.8
million, or 9 cents a share, up from $11.4 million, or 4 cents,
a year earlier, the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company said in a
statement today. The average estimate was for a loss of 5 cents
a share, according to a Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts.  U.S. homebuilders have struggled with weak demand and
competition from lower-priced existing homes as a glut of
foreclosures drives down values. D.R. Horton’s results included
a $59.2 million tax benefit, without which the company would
have reported a wider loss than some analysts estimated because
of a drop in revenue and higher expenses, said Jack Micenko, an
analyst with Susquehanna International Group LLP in  New York .  “Other builders have been cutting, cutting, cutting costs
given the new norm,” Micenko, who rates the stock “neutral,”
said today in a telephone interview. “It’s a bit confusing.”  U.S. new homes sold in March at an annual pace of 300,000,
up from February’s record low of 270,000, the Commerce
Department reported April 25. The average annual rate each month
for the past 10 years was about 829,000 homes.  D.R. Horton’s homebuilding revenue fell to $733.1 million
from $896.8 million a year earlier. Home orders decreased to
4,943 from 6,438.  ‘Still Challenging’  “Market conditions in the homebuilding industry are still
challenging, with high foreclosures, significant existing home
inventory, high unemployment, tight mortgage lending standards
and weak  consumer confidence ,” Chairman Donald R. Horton said
in the statement.  The company didn’t give the reason for the tax gain in the
statement. Micenko estimated the company’s loss excluding the
benefit was $31.4 million, or 10 cents a share. He expected the
company to break even.  Selling, general and administrative expenses were $123.2
million, or about 17 percent of homebuilding revenue, compared
with 14 percent a year earlier, as the company opened new
communities and increased its inventory by 1,400 unsold homes,
Micenko said.  Stephen East, an analyst with Ticonderoga Securities LLC in
New York, said the loss was 3 cents a share before one-time
items. The company’s results were a “net positive, in a
somewhat muted manner,” East, who has a “buy” rating, said in
a note to clients.  “Given the weak market and generally disappointing builder
earnings to date this quarter, we believe this result should put
some wind under DHI’s sails,” he wrote, referring to the
company’s ticker symbol on the New York Stock Exchange.  D.R. Horton released earnings before U.S. markets opened.
The stock gained 7 cents to $12.10 yesterday. It rose 1.4
percent this year, compared with a 2.9 percent advance in the
12-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 