-- 
Daimler Profit Rises 71% on Demand for Mercedes-Benz S-Class Cars in China

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-04-29T13:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/daimler-s-first-quarter-profit-surges-on-mercedes-s-class-sales-in-china.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s second-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , reported a 71 percent gain in
first-quarter operating profit as growing wealth in China
boosted deliveries of the Mercedes-Benz S-Class sedan.  Earnings before interest and taxes rose to 2.03 billion
euros ($3.01 billion) from 1.19 billion euros a year earlier,
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler said today in a  statement .
Profit matched the 2 billion-euro average estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  China’s growing economy is fueling record demand for luxury
cars from Mercedes,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi. VW reported this week that Ebit more than tripled to
2.91 billion euros boosted by demand for Audi models in China,
while VW’s Lamborghini supercar unit may sell more vehicles
there than in the U.S. for the first time this year.  “Compared to Volkswagen’s numbers a couple days ago, it’s
much less dynamic,”  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst
with Bankhaus Metzler who recommends buying the shares, said.
“The results are nothing special.”  Daimler, which is also the world’s largest truckmaker,
hasn’t kept up with competitors’ profitability. Mercedes-Benz’s
first-quarter Ebit at 9.3 percent of revenue trailed Audi’s 10.6
percent margin. The 6.6 percent return on sales posted by the
Daimler Trucks unit was less than  Volvo AB (VOLVB) ’s 9.4 percent.
Daimler’s net income rose 59 percent to 1.06 billion euros as
revenue gained 17 percent to 24.7 billion euros.  Stock Falls  Daimler fell as much as 1.33 euros, or 2.5 percent, to
51.76 euros, the steepest intraday drop in two weeks, and was
down 2.2 percent as of 3:23 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock
has risen 2.4 percent this year, valuing the company at 55.4
billion euros.  The company stuck to its forecast for “significantly”
higher Ebit in 2011 than last year’s 7.2 billion euros. Daimler
expects prospects for the updated C-Class and revamped SLK
roadster to outweigh potential repercussions of last month’s
earthquake in Japan, which led to 78 million euros in charges in
the first quarter.  Additional charges of 50 million euros to 100 million euros
related to the earthquake may be booked in the second quarter,
Chief Financial Officer Bodo Uebber said today on a conference
call.  Faster Growth Targeted  The 125-year-old German automaker aims to outpace the
growth in global car markets, which Daimler estimates at 5
percent to 7 percent this year, Uebber said. Deliveries rose 13
percent in the first quarter to 281,000 autos, boosted by a 25
percent jump in S-Class deliveries and a 78 percent surge in
demand from  China . Audi’s vehicle sales rose 18 percent.  Mercedes-Benz will introduce a new version of the B-Class
compact later this year. The model is the first of a line of
four new small cars. Daimler is building a factory in  Hungary  to
back the expansion, which is part of a strategy of lowering
average fuel emissions and winning over younger drivers.
Mercedes will also introduce a revamped M-Class sport-utility
vehicle in 2011. Mercedes-Benz Cars’ Ebit rose 60 percent in the
quarter to 1.29 billion euros.  Mercedes plans to restart its plant in Tuscaloosa,  Alabama ,
on May 2 after deadly tornados that hit the region earlier this
week forced the carmaker to close it, Uebber said. The factory
produces M-, R-, and GL-Class SUVs.  Truck Profit  Like other truckmakers, Daimler is benefiting from
recovering demand in  North America  and  Europe  for heavy trucks
following the global financial crisis. The company, which owns
Kawasaki, Japan-based truckmaker Fuso as well as Freightliner in
the U.S., said the trucks unit’s operating profit more than
tripled to 415 million euros from 130 million euros a year
earlier.  “It’s a disappointment,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , a
London-based analyst with Credit Suisse, with a neutral rating
on the stock. Margins at Daimler Trucks “are much below
Volvo’s, and that’s their main competitor.”  The truck division took a charge of 49 million euros
related to damages and lost production caused by the March 11
earthquake in  Japan , where a Fuso plant is still ramping up
production after shutting down after the disaster. Daimler’s
financial-services unit booked charges of 29 million euros to
account for potential lost receivables because of the
earthquake.  Uebber shrugged off the comparison with Volvo, saying that
better months are ahead for Daimler’s truck division and that
competition with the Swedish manufacturer won’t be decided by
one quarter.  Daimler raised its forecasts for truck demand in North
America and Europe. The company now expects industrywide
deliveries in North America to advance in a range of 30 percent
to 35 percent, compared with an earlier projection of 20 percent
to 25 percent. European demand is seen growing 20 percent to 25
percent, up from a March forecast of 15 percent to 20 percent.
Daimler’s first-quarter truck orders rose more than 10 percent
in Europe and  Latin America , and quadrupled in North America.  Daimler and London-based plane-engine maker  Rolls-Royce
Group Plc (RR/)  are jointly seeking to buy  Tognum AG (TGM) , an engine
manufacturer in which Daimler holds a 28.4 percent stake. The
carmaker has pledged its holding in the tender offer, which
expires on May 18.  The suitors have stuck to a 24 euro-a-share bid, even
though Tognum stock has hovered above the offer price. Uebber
reiterated today that Daimler and Rolls-Royce don’t see a reason
to raise the price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  