-- 
DBS Group’s First-Quarter Profit Climbs 52% on Loan Growth, Banking Fees

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-04-29T01:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/dbs-group-s-first-quarter-profit-climbs-52-on-loan-growth-banking-fees.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest bank, reported a 52 percent increase in first-
quarter profit as loans grew and it boosted  investment banking 
and wealth management fees.  Net income rose to S$807 million ($657 million) from S$532
million a year earlier, the Singapore-based lender said in a
statement on its website today. Profit beat the S$755.3 million
average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  DBS and local rivals Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. and
 United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  are expanding their loan books as
 Singapore ’s economy grew at more than twice the pace economists
estimated in the first quarter. Chief Executive Officer Piyush Gupta plans to add more branches in China and  India , and build
businesses that cater to wealthy individuals as  Asia ’s economies
outpace the rest of the world.  “DBS will share in a strong systemic loan growth because
the economy has been doing well,” Leng Seng Choon, a Singapore-
based analyst at DMG & Partners Securities Pte, said before the
report. “Piyush has been growing the loans book and he has
expansion plans for the longer term, which is a positive.”  Interest Income  DBS shares slipped 0.1 percent to S$14.90 at 9:51 a.m. local
time. Singapore’s Straits Times Index fell 0.2 percent.  Net interest income, the difference between what a bank
makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, grew 5 percent
from a year earlier to S$1.12 billion, the statement showed. DBS
increased loans by 18 percent to S$157.5 billion, focusing on
companies in Singapore,  Hong Kong  and elsewhere in Asia, it said.  The net interest margin, a measure of loan profitability,
fell to 1.8 percent in the first quarter from 1.93 percent a
year earlier as borrowing costs remained low, the bank said.  Non-interest income rose 22 percent to S$787 million, as
fees from investment banking, wealth management and trading
increased. DBS was among banks that managed the $5.5 billion
initial public offering of Hutchison Port Holdings Trust last
month, the biggest IPO in Southeast Asia.  “While the global economy remains fraught with uncertainty,
and the interest-rate climate continues to provide headwinds, we
believe that efforts to strengthen our franchise in Asia will
continue to bear fruit,” Gupta said in the statement.  The bank said this month it plans to open at least eight
branches in  China  this year and double its workforce to cut its
reliance on Singapore. DBS, which employs more than 1,000 people
in China, plans to have 50 branches and sub-branches in the
country by 2013.  United Overseas reports its results on May 6 and Oversea-
Chinese on May 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  