-- 
Deficit Accord Must Include More Taxes With Cuts, Democrat Van Hollen Says

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/deficit-deal-must-include-higher-taxes-with-cuts-democrat-van-hollen-says.html
Chris Van Hollen , the top House
Democrat on budget issues, said any deficit-cutting deal that is
part of a U.S. debt-limit extension must be “balanced” to
include higher  tax revenue  as well as spending reductions.  “You’ve got a lopsided approach” if “you’re just looking
at the spending side and not talking about revenues,” Van
Hollen said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  In addition to his budget committee role, Van Hollen of
Maryland is among a group of congressional leaders who will meet
with Vice President  Joe Biden  starting May 5 to discuss ways to
curb the long-term debt.  Van Hollen’s stance might cause friction with leaders of
the Republican-controlled House, who rule out tax increases and
demand deeper spending cuts as a condition for raising the
government’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The government will
reach the borrowing limit as early as May 16.  Republicans’ deficit plan would retain “huge subsidies the
big oil companies are getting” and provide “tax breaks to the
folks on the very top” while ending “Medicare as we know it,”
said Van Hollen.  A proposal by Tennessee Republican  Bob Corker  and Missouri
Democrat Claire McCaskill to cap spending at 20.6 percent of
gross domestic product is “not a balanced approach” because it
wouldn’t eliminate tax breaks, said Van Hollen.  Obama Plan  President  Barack Obama ’s proposal for a “fail-safe” to
trigger cuts in spending and tax breaks if Congress misses
deficit-reduction targets “is the right approach,” said the
Maryland Democrat.  Eliminating tax subsidies for oil drilling is “very much
on the table,” particularly after House Speaker  John Boehner  of
Ohio “indicated that he wanted to do something about it,” Van
Hollen said.  With oil companies earning large profits, “nobody can
argue that they need these taxpayer subsidies to motivate them
to go and to drill for more oil,” Van Hollen said.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, said he supports getting rid of tax breaks for  oil
companies  in order to reduce other taxes. “Let’s clear the
clutter out of the tax code, let’s get rid of all these special-
interest tax shelters so we can lower tax rates on everybody,”
he said in an interview with  Peter Cook  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday.”  Ryan didn’t say whether he supports eliminating tax breaks
as part of reducing the deficit, which would violate a pledge
many Republican lawmakers have taken to oppose moves that result
in tax increases.  Market Speculation  Van Hollen also said that if there is “excessive
speculation in the market,” Obama should “very seriously
consider releasing some of the oil” from the nation’s Strategic
Petroleum Reserve, he said.  That is “the only near-term thing you can do to pop the
speculative bubble” driving up gasoline prices, he said. “The
American people would get a pretty good price” for selling oil
from the government’s strategic reserve, he said.  Van Hollen , 52, who is suing the  Federal Election
Commission  to force more disclosure of political spending, said
Obama is planning to order federal contractors to reveal their
political donations. White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
April 20 that the administration was drafting such an order,
while saying its content could change over time.  ‘Totally Wrong’  Republicans and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce are “totally
wrong” in saying a disclosure requirement would “chill freedom
of speech,” Van Hollen said.  “This doesn’t prevent anybody from running any ad or
saying whatever they want,” he said. “It simply says if you’re
going to run that ad, tell the American people who’s funding
it.”  When “there’s a big vote on the floor of the House on a
big weapons system,” he said, why should defense contractors
“be able to secretly fund the campaigns of people who voted in
your favor, and secretly fund opponents to people who might have
voted against you?”  During the two-week congressional recess that ends this
weekend,  House Republicans  have encountered opposition from
constituents to their plan to privatize Medicare for people now
age 54 and younger. Still, some dismissed it as orchestrated by
political foes.  “This is not genuine anger over Medicare; it’s
manufactured political anger that’s causing the disturbances,”
Representative Lou Barletta, a freshman Republican from
Pennsylvania, said this week.  Van Hollen said that is a misreading of the public
reaction. He predicted the proposal will prove unpopular with
voters because it will “force seniors into the private
insurance market where they’ll have to eat the rising costs of
health care.”  “I don’t think the American people are going to like it at
all,” Van Hollen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 