-- 
Democrats Start Two Campaign Fundraising Groups for 2012 to Counter Rove

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-04-29T15:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/democrats-start-two-campaign-fundraising-groups-for-obama-re-election-bid.html
Democrats with ties to President
 Barack Obama  are starting two fundraising efforts outside of his
official 2012 re-election campaign designed to counter similar
Republican groups that have raised millions of dollars.  Two new entities, Priorities USA and  Priorities USA Action ,
were created to match political money raised by  organizations
led by  Karl Rove  and billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch
of Koch Industries Inc. Priorities USA will pursue the kind of
unlimited and secret donations Obama has said he opposes.  “While we agree that fundamental campaign finance reforms
are needed, Karl Rove and the Koch brothers cannot live by one
set of rules as our values and our candidates are overrun with
their hundreds of millions of dollars,”  Bill Burton , a former
deputy White House spokesman who is now a senior strategist for
both groups, said in an e-mailed statement. “We will follow the
rules as the  Supreme Court  has laid them out, but the days of
the double standard are over.”  The formation of the groups today was reported earlier by
Politico.  Obama has repeatedly expressed opposition to such groups.
In an Aug. 21 radio  address , he questioned their role in last
year’s midterm congressional elections, calling them “shadowy
groups with harmless-sounding names.”  Obama Criticism  The president especially criticized the lack of disclosure
requirements.  “We don’t know who’s behind these ads and we don’t know
who’s paying for them,” he said. “They can buy millions of
dollars worth of TV ads -- and worst of all, they don’t even
have to reveal who is actually paying for them.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said Obama’s position on
fundraising by outside groups hasn’t changed.  “These are not people working for the administration and
we can’t control their activity,” Carney told reporters
traveling with Obama to view tornado damage in  Alabama . “The
president’s position on disclosure remains the same, he believes
it’s vitally important.”  The Supreme Court’s 2010 Citizens United decision made it
easier for political groups to take corporate and labor union
money and run ads specifically advocating the election or defeat
of a candidate. The new Democratic groups said they were
organizing because of the potential that Republicans taking
advantage of the ruling will “raise and spend $500 million this
cycle.”  Disclosure Rules  Priorities USA Action will report regularly to the  Federal
Election Commission  and disclose its donors. The group will be
able to take in unlimited donations from individuals,
corporations and unions, though it cannot make direct
contributions to candidates. Priorities USA will not have to
disclose its donors.  The Rove groups have a similar arrangement, with American
Crossroads disclosing donors and Crossroads Grassroots Policy
Strategies allowing contributors to remain anonymous. Together
they raised $71 million for the 2010 campaign and set a goal of
taking in $120 million for 2012. The two Crossroads groups
reported spending $38 million on political ads to the FEC, more
than any other outside organization.  The Kochs support an advocacy group, Americans for
Prosperity, that reported spending $1.2 million to help elect
Republican candidates in the 2010 elections, according to FEC
reports.  David Koch  is head of the related Americans for
Prosperity Foundation, which said it spent at least $5.5 million
on ads last year criticizing the government’s economic stimulus
in districts of House Democrats who faced close re-election
campaigns.  Republican Spending  Republican-leaning outside groups spent almost $100 million
more than Democratic organizations during the 2010 elections,
according to the Campaign Finance Institute, a Washington-based
research group. That nullified an unprecedented fundraising
advantage by Democratic Party political committees.  Except for American Crossroads, none of the biggest
spending Republican-leaning groups disclosed their donors.  The new Democratic groups were criticized by Republicans.  “Obama’s brazen hypocrisy, in encouraging his own
operatives to start groups exactly like the ones he demagogued
last year, shows how cynical this president can be when it comes
to perpetuating his own power,” Jonathan Collegio, a spokesman
for American Crossroads, said in an e-mailed statement.  Leaders of Groups  The leadership of the Democratic groups will also include
Sean Sweeney, a former senior adviser to former White House
Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel , now the mayor-elect of Chicago.
Like Burton, Sweeney will serve as senior strategists to both
groups, according to statement from the groups.  Paul Begala , a
Democratic strategist and onetime political adviser to former
President  Bill Clinton , will be an adviser.  “Americans deserve an honest debate about  job creation ,
the economy, national security and education,” Sweeney said in
a statement. “That debate will never happen if only right-wing
extremists are engaged on the battlefield.”  Some of the first contributions to the new groups came from
the  Service Employees International Union , one of the largest in
the U.S., and Hollywood producer Jeffrey Katzenberg, who is also
going to help raise money for the effort, Burton said in an e-
mail.  Jim Messina , Obama’s campaign manager and a former deputy
White House chief of staff, has tried to tamp down predictions
that the president’s campaign organization will raise $1 billion
for the 2012 campaign. Still, he has put together an early
fundraising schedule that has already raised millions from stops
this month in  Illinois ,  California  and  New York .  Top bundlers , who solicit money from a wide circle of
donors, have been asked to collect at least $350,000 this year
alone. Four years ago, members of Obama’s national finance
committee were asked to raise $250,000 for the 2007-08 election
cycle.  The higher bar has been set in part because Democrats also
don’t know whether Obama will be helped or hurt by Republican
efforts to handicap labor, a big source of Democratic money. The
governors of Wisconsin and  Ohio  have signed bills making it
harder for unions to collect dues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 