-- 
Disaster Needed for U.S. to Act on Climate Change, Harvard’s Stavins Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-29T20:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/disaster-needed-for-u-s-to-act-on-climate-change-stavins-says.html
The U.S. probably won’t take
significant steps to curb climate change until an environmental
disaster sways public view and prompts political action,   Robert Stavins  of Harvard University said.  “It’s unlikely that the U.S. is going to take serious
action on climate change until there are observable, dramatic
events, almost catastrophic in nature, that drive public opinion
and drive the political process in that direction,” Stavins,
director of Harvard’s Environmental Economics Program in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said today in an interview in
Bloomberg’s Boston office.  President  Barack Obama  failed to get legislation through
Congress that would have established a cap-and-trade system of
pollution allowances to control greenhouse-gas emissions blamed
for global warming. Instead, the administration is pushing
regulations for carbon pollution through the Environmental
Protection Agency, a far inferior approach, according to
Stavins.  The agency’s rules aimed at curbing emissions from
industrial polluters such as power plants aren’t “sensible,”
he said. They don’t do much to reduce greenhouse gases and carry
an “excessively high cost,” according to Stavins.  Stavins, an economist, is a member of the United Nations’
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which said in 2007
that scientists are more than 90 percent certain that humans are
causing global warming.  Decline in Polls  U.S. concern about climate change has declined in recent
years, according to polls. Americans who agree the Earth is
warming because of man-made activity dropped to 34 percent in
October, from 50 percent in July 2006, according to a survey by
the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press.  Almost four dozen lawmakers who have questioned global
warming were elected to Congress in November’s midterm
elections.  Stalemate on the issue in the U.S. has hindered the Obama
administration’s efforts to take the lead in UN talks for a new
global treaty to fight climate change. The U.S., the world’s
second largest greenhouse-gas emitter behind China, is the only
industrialized country not part of the Kyoto Protocol, which
limits emissions by developed nations until 2012.  “There’s a legit reason for the public to be skeptical
about climate change because they don’t see it,” Stavins said.  Grabbing the public’s attention would require a dramatic
development, such as a “well-observed melting of parts of polar
ice caps that result in some amount of sea-level rise,” Stavins
said.  Outside of climate policy, the U.S. has the strongest
environmental regulations in the world thanks to laws written in
the 1970s, Stavins said. Those measures were adopted in response
to high-profile events such as the Cuyahoga River catching fire
in Cleveland, Ohio, he said.  Climate change “is one that is going to require some kind
of enlightened leadership from the top down,” according to
Stavins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  