-- 
Draghi ECB Campaign Advances as Merkel-Leaning Newspaper Backs the Italian

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-04-29T11:51:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/draghi-wins-bild-s-backing-clearing-german-hurdle-to-ecb-post.html
Bank of  Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi ’s campaign to become European Central Bank head picked up
speed with an endorsement by a top-selling German tabloid that
has close ties to Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government.  Bild-Zeitung published a photomontage of Draghi wearing a
 Prussian spiked helmet  today, saying the race for the ECB
presidency “is decided,” and Draghi is German-enough for
Merkel to support him.  Backing by Germany’s most-read newspaper, which last year
lampooned the idea of an Italian managing  Europe ’s money and
channeled public outrage over aiding debt-laden  Greece , will
help prepare grass-roots opinion for a southern European atop
the 17-nation central bank, said Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, head of
the  Psephos  polling company.  “I think the risk for Merkel of supporting Draghi is
limited and can be managed if the public relations work for the
decision is done efficiently,” Hoffmann said in a telephone
interview. “It’s absolutely conceivable” that the Bild report
is part of that management.  Merkel wants to support the “most German among the
remaining candidates” to succeed ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , Bild said, citing Chancellery officials it didn’t name.
Bild praised Draghi as “rather German, even a true Prussian.”  ‘No New Development’  Merkel’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said today there’s
“no new development,” responding to a question about the Bild
report. The government will announce whom it supports “in a
timely fashion” before a European Union summit meeting in June,
he told reporters in Berlin.  Draghi has the support of Italy, France and  Spain , making
Merkel alone among the leaders of the euro area’s four biggest
countries in not coming out for him. Leaders from smaller
countries including Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
meetings of euro area finance ministers, have also indicated
their support.  Trichet’s eight-year term ends in October, creating an
opening at the top of the world’s second most powerful central
bank after the U.S. Federal Reserve.  In all, six countries have publicly endorsed Draghi and
none have opposed him. He became the frontrunner when  Germany ’s
contender,  Axel Weber , pulled out in February and quit as head
of the German Bundesbank to return to academic life.  Draghi is the only declared candidate so far. National
central bankers including Yves Mersch of Luxembourg and Erkki Liikanen of Finland have been mooted as possible compromise
choices by the media.  Germany’s Role  While Germany alone cannot dictate who wins the post, its
status as Europe’s largest economy and biggest guarantor of aid
packages to Greece, Ireland and soon Portugal makes it the
dominant voice in the appointment.  Bailout politics restrict Germany’s room for maneuver, with
resentment at propping up deficit-prone governments translating
into regional electoral defeats for Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union and its allies.  “Of course there are fears, often the result of national
prejudices, that a southern European may conduct a euro policy
that doesn’t have stability as the main criterion,” said
Hoffmann. “The public at large doesn’t have a firm opinion yet,
so the government has to do some advertising now.”  Draghi, 63,  who was born in Rome , is a Massachusetts
Institute of Technology-trained economist with stints at the
 World Bank  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  on his resume.  ‘Sharp-Edged’  Bild lauded Draghi as stern, “with his feet on the
ground,” purposeful, loyal and “sharp edged” -- virtues that
Germans, as devotees of economic stability, see in themselves.  “That’s the way!” said Bild.  A year ago, the newspaper mocked the idea of putting the
euro in the hands of someone from Italy, “the country of the
old lira, the currency with all those insane zeros.”  Bild’s story about Draghi today is so enthusiastic that it
proposed granting him “honorary German citizenship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  