-- 
DuPont Raises Danisco Takeover Bid 5.3% to $6.63 Billion, Extends Deadline

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-04-30T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/dupont-boosts-tender-offer-for-danisco-extends-deadline.html
DuPont Co., the third-biggest U.S.
chemical maker, increased its offer for Danisco A/S by 5.3
percent to 33.4 billion kroner ($6.63 billion) after failing to
win enough investor support for its initial takeover bid.  Danisco shareholders would receive 700 kroner a share, up
from a Jan. 9 proposal of 665 kroner, Wilmington, Delaware-based
DuPont said yesterday in a statement. The bid, which is 32
percent more than Danisco’s closing price before the initial
offer, expires May 13. DuPont lowered the minimum number of
shares it’s seeking in the tender offer to 80 percent from 90
percent.  DuPont Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  agreed to buy
Danisco to gain production of food additives and enzymes used in
biofuels. Elliott Associates LP, a New York-based hedge fund,
and Copenhagen-based retirement fund AP Pension were among
investors that spurned the first bid as too low. DuPont
estimated 48 percent of shares have been tendered so far.  “These terms represent our best and final offer,” Kullman
said in the statement.  Elliott, which raised its stake in Danisco to 5.05 percent
of shares from 1 percent in February, had said the initial bid
undervalues the company. Elliott’s holdings rival that of
Danisco’s largest shareholder, pension fund ATP, which has a 5.1
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. ATP
endorsed the higher bid yesterday.  Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman for Elliott, declined to
comment on the raised offer when contacted by e-mail.  ‘Compelling Opportunity’  “I ask that all Danisco shareholders join with ATP in
supporting this compelling opportunity by tendering their shares
in the offer,” Claus Wiinblad, ATP’s head of Danish equities,
said in DuPont’s statement.  Danisco rose 13.5 kroner, or 2.1 percent, to 668 kroner
yesterday in Copenhagen trading. That was the eighth session in
April the shares closed above DuPont’s offer price, indicating
some shareholders expected a higher bid.  A 5 percent increase has a minimal impact on the deal,  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at Soleil Securities who rates
DuPont shares a “buy,” said in a telephone interview. “Having
decided that this is a strategic acquisition, they have to be a
little flexible on the price,” he said.  Investors who already tendered their shares will receive
the increased offer price, DuPont said.  “Unless 80 percent of Danisco shares are tendered by the
May 13 deadline, we will end our offer,” Kullman said in the
statement.  Diversification  Kullman, 55, is diversifying DuPont away from stalwarts
such as Kevlar bullet-resistant fabric and titanium-dioxide
pigment used in paint. Danisco is the world’s largest food-
ingredients maker, producing sweeteners and cultures used in ice
cream and cheese, and it is second behind  Denmark ’s Novozymes
A/S in industrial enzymes. Danisco and DuPont already share a
venture that makes ethanol from corn cobs and switchgrass.  DuPont is proposing to pay 21 times Danisco’s estimated
earnings per share in the year through April 2012, according to
the average profit estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Competitor Kerry Group Plc, based in Tralee, Ireland, trades at
13 times estimated earnings this year;  Associated British Foods
Plc (ABF) , based in  London , trades at about 14 times earnings through
September; and Novozymes trades at 30 times estimated 2011
earnings.  DuPont said Jan. 10 it planned to use $3 billion of cash
and will finance the rest of the deal with debt. The company
said it will assume net debt of about $500 million. The
transaction will add to earnings starting next year, DuPont has
said.  DuPont extended its initial bid in February and March while
awaiting antitrust clearance from the U.S., European Union and
 China .  The deal would be DuPont’s largest takeover since the 1999
acquisition of genetically modified seed-maker Pioneer Hi-Bred
International Inc. for $7.7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in  New York  at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 