-- 
The Kills, Ai Weiwei, King Lear, Goodbye Emperor: N.Y. Weekend

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/the-kills-ai-weiwei-king-lear-goodbye-emperor-n-y-weekend.html
Friday night, explosive London-
based duo The Kills will tear down Terminal 5.  Lead singer Alison Mosshart returns to guitarist Jamie
Hince’s side after a stint with Jack White’s blues super-group
The Dead Weather. The barn-stormer flings her voice into the
crowd like a Molotov cocktail and stalks around on stage like
sex on legs.  Hince isn’t so hard on the eyes either, given that he is
the future Mr.  Kate Moss .  Dark-wave group Cold Cave opens --
think The Cure plus the Killers.  610 W. 56th St. Information: +1-212-582-6600;
 http://www.terminal5nyc.com .  Saturday Morning  Head down to the High Line by 10:45 a.m. and register at
the PEN table north of the Standard for the Karma Chain, a
spiritual game of telephone.  Tibetan Lama Pema Wangdak will speak a sutra into someone’s
ear, and after going down the Line, author  Salman Rushdie  will
ponder the difference between the first and last iteration.  Come back at 5 p.m. with a copy of your favorite book and
pass it along to someone on the High Line.  These are just a few of the events sponsored by the PEN
World Voices Festival of International Literature, as more than
100 writers from 40 countries hit the city until May 1.  Information:  http://www.pen.org/page.php/prmID/1096 .  Saturday Matinee  Don’t miss Derek Jacobi in “ King Lear ,” Shakespeare’s
great meditation on power and love.  When the capricious old ruler makes one rash move,
everything shifts and falls apart -- he winds up howling on a
barren heath as a thunderstorm cracks around him.  Michael Grandage  directed the spare  Donmar Warehouse 
production, greeted with raves in  London .  Until June 5 at the Harvey Theater,  Brooklyn  Academy of
Music, 651 Fulton Street, Brooklyn. Information: +1-718-636-
4100;  http://www.bam.org .  Saturday Night  Celebrate Steve Reich’s 75th birthday at  Carnegie Hall  with
some of the hottest groups around: Bang on a Can All-Stars,
eighth blackbird, Kronos Quartet and So Percussion.  Back in 1973 when he first played Carnegie, the noisy,
underwhelmed audience almost drowned out his “Four Organs.”  This concert of New York premieres, including “WTC 9/11,”
and his Pulitzer Prize-winning “Double Sextet,” will sadly be
less contentious.  57th St. and 7th Ave. Information: +1-212-247-7800;
 http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Sunday  Anthony Caro ’s 1984 sculpture, “Odalisque,” has sensuous
rounded curves and now reclines voluptuously en plein air on the
roof of the  Metropolitan Museum of Art .  The witty work is assembled from big pieces of rusted
steel, parts of maritime buoys and chains, welded together to
suggest a reclining harem concubine.  She’s there to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the
artist’s first exhibition of steel sculpture.  Enjoy a glass of wine or a cappuccino at the Roof Garden
Café and admire the spring greening of Central Park spread out
below.  It’s also your last chance to savor “The Emperor’s Private
Paradise: Treasures from the Forbidden City,” which closes
today.  Look for the panel, a flowering plum created on sandalwood
with jade, lapis lazuli, and malachite, “From the Studio of
Exhaustion from Diligent Service.”  Fifth Ave. at 82nd St. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org .  Sunday Afternoon  Then walk down to the Whitney, where “Breaking Ground”
displays paintings from the museum’s founding collection.  There’s Max Weber’s snazzy 1915 “Chinese Restaurant,”
rich with color and juice and Charles Sheeler’s 1926
“Interior,” a complex view of a white pitcher juxtaposed with
luscious fruit.  Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney was a discerning collector, yet
when she offered the works she’d bought over 25 years to the
 Metropolitan Museum , she was turned down flat. So in 1931, she
founded her own museum. Take that, Met!  Recharge with a Bloody Mary and a pimento cheeseburger on
pumpernickel at Danny Meyer’s new cafe, “Untitled,” located on
the lower level.  The show runs until Sept. 18 at the Whitney Museum of
American Art, 945 Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-570-3600;
 http://whitney.org .  Sunday Evening  For musical razzle dazzle, go hear Christian Tetzlaff and
Antje Weithaas play an evening of violin duos.  You’ll hear the pyrotechnical yet grandly romantic work of
Eugene Ysaye and Bela Bartok’s 44 knotty miniature duets.  The concert is part of Tetzlaff’s Perspectives series at
Carnegie Hall.  Zankel Hall, 57th St. and 7th Ave. Information: +1-212-247-
7800;  http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Looking Ahead: Monday  Take in the grand public sculpture created by Chinese
artist Ai Weiwei now decorating the Pulitzer Fountain.  There are 12 monumental animal heads cast in bronze,
including a tiger, a monkey and a horse, inspired by an 18th
century work that was looted by foreigners.  The artist says his work deals with “authenticity and
value and how value relates to current political and social
understandings and misunderstandings.”  How appropriate. He disappeared into official Chinese
custody on April 3rd, and, despite international protests, has
not been heard from since.  Presented by Chinese art organization  AW Asia , “Circle of
Animals/Zodiac Heads” gets unveiled at 10:30 a.m. and departs
on a global tour July 15.  Grand Army Plaza, 5th Ave. and 58th St. Information:
 http://www.zodiacheads.com .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 