-- 
Eastman Plans ‘a Few Hundred Million’ Dollars of Purchases

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-04-29T14:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/eastman-plans-a-few-hundred-million-dollars-of-purchases-1-.html
Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of acetate tow for cigarette filters, plans
to spend “a few hundred million” dollars to acquire businesses
that could be added to its performance chemicals and coatings
and adhesives units.  Eastman may spend as much as $2 billion over the next year
by tapping cash and as much as $1 billion of new debt, Chief
Financial Officer Curt Espeland said today in a conference call.
The funds will be used for capacity additions, a possible
dividend increase, share buybacks and “a couple” of “small-
to medium-size” acquisitions, he said.  Acquisition spending probably will total “a few hundred
million” dollars, although the company would consider a larger
deal, Chief Executive Officer  Jim Rogers  said on the call.  Most of the opportunities would be additions to Kingsport,
Tennessee-based Eastman’s performance chemicals and
intermediates unit, Rogers said. The unit’s products include
acetic anhydride, used to make cellulose films and textiles, and
plasticizers, which add flexibility and durability to plastics.  Eastman has $840 million of cash and equivalents after
divesting the last of its plants that make polyethylene
terephthalate, or PET, the plastic used in water bottles. It’s
looking to increase the size of other units.  “If we see the right opportunities, we are more than
willing to put to put the cash to work,” Rogers said. “I do
think our pipeline has improved for acquisitions.”  Coatings, Adhesives  Other acquisitions being evaluated would add to the
company’s CASPI unit, which makes coatings, adhesives, specialty
polymers and inks, he said. The company doesn’t plan to add to
the fibers unit because it already plans to expand output in
Korea and  China , he said.  Eastman climbed $6.20, or 6 percent, to $109.13 as of 10:47
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It earlier
gained as much as 7.6 percent, the biggest intraday increase
since July 2009.  The company said late yesterday that first-quarter net
income excluding income from discontinued operations rose to
$2.52 a share from $1.43. That beat the $1.99 average of six
analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  