-- 
ECB Said to Support Plan to Improve Quality of Covered Bonds

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-04-29T10:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/ecb-said-to-support-plan-to-improve-quality-of-covered-bonds.html
The  European Central Bank  is
considering supporting investor efforts to improve disclosure
and asset quality in the region’s covered bond market, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The Frankfurt-based central bank plans to meet issuers and
investors today to discuss the matter, said the people who asked
not to be identified as the information is private. The Covered
Bond Investor Council, an industry group, proposed the creation
of common standards on information provided for bond deals and
on the minimum quality of assets that back the securities, the
people said.  The policy maker is weighing the initiative as banks in
countries including  Australia  and the U.S. plan to start issuing
covered bonds, which are secured on real-estate or public-sector
loans and typically get top AAA credit ratings. The resilience
of the $3.5 trillion market helped to stabilize  Europe ’s
financial system following the 2007 global financial crisis.  The U.K. Treasury and the nation’s Financial Services
Authority said earlier this month they plan to review covered
bond regulation to help make the notes more attractive to
investors.  Covered bonds, known in  Germany  as pfandbriefe, are backed
by mortgages or public-sector loans and differ from other forms
of asset-backed securities in that the notes are guaranteed by
the issuer. The securities date back to the 1770s, when they
were used in Prussia to finance agriculture, according to the
European Covered Bond Fact Book.  The Covered Bond Investor Council , an industry group
supported by the International Capital Markets Association,
produced a template for the information its members would like
to see for European covered bonds, which could be discussed in
today’s meeting organized by the ECB, said the Financial Times,
which reported the story first.  A spokesperson for the Frankfurt-based ECB confirmed the
meeting without providing further information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  