-- 
Tech from Plextronics Could Replace Lightbulbs, ’Do Away With iPads’

-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 
2011-04-29T16:34:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/tech-from-plextronics-could-replace-lightbulbs-do-away-with-ipads-.html
In 1990, Richard McCullough was pondering a new way to make
conductive polymers so that they would transfer more electricity in electronic
applications. McCullough, then a chemistry professor at  Carnegie Mellon University  in
Pittsburgh, knew this type of linked molecule was hard to manufacture cheaply on a
commercial scale. He thought joining the ends of a chain to form a collapsible loop
might solve both problems.  After a decade of federally funded research, McCullough proved his hypothesis. “We
figured out a way to connect a polymer head to tail,” he says. “That allowed the
structure to be flat so electrons could run up and down it, like water in a hose.” If a hose
is straight, lots of water flows through. When twisted, the stream thins. “Through
synthesis we straightened out our polymer to make it very conductive,” McCullough
explains.  McCullough realized that his conductive “ink,” his shorthand for his breakthrough
polymer, could improve organic light emitting diodes (OLEDs), the foundation for low-
cost printed electronics and newfangled circuitry products, including flexible electronic
displays. With his ink, OLEDs, first commercialized in 1987, would not only be brighter
and crisper, they would use less energy than LEDs and liquid crystal displays (LCDs).
Unlike LCDs, which are near ubiquitous in consumer electronics, OLEDs don’t require
backlight, further cutting costs, says McCullough. After applying for a patent,
McCullough recruited serial entrepreneur Andrew W. Hannah to help turn his ink into a
business. Six months later, in mid-2002, they founded  Plextronics  in Pittsburgh to
develop commercial applications.  ’DISRUPTIVE TECHNOLOGY’  Today the 65-person company makes the ink in its factory in Hamar Township, Pa., and
sells it to OLED manufacturers and researchers. “This technology will change the world
of electronics as we know it,” says Hannah, 45, who serves as chief executive officer.
McCullough, 52, now chief scientist at Plextronics and dean of CMU’s College of
Science, describes it as a “disruptive technology that can be printed on anything.
Imagine a Kindle on steroids. It’ll do away with iPads.” Instead, readers will be able to
roll up their plastic magazine or newspaper and stuff it in their pocket. Raghu Das, CEO
and analyst at research firm IDTechEx in Cambridge, Mass., says the market for printed
and thin film electronics will be $2.2 billion in 2011 and could climb to $44.2 billion by
2021.  How will OLEDs containing Plextronics’s ink enable McCullough’s grand vision? In two
to three years, manufacturers will be able to combine an extremely thin layer of
Plextronics’s ink with another film of polymer to form a flat, thin “sandwich” for small
displays (smartphones, for example), says Hannah. Integrating it in large screens such
as TVs will take three to five years. In customer trials, Plextronics’s technology
increased OLED devices’ power efficiency by up to 40 percent compared with first-
generation OLED technology, says McCullough. His technology will be able to last
hundreds of thousands of hours and will require 50 percent less energy than
conventional LCDs, he says.  Though OLEDs made by competitors are already commercially available in small
displays -- mostly cell phones -- all over  Asia , Dean Freeman, vice-president of
research at Gartner Group in  Stamford , Conn., is skeptical about mainstream adoption.
He says OLEDs’ potential has been touted for 20 years and cites concerns such as
peeling ink. Hannah says that time frame is fast and the peeling problem was limited to
an earlier formula and is solved now. Both agree OLEDs will be used in combination
with LEDs for the next five years instead of completely replacing them.  OTHER MARKETS  Plextronics isn’t limiting its push to the $120 billion display market. In late April,
McCullough and Hannah announced the company’s first distribution deal with Sanyo
Chemical in  Japan  to market the ink for OLED lighting to major electronics companies.
Plextronics is also pursuing solar-power panel manufacturers with its organic
photovoltaic (OPV) solar cells, which can absorb and store both the sun’s and
fluorescent lighting’s energy. The company plans to sell OPV cells with its ink by 2012
for use in advertising technology in stores. They’ll power moving images on store
displays and product packaging without batteries, for example.  Investors, including technology manufacturer Applied Materials in  Santa Clara , Calif.,
and chemical producer Solvay Chemicals in Brussels, are betting the three markets
Plextronics is targeting will pay off; they’ve forked over $55 million since 2002. Hannah
says Plextronics had $5 million to $10 million in revenue in 2010 and expects the same
this year, mostly from sales of the inks for OLED and OPV applications and research
contracts. He admits that in the white lighting arena, the company is facing the “huge
challenge of an entrenched technology in a big market,” but says Plextronics’s ink is
better and will ultimately prove cheaper than the lighting in widespread use today. “We
know the lightbulb is going away and we need a technology that’s more energy-efficient
that gives you the quality of light you expect at a cost point that allows everybody to
adopt it,” says Hannah, “That’s why OLED will attack the $75 billion lightbulb
replacement industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen A. Frenkel at  kfrenkel@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  