-- 
Legendary Pictures Sells $45 Million Minority Stake to Hong Kong Developer

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-04-29T20:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/legendary-pictures-sells-45-million-minority-stake-to-hong-kong-developer.html
Legendary Pictures , co-financier of
Warner Bros. movies including “The  Dark Knight ,” received a
$45 million investment from Hong Kong-based property developer
New World Development Co.  New World Strategic Investment Ltd., the group’s private
equity unit, acquired the minority stake, Adrian Cheng, an
executive director, said in an interview. Melissa Zukerman, an
outside spokeswoman for Burbank, California-based Legendary,
confirmed New World’s involvement, without elaborating.  The investment is the second Legendary has received from a
Chinese company. In September, Orange Sky Golden Harvest
Entertainment Ltd., also based in Hong Kong, paid $25 million
for a 3.3 percent interest in Legendary. Other films the company
has co-financed and co-produced with Warner include include
“Inception,” “300” and “The Hangover.”  “A film company’s connection with celebrities is something
we can use to help our retail operations, especially when it
comes to brand promotion,” said Cheng, 31, who declined to give
the size of the stake. “Of course, the deal needs to make
financial sense in the first place.”  Legendary is also seeking a $200 million  term loan  through
JP Morgan Chase & Co. to refinance debt and a $500 million line
of credit, said people with knowledge of the situation who
weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  New World’s private equity arm, which Cheng started in
2007, has invested about HK$3 billion ($3 billion) in industries
ranging from property to retail to clean energy. The unit,
wholly backed by New World with no outside investors, aims to
invest up to HK$3 billion annually, partly in businesses “that
can help New World expand its retail operations in mainland
 China  and Hong Kong,” said Cheng.  Cheng is a grandson of New World founder  Cheng Yu-tung . The
elder Cheng 85, was ranked by Forbes Magazine as  Hong Kong ’s
fourth-richest person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  