-- 
Egypt May Open Border With Gaza Strip as Israel Expresses Concern on Hamas

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m ,   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-04-29T14:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/egypt-may-open-border-to-gaza-strip-within-two-weeks-in-a-rebuff-to-israel.html
Egypt  plans to open its border
crossing with the Gaza Strip, possibly within the next two
weeks, the Foreign Ministry said, as  Israel  expressed concern
over its neighbor’s ties with Hamas, which rules the territory.  “We’ll open the crossing point for individuals in a
continuous way,” Menha Bakhoum, a spokeswoman for the Foreign
Ministry, said in an interview today. “The details are still
being worked out.”  Egypt has cooperated with Israel to impose a blockade on
Gaza that Israel says is necessary to prevent Hamas and other
Islamist groups from importing weapons that could be used
against the Jewish state. The policy, implemented by former
President  Hosni Mubarak , has been unpopular in Egypt and was one
of the targets of the protest movement that forced Mubarak out
of office in February.  A senior Israeli official, speaking anonymously because the
issues are being pursued in diplomatic channels, said Israel is
concerned that Egypt is upgrading its ties with Hamas,
classified as a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and
the European Union.  Israel is also concerned about signs of a rapprochement
between Egypt and  Iran , which backs Hamas, and about increasing
calls in Egypt for the abrogation of a peace treaty with Israel
signed in 1979, the Israeli official said.  On Feb. 11, the day Mubarak stepped down, Hamas called on
any new Egyptian government to open the Rafah border crossing
and help Palestinians end the blockade.  Hamas-Fatah Accord  Egypt’s transitional military-led government this week
brokered an agreement between Hamas and Abbas’s Fatah movement,
which controls the  West Bank .  The accord aims to end a division lasting almost four
years, create a unified administration and pave the way for
Palestinian elections. It follows protests in March in which
thousands of Palestinians, inspired by the popular uprisings in
Egypt, Tunisia and  Libya , called for national unity.  Ismail Haniyeh, the Hamas leader who runs Gaza, told
reporters there today that the  Palestine Liberation Organization 
headed by  Mahmoud Abbas  should withdraw its recognition of
Israel “because its existence is illegal.” Abbas’s predecessor
as PLO leader,  Yasser Arafat , formally recognized Israel in 1993
letter, following up on an implicit recognition granted in the
late 1980s.  Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman today urged the
European Union to treat the Hamas-Fatah accord “with caution”
and press Hamas to recognize Israel and scrap a clause in its
charter calling for the destruction of the Jewish state,
according to an e-mail from his office.  Egypt Policy Shift  Mubarak’s compliance with Israeli and U.S. policies in the
Middle East, including the embargo on Gaza and opposition to
Hamas and to  Iran’s nuclear program , helped Egypt win billions
of dollars of American aid, mostly for his army. There have been
signs of a shift in foreign policy since his Feb. 11 ouster as
Egypt, under interim military rule, prepares to hold
parliamentary and presidential elections this year.  Foreign Minister Nabil el-Arabi said last month that the
country is ready to “open a new page” with Iran, with which it
hasn’t had full diplomatic relations since 1979, after the
overthrow of Mubarak. Iran hopes to “witness further expansion
of relations,” Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said in
response.  Israel and Egypt have maintained a blockade on Gaza since
Hamas ousted Abbas’s forces and took over running the territory
in 2007, after winning Palestinian parliamentary elections the
previous year.  Goods Shortages  The blockade cut off most civilian traffic and restricted
trade with the territory, whose residents say they face
shortages in some goods as a result.  Last month Israel’s navy boarded an Egypt-bound ship and
found weapons that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said were
sent by Iran and intended for “terrorist forces” in the  Gaza
Strip . Israel came under international criticism a year ago
after a naval commando raid on an aid flotilla headed for Gaza
left nine Turkish citizens dead.  Yigal Palmor, a spokesman for Israel’s Foreign Ministry,
declined to comment today on Egypt’s plan to open the Rafah
border crossing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 