-- 
Eight-Legged Bison Dwells in Herzog’s Cave; School Bully: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/eight-legged-bison-dwells-in-herzog-s-cave-schoolyard-bully-rick-warner.html
Wearing miner’s helmets and sterile
boots, director Werner Herzog and his small crew tightroped
along a narrow metal catwalk inside a cave in southern  France 
last year.  What they came to film were the oldest cave paintings ever
found, which until now have only been seen in person by a small
group of scientists and scholars. The astounding drawings, some
more than 30,000 years old, include an eight-legged bison,
rhinos locking horns and lions on the prowl.  Now you too can get a close-up view of this ancient artwork
in Herzog’s fascinating 3-D documentary, “ Cave of Forgotten
Dreams .”  Herzog is the first filmmaker to shoot extensive footage
inside  Chauvet Cave , which was discovered by three explorers in
1994. It’s a perilous place with claustrophobic passageways and
so much carbon dioxide and radon that visits are limited to a
few hours a day.  The film offers an eye-popping tour of the cave and its
amazingly realistic paintings of 13 animal species. The pictures
on the walls -- drawn in charcoal and red ochre -- are
practically in pristine condition because Chauvet was sealed off
for more than 20,000 years by a fallen rock face.  In addition to the animal drawings, the cave contains rare
fossils, human handprints and a partial Venus figure showing
what appears to be a woman’s legs and genitals.  Herzog narrates the film in his guttural, occasionally
indecipherable German accent and waxes poetic about the meaning
of the pictures.  Seeing the same images over and over can get monotonous,
and Herzog sometimes gets carried away with his philosophical
musings. The 3-D photography is also a disappointment, rarely
adding the promised extra dimension.  Even so, you’ll be astonished by what you see.  “Cave of Forgotten Dreams,” from Sundance Selects, is
playing in New York,  Chicago  and  Los Angeles . Rating: ***  ‘What I Am’  “ That’s What I Am ,” a tender coming-of-age story set in
mid-1960s  California , would make a decent after-school TV
special. But its cookie-cutter characters and message of peace
and tolerance aren’t enough to carry a feature film.  Andy (Chase Ellison) is a bright, timid 12-year-old who
gets paired with the school outcast -- orange-haired, big-eared
Stanley (Alexander Walters) -- on a class project for popular
English teacher Mr. Simon (Ed Harris, rising above the
material).  School Bully  After the school bully is suspended for attacking a homely
female classmate, the bully’s father (Randy Orton) blames Mr.
Simon and spreads a rumor that the teacher is gay. Mr. Simon
reacts with restraint, setting an example for his students and
the community.  Orton, by the way, is a professional wrestler for WWE, an
entertainment company whose subsidiary WWE Studios just happens
to be the film’s producer. And the writer/director of “That’s
What I Am” is Mike Pavone, the executive vice president of WWE
Studios.  They shouldn’t give up their day jobs.  “That’s What I Am,” from Samuel Goldwyn Films, is playing
in  New York , Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, Denver, Los Angeles and
Jacksonville, Fla. Rating: **  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 