-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise on Commodities, Fed’s Interest-Rate Outlook

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-04-29T22:08:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/emerging-stocks-fall-for-a-fifth-day-on-u-s-economy-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks rose,
snapping four days of losses, after the  Federal Reserve  signaled
it will keep interest rates in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
and commodity prices increased.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.3 percent to
1,204.03, paring its loss for the week to 0.2 percent. Chinese
stocks rose 0.9 percent and  Brazil ’s Bovespa index increased 0.7
percent. Turkey’s benchmark stock index, the ISE National 100
Index, rallied 1.2 percent.  “Commodities are higher as investors are comfortable with
the risk backdrop,” said  Paul Biszko , a senior emerging-market
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto. “Bernanke’s
press conference indicated rates are staying on hold for a long
time and we’re still seeing some positive momentum from that.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the Fed
will maintain its record monetary stimulus after ending large-
scale bond purchases in June, while the need to contain
inflation means further easing is unlikely. The Fed left its
benchmark interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent,
where it’s been since December 2008.  Oil rose for an unprecedented eighth straight month as
better-than-expected  consumer spending  signaled fuel demand may
increase. Gold futures rose to a record for the third straight
day and silver posted the biggest monthly gain in 28 years.  Emerging Market Funds  MSCI’s developing-nation index has gained 2.8 percent this
month, a second consecutive advance. Emerging-market equity
funds attracted inflows for a fifth straight week amid optimism
economic growth in developing nations can weather policies to
curb inflation, Citigroup Inc. said. The funds lured $1.8
billion in the week ended April 27, taking inflows in the past
five weeks to $13.8 billion, analysts led by  Markus Rosgen ,
wrote in a report today that cited EPFR Global data.  Chinese stocks rose after manufacturing sustained its
expansion this month, even as the government raised interest
rates and let the yuan strengthen at a faster pace, a purchasing
managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc. and Markit Economics
showed today.  Anhui Conch Cement Co.,  China ’s biggest cement producer,
climbed 2.8 percent.  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560)  rose 5.1 percent in Seoul after the
owner of  South Korea ’s largest lender posted a 23 percent profit
increase.  Lojas Americanas SA, Brazil’s biggest discount retailer,
jumped as much as 7.2 percent. Rossi Residencial SA led gains
for homebuilders.  Corporate Earnings  Emerging stocks reversed earlier losses of as much as 0.4
percent, helped by higher-than-estimated earnings at U.S.
companies including Caterpillar Inc.  “A number of high-profile U.S. corporates led by
Caterpillar posted better-than-expected earnings, which turned
the market higher on the final day of the month,” said Ciaran O’Kelly, head of equities for the Americas at Nomura.  South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 0.7 percent today and
Taiwan’s Taiex Index declined 0.4 percent after South Korean
industrial production missed economists’ forecasts.  Samsung Electronics Co. dropped 0.8 percent in  Seoul  after
first-quarter profit fell 30 percent and the company said
consumer-electronics sales may stay muted in the second quarter.  Steelmakers slumped in Seoul on concern Chinese demand for
the metal will fall. Hyundai Steel Co. lost 5.2 percent and
Dongkuk Steel Mill Co. fell 7.7 percent.  “Speculation that China may increase tightening of the
 property market  and raise interest rates in May is affecting
sentiment because such moves could slow steel demand and
pricing,” Jeon Seung Hun, a Seoul-based analyst with Daewoo
Securities Co., said by phone today.  China may raise borrowing costs as early as a public
holiday on May 2 to counter rising prices in the world’s second-
biggest economy, Credit Suisse Group AG said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  