-- 
EON Accepts Hong Leong Bank’s Sweetened Acquisition Offer, Plans Dividend

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-04-29T03:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/eon-accepts-hong-leong-bank-s-sweetened-acquisition-offer-plans-dividend.html
EON Capital Bhd. (EON)  accepted  Hong
Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK) ’s 5.06 billion ringgit ($1.7 billion) takeover
offer for the Malaysian bank after the bid was sweetened with a
dividend payment to existing EON shareholders.  EON accepted the bid on condition Hong Leong had no
objections to a 311.9 million ringgit dividend payout, it said
in a statement today. Hong Leong said in a separate statement
that it’s “agreeable” to EON’s proposal. The companies’ shares
were suspended on the  Kuala Lumpur  stock exchange today.  The move comes a day after a Malaysian court ruled that the
planned acquisition by billionaire Quek Leng Chan’s Hong Leong
is legal, thwarting an attempt by EON’s biggest shareholder
Primus Pacific Partners Ltd. to block the sale. An EON takeover
would help Hong Leong,  Malaysia ’s sixth-largest bank, create the
Southeast Asian nation’s fourth-biggest banking group by assets.  Primus, a Hong Kong-based investment fund that owned a 20.2
percent stake in EON, had opposed the takeover offer after
paying 9.55 ringgit a share for its interest in 2008. That’s 31
percent more than Hong Leong’s all-cash offer, which equals 7.30
ringgit a share.  EON’s board met last night to approve a dividend payment of
about 40 sen a share after obtaining Hong Leong’s agreement
following several rounds of negotiations, said a person familiar
with the matter who asked not to be identified because the
process is private.  ‘Buying Time’  EON’s minority shareholders voted in favor of the takeover
at a meeting last year. Primus then sued the bank and nine of
its directors, claiming they had exceeded their powers and
breached fiduciary and statutory duties in allowing the sale
vote to proceed. In the suit filed through its local unit in
June, the fund sought 1.11 billion ringgit in damages if the
transaction went ahead at the current offer price.  “The petitioner’s motive is purely to buy time in order to
secure another bidder who’d pay more than 7.30 ringgit per
share,” Judicial Commissioner Varghese George Varughese said
when delivering his judgment in a high court in Malaysia’s
northern Penang state. “Corporate democracy must prevail.”  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the world’s second-largest
lender by market value, expressed interest this month in buying
EON, two people with knowledge of the matter said on April 26.  The Beijing-based bank sent a letter to Malaysia’s central
bank asking for permission to start talks with some or all of
the major shareholders of EON, hoping to secure the highest
possible equity ownership in the Malaysian lender, according to
the people who asked not to be identified as the information was
confidential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  