-- 
Tepco Slows Water Injection at Fukushima Reactor to Curb Risk of Explosion

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-04-29T09:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/tepco-slows-water-injection-at-reactor-to-curb-risk-of-explosion.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. slowed the
pace of water injection into one of the six reactors at its
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station after a drop in
pressure and temperature increased the risk of an explosion.  “We wouldn’t want the pressure of the containment vessel
to fall below that of the atmosphere,” Junichi Matsumoto, a
general manager at the company known as Tepco, said at a media
briefing in Tokyo today. The water flow was reduced to 6 cubic
meters an hour today from 10 cubic meters, and nitrogen is also
being injected to help avoid a hydrogen explosion, he said.  Tepco will take longer to cool the reactor by flooding it
as it struggles to contain the worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl in 1986. Four reactors have been damaged by hydrogen
blasts after the March 11 earthquake and ensuing tsunami knocked
out backup power and cooling systems, and radiation leaks have
forced the evacuation of tens of thousands of people.  “When the pressure inside the reactor containment vessel
falls below that of the atmosphere, air could enter through gaps
and mix with hydrogen and cause an explosion,” Kazuhiko Kudo, a
research professor of nuclear engineering at Kyushu University,
said by telephone today.  Tepco’s Matsumoto said the concentration of hydrogen inside
the reactor is less than 1 percent, and with the injection of
nitrogen the risk of an explosion “is not high.” The
containment vessel can still be flooded to the brim at the
current rate of inflow, he said.  ‘Making Progress’  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which has sent
engineers to help  Japan  contain the country’s biggest civilian
atomic disaster, said yesterday the crisis “has definitely
improved” even though it isn’t yet “quite stable.”  “The Japanese are making progress,” Bill Borchardt,
executive director for operations at the U.S. atomic regulator,
said at a meeting at NRC’s headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland .  Tepco has used fire engines and external pumps to pour
water to prevent reactors and spent-fuel pools from overheating.
Contaminated water has overflowed and accumulated in basements
and trenches near the buildings, preventing workers from
repairing damaged cooling equipment.  The utility was forced to dump some of the tainted water
into the sea and is trying to pump some of it to a waste storage
facility. The company is adding storage capacity and is building
a water decontamination unit using technology from  Areva SA (CEI)  and
Kurion Inc. that’s expected to be operational in June.  Tepco today halted the transfer of radioactive water from
trenches near the No. 2 reactor to check for leaks at the waste
treatment building, spokesman Daisuke Senda told reporters in
Tokyo today. Pumping will resume in one to two days, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 