-- 
Equity Bank’s Quarterly Profit Surges as Loans and Customer Numbers Climb

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-04-29T11:39:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/equity-bank-s-quarterly-profit-surges-as-loans-and-customer-numbers-climb.html
Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , Kenya’s biggest
lender by market value, said first-quarter profit surged as
loans, deposits and the number of customers increased.  Net income jumped to 2.33 billion shillings ($27.9
million), or 2.52 shillings per share, in the three months
through March, from 1.25 billion shillings, or 1.35 shillings
per share, a year earlier, Chief Executive Officer James Mwangi
said at a briefing today in Nairobi, the capital.  Bank earnings in East Africa’s largest economy have been
growing as accelerating economic growth spurs more Kenyans to
take out loans, open bank accounts and demand other financial
services. Banks are poised to boost profit by an average of 30
percent this year as the difference between the interest they
pay on savers’ deposits and what they charge for loans widens,
African Alliance Securities  Kenya  Ltd. said in January.  “Our efforts to ensure sustained growth for this bank and
for the regional economies at large have served to further
endear us to the wider community as attested by the growing
customer deposits and building of a strong brand,” Mwangi said.  Equity Bank’s number of customers grew to 6.2 million in
the first quarter from 4.5 million a year earlier, it said. That
helped boost deposits by 48 percent to 114.3 billion shillings,
as loans grew 30 percent to 86.2 billion shillings.  Shares of the bank jumped the most in two weeks, rising 1.9
percent to 27 shillings as of 2:02 p.m. in Nairobi.  The lender plans to open two outlets in  Southern Sudan  in
the second quarter and five branches each in Rwanda and Tanzania
by the end of 2011, he said.  Net interest income, the difference between what a bank
pays out for deposits and earns on loans, grew 37 percent to
3.59 billion shillings, the bank said in a statement handed to
reporters at the briefing.  Non-interest income, which includes transaction income,
fees and commission income, and trading income on Treasury
bonds, jumped 44 percent to 2.93 billion shillings, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin on 
at  asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 