-- 
Merck Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Diabetes Drugs, Cost Reductions

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-04-29T20:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/merck-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-diabetes-drugs-cost-reductions.html
Merck & Co., the second-largest
U.S. drugmaker, reported first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates, boosted by cost reductions and higher sales
of its Januvia diabetes pill.  Earnings excluding a $500 million charge to settle an
arbitration dispute with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and other one-time
items were 92 cents a share, beating the 84-cent average
estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income more
than tripled to $1.04 billion, or 34 cents a share, the
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based company said. Sales rose
1.4 percent, led by rising demand for Januvia and the HIV
medicine Isentress.  Merck is eliminating jobs, buying back shares and investing
in new research as the company loses patent exclusivity in the
next five years to products responsible for half of the
company’s revenue. The drugmaker settled its dispute with  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J in April over the arthritis drug
Remicade, ending a conflict that weighed on Merck shares.  “Merck certainly showed they have the numbers under
control and things are going well,” said David Maris, an
analyst with CLSA in  New York , in a telephone interview. “Their
core growth products are doing very well, including Januvia.”  Forecast  Merck raised the lower end of its 2011 profit forecast to
$3.66 a share, excluding certain items. The company on April 15
had affirmed the previous range of $3.64 to $3.76 following the
Remicade resolution.  Merck rose 18 cents to $35.95 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares increased 2 percent in
the past 12 months.  This is the first quarter of earnings under Kenneth Frazier, who took over as chief executive officer on Jan. 1.
Since then, Merck has reported pipeline setbacks including a
halted trial of the company’s experimental blood thinner,
vorapaxar, which resulted in a $1.7 billion writedown in
February. Last month, the company walked away from a second
blood thinner, betrixaban, and had a trial of its vaccine to
prevent staph infections suspended pending a review.  Still, Frazier in February said he’s committed to spending
as much as $8.5 billion in research and development, a sum that
would rank Merck alongside bigger rivals New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  and  Roche Holding AG  in Basel,  Switzerland . That target was
lowered today to as much as $8.4 billion.  Hepatitis Drug  Merck is awaiting U.S. approval for its experimental
hepatitis C drug boceprevir. This week, a Food and Drug
Administration advisory panel recommended that the agency
approve the product. The drug is expected to bring in about $600
million a year by 2015, the average estimate of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The company is also conducting tests in
30,000 patients for its cholesterol drug anacetrapib.  Merck lost exclusive rights last year to blood-pressure
drugs Cozaar and Hyzaar. In 2012, the company will face generic
competition on its asthma treatment, Singulair, the company’s
top drug with $4.99 billion in sales last year. Merck eliminated
about 11,500 jobs last year in a plan to reduce its workforce by
17 percent by 2012. The workforce was reduced in the first
quarter to 93,000 from 94,000 at the end of 2010.  Sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar declined 46 percent to $426
million, from $782 million in the first quarter of last year.
That compares with $364 million, the average estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Januvia, Janumet  Sales of Januvia and Janumet increased 47 percent to $1.04
billion. Januvia stimulates the pancreas to produce more insulin
and signals the liver to make less blood sugar. The medicine
doesn’t have side effects linked to other types of diabetes
medicines, studies suggest.  Revenue from the HIV treatment Isentress increased 26
percent to $292 million. Isentress is the first in a new class
of AIDS medicines that attack HIV by blocking an enzyme used to
hijack healthy immune cells.  Remicade sales rose 12 percent to $753 million. Under the
agreement with J&J, Merck will keep exclusive marketing rights
in 70 percent of the areas where it sells the drug and increase
J&J’s share of the profit from those sales to 50 percent.  “Investors have clarity around this messy situation and
can now focus and invest in Merck for the late-stage pipeline,”
said  Marc Goodman , an analyst at UBS AG in an April 15 note.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 