-- 
Eritrea Calls Ethiopia’s New Stance a ‘Declaration of War’

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-04-29T12:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/eritrea-calls-ethiopia-s-new-stance-a-declaration-of-war-.html
Eritrea criticized  Ethiopia ’s new
stance on relations between the two countries as “pure
aggression and a declaration of war” and denied it supports
terrorism.  Ethiopia’s government on April 15 announced it will
increase support to Eritrean rebels seeking to overthrow the
government of President Isaias Afewerki. The country will use
“any means at its disposal” to bring about regime change unless
the Eritrean government changes its policies, the Ethiopian
Foreign Ministry said.  The two countries fought a 1998-2000 border war that killed
70,000 people,  according  to Brussels-based  International Crisis
Group . Relations between the two have remained tense as each
backed opposing factions in nearby Somalia’s civil war.
Skirmishes between Ethiopian and Eritrean troops occasionally
break out along their 912-kilometer (567-mile) border. Ethiopia
previously accused Eritrea of supporting Ethiopian rebels and
al-Qaeda-linked insurgents in neighboring Somalia.  “Eritrea does not have an agenda of destabilizing Ethiopia
or the region,” Girma Asmerom, Eritrea’s ambassador to the
 African Union , said to the 53-member continental bloc’s security
panel on April 26.  Accusations of Eritrean support for terrorism are
“fabricated and baseless,” he said. “It is not in our psyche,
our culture, our philosophy, our upbringing, our value and our
history to attack civilian targets, victimize and terrorize
innocent people.”  Bombing Attempt  In February, Ethiopia said it foiled an attempt by the
rebel Oromo Liberation Front to bomb an AU summit in  Addis
Ababa , the Ethiopian capital. Ethiopia accuses Eritrea of
backing the front.  Eritrea’s “destabilization activities against other
countries in the region, including Ethiopia, continue unabated,”
the Foreign Ministry said.  Eritrea has been under United Nations sanctions since
December 2009 for its alleged support of terrorists fighting to
topple the Western-backed government of  Somalia . Eritrea’s
Foreign Ministry says the sanctions are “unjustifiable.”  The international community should condemn the aggression
by the Ethiopian Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi ’s government and
call for its withdrawal from Eritrean territory, Girma said.  Isaias and Meles led allied rebel groups that overthrew
Ethiopia’s Communist Derg regime in 1991. Eritrea, formerly an
Ethiopian province, won independence after a 1993 referendum. A
2002 decision by a United Nations commission that the disputed
town of Badme is Eritrean has been rejected by Ethiopia.  “Eritrea is ready to normalize relations with Ethiopia” if
Ethiopia vacates its territory, Girma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 