-- 
Merscorp Names Former CitiMortgage Chief Beckmann CEO

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-05-02T14:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/merscorp-names-former-citimortgage-chief-beckmann-as-new-ceo.html
(Corrects quote to say “instrument” in eighth paragraph,
in an article originally published April 29.)  Merscorp Inc. , the firm that tracks
documents for U.S. home lenders, named former CitiMortgage Inc.
chairman Bill Beckmann as president and chief executive officer,
the company said today in a  statement  on its website.  The appointment comes as the U.S. banking industry
struggles to resolve billions of dollars of claims from
investors and homeowners who contend Merscorp’s system may have
been improperly used to bypass local governments and speed
foreclosures. Beckmann fills a position last held by R.K.
Arnold, who  announced  his retirement in January. Paul Bognanno
has been CEO on an interim basis.  “We’re delighted to have Bill at the helm at an important
time in Merscorp’s history,” Merscorp Chairman  Kurt Pfotenhauer 
said in the statement.  Beckmann was named president of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
CitiMortgage unit in 2005, stepping down in 2008 after CEO
Vikram Pandit announced plans to cut holdings of U.S. mortgages
by about $45 billion and reduce annual costs at its home-loan
unit by $200 million. He was most recently president of
consulting firm Beckmann Insights LLC.  Merscorp runs the Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems
Inc., or MERS, which contains more than half of all U.S. home
mortgages. Consumer advocates have said that MERS masks the real
owner of a loan and is prone to mistakes. Merscorp, based in
Reston,  Virginia , is owned by  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other mortgage-industry companies.  Faster Servicing  Merscorp was created in 1995 to improve servicing after
county offices couldn’t deal with the flood of mortgage
transfers, Karmela Lejarde, a company spokeswoman, said in an
interview last year.  MERS allows banks to sell mortgages among each other
without having to register the transfers in county records. The
company’s role in the mortgage system came under scrutiny after
 attorneys general  in all 50 states began investigating claims
that banks and loan servicers used faulty documentation in
foreclosures. Merscorp said in a Feb. 16  announcement  that it
will propose a rule change to stop members from foreclosing in
its name.  “The security instrument for every mortgage loan that’s in
the MERS database is also recorded in the appropriate county
land registry,” Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Merscorp, said
today in a phone interview. “Data in the MERS systems tracks
and complements data in county land records.”  Costs and Fines  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Citigroup and PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. have said they may face added costs or fines after
investigators questioned the use of MERS instead of original
documents to justify foreclosures.  Lawsuits accusing the firm of racketeering by enabling
faulty foreclosures in New York, Florida and Kentucky have been
dismissed, and a California court ruled in February that
Merscorp has the right to foreclose on defaulted borrowers in
that state.  Beckmann, a former executive at International Business
Machines Corp., served as chairman and CEO of Citigroup’s
student-lending subsidiary, Student Loan Corp., from 1997 to
2003, Merscorp said in the statement. Citigroup sold the unit to
Discover Financial Services for $600 million this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  