-- 
EU Makes Proposal Aimed at Reviving Stalled WTO Negotiations

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-04-29T15:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/eu-makes-proposal-aimed-at-reviving-stalled-wto-negotiations.html
The European Union put forth a
proposal aimed at rescuing the World Trade Organization’s Doha
Round of talks, seeking to unlock negotiations on  market access 
in three key areas.  Under the proposal outlined in Geneva today, industrialized
and  developing countries  would make commitments on tariffs in
what the EU called “the three biggest, economically most
important sectors of chemicals, machinery and electronics.” The
plan would create “significant additional market access on top
of the tariff-cutting formula” while ensuring that efforts are
“balanced and proportionate,” the EU said.  The Doha talks, which began in 2001, were meant to add
billions of dollars to the global economy by spurring cross-
border commerce. WTO negotiators are pursuing a deal in which
rich governments including the EU and the U.S. would lower  farm
subsidies  and tariffs in exchange for fast-growing emerging
markets such as China and  India  opening up their markets to
imports of agricultural goods and manufactured products.  “Our view has always been that not all options and avenues
in this market-access area had been explored,” Jean-Luc
Demarty, the European Commission director general of trade, told
members of the 153-nation WTO in Geneva. “This is why we felt
we should formulate ideas to stimulate further engagement.”  U.S. WTO Ambassador Michael Punke dismissed the idea that
resolving differences over market access of manufactured goods
will unblock other areas of the negotiations, telling today’s
meeting that “fundamental differences also exist with respect
to agriculture and services.” Still, the U.S. is studying the
EU proposal “carefully,” he said.  “The key threshold question is whether this or any other
proposal can serve as a catalyst for real negotiations -- for
true give and take,” Punke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 