-- 
European Stocks Climb for Seventh Day in Longest Winning Streak This Year

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-29T16:02:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-total-yara-daimler-may-move.html
European stocks advanced for a
seventh day, the longest winning streak this year, as better-
than-estimated earnings boosted confidence in the economy and a
report showed U.S. consumer spending rose last month.  Yara International ASA (YAR)  rallied 4.9 percent after reporting
first-quarter net income that beat analyst estimates. SSAB
Svenskt Staal AB jumped the most in two years as earnings also
topped projections.  YIT Oyj (YTY1V)  sank 4.8 percent as Finland’s
biggest builder reported worse-than-estimated profit.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.3 percent to 283.78 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , extending this week’s gain to 1.2
percent. The gauge has surged 8.2 percent from this year’s low
on March 16 as companies from UBS AG to Akzo Nobel NV reported
earnings that exceeded estimates and the  Federal Reserve 
maintained its pledge to keep interest rates low for an
“extended period.” The European benchmark is up 2.9 percent in
April, the biggest monthly gain this year.  “There’s still upside pressure to equity prices,” said
 Christian Falkner , an analyst at Alpha Wertpapierhandels AG in
 Frankfurt . “Good earnings and low  interest rates  create a very
favorable environment for equities and people who reduced their
exposure during  Japan ’s catastrophe are forced to increase it
again as the market is reaching new highs.”  The Stoxx 600 tumbled 5.7 percent in the four days
following Japan’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 out of the 17 western
European markets trading today.  Germany ’s DAX climbed 0.5
percent and France’s CAC 40 added 0.1 percent. U.K. markets were
closed for the royal wedding.  Of the 113 companies in the Stoxx 600 that have reported
earnings since April 11, 66 have beaten analyst forecasts for
per-share profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with 77 percent of U.S. companies in the period.  A report today showed  consumer spending  in the U.S. climbed
in March. Purchases rose 0.6 percent after a revised 0.9 percent
gain the prior month that was higher than previously estimated,
according to Commerce Department figures.  A Chinese purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics showed manufacturing sustained its
expansion this month even as the government raised interest
rates and let the yuan strengthen at a faster pace.  European inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 2 1/2
years and confidence in the economic outlook declined as surging
energy prices threatened to undermine growth. Inflation in the
17-nation euro region quickened to 2.8 percent in April from 2.7
percent, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today in an initial estimate.  Yara, SSAB  Yara advanced 4.9 percent to 307.3 kroner as the world’s
largest publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker reported
first-quarter net income of 2.89 billion kroner ($550 million),
compared with 1.52 billion kroner a year earlier. That beat the
2.39 billion-krone average of 13 analyst estimates surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose to 19.8 billion kroner.  SSAB jumped 9.7 percent to 108 kronor, the biggest gain
since April 2009, as the world’s largest supplier of high-
tensile steel said first-quarter net income rose to 390 million
kronor from 143 million kronor a year earlier. Analysts had
estimated net income of 154 million kronor, according to a
survey compiled by Bloomberg.  Renewable Energy   Renewable Energy Corp. ASA, a Norwegian maker of solar
energy components, soared 7.9 percent to 18.52 kroner, while
 Phoenix Solar AG (PS4) , a German clean-energy developer, surged 8.2
percent to 21.83 euros.  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-biggest oil
producer, agreed to buy as much as 60 percent of SunPower Corp.,
the second-largest U.S. solar-panel maker, for $1.38 billion, to
take advantage of increasing global interest in clean energy.  Adecco SA (ADEN)  increased 2.2 percent to 61.75 Swiss francs as
UBS AG raised its recommendation on the world’s largest supplier
of temporary workers to “buy” from “neutral.”  Aurubis AG (NDA)  gained 2.1 percent to 39.90 euros. Europe’s
biggest copper smelter is looking at other possible acquisitions
after agreeing to buy Luvata Group’s rolled products division,
Bernd Drouven, the company’s chief executive officer said. The
CEO declined to say when the company will make its next purchase
and didn’t identify potential targets.  YIT sank 4.8 percent to 20.24 euros as the Finnish builder
reported first-quarter net income of 24.8 million euros, missing
the 44.9 million-euro average estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Daimler Drops  Daimler AG (DAI)  declined 1.7 percent to 52.19 euros even as the
carmaker said first-quarter earnings before interest and taxes
rose to 2.03 billion euros from 1.19 billion euros a year
earlier. Profit matched the 2 billion-euro average estimate of
12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Daimler’s results are “in line with expectations and
already priced in,” said Anita Paluch, a sales trader at ETX
Capital in London. “They look less attractive against the
background of comparable companies from the sector.” Volkswagen
AG and Porsche SE both surged more than 10 percent this week as
the German carmakers reported first-quarter earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  