-- 
Europe Loan Growth Weakened in March as Banks Tightened Credit

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-04-29T08:05:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/europe-loan-growth-weakened-in-march-as-banks-tightened-credit.html
Growth of loans to households and
companies in  Europe  weakened in March as banks tightened credit
standards.  Loans to the private sector rose 2.5 percent from a year
earlier after rising an annual 2.6 percent in February, the
 European Central Bank  in Frankfurt said today. The rate of
growth in M3 money supply, which the ECB uses as a gauge of
future inflation, climbed to 2.3 percent, the highest since
August 2009, from 2.1 percent in February.  Euro-area banks are tightening credit standards amid
uncertainty over the economic outlook, the ECB’s bank lending
survey showed this week. Still, the central bank this month
raised  interest rates  to stem faster inflation fueled by
stronger euro-area economic growth and oil prices surging above
$100 a barrel.  “People are becoming more uncertain and we’ve seen in
particular that there’s less demand for loans for house
purchases,” said Jens Sondergaard, an economist at Nomura
International in  London . “While credit growth and lending
figures don’t necessarily add to inflation pressures yet, the
ECB is just very keen to normalize interest rates.”  Inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in March, breaching
the ECB’s 2 percent limit for a fourth month. Policy makers
lifted the ECB’s key rate by 25 basis points to 1.25 percent
this month and investors expect the bank to raise the benchmark
to 1.75 percent by the end of the year.  In the three months through March, M3 increased 2 percent
percent from the same period a year earlier, the ECB said. M3 is
the broadest gauge of money supply and includes cash in
circulation, some forms of savings and money-market holdings.
The annual rate of M1  money-supply  growth rose to 3 percent in
March from 2.9 percent in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  