-- 
European Inflation Accelerates on Soaring Oil as Business Confidence Drops

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-04-29T10:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/european-inflation-quickens-on-oil-business-confidence-drops.html
European inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace in two and a half years and confidence in the
economic outlook declined as surging energy prices threatened to
undermine growth.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region quickened to 2.8
percent in April from 2.7 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today in an initial
estimate. Economists had expected inflation to remain unchanged,
according to the median of 34 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. An index of executive and consumer sentiment slipped to
106.2 from 107.3 in March, the sharpest drop since May 2010, and
unemployment held at 9.9 percent, separate reports showed.  Crude-oil prices have soared 38 percent in the past six
months, pushing inflation above the  European Central Bank ’s 2
percent limit and prompting policy makers to raise interest
rates this month for the first time in almost three years. At
the same time, higher raw-material costs are weighing on
consumption and company profits, just as governments across the
region cut spending to narrow budget deficits.  “The inflation numbers support the view that the ECB will
deliver another interest rate hike before long,” said  Aline Schuiling , senior economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“Growth was exceptionally strong in the first quarter, but will
slow from here. The labor market is still very sluggish and
paired with inflation that’s not good for purchasing power.”  German Output  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4867 at 11:31 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.2%.  European services and manufacturing growth unexpectedly
accelerated in April, driven by higher output in Germany and
 France , the region’s largest economies. Still, European investor
confidence declined as faster inflation and higher interest
rates may hurt the recovery. Euro-region growth will slow to 1.6
percent this year from 1.8 percent in 2010, the European
Commission forecast last month.  A gauge of sentiment among euro-region manufacturers
slipped to 5.8 in April from 6.7 in the previous month, the
European Commission said today. Services confidence dropped to
10.4 from 10.8 and an index of  consumer confidence  eased to
minus 11.6 from minus 10.6. Sentiment among builders rose to
minus 24.2 from minus 25.4.  Debt Crisis  Capacity utilization rose to 81.3 percent in the second
quarter from 80.3 percent in the previous three months, the
commission said.  As governments from Ireland to Spain cut spending to
contain a sovereign debt crisis, eroding consumer and investment
spending, European companies have relied on faster-growing
markets to bolster sales.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s biggest
automaker, this week reported record operating profit in the
first quarter on stronger demand from  China .  An indicator of manufacturers’ export order books jumped to
0.6 from minus 0.7 in March while a gauge of production
expectations slipped to 15.7 from 17.9. Companies’ confidence in
their ability to hire workers eased, with a gauge of employment
expectations dropping to 7.2 from 8.6.  About 15.6 million people were unemployed in March, down
9,000 from the previous month, today’s report showed. In the 27-
nation EU, unemployment remained at 9.5 percent. At 20.7
percent, Spain had the highest jobless rate and the Netherlands
the lowest, with 4.2 percent. Nine EU member states reported a
drop from a year earlier, while four had an increase in
unemployment.  ‘Significant Sales’  Closely held automotive supplier ZF Friedrichshafen AG
plans to create 5,000 jobs by the end of this year, including
2,000 in  Germany , on expectations of “significant sales and
profit growth,” Chief Executive Officer Hans-Georg Haerter said
on April 21.  Puma AG, Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, is
targeting revenue of 3 billion euros ($4.5 billion) after first-
quarter profit rose 7.2 percent, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-
based company said on April 26. Puma will raise prices in the
fourth quarter to adjust for higher raw-material costs, Chief
Executive Officer Jochen Zeitz said.  An indicator measuring households’ assessment of price
developments over the coming 12 months remained close to the
highest level in almost three years, easing to 30.7 from 30.8,
the commission said. A gauge of consumers’ willingness to spend
on big-ticket items dropped to minus 25.4 from minus 24.1 and
households grew less confident in their ability to save money. A
gauge of euro-region manufacturers’ selling-price expectations
slipped to 21.5 from 24.4.  Wage Demands  ECB officials are worried that workers will demand higher
wages in compensation for rising costs. Germany’s Ver.di
services union seeks 6.5 percent more pay for workers in the
state of North Rhine-Westphalia, the country’s most populous.  Spanish inflation accelerated to 3.5 percent in April from
3.3 percent and retail sales plunged, just as the government is
trying to steer Europe’s fourth-largest economy back to growth.
 Spain  will unveil a crackdown on underground employment in an
effort to shrink one of the region’s largest shadow economies,
bolster  tax revenue  and reduce the Europe Union’s highest
jobless rate.  The inflation rate in  Italy , the euro region’s third-
biggest economy, climbed in April to 3 percent, the highest in
more than two years as the cost of energy rose.  ‘Inflation Pressure’  At their May 5 meeting, the ECB’s Governing Council will
have to weigh threats to economic growth with the risks of
faster inflation and decide whether to signal an interest-rate
increase in June. The Frankfurt-based central bank last month
forecast euro-region inflation to average about 2.3 percent this
year and 1.7 percent in 2012.  “The ECB’s benchmark rate is still too low in light of
economic growth and inflation expectations,”  Andrew Bosomworth ,
a  fund manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in a
guest commentary for Germany’s Boersen-Zeitung yesterday. “The
ECB has to raise  interest rates  higher than markets expect to
damp increasing inflation pressure in the euro region.”  Economists forecast two more quarter-point increases in the
ECB’s benchmark rate to 1.75 percent this year, the median of 29
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey shows. Eurostat will
release a breakdown of April consumer prices including core
rates excluding volatile costs on May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  