-- 
Ex-SAC Analyst Hollander Agrees to Pay $222,000 to Settle Insider Claims

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/ex-sac-analyst-hollander-settles-sec-claims-of-inside-information-trades.html
Jonathan Hollander, a former SAC
Capital Advisors LP analyst, agreed pay more than $220,000 to
settle U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claims that he
traded on inside information about a pending takeover of the
Albertson grocery chain, his lawyer said.  The SEC alleged that Hollander tipped others about the
acquisition and that he and others earned $95,807 in illegal
profits. The settlement must be approved by U.S. District Judge
 Richard Sullivan  in  New York , said  Aitan Goelman , a lawyer for
Hollander.  “Jonathan has decided to settle this matter rather than
engage in costly and protracted litigation with the SEC,”
Goelman said yesterday in a phone interview. “He is gratified
to have the matter behind him and looks forward to moving on
with his successful principal-investing and strategic-consulting
business as well as his active philanthropic endeavors.”  Hollander agreed to settle without admitting or denying the
allegations, the SEC said in a  statement . The SEC ordered him to
pay $95,807, a civil penalty of $95,807 and prejudgment
interest, Goelman said.  The SEC said that in January 2006, while Hollander was
still employed as an analyst for an unnamed  investment adviser ,
he traded in Albertson LLC’s securities on the basis of a
material, non-public tip regarding the pending corporate
acquisition of the company before the official Jan. 23, 2006,
announcement.  In the commission’s complaint, Stamford, Connecticut-based
SAC wasn’t named.  The case is SEC v. Hollander, 11-cv-O2885, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 