-- 
Exelon Incentives Woo Maryland Regulators for Constellation Bid Approval

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-04-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/exelon-woos-maryland-regulators-for-constellation-bid-approval.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC)  sought to pre-empt
objections from  Maryland  regulators who might try to block its
$7.9 billion bid for  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  by offering
a $250 million package of economic incentives to the state.  Exelon, the largest operator of U.S. nuclear power plants,
has tried unsuccessfully three times to buy other power
companies. Constellation has been the target of three failed
bids.  Maryland officials have twice blocked takeovers of
Baltimore-based Constellation, in one instance halting a 2006
bid by NextEra Energy Inc. amid rising power prices. The Exelon
bid also requires approval from federal regulators.  “Maryland is going to be the biggest challenge here and
they all know that,” said Greg Phelps, who manages about $4
billion at Manulife Asset Management U.S. LLC in  Boston ,
including Constellation preferred stock.  This time is different, Constellation Chief Executive
Officer Mayo Shattuck III said yesterday in an interview. The
deal would transform power marketing, Constellation’s biggest
business, and the sale of electricity from Exelon’s nuclear
power plants, Exelon President Chris Crane said in the
interview.  “This is a long-term strategic move that will make a lot
of sense if it goes through without too many pounds of flesh
being demanded by the regulators,” Phelps said.  2012 Closing  Approval is needed from the Maryland Public Service
Commission, as well as utility regulators in New York and  Texas ,
and shareholders, the companies said yesterday in a statement.
The deal is expected to close early next year.  Exelon’s $250 million package includes a $100 credit to
every customer of Constellation’s Baltimore Electric & Gas unit.
The company, based in  Chicago , won’t cut jobs for at least two
years at the utility and expects its power-generation and
marketing unit to expand in Baltimore once the merger is
complete, Shattuck said.  “Some of this you have to work out as you go,” Exelon CEO
John Rowe said yesterday in an interview. “The governor has
made it clear that more generation and clean generation is
important to him, so we put some additional wind into this
proposal.”  The combined company will spend $10 million for electric
vehicle infrastructure and $50 million on renewable energy,
probably wind, in Maryland.  “Those are very smart moves that will defang some of the
antagonistic Maryland Public Service Commission positions,”
Phelps said.  Seven Months  The companies are prepared for seven months of negotiations
in Maryland, Shattuck said.  “You just have to assume lessons learned, they’re going to
approach this carefully and thoughtfully,” said Nora Mead Brownell, a former member of the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission , and founding partner at Alexandria, Virginia-based
ESPY Energy Solutions LLC.  The commission has new members since state officials,
facing customer anger over a 72 percent power-rate increase,
blocked the $14.8 billion NextEra deal, Shattuck said. The state
this year approved a settlement clearing the way for FirstEnergy
Corp.’s $8.4 billion acquisition of Allegheny Energy Inc.  The commission declined to comment because the utilities
haven’t submitted their application, agency executive secretary
Terry Romine said.  Reducing Market Share  Exelon also promised to sell three Maryland power plants
that burn coal or oil to reduce the combined company’s share of
the  electricity market . The plants will be sold by early next
year.  Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley  said yesterday in a
statement his office will “participate actively” in regulatory
proceedings, adding that the announcement followed the April 27
news “that BG&E rates will be falling even further in June.”  Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said in a
statement she had a “positive conversation” with Shattuck and
job gains and new construction are “important components” of
the transaction.  Exelon estimated annual benefits of the consolidation at
$260 million, enough to raise yearly profit by at least 5
percent.  The estimate includes higher power prices for Exelon’s
nuclear power, which is currently sold at discounts to spot-
market prices for terms of several years. Constellation’s
trading unit would reduce collateral costs, because sales would
be backed by contracts, rather than cash, Shattuck said.  Deal Premium  “It’s a smart strategy to mop up some of that excess
supply Exelon has,” Phelps said. “It would improve
Constellation’s profitability.”  Exelon’s $25.9 billion bid for Public Service Enterprise
Group Inc. foundered in 2004 over market-power concerns by New
Jersey utility regulators.  Maryland regulators prevented the NextEra bid for
Constellation and a $3.04 billion offer from Pepco Holdings Inc.
in 1997.  Exelon is paying a 16 percent premium based on the average
closing price of both stocks over the past 20 days, below the 19
percent average of 456 U.S. power company deals over the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Exelon is
paying 6.9 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, compared with an average 7.2 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Jim Polson} in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  