-- 
Namibian Government Supports Husab Uranium Project, Extract Resources Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-29T07:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/extract-says-namibia-government-supports-husab-uranium-project.html
Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , an explorer
proposing a $1.7 billion uranium venture in Namibia, fell 20
percent in two days in Sydney on concern that the government
plans to give mining rights to a state-owned company.  Extract still has support from the Namibian government and
believes statements made by the country’s Mines and Energy
Minister Isak Katali about state-owned Epangelo Mining Co.
“have been taken out of context,” the company said in a
statement today to the Australian stock exchange. Extract said
it’s seeking more information from government officials.  “Media reports quoting Namibia’s mining minister declaring
uranium, copper, gold, zinc and coal would face legislation
later this year giving the state exclusive exploration and
mining rights have understandably concerned industry
officials,” Glen Chipman, an analyst at Bank of America Corp.
Merrill Lynch in Sydney, wrote in a report. “At this very early
stage, it appears there could be some misconstrued elements.”  Extract’s Husab uranium venture in  Namibia  has been
targeted by China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co., which last
month offered 756 million pounds ($1.26 billion) for  Kalahari
Minerals Plc. (KAH)  Kalahari owns about 43 percent of Extract.  Namibia has a “stable uranium production history”
spanning more than 30 years and is expected to be the fastest-
growing source of supply, Chipman wrote in the report dated
yesterday. Husab is about 7 kilometers (4.4 miles) from London-
based Rio Tinto Group’s Rossing mine and about 30 kilometers
from  Paladin Energy Ltd. (PDN) ’s Langer Heinrich project.  Extract fell 12 percent in Sydney trading to A$6.68,
compared with a 1 percent drop for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index. That followed a 10 percent decline yesterday.  Shares of uranium explorers and producers tumbled after the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  amid worries that the
crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power station would
prompt countries to suspend plans to build more reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 