-- 
Failed-Trade Charge for Mortgage Bonds Proposed, Pimco Balks

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-04-29T17:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/failed-trade-charges-proposed-for-mortgage-bonds-agencies-1-.html
Dealers and investors that fail to
complete trades in agency debt and mortgage bonds may pay as
much as 3 percent in penalties, a fee Pacific Investment
Management Co. says would damage the market.  The  Treasury Market Practices Group , which the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  helped form in 2007 to offer advice on
debt markets, today proposed the charges. That followed the
introduction of a similar practice for U.S. government bonds
that the organization backed in 2009.  The U.S. central bank’s decision to hold benchmark  interest
rates  at record lows has encouraged failures by reducing the
cost of uncompleted trades, while its purchase of $1.25 trillion
of mortgage bonds through March 2010 has made it more difficult
to find bonds to settle contracts in a timely manner.  “We strongly believe that, like the fails charge
recommended by the TMPG in the Treasury market, these
recommendations will lead to more robust markets for agency debt
and agency MBS and will serve to broadly reduce the risks
associated with high levels of fails,” Tom Wipf, the group’s
chairman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Uncompleted trades in agency mortgage securities remain
elevated after rising to a record of almost $2.4 trillion during
a week in November, according to Fed data.  Failures to receive or deliver the securities, which
totaled $1.5 trillion in the week ended April 20, averaged about
$330 billion weekly over the past 10 years, according to Fed
data. The tallies are inflated by incomplete trades that
continue over multiple days and are increased by strings of
failures that can occur when a single party doesn’t settle a
contract.  New Charges  The  new charges  could be as much as 3 percent of the trade
size, with the formula based on a similar system for  U.S.
government debt , said Wipf, also a Morgan Stanley banker, in a
telephone interview. The daily charge would be reduced by the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s lowest current target for the
federal funds rate and divided by 360.  “The fail charge is too high and will be counter-
productive,”  Scott Simon ,  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco’s mortgage-bond head, said in an e-mail. “While it will
reduce intentional fails, we believe it will sharply reduce
liquidity and incent accounts to attempt short squeezes.”  A 1 percent fee “would be a much better level,” said
Simon, whose firm manages the world’s largest bond fund.  Short Squeeze  A short squeeze refers to hoarding of bonds that may be
needed to be bought to complete trades.  The TMPG suggested a two-day grace period for failures in
the more than $5 trillion market for agency mortgage securities,
which are guaranteed by government supported  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  or federal agency Ginnie Mae. Agency debt includes
the corporate bonds of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal
Home Loan Bank system, which have more than $2 trillion of
outstanding borrowing.  The TMPG in July proposed market practices intended to curb
failures that stopped short of penalties. It’s soliciting
comments on the charges through June 10, and expects to
implement changes in early 2012.  Reducing uncompleted trades is necessary because for
individual companies, “fails can increase operational costs and
counterparty credit risk, absorb scarce capital through
regulatory charges, and damage customer relations,” the TMPG
said in a paper released today.  “More generally,” the group added, “the prospect of
persistent settlement fails at a high level can cause market
participants to temporarily withdraw from the market, or even
exit the market, adversely affecting market liquidity and
stability.”  Lower Rates  The Fed’s decision to hold its target for the federal funds
rate in a range of 0 percent to 0.25 percent since 2008 has
helped encourage fails because it lowers the cost of not
receiving cash in exchange for the promised securities. In a
higher-rate environment, dealers would lose more because that
cash could be invested at higher yields.  Lower rates boost the incentives for investors or dealers
that want to “short,” or bet against, mortgage-bond prices to
delay delivering bonds into sales contracts, according to the
group’s paper.  Most transactions in the mortgage-bond market are conducted
through so-called To Be Announced trading, which also adds
incentives to fail on those contracts. TBA contracts can be
filled through delivery of securities with a range of
characteristics, rather than specific bonds.  That gives dealers and investors a motive to wait until
they acquire “less valuable” securities before completing
trades, according to the industry group’s paper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 