-- 
Fed’s Maiden Lane Holding Bear Stearns-Tied Assets Shrinks

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-04-29T17:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/fed-s-maiden-lane-shrinking-at-faster-pace-with-24-8-billion-of-holdings.html
Maiden Lane LLC, the company
created by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in its rescue of
Bear Stearns Cos. in 2008, is shrinking at a faster pace as it
sells holdings.  The assets of Maiden Lane, used by the U.S. central bank to
facilitate the sale of the New York-based investment bank to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , were valued at $24.8 billion on April 27,
down from $25.6 billion on March 30 and $30 billion at
inception, according to weekly Fed data released yesterday. The
4.7 percent decline in the holdings, mostly government-backed
mortgage bonds, is the largest since October 2008.  The New York Fed also this month began selling $31 billion
of mortgage bonds without government backing acquired in the
U.S. bailout of American International Group Inc. after refusing
the insurer’s offer to buy back that debt for $15.7 billion.
While more-detailed past  disclosures  indicate some of the Bear
Stearns-related bonds were sold last year, the Fed may be ready
to speed the pace, according to BNP Paribas SA analysts.  With the AIG-related non-agency mortgage-backed securities
being off-loaded by a vehicle called  Maiden Lane  II at “sizable
clips, we see no reason why this wouldn’t be expanded to ML1’s
agency MBS,” Anish Lohokare and Timi Ajibola, the New York-
based analysts at BNP,  France ’s largest bank, wrote in an April
21 report. ML1 refers to Maiden Lane, sometimes called Maiden
Lane I.  Jack Gutt , a New York Fed spokesman, declined to comment.  Dealer Auctions  In Maiden Lane’s initial transaction, the purchasing
vehicle used a $28.8 billion loan from the New York Fed and a
$1.2 billion loan from New York-based JPMorgan to buy $30
billion of assets from Bear Stearns, according to its  website .  The deal was arranged in March 2008 as the Fed sought to
prevent a collapse of the investment bank from deepening the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Later in
2008, the Fed used vehicles called Maiden Lane II and Maiden
Lane III as part of the U.S. rescue of AIG.  Dealers auctioned off slices of collateralized mortgage
obligations held by Maiden Lane with a total notional size of
about $400 million this week, according to three people familiar
with the sale who declined to be identified because the
transaction was private.  The second-best bids for the so-called inverse interest-
only slices of CMOs backed by  Fannie Mae  securities sold April
27 ranged from about 9 cents per notional dollar to 21 cents,
according to  Empirasign Strategies LLC , a New York-based
provider of data on securitization-market trading. Second-best,
or cover, bids is information dealers typically provide to
investors that don’t win auctions.  Monetary Policy   “This could be an acceleration of the ‘pre-hiking’ that
the Fed started with its AIG sales,” Adam Murphy, Empirasign’s
president, said, referring to actions by the central bank that
represent a tightening of monetary policy before an increase in
benchmark  interest rates .  Some, or all, of a $1.3 billion reported drop in Maiden
Lane’s assets in the week ended April 20 may have reflected a
quarterly revaluation of holding prices, rather than sales,
BNP’s Ajibol said in a telephone interview.  Prepayments, maturities and recoveries on defaulted debt
can also shrink the portfolio’s reported size. Increases can
indicate higher valuations, interest payments on assets being
held before monthly payments to the Fed are due, or sales of
holdings for more than the values at which they are marked.  BlackRock Directed  The New York Fed has been using New York-based  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)  to manage the Bear Stearns and AIG portfolios. Through last
June, it directed the  money manager  to reinvest cash being
generated by the holdings of Maiden Lane into Treasuries and
agency securities, according to its website. Since then, it’s
been unwinding Maiden Lane.  Agency mortgage securities carry guarantees from
government-supported Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  or federal
agency Ginnie Mae. Non-agency mortgage bonds lack that backing.  The New York Fed, in sales being  announced  on its website,
this month has completed four auctions of non-agency securities
once owned by New York-based AIG, in which it offered a total of
$4.1 billion of bonds.  The AIG- and Bear Stearns-related holdings are separate
from the $933 billion of agency mortgage securities owned
directly by the Fed after it bought $1.25 trillion of the debt
through March 2010 to bolster the economy.  Central Bank  The central bank has expanded its balance sheet to an
unprecedented $2.7 trillion, in efforts to put money into the
financial system. The Fed’s latest round of $600 billion of
Treasury purchases will end in June, though it will continue
reinvesting cash generated by current direct holdings, it said
April 27.  The value of Maiden Lane’s holdings has shrunk from $29.4
billion last August. The Fed’s loan to the company has been paid
down to about $23 billion, the weekly data show.  Agency mortgage debt at year-end accounted for $16.8
billion of Maiden Lane’s $27 billion of assets based on fair
value estimates, according to the  New York  Fed’s latest detailed
disclosures on its website. Commercial real estate loans
represented the second-largest holdings, totaling $5.1 billion,
followed by non-agency mortgage securities at $1.9 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  