-- 
Football Association Set to Block QPR’s Premier League Promotion: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-04-29T06:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/football-association-set-to-block-qpr-s-premier-league-promotion-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  QPR Face Sanction  The Football Association is set to block Queens Park
Rangers’ automatic promotion to the Premier League with evidence
that the club broke player-trade regulations said to be
“damning,” the Sun  reported .  Rangers, five points clear at the top of the Championship,
are likely to face a deduction of as many as 15 points if they
are found guilty of breaching third-party ownership rules over
the 2009 signing of Argentine midfielder Alejandro Faurlin, the
Sun added. Such a drop would put them in the playoff positions
rather than an automatic promotion spot.  Wenger’s Frustration  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said this season was the most
frustrating of the club’s six-year run without a trophy after
his team lost the Carling Cup final and squandered a strong
Premier League position, the Independent  reported .  “We feel more frustrated than ever because we are closer
than ever to winning this league,” the newspaper cited Wenger
as saying. “Of the two trophies, the most important above all
for me is the league; and this year we had the quality to win
it.”  Spurs Want Gyan  Tottenham Hotspur is weighing up a move for Sunderland’s
Asamoah Gyan as manager  Harry Redknapp  seeks to shake up his
striker options in the off-season, the Sun  reported .  Although there’s been no contact between the teams, the
Ghanaian forward is fully aware of Tottenham’s interest and
would welcome a move to  London , the newspaper added.  Nolan for Newcastle  Newcastle captain  Kevin Nolan  is ready to sign a new
contract within the next two weeks and teammate  Joey Barton  has
indicated that he will follow suit once Nolan has re-committed
to the club, the  Daily Express   reported .  “Negotiations are at an advanced stage,” Nolan was cited
as saying. “Most things have been agreed and I would think I
will sign next week or the week after.”  Friedel Fight  Schalke is eyeing an off-season move for Aston Villa
goalkeeper Brad Friedel as the Champions League semifinalist
steps up its search for  Manuel Neuer ’s successor, the Daily
Mirror  reported .  Friedel is out of contract at the end of the season and in
talks over a new deal at Villa, which is also in the market for
a younger goalkeeper, the newspaper added. A move to the
Bundesliga would guarantee regular first-team soccer for the
American, who is also wanted by his former club Liverpool, the
Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  