-- 
Foster’s Investors Approve Spinoff of Treasury Wine Unit

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-04-29T06:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/foster-s-shareholders-approve-spinoff-of-treasury-wine-division-in-vote.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) ,  Australia ’s
biggest brewer, said shareholders approved the spinoff of its
Treasury Wine Estates unit into a separate company with almost
100 percent of votes backing the proposal.  About 0.3 percent of votes were opposed to the spinoff,
Melbourne-based Foster’s said in a statement today. The plan,
which still needs court approval, required 75 percent of the
votes to succeed.  Foster’s is giving up on the world’s second-largest wine
business after a decade-long expansion marred by more than A$2.5
billion ($2.7 billion) of writedowns as competition, a glut of
grapes and a stronger Australian dollar hurt profitability. The
company, which rejected an offer worth as much as A$2.7 billion
for Treasury in September, may attract takeover offers once the
breakup is complete, analysts at Citigroup Inc. have said.  “The Foster’s board believes the demerger will maximize
aggregate long-term value for Foster’s shareholders as compared
to the status quo or a possible sale,” Chairman David Crawford
told shareholders at the meeting to vote on the proposal.  Investors will get one share in Treasury, maker of Penfolds
and Beringer wines, for every three Foster’s shares they own.  The formal split is expected to be implemented on May 20
subject to court approval, with a hearing scheduled for May 4,
Foster’s said.  Foster’s fell 2.3 percent to A$5.62 at the 4:10 p.m. close
of Sydney trading, erasing its gains for the year. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index has added 1.6 percent in 2011.  Management Changes  John Pollaers  will become chief executive officer of the
beer business that will retain the Foster’s name. David Dearie
will lead Treasury after running its Australian operations,
while current CEO  Ian Johnston  will leave the company.  Crawford said last year he has no intention of putting the
company up for sale amid reports of potential bids. Foster’s may
attract offers from international rivals such as  SABMiller Plc (SAB) 
and Asahi Breweries Ltd., the Times and Sunday Times reported
last year.  Pollaers, who has run the beer unit for the past 12 months,
has accelerated the rollout of new brews such as Fat Yak to
offset declining sales of Victoria Bitter, the nation’s top-
selling beer, with a goal of stabilizing Foster’s share of
Australian sales at about 50 percent.  Battling Competition  The company is battling competition from smaller rivals
such as  Lion Nathan , a unit of Tokyo-based Kirin Holdings Co.
and Australia’s second-largest brewer, as well as a shift in
consumer tastes to sweeter, pre-mixed drinks.  Dearie aims to cut A$100 million of annual costs from
Treasury by the end of June by reducing expenses for packaging,
warehousing and bottling. He’s also targeting shorter production
runs for brands such as Wolf Blass to enable it to trim
inventory holding costs.  The Foster’s wine unit trails only  Constellation Brands
Inc. (STZ)  in revenue. Victor, New York-based Constellation agreed in
December to sell its Australian and U.K. operations to Champ
Private Equity of Sydney in a transaction valued at about A$290
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  