-- 
Frank McCourt Has Met More With Selig Than Any Owner, MLB’s Manfred Says

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-29T14:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/frank-mccourt-has-met-more-with-selig-than-any-owner-mlb-s-manfred-says.html
Los Angeles Dodgers owner Frank McCourt has occupied more of  Major League Baseball ’s time than
any other owner over the past seven years, the sport’s third-
highest-ranking official said.  McCourt, who is at odds with MLB because of its takeover of
the Dodgers’ day-to-day operations, said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” that Commissioner Bud Selig hadn’t returned “half a
dozen” phone calls over the past few weeks.  Rob Manfred, MLB’s executive vice president for labor
relations and human resources, said yesterday that McCourt has
met plenty of times with Selig since he became an owner.  “With respect to the commissioner not calling, all I can
tell you is since 2004, there is no owner when he came into the
league who has occupied more commissioner’s time, or
commissioner’s office time, than  Frank McCourt ,” Manfred said
in a telephone interview.  Selig announced last week that his office was taking over
the Dodgers’ operations because of “deep concerns regarding the
finances” of the club. McCourt said that the team hasn’t
violated any MLB rules and that he feels as though top officials
are trying to force him out.  “It sure seems that way to me,” McCourt said. “This is a
franchise that is in complete compliance with all of baseball’s
rules, including the financial rules; we’re current on all of
our payments; I haven’t asked for, nor have I received, a penny
of emergency funding from baseball or from the other owners.”  In the last seven years, the commissioner’s office has
handled, among other things, the relocation and sale of the
league-owned Montreal Expos, and the bankruptcy of the  Texas
Rangers  last season. The league has also dealt with numerous
investigations into steroid use, including the December 2007
Mitchell Report, which named 89 MLB players who were alleged to
have used steroids or human growth hormones.  Selig’s concern over the Dodgers stems from the legal fight
surrounding McCourt and his ex-wife, Jamie, who divorced in
October after almost 31 years of marriage. The McCourts, who
bought the team from  News Corp . in 2004 for $430 million, are
arguing over  who owns the Dodgers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  