-- 
Ryding Says More Fed Easing Would Hurt Job Growth: Tom Keene

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-29T20:50:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/further-fed-easing-would-hinder-job-growth-rdq-s-ryding-says-tom-keene.html
Further easing of monetary policy
by the Federal Reserve would hinder U.S. job growth because it
would push prices higher and ultimately hurt demand, said  John Ryding , chief economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New York.  “More easing would create more inflation, which would hurt
the consumer even further, and it would be counterproductive to
stimulating economic growth,” Ryding said in a radio interview
today with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled this week that the
central bank will maintain its record monetary stimulus, even
after ending large-scale bond purchases in June. At his first
press conference following a policy meeting, Bernanke attributed
a surge in commodity and energy prices to rising demand in
developing nations and turmoil in the Middle East.  The Fed already has gone “way further than any central
bank probably should do with a price-stability mandate as well
as an unemployment mandate,” Ryding said. “The Fed cannot
create jobs,” and “it is not tight money that is holding back
job creation.”  Paul Krugman , a professor at  Princeton University , is
among economists who say the Fed should do more to push down the
 unemployment rate , which stood at 8.8 percent as of March.
Policy makers have left the benchmark interest rate in a range
of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “To advocate more easing to lower unemployment, I just
think, is the wrong medicine,” Ryding said. “We need to lower
tax rates if we want to boost employment.”  FOMC Statement  The Federal Open Market Committee, in its statement this
week, said it expects the increase in inflation to be
“transitory” and that measures of underlying inflation
“continue to be somewhat low.”  A measure of inflation tied to spending patterns rose 1.8
percent from a year earlier in March, following a 1.6 percent
increase in February, Commerce Department figures showed today.
The Fed’s preferred price measure, the so-called core inflation
reading that excludes food and fuel, rose 0.9 percent in March
from a year earlier, matching the 12-month gain in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  