-- 
Galp First-Quarter Profit Drops 36%, Beats Estimate, After Refinery Halted

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-04-29T12:36:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/galp-first-quarter-profit-falls-after-sines-refinery-halt-1-.html
Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP) , Portugal’s
biggest  oil company , said first-quarter earnings dropped 36
percent after its Sines refinery was shut for about 40 days.  Adjusted net income fell to 41 million euros ($61 million)
from 65 million euros a year earlier, the Lisbon-based company
said today in a regulatory filing. That compares with the 39
million-euro average estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Profit on
this basis excludes one-time items and inventory changes.  Galp is expanding exploration in regions such as Brazil’s
offshore  Santos Basin , where the Lula project is located, and
Angola to improve access to crude supplies and lessen dependence
on refining and sales of fuel in Portugal and  Spain .  The Sines refinery was shut in January to install new units
as part of a conversion project, Chief Executive Officer Manuel
Ferreira de Oliveira said on Feb. 11. Galp’s refinery in Oporto
can process about 90,000 barrels a day, while the Sines plant
has a 220,000-barrel-a-day capacity.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 24 percent to 135 million euros in the
quarter. Galp forecasts average annual growth in Ebitda of about
15 percent from 2010 to 2015 as it develops the Lula and
Cernambi fields off  Brazil  and completes upgrades at its two
refineries to increase diesel output and improve margins.  “The Sines refinery’s planned outage and the depressed
economic environment in Iberia drove the decrease in Ebitda,”
Galp said in a presentation today. Following the conversion
projects, the Oporto refinery will start in June with the new
units and Sines will start in the fourth quarter, Ferreira de
Oliveira said today.  Refineries at Half Strength  Galp used its refineries at about 49 percent of capacity in
the quarter. The company processed 39 percent less crude, while
the volume of its refined-product sales fell 19 percent.  The refining margin, a measure of profit from converting
crude into fuels, narrowed to $1.30 a barrel in the quarter from
$2.70 a year earlier.  Galp plans to invest 1.2 billion euros to 1.5 billion euros
this year in  Portugal  and elsewhere. It forecasts investing
about 3.5 billion euros in the 2012-2015 period, with
exploration and production representing 70 percent of the total.  The company on March 14 said it aims to raise about 2
billion euros from a capital increase at its Brazilian unit as
it develops offshore projects in the Latin American nation. Galp
said today that “several parties demonstrated interest in the
deal,” according to the presentation.  Galp wants to carry out the planned sale of shares in the
Brazilian unit through a private placement rather than through a
public offering in the stock market, and plans to complete the
capital increase by the end of the third quarter, Ferreira de
Oliveira told reporters in Lisbon today.  Gas Unit Bids  China Petrochemical Corp., that nation’s second-largest oil
and gas producer, last year agreed to invest $7.1 billion in the
Brazilian unit of  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  as that Spanish oil company also
raises funds for its offshore projects. Sinopec Group, as the
Chinese company is known, holds 40 percent of Repsol’s Brazilian
unit.  Galp also said today it has received “non-binding”
proposals for the sale of a stake of as much as 49 percent in
its natural-gas infrastructure unit. Binding offers are expected
by the end of May and a final decision is due at the end of the
first half. Galp in August said it hired two banks to study the
sale of a minority stake in the unit.  Galp’s first-quarter average working interest production
rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier to 19,000 barrels a day,
helped by increased output at  Angola ’s Tombua-Landana and BBLT
fields. Average net entitlement production fell 24 percent to
9,600 barrels a day. Natural-gas sales rose 36 percent to 1.61
billion cubic meters.  Production Target  The company said today that it targets working interest
production of 21,000 barrels a day for the second quarter. Galp
said in March that it targets a 10-fold increase in working
interest production to 200,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
in 2020 from 19,500 barrels last year. It aims to reach working
interest production of 300,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
before 2025.  In Brazil, Galp has stakes in four offshore blocks in the
Santos Basin, including the Lula and Jupiter finds.  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, is
developing offshore deposits that include the Americas’ two
largest oil discoveries since  Mexico ’s Cantarell field in 1976.  The Lula field, formerly known as Tupi, holds an estimated
6.5 billion barrels of recoverable oil and equivalents. Galp is
also a partner of Petrobras at Cernambi, which holds 1.8 billion
barrels of estimated reserves.  Galp shares rose 2.6 percent to 14.96 euros at 12:59 p.m.
in Lisbon, giving Galp a market value of 12.4 billion euros.  Eni
SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s biggest oil company, and Portuguese holding company
Amorim Energia BV each control a third of Galp.  Eni has temporarily suspended the sale of its stake in Galp
due to the political crisis in Portugal, Chief Financial Officer
Alessandro Bernini said on April 27, adding that he is confident
a solution will be found “by the end of the year.”  Portuguese Prime Minister Jose Socrates stepped down March
23 after parliament rejected his deficit-cutting plan. The
country will hold early elections on June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Joao Lima} in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  