-- 
GE Starts Latin America M&A Team to Plan Deals as Orders Surge in Region

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-04-29T19:37:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/general-electric-starts-m-a-team-in-latin-america-as-regional-orders-surge.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s
biggest maker of power-generation equipment, is creating a team
to study acquisition opportunities in Latin America as orders
grow at 30 percent rates on expanding regional economies.  GE will have a team of five people in  Sao Paulo  working on
analyzing acquisition targets, said Reinaldo Garcia, the
company’s chief executive officer for Latin America. The group
will be led by Fernardo Bertoni, a former GE Oil and Gas
executive, and will focus on infrastructure-related companies,
Garcia said in an interview in  Rio de Janeiro  today.  “It’s a team that will look at companies and technologies
to buy,” Garcia said. “If there are interesting technologies
that would help us in complementing our business, we will be
seriously looking at that.”  Latin America  will grow 4.7 percent this year and 4.2
percent in 2012 helped by “strong” commodity export prices,
the  International Monetary Fund  said April 11 after raising its
forecasts. GE’s orders in the region are expected to increase
about 30 percent this year and at a “pretty robust double
digit” rate in 2012, Garcia, 51, said on the sidelines of the
 World Economic Forum  that takes place in Rio this week.  “This is a region that has tremendous opportunities for
growth,” he said. “We like the growth rate and the margins
that we are getting.”  $500-Million Expansion  GE in November said it will spend $500 million to expand
energy, transportation and health-care manufacturing in Brazil
while adding a fifth global research center as Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  takes advantage of faster growth in
emerging markets.  The company is in the process of tapping what Garcia
described as tight markets for about 800 positions in the region
and wants to hire another 1,000 on top of that in the next year.  “The market in Latin America is tight,” Garcia said. “In
Brazil it is extremely tight. Competition for talent is very
strong.”  In the first three months of this year, revenue in GE’s
Brazilian operations rose 80 percent compared with the year-
earlier period,  GE said  when it reported first-quarter results
last week. It doesn’t disclose a dollar figure for the region.  While GE doesn’t break down total sales from  Brazil  or
Latin America, sales in the Americas excluding the U.S. were
$13.4 billion in 2010, up from $11.4 billion in 2009.  In December, GE’s wind turbine unit won orders for more
than 400 megawatts of  wind turbines  in Brazil as Immelt taps
growth in the region. The company’s energy division completed
its purchase of Wellstream Holdings Plc, an oil services
provider focused on Brazil, in March to expand presence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  