-- 
Retail Sales Decline in March as Faster Inflation Erodes Purchasing Power

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-04-29T07:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/germany-s-retail-sales-decline-as-faster-inflation-erodes-purchasing-power.html
German retail sales fell for a
second month in March as inflation accelerated, eroding
household purchasing power.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings,
decreased 2.1 percent from February, when they fell 0.4 percent,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a 0.2 percent gain, according to the median
of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier,
sales declined 3.5 percent.  German inflation quickened to 2.6 percent in April, the
fastest pace in 2 1/2 years, driven by surging  oil prices . At
the same time, unemployment dropped to a 19-year low as
companies stepped up production to meet export orders. The
government expects  Europe ’s largest economy to expand 2.6
percent this year after record growth of 3.6 percent in 2010.  “A negative reading in March isn’t unusual if Easter falls
in April,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt. “In the first quarter, retail sales still exceed
the fourth quarter average by 0.2 percent.”  Consumer-price developments are casting a “slight shadow”
on an otherwise “positive” economic outlook, the  Economy
Ministry  said on April 19.  German factory orders and industrial production rose more
than economists predicted in February.  ‘Negative Repercussions’  “Private consumption will markedly recover this year and
also grow in 2012,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at
Dekabank in Frankfurt. “However, while the labor market is
having a positive impact on private spending, we also have
negative repercussions from the surge in inflation.”  Consumer confidence  will decline for a second month in May
as households grapple with higher food and energy prices,
Nuremberg-based market-research firm GfK AG said this week.
Business confidence fell for a second month in April after oil
prices rose to the highest in more than two years.  “Inflation is certainly the major risk for private
consumption in  Germany ; consumers in particular are sensitive to
price increases at the pump,” said Mario Gruppe, an economist
at NordLB in Hanover, Germany. “However, a negative reading is
not the end of the world as we’ll see a robust economic upswing
despite looming inflation risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  