-- 
Gold-Buying Central Banks May Signal Bullion Extending Record Price Rally

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-04-29T19:17:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/gold-buying-central-banks-may-signal-bullion-extending-record-price-rally.html
Central banks that were net sellers
of gold a decade ago are buying the precious metal to reduce
their reliance on the dollar as a reserve currency, signaling
demand that may extend a record rally in prices.  As  developing countries  accelerate purchases, gold may
reach $2,000 an ounce this year, compared with a record of
$1,569.80 today in New York, said Robert McEwen, the chief
executive officer of producer U.S. Gold Corp. Euro Pacific
Capital’s  Michael Pento , who correctly predicted gold’s highs
for the past two years, forecasts a 2011 high of $1,600.  Prices reached a record 15 times this month on demand from
investors seeking an alternative to the dollar after the
currency slumped to the lowest since 2009,  U.S. debt  widened,
and the Federal Reserve signaled April 27 that borrowing costs
will remain near zero percent for an extended period. The
economy in China, the biggest foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries,
grew 9.7 percent in the first quarter.  “ China  is out to have more gold than America, and Russia
is aspiring to the same,” McEwen said yesterday in an interview
at a Bloomberg Link conference in New York. “When you have
debt, you don’t have a lot of flexibility. China wants to show
its currency has more backing than the U.S.”  In 2010, central banks became net buyers for the first time
in two decades, adding 87 metric tons in official-sector
purchases by countries including  Bolivia , Sri Lanka and
Mauritius, according to World Gold Council data. China, with
more than $3 trillion in foreign-currency reserves, plans to set
up new funds to invest in precious metals, Century Weekly
reported this week.  Russia  purchased 8 tons of gold in the first
quarter.  China’s Gold Reserves  China, which has just 1.6 percent of its reserves in gold,
may invest more than $1 trillion in bullion, Pento said. “China
wants to be an international player, and they need to own more
gold than they currently have.”  The U.S. Treasury Department projects the government could
reach its debt ceiling of $14.3 trillion as soon as mid-May and
run out of options for avoiding default by early July. The Fed
has kept its benchmark rate between zero percent and 0.25
percent since December 2008 to help stimulate the economy,
driving the dollar down 11 percent against a basket of six major
currencies during the past year.  “Until monetary policy changes, you’re going to continue
to see gold go up,” said  Michael Cuggino , who helps manage $12
billion at Permanent Portfolio Funds in  San Francisco .  “Ultimately the best thing we can do to create strong
fundamentals for the dollar in the medium term is first, keep
inflation low, which maintains the buying power of the dollar,
and second, create a stronger economy,” Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said on April 27.  U.S. Reserves  As of April, China was the sixth-largest official holder of
gold, with 1,054.1 tons, according to World Gold Council
estimates. The U.S. has the most, with 8,133.5 tons, or 74.8
percent of the nation’s currency reserves, council data show.  Central-bank buying may have the same impact on gold as the
introduction of exchange-traded funds, Cuggino said. Prices have
more than tripled since the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest ETF
backed by bullion, was introduced in November 2004.  Central banks in emerging markets may aim to hold 2 percent
to 8 percent of their foreign-currency reserves in gold,
 Francisco Blanch , the head of commodities research at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  New York , said in an interview.  Gold is “close to” its cyclical high, said Blanch, who
expects the metal to average $1,500 this year.  Gold’s Enemies  “The enemies of gold are rising  interest rates  and a
balanced budget,” said Pento of Euro Pacific Capital in New
York. “I look for a summer swoon once Bernanke exits the  bond
market . You’re going to have a temporary rise in real interest
rates.”  The Fed said it would buy $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries
through June.  The Federal Funds rate would have to rise to “Volcker”
levels before gold enters a  bear market , said Gold Corp.’s
McEwen, who expects the metal to rise to $5,000 over three to
four years.  Prices have advanced 10 percent this year, extending a
decade of gains in which gold jumped sixfold from a low in 1999.
The all-time inflation adjusted record is $2,338.92, based on
the value on Jan. 21, 1980, according to a calculator on the Web
site of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  Minneapolis .  Former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker ended gold’s rally to a
then-record $873 by raising borrowing costs to 20 percent in
March 1980.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in New York at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 