-- 
Google Probe Said to Be Focus of Calls to Companies by FTC

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/google-said-to-be-subject-of-ftc-probe-into-web-search-industry-dominance.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
is preparing an investigation of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s dominance of the
Internet search industry by alerting high-tech companies to
gather information for the probe, three people familiar with the
matter said.  The agency told the companies that it plans to issue so-
called civil investigative demands for the information, said the
people, who requested anonymity because the FTC hasn’t made the
matter public. The demands are similar to subpoenas.  The FTC, which has been considering a broad investigation,
waited until the  Justice Department  concluded its own review of
 Mountain View , California-based Google’s acquisition of ITA
Software Inc., two people familiar with the matter said earlier
this month. The Justice Department on April 9 approved Google’s
$700 million purchase of ITA on the condition it makes travel
data available to search-engine rivals and lets the government
review complaints that it’s acting unfairly.  An FTC investigation “has the potential to be very
significant,” Eleanor Fox, a law professor at  New York
University , said in an interview. “It could be ‘Google as the
next Microsoft’,” Fox said, referring to the Justice Department
probe and lawsuit settlement involving the Redmond, Washington-
based software maker.  The final judgment in the Microsoft case expires next
month.  A Google spokesman, Adam Kovacevich, declined to comment.
Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, also declined to comment,
saying that she doesn’t confirm investigations.  Google is facing growing scrutiny from regulators as it
bolsters its search business. Officials in  Texas  and the
European Commission have started investigations into Google’s
search dominance, while Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine is
considering such a probe.  Difficult Case  It may be difficult for the FTC to build a case against
Google’s search business, said James Grimmelmann, an associate
professor of law at New York Law School who specializes in
Internet law.  Google has taken the market share it has “because their
search results are better,” he said in an interview.  Still, federal investigators may find violations in how
Google has tried to use its clout to gain an upper hand in new
markets, he said.  “They’re doing stuff to try to take control of markets”
that may be fodder for an FTC antitrust lawsuit, he said.  Cell Phone Location  Grimmelmann pointed to a lawsuit in Massachusetts state
court by Boston-based  Skyhook Wireless  that alleges Google
pressured Motorola Inc. and other Skyhook customers not to use
the company’s software for pinpointing a cell phone’s location.  Google makes a product that competes with Skyhook’s.  The FTC in February hired Timothy Wu, an information
industries scholar, who said in an interview last week that
dominant Internet companies should be barred from monopolizing
more than one market.  The FTC also recently tapped Edward Felten, known for
cracking the music industry’s digital-copyright protection code,
to be the agency’s technology chief.  Thomas Rosch, a Republican who is one of five FTC
commissioners, said in an interview last month he supported a
probe of the dominant players in the Internet-search industry,
without specifying which companies.  Rosch is the only commissioner to say publicly that such an
investigation is in order.  Antitrust Subcommittee  U.S. Senator  Herb Kohl , the Wisconsin Democrat who heads a
Judiciary antitrust subcommittee, has said he will examine
Google’s business practices. Senator  Mike Lee  of  Utah , the
panel’s senior Republican, has called for hearings.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Kayak.com,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and other Google
competitors banded together as  FairSearch.org  to oppose the
acquisition of ITA, which makes software that provides data for
online travel sites such as  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  They said the
deal would reduce competition and called on the Justice
Department to impose conditions for the transaction.  An FTC investigation of Google “is long overdue,” said
John Simpson, consumer advocate at Santa Monica, California-
based Consumer Watchdog.  “Google is the Standard Oil Company of this century,”
said Simpson, who’s called for Google’s breakup, in an e-mailed
statement.  The EU probe is examining whether Google discriminated
against other services in search results and stopped websites
from accepting rival ads. A complaint from Microsoft last month
may expand the investigation to online video and mobile phones.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 