-- 
Groupon Won’t Place Ads on ‘Apprentice’ Site After Complaints About Trump

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-29T20:37:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/groupon-won-t-place-apprentice-site-ads-amid-complaints-1-.html
Groupon Inc. said it won’t let ads
appear on the website for “The Apprentice” after customers
complained about the political views of  Donald Trump , the real
estate developer who stars on the NBC television show.  While Groupon isn’t a sponsor of the show, its ads
occasionally appear on the related site, Julie Mossler, a
spokeswoman for Chicago-based Groupon, said in a  statement .  “Enough consumers contacted us to warrant ensuring that we
don’t place ads on ‘The Apprentice’ home page in the future,”
the statement said. “This isn’t a political statement, it’s
avoiding intentionally upsetting a segment of our customers.”  Trump, who’s considering a run for the White House, has
called on  Barack Obama  to present documents proving he was born
in the U.S., joining the ranks of the so-called birther
movement, which questions the president’s citizenship. Obama
released a copy of his long-form birth certificate this week,
decrying the “silliness” of the debate.  Rebecca Marks, a spokeswoman for NBC Entertainment in  Los
Angeles , didn’t respond to a request for comment. NBC is
controlled by Philadelphia-based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  Cathy Hoffman
Glosser, a spokeswoman for the Trump Organization in  New York ,
didn’t return a message seeking comment.  Political activist website ThinkProgress yesterday had
 urged  Groupon to withdraw its ads appearing in connection with
Trump properties.  Australian Gold  Australian Gold LLC , a sun-care products maker based in
Indianapolis, is among companies that sponsor “Celebrity
Apprentice,” a version of the show that features entertainers
vying to remain employed by Trump as they raise money for
charity.  The company sponsored a single episode and doesn’t plan
further advertising for the show right now, Martha Miller, a
spokeswoman for Australian Gold, said yesterday. She said the
plans are unrelated to Trump’s views and that the company hasn’t
received complaints about him.  In a statement today, Australian Gold said it was
“extremely pleased” with the results from its sponsorship of the
April 10 episode and would consider more ads.  Australian Gold has “the highest respect for Donald Trump
both personally and professionally,” the company, owned by New
Sunshine LLC, said in a statement.  Groupon’s decision to cease running “Apprentice” ads
hasn’t stopped it from promoting deals for Trump properties. The
site is currently offering a  52 percent discount  for a stay at
the Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino in  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  