-- 
Li Ka-Shing’s $1.6 Billion Yuan Property Trust Declines in Hong Kong Debut

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-04-29T08:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/li-ka-shing-s-1-6-billion-yuan-property-trust-declines-in-hong-kong-debut.html
Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s Hui Xian
Real Estate Investment Trust,  Hong Kong ’s first stock sale
denominated in yuan, fell on its debut after offering the lowest
yield among property trusts in the city.  Hui Xian declined as much as 11 percent and ended its first
day 9.4 percent lower at 4.75 yuan. The trust raised 10.5
billion yuan ($1.6 billion) selling units at 5.24 yuan each, the
low end of its price range.  Backed by an office and retail development in Beijing, the
trust has a forecast yield of 4.26 percent compared with an
average estimated yield of 4.85 percent for Hong Kong-traded
REITS. Hui Xian marked the first time in at least eight years
that 82-year-old Li, the city’s richest man, had to settle for
the lowest amount sought in an IPO of a property trust.  “One of the trust’s selling point was that you’re also
betting on yuan appreciation, but this might’ve turned away some
investors because they thought the procedure of exchanging yuan
to invest is just too much trouble and complicated,” said
 Castor Pang , research director at Cinda International Holdings
Ltd. “This adds to the fact that it offers a slightly lower
return than most other REITs out there.”  Individuals applied for about 2.2 times the stock reserved
for them, according to a statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange yesterday.  The three other REITs backed by Li that sold stock in IPOs
since 2003 raised the maximum targeted amount, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Prosperity REIT, Li’s last REIT IPO in Hong Kong,
which started trading in December 2005, drew retail orders of
300 times the stock on offer.  Li’s REITs  Underwriters BOC International Holdings Ltd., Citic
Securities and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  set aside 20 percent of the
total offering in Hui Xian for individuals, double the typical
retail allotment in Hong Kong IPOs. The decision was driven by
expectations that Hui Xian would be popular among retail
investors, people familiar with the process said.  “It looks like it won’t be as successful as people thought
it would be,”  Alex Au , managing director of Richland Capital
Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, which oversees $300 million of
assets, said before the shares started trading. “Very strong
response for the IPO was expected from the retail market, but it
turns out it was barely oversubscribed.”  Prosperity REIT (808)  now has an indicated yield of 5.91 percent,
according to Bloomberg data. Suntec Real Estate Investment Trust
and Fortune Real Estate Investment, the REITs Li took public in
 Singapore  in 2003 and 2004, have yields of 6.07 percent and 6.51
percent, respectively, according to Bloomberg data.  Yuan Deposits  Li is seeking to take advantage of  China ’s efforts to
promote international use of its currency and swelling yuan
deposits in Hong Kong.  There are about 200 billion yuan of “idle” Chinese-
currency deposits in Hong Kong that could flow into the IPO,
according to a sales document sent by one of the underwriters
before marketing for the stock sale.  “Originally, people thought that if this is successful,
there will be more yuan-denominated IPOs in Hong Kong, but if
this stock goes below water, then the interest for future yuan-
denominated IPOs will be lower,” Au said.  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong may rise to 870 billion yuan by
the end of this year, Zhang Guangping, deputy director general
of the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s Shanghai branch,
said today. The city’s yuan-denominated deposits reached a
record $52 billion in February.  Oriental Plaza  Hui Xian, controlled by Li’s Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.
and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , is backed by the  Oriental Plaza  in
Central Beijing. Covering 100,000 square meters (1.1 million
square feet), Oriental Plaza consists of eight premium office
towers, a shopping mall, a Grand Hyatt Hotel and serviced
apartments, according to its website.  “The properties are of good quality in a prime location,
but that may not make up for other risk factors,” said  Katie Chan , Hong Kong-based analyst at Haitong International
Securities Group Ltd. “For example, some investors may think
there may be potential exchange rate gain, but the IPO
prospectus actually made it clear that dividends may not be paid
in yuan.”  Hui Xian’s ownership claim to the assets backing the trust
expires in 2049, according to the IPO prospectus.  Li was ranked 11th in Forbes magazine’s annual global rich
list last month with an estimated wealth of $26 billion.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  