-- 
Qaddafi’s Son, Three Grandchildren Killed in NATO Air Strikes

-- B y   N a d e e m   H a m i d   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-05-01T09:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/libyan-forces-keep-up-attacks-as-nato-shifts-to-target-qaddafi-s-troops.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s youngest son, Saif
al-Arab, and three grandchildren were killed in an allied
airstrike on Tripoli, the government said.  Qaddafi and his wife were in the house at the time and
survived the attack that killed his son, Moussa Ibrahim, a
spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, said in a news conference.
The strike was a “direct operation to assassinate” Qaddafi, he
said.  “We do not target individuals,” Lieutenant-General
Charles Bouchard, who commands the alliance’s operation, said in
a  statement  on NATO’s website.  More than two months of clashes in Libya have killed
thousands and helped push  oil prices  up more than 30 percent.
Much of the fighting is now centered on the rebel-held western
port city of Misrata, where opposition forces last week pushed
Qaddafi loyalists out of the city center. Qaddafi’s troops are
shelling civilian areas in the city and attempted to mine part
of the harbor, according to NATO.  The  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  said aircraft
carried out “precision strikes” during the night against
military installations in Tripoli.  If true, the killing of Qaddafi’s son would come 25 years
and two weeks after his adopted daughter died in a U.S. strike.
The U.S. bombed Libya in 1986, killing 37 people, in retaliation
for the bombing of a Berlin disco, which was frequented by U.S.
soldiers stationed in  Germany .  No Cease-fire  NATO yesterday rejected a cease-fire offer from Qaddafi,
saying his forces must stop their attacks on civilians before it
considers any truce. Qaddafi, 69, said he’ll stay in the North
African nation where his people want “martyrdom or victory” in
the face of a rebel insurgency that began in mid-February.  It’s the second time in as many months that Qaddafi offers
a cease-fire. In March, hours after then-Libyan Foreign Minister
Moussa Koussa said the regime was observing a cease-fire,
Qaddafi’s forces attacked the outskirts of Benghazi. Koussa has
since defected.  Saif Al-Arab, who was born in 1982, is Qaddafi’s  least-well
known  son. German police once  seized a Ferrari  owned by Saif Al-
Arab, a student at the time, for violating noise restrictions,
according to The Telegraph newspaper. He wasn’t reported to have
any public roles, unlike Saif al-Islam, 38, who has become a
public face of the regime.  Other Sons  Qaddafi’s other sons have all had official roles or
international careers. Mutassim, born in 1976, is a national
security adviser, while Hannibal, 35, and Khamis, born in 1978,
command special army battalions  Saadi, 37, who played professional soccer in  Italy , is a
commander of the Libyan special forces, according to an Interpol
notice. Mohamed, who was born in 1970 and is the eldest, is
chairman of the state-run telecommunications company. Aisha,
Qaddafi’s daughter, was born in 1978 and is an attorney. She was
part of the legal team that defended  Saddam Hussein .  Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, a spokesman for the rebels’ National
Transitional Council, said reports of the deaths could be a ploy
by Qaddafi to win international sympathy, according to al-
Jazeera.  “If the news is true, the message has been driven to
him,” said Faraj Najem, a London-based Libyan historian who
opposes Qaddafi. “The pain is closer to him. Death has come
closer to him.”  ‘Systematic Attacks’  “NATO’s targets are military in nature and have been
clearly linked to the Qaddafi’s regime’s systematic attacks on
the Libyan population,” Bouchard said, adding he’s aware of
reports on the deaths of Qaddafi family members. “We regret all
loss of life, especially the innocent civilians being harmed as
the result of the ongoing conflict.”  NATO said aircraft attacked a “known command and control
building” in Tripoli’s Bab al-Azizya neighborhood.  Just hours before Qaddafi spoke of a truce, his forces
shelled Misrata, killing many people, including children, a NATO
official who declined to be named, citing policy, said
yesterday.  NATO foreign ministers have made it clear that the alliance
will continue operations until all of Qaddafi’s forces have
returned to their bases, the official said.  ‘Post to Leave’  “I don’t have a post to leave,” Qaddafi said in the April
30 speech on Libyan state television broadcast by  Al Arabiya .
“If I had a post, I would have ended like Mubarak or Ben Ali,”
he said, referring to Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and
Tunisia’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, who were forced to
step down in the face of popular protests earlier this year.  The mines were laid two to three kilometers (1.2 to 1.9
miles) offshore, detected by NATO, and are now being disposed of
onsite, NATO said in a statement posted on its website. The
temporary closing of the port prevented two humanitarian ships
from docking, NATO said.  “The mining of a civilian port by pro-Qaddafi forces is
clearly designed to disrupt the lawful flow of humanitarian aid
to the innocent civilian people of  Libya ,” Italian Navy Vice
Admiral Rinaldo Veri said in the statement.  Veri also asked civilian shipping companies to continue
their coordination with NATO to ensure the safety of maritime
transport in the region.  Terrorists Blamed  Thousands of people have died in more than two months of
violence in Libya, which began with an uprising in the eastern
city of Benghazi. In his speech, the Libyan leader blamed
terrorists for leading the fight against his regime and said he
would agree to a cease-fire if the extremists can be convinced
to introduce a truce.  The insurgency has helped push oil prices up more than 30
percent. Crude oil for June delivery rose $1.07 to settle at
$113.93 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  April 29.
Futures rose 6.8 percent last month. Qaddafi said no one can
force him to leave Libya and said outsiders won’t control the
nation’s oil,  Africa ’s biggest proven crude reserves.  In the past month, more than 30,000 people have fled the
fighting in the western mountains and crossed into  Tunisia  at
Dehiba, according to the United Nations refugee agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadeem Hamid in  Washington  at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  