-- 
Libyan Fight for Key Border Crossing Spills Into Tunisia as Deaths Mount

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-04-29T14:56:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/libyan-fight-for-key-border-crossing-spills-into-tunisia-as-deaths-mount.html
A battle between Libyan government
forces and rebels for a key border crossing spilled into
Tunisia, part of violence spreading throughout the country as
rebels struggle to sustain an uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi .  Fifteen trucks with Qaddafi regime troops entered Tunisia’s
border town of Dehiba early today during a clash with rebels in
which “dozens” were killed, state-run  Tunis Afrique Presse 
said. The Libyan soldiers were disarmed and then released by
Tunisian forces, Al-Jazeera television reported. Rebels retook
control of the post after four hours of fighting, TAP said.  “The Tunisian authorities informed the Libyans of their
extreme indignation and asked them to take immediate measures to
stop these violations,” the  Foreign Ministry  said in a faxed
statement yesterday after cross-border shelling began. The
skirmish highlighted intensified fighting in the mountainous
region southwest of Tripoli, where U.S. officials say Qaddafi’s
soldiers have been attacking minority Berbers.  More than two months of clashes in Libya have killed
thousands and helped push  oil prices  up more than 30 percent.
Much of the fighting has centered on the rebel-held western port
city of Misrata, where opposition forces this week pushed
Qaddafi loyalists out of the city center. Qaddafi’s troops
continue to shell civilian areas in the city and attempted to
mine part of the harbor, NATO said today.  Laying Mines  “Some vessels which, we assume were pro-Qaddafi, were
laying mines in the area of the harbor, indiscriminately,” an
alliance spokesman, Brigadier Rob Weighill, told reporters today
from NATO’s command center in Naples,  Italy .  Even though rebels have gained “significant” ground
against Qaddafi’s forces, the regime has damaged Misrata’s sewer
system and a desalination plant. Suggestions that the opposition
is “winning” are “over-optimistic,” Weighill said.  The  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  is stepping up its
air campaign, selecting targets closer to Qaddafi. The NATO
spokesman said the alliance would also focus more on the Nafusah
Mountains in western  Libya  near the border clash.  Alliance jets targeted 19 ammunition storage bunkers near
Sirte and Mizdah, as well as rocket launchers, artillery
vehicles and an armored personnel carrier in strikes carried out
on April 27, NATO said in a statement today.  ‘Especially Brutal’  Gene Cretz , the U.S. ambassador to Libya, told reporters at
the State Department April 27 that Qaddafi’s forces “have been
especially brutal” in the western mountains “where there has
always been a suspicion on the part of Qaddafi toward the Berber
groups.” He said officials have seen estimates of as many as
30,000 people killed in the Libyan conflict since mid-February.  Thousands of Libyans fleeing the fighting crossed into
 Tunisia  last night, the TAP news agency said.  The flare-up in violence in the west contrasts with the
rebels’ frontline in the east, where running clashes with
loyalists on the coastal road between the dictator’s hometown of
Sirte and rebel-held Benghazi have ground to a standstill.  Qaddafi forces seized the town of Al-Kufrah in the
country’s southeast desert region, in a province that’s home to
some of Libya’s richest oil fields. About 250 Libyan soldiers in
trucks descended on the town yesterday and drove out rebels,
 Agence France-Presse  reported yesterday, citing rebels.  Crude oil for June delivery rose 14 cents to $113 a barrel
at 9:18 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures are up
5.9 percent in April and have advanced every month since
September, the longest streak of gains since the contract began
trading in 1983. Prices have jumped 33 percent in the past year.  Libya has  Africa ’s biggest proven oil reserves. Its output
is down 75 percent as the fighting forced producers such as
 Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  to evacuate workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  