-- 
Microsoft Alum Chases Groupon With DailyGobble Food-Coupon Site

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-04-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/microsoft-alum-chases-groupon-with-dailygobble-food-coupon-site.html
A former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  product
manager who once worked for  Michael Dell ’s hedge fund aims to do
for restaurants what  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  does for airplanes: fill empty
seats during off-peak hours.  Dazhi Chen, a Harvard Business School alumnus, has amassed
a staff of 20 from postings on Craigslist.com and is betting
half a million dollars that his website,  DailyGobble.com , can
challenge LivingSocial and Groupon Inc. to become a premier-
dining discount destination. The site is set to debut today.  Chen put up $100,000 of his own money to chase his cut of
the $385.5 billion diners spend at restaurants and bars each
year by offering food rebates on his site. He tried and failed a
decade ago, using $1 million in funding on an effort Chen says
was poorly timed to coincide with the dot-com crash. The rise of
smartphones and online marketing convinced him to try again.  “There is very significant opportunity for new entrants to
come in with innovation and gain significant traction, but these
things are lightning in a bottle,” said Lou Kerner, a social
media analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. “Groupon has grown
dramatically faster than anyone thought they would.”  Chen’s challenge is ensuring DailyGobble.com stands out
among hundreds of online coupon sites, led by Groupon and
LivingSocial. The 330 restaurants posting discounts on
DailyGobble.com so far are Chen’s proof his concept has
potential. Within a year, he projects quarterly revenue of as
much as $7 million and net income of $250,000.  Limit Discounts  DailyGobble’s pitch to restaurateurs is that they only pay
for coupons diners use, and they can limit discounts to specific
times of day when tables typically sit vacant. Many established
coupon sites, LivingSocial among them, charge up-front fees for
listings and don’t permit time restrictions.  “We can use DailyGobble for times that the restaurant is
not full,” said Darren Wan, 36, owner of Red Egg in  New York ,
which is offering a 20 percent rebate on Chen’s site on Tuesdays
and Sundays from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m.  DailyGobble charges eateries fees of 5 percent of food
sales to list deals -- a smaller cut than most other coupon
sites take -- and requires discounts of at least 20 percent,
Chen said. Diners get rebate checks in the mail after spending
enough to amass $25 in savings or can send funds to a PayPal
account.  Rebates Versus Coupons  The refund model sets DailyGobble apart from Groupon and
LivingSocial, among other deal sites, where buyers purchase the
discounted items up front, then use coupons when they dine out.  “I think there will be some resistance and hesitation in
getting the money back later,” said  Greg Sterling , an analyst
with Opus Research Inc. in  San Francisco . “There’s a trust
issue initially. If it’s easy to get the money, it will create a
lot of stickiness and loyalty.”  Chen says diners will like avoiding the hassle and
potential embarrassment of coupons, particularly in the two
food-obsessed cities his site targets: New York and San
Francisco.  A sales force is paramount to make such sites viable, said
 Sucharita Mulpuru , an analyst at Forrester Research. DailyGobble
has nine employees on its sales team so far, Chen said.  “It’s very, very labor intensive,” Mulpuru said. “You
have to get the word out to customers and you have to do it in a
way that’s not predictable.”  Smartphone Apps  The site now works through an iPhone application that lets
diners photograph receipts and e-mail them to DailyGobble.
Employees at the company’s one-room New York office verify the
bill and start a rebate tab for customers.  Apps for  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software should be available
within a week, and software for  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s
BlackBerry will be released in four to six weeks, Chen said.  Other deal companies offer businesses delayed returns,
usually giving the eatery 50 percent of its money within three
to 10 days and the rest as many as 40 days after the deal, said
Alberto Gonzalez, 46, owner of New York-based  GustOrganics . They
also don’t let businesses pick the time customers can use the
deal, he said. A flood of coupon-carrying clients can overwhelm
an unprepared small business.  “One of the issues we normally have with other deals is
all the people with the deals come when we’re the busiest,”
Gonzalez said. “We have to run the vouchers, and that takes
time, and sometimes it gets complicated.”  Gonzalez, who is offering 25 percent off meals between 8
a.m. and 11 a.m. with DailyGobble, said other deal companies
he’s used, including Groupon,  DailyCandy Inc.  and Gilt Groupe
Inc.’s  Gilt City , take as much as 25 percent of sales generated
through their sites, versus DailyGobble’s 5 percent.  Checkout, Tips  No coupons also means diners don’t have to slow the
checkout process while managers verify authenticity, and the
wait staff is tipped for the full amount of the bill, said Wan,
owner of  Red Egg .  Wan said he tried Groupon in February because of the
breadth of its user base. The customers who came were the sort
who “are always looking for deals” and often tipped based on
the discounted price, he said.  “It’s hard to keep the wait staff motivated when they’re
getting jerked on tips,” he said.  Groupon spokeswoman Julie Mossler said the company puts a
note on vouchers reminding people to be good customers, and has
data that show customers are spending 60 percent to 80 percent
more than the face value of its coupons.  Wan says he has little to lose by trying DailyGobble.  “Best-case scenario, we’re able to fill up empty seats
during specific times of the day when we don’t experience a lot
of diners,” he said. “Worst-case scenario, you lose a customer
that used to dine at your restaurant any time of the week, but
now only dines when there’s a special available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  