-- 
Microsoft Profit Falls Below Apple’s After IPad Eats Into Windows Revenue

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-04-29T20:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/microsoft-profit-falls-below-apple-s-as-ipad-eats-into-sales.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows sales
slumped last quarter as the iPad crimped demand for consumer
laptops, marking the first time in 20 years that the software
maker reported a smaller quarterly profit than  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Revenue in Microsoft’s Windows division fell 4.4 percent to
$4.45 billion, the Redmond, Washington-based company said
yesterday in a statement. That missed the $4.6 billion average
prediction of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income was
$5.23 billion, eclipsed by the $5.99 billion reported by Apple
last quarter.  Consumer PC shipments dropped 8 percent in the quarter,
Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Peter Klein said. Netbooks --
the cheap laptops that became popular during the recession --
plunged 40 percent, partially because of defections to tablet
computers, he said. The decline overshadowed a better-than-
anticipated performance from Microsoft’s Office unit and
increased PC demand from corporations.  “You have to live underneath a rock not to know that the
iPad has taken share from the netbook,” said Pat Becker Jr.,
principal of  Portland , Oregon-based Becker Capital Management
Inc., which holds Microsoft shares as part of its $2.5 billion
in assets. “It’s a problem on the consumer side, and that’s a
market where Microsoft continues to give up territory to
Apple.”  Microsoft fell 79 cents, or 3 percent, to $25.92 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares have
declined 7.1 percent this year.  Less Than Apple  Net income rose to 61 cents a share, from $4.01 billion, or
45 cents, Microsoft said yesterday. Excluding a 5-cent per-share
tax benefit, earnings matched the 56-cent average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The results underscore the ascendance of Apple, which
surpassed Microsoft as the world’s most valuable technology
company last May. The last time Apple’s profit was bigger than
Microsoft’s was 1991.  While PC shipments to corporate customers rose 9 percent,
tablet competition accounted for some of the sluggishness in
consumer sales, Klein said in an interview.  “It’s fair to say tablet is some of that,” he said.  Total PC sales declined 2 percent last quarter, Microsoft
 said . That the Windows business performed even worse adds to the
concern over Microsoft’s performance, said Brendan Barnicle, an
analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in Portland.  Office Sales  “That’s suggesting some market share loss, some real
deterioration,” said Barnicle, who rates Microsoft’s stock
“sector perform.”  Microsoft’s overall sales rose to $16.4 billion, compared
with the $16.2 billion average projection. That reflected demand
for such products as Office business-productivity software and
programs for servers -- the computers that run networks.  “We are seeing businesses invest in technology,” Klein
said. “They are buying hardware and they are buying Microsoft
software.” Microsoft expects corporate PC shipments to outpace
consumer sales for the rest of the year.  Sales in the business division, which sells Office software
and is the company’s biggest unit, rose 21 percent to $5.25
billion, compared with the $4.9 billion average estimate of
analysts. Revenue at the Server and Tools unit was $4.1 billion,
compared with the $4 billion analysts projected.  “There is a tale of two cities going on here,” said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in  San Francisco , who recommends
buying Microsoft shares. “You have consumers who say an iPad is
good enough for consuming data, but for the enterprise side,
those enterprises are continuing with Microsoft. The thing that
has hurt Microsoft is that tablets are no question the must-have
item for consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  