-- 
U.S. Prosecutors Probe High-Frequency, Algorithmic Trades

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-04-29T20:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/high-frequency-trades-manipulation-probe-joined-by-u-s-justice-department.html
U.S. prosecutors have joined
regulators’ investigation into whether some high-speed traders
are manipulating markets by posting and immediately canceling
waves of rapid-fire orders, two officials said.  Justice Department  investigators are “working closely”
with the Securities and Exchange Commission to review practices
“that are potentially manipulative, like quote-stuffing,” Marc
Berger, chief of the Securities and Commodities Task Force at
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of  New
York , said today at an event in New York.  While regulators previously said they were probing possibly
abusive algorithmic trading practices, the attention of criminal
authorities ramps up the stakes.  The SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission sharpened
their focus on technology-driven trading after the so-called
flash crash on May 6, which temporarily erased about $862
billion from the value of U.S. equities in less than 20 minutes.
Regulators have placed limits on price moves and proposed rules
limiting other practices, and lawmakers banned “spoofing,” in
which market participants try to trick other computers into
making decisions that can be exploited for profit.  A joint SEC-CFTC  report  released in October found no
evidence that the May 6 sell-off was triggered by manipulation.  The SEC last year established a market-abuse unit to
investigate cases of manipulation. At the securities law
conference in New York today, SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said investigators need better technology to adequately
police markets and detect possible misconduct coming from high-
speed and algorithmic trading.  “The question is, do we have enough transparency to detect
wrongdoing if it was going on,” Khuzami said, adding that SEC
investigators are probing other matters arising from the May 6
market crash.  Berger said market manipulation was among six of his task
force’s priority areas, which include  insider trading , Ponzi
schemes, accounting fraud, asset forfeiture and structured
financial products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  