-- 
India’s Bonds Complete Monthly Decline Ahead of Policy Review

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-04-29T11:49:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/india-s-bonds-complete-monthly-decline-ahead-of-policy-review.html
India ’s 10-year bonds completed a
monthly decline on speculation investors refrained from adding
to their holdings before the central bank’s monetary policy
review next week.  The  Reserve Bank  of India may raise its repurchase auction
rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 7 percent
on May 3, according to 17 of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Five forecast a 50 basis-point increase. Inflation
data published this month showed price increases in March
exceeded the central bank’s estimate by almost one percentage
point.  “Interest rates will have to go up again and I expect a 25
basis-point rise in the upcoming policy,” said Paresh Nayar,
Mumbai-based head of currency and money markets at FirstRand
Ltd. “Inflation still remains a concern.”  The yield on the 7.80 percent note due April 2021, the
most-traded government security, was 8.14 percent at the 5 p.m.
close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system.
The rate has increased 34 basis points since the bonds were sold
on April 8. Yields rose three basis points today.  The wholesale  price index  rose 8.98 percent in March from a
year earlier, higher than the central bank’s prediction of 8
percent.  The central bank has increased borrowing costs eight times
since March 2010.  The monetary authority sold 60 billion rupees ($1.4
billion) of 77-day cash management bills today, the Reserve Bank
said in an e-mailed statement.  India’s government plans to borrow more funds through cash
management bills in the first quarter of the financial year that
began April 1, a finance ministry official, who declined to be
identified before an announcement, said in  New Delhi  today.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
rose eight basis points to 7.88 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  