-- 
Bank Indonesia Bars Banks From Adding Wealth Clients

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-05-03T03:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/indonesia-s-central-bank-asks-23-lenders-to-stop-adding-new-wealth-clients.html
(Corrects amount in fourth paragraph of story originally
published on April 29.)  Indonesia’s central bank asked 23
lenders to stop accepting new wealth clients for a month after a
local employee of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  allegedly stole money from
clients and a credit-card holder died at a branch.  Banks including  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest lender, were told by Bank Indonesia to stop acquiring
premium or high-value customers beginning on May 2.  “In the meantime, banks have been asked to improve their
policies, standard operating procedures and internal supervision
as part of an effort to improve the service quality and
protection of customers,” Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah said in a mobile-phone text message today.  Citigroup was barred from adding  wealth-management  and
credit-card clients in Indonesia and may be sanctioned by the
central bank after a customer died on March 29 following
meetings with debt collectors. In a separate case, the police
said a relationship manager for the third-largest U.S. bank
stole 16.1 billion rupiah ($1.9 million) from three clients.  “They’ve asked all banks to review their entire customer
acquisition process and strategy,” DBS Chief Executive Officer
Piyush Gupta said today at a briefing in Singapore. “Once
they’ve given everybody a clean bill of health, they’ll sort of
reopen the spigot.”  Customer Protection  Godwin Chellam, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on  Bank Indonesia ’s move.  The request is aimed at improving “the service quality and
protection of customers, in particular special services that
serve and handle priority customers and wealth management,”
Alamsyah said.  There are 60,000 millionaires in Indonesia and the total
wealth in the country stood at $1.8 trillion in 2010, according
to Credit Suisse Global Wealth report released last year.
Indonesia’s average wealth per adult has increased at the
fastest pace in the Asia-Pacific region since 2000, growing
fivefold to $12,112, according to the report.  Citigold accounts in Indonesia require a minimum balance of
500 million rupiah ($58,370), Hotman Simbolon, a vice president
for customer care at the New York-based bank, said at a hearing
in parliament earlier this month.  The fraud “may damage the public’s trust in the foreign
banks’ branches that are operating in  Indonesia ,” a
parliamentary commission for financial affairs said in an April
8 statement. The lawmakers asked Bank Indonesia to revise
regulations on debt-collection practices, and the police to
probe if there was criminal behavior at the bank’s local unit.  Seized Cars  Citigroup reported the alleged theft by the relationship
manager, who handled more than 200 accounts, to the police
following a complaint by a client on March 11, Simbolon said  on
April 6. Other executives are also being investigated by the
police, he said.  The police seized four cars belonging to the employee,
including a Mercedes E350 Coupe, a Ferrari F430 Scuderia and a
Ferrari California, National Police Director for Economy and
Special Crime Arief Sulistyanto said in an e-mail on April 7.  The commission said on April 8 that it was “very
disappointed” with the debt-collection practices used by
Citigroup’s Indonesian unit that led to the client’s death.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  