-- 
Infosys to Announce Management Revamp to Eliminate ‘Distraction’

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-04-29T03:15:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/infosys-to-announce-management-revamp-to-eliminate-distraction-.html
Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s
second-largest software exporter, will conclude a management
revamp tomorrow after earnings missed estimates for a third time
in four quarters and as board members leave the company.  The biggest management change in the company’s 30-year
history may see Chief Operating Officer S. Dinesh Shibulal, 56,
promoted to chief executive officer, said Rod Bourgeois, 
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. The board will also
name a replacement for billionaire Chairman N.R. Narayana Murthy.  The new management at Infosys will work to boost market
share, according to Nimish Joshi, an analyst at CLSA Ltd. Rising
wage costs and increasing competition resulted in Infosys
missing analysts’ estimates by 4 percent in the quarter ended
March 31. Infosys’s Nasdaq listed American depositary receipts
have fallen 15 percent this year making it the  third-worst
performer in the 30-member  CBOE Technology Index. (TXX)   “Infosys in recent months has been going through
challenging transitions, which have contributed to revenue
growth disappointing by Infosys standards,” said New York-based
Bourgeois. Shibulal’s “previous roles at Infosys heading
delivery and sales functions likely gave him a hands-on
understanding of the key functions of the company.”  Infosys will identify the candidate for the chairman’s
position, spokeswoman Priyanka Waghre said, declining to give
further details.  ‘Rising Frustration’  The company’s shares fell 10 percent on April 15, the most
in two years after forecasting sales in the year that began this
month would be in the range of 317.3 billion rupees ($7.16
billion) to 322.7 billion rupees. The average of 52 analysts’
estimates was for 341.5 billion rupees. They fell 0.8 percent to
2,925 rupees in Mumbai yesterday.  T.V. Mohandas Pai, director and head of human resources
development, announced his resignation after 17 years in the
company. He was expected to take over the role of chief
operating officer, the Economic Times reported on April 8.  Pai’s resignation is “an indication of rising frustration
within the ranks,” about succession, Ankur Rudra, an analyst
with Ambit Capital Pvt. said in a note to investors on April 19.  K. Dinesh, a co-founder, said he will retire.  Reorganizations are not new at Infosys “but the current
one has lingered on for quite some time and has been quite
distracting for senior employees,” Joshi said in a note to
clients on April 17. “This protracted exercise has somewhere
played a part in Infosys’ financial underperformance.”  Wives  Murthy, 64, convinced six fellow software engineers to help
him set up Infosys in 1981. They started with $250, borrowed
mostly from their wives, and went on to make Infosys a company
with sales of $6.2 billion in the year ended March 31.  The company has boosted revenue 14-fold and added 120,989
employees in the past 10 years and became the first Indian
company to list on the  Nasdaq .  “It’s hard for me to say what profits, revenues are going
to be five years from now,” Murthy said in an interview last
month. If the company has the “deep courtesy and dignity to add
greater and greater value to our customers day after day, I
think that would be good enough.”  Murthy stepped down as chief executive officer in 2002
handing over the post to co-founder Nandan Nilekani, who left
the company in 2007 and was succeeded by Chief Executive Officer
S. Gopalakrishnan.  Shibulal, who helped found Infosys in 1981, took a five-
year sabbatical working with Sun Microsystems between 1991 and
1996. He returned to Infosys and  established  its Internet
consultancy practice and later served as head of worldwide
sales.  Shibulal has master’s degrees in physics and computer
science from the University of Kerala and  Boston University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  