-- 
Italy March Unemployment Rate Increases to 8.3% as Recovery Loses Momentum

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-04-29T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/italy-march-unemployment-rate-increases-to-8-3-as-recovery-loses-momentum.html
Italy ’s jobless rate rose in March
as businesses refrained from hiring as economic growth slowed.  The  unemployment rate  rose to 8.3 percent from a revised
8.2 percent in February, Rome-based national statistics
institute  Istat  said in a preliminary estimate today. The rate
was less than the median 8.4 percent forecast by six economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Business confidence declined more than economists forecast
in April after the country’s export-led recovery from its worst
recession since World War II lost momentum, Istat said
yesterday, citing “marked deterioration in expectations for
employment.” Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government this
month cut its estimate for 2011 economic growth to 1.1 percent
from a previous projection of 1.3 percent.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , Italy’s third-biggest
lender, said on April 12 that it plans to cut 2,500 jobs, or 8
percent of its workforce, by 2015. Earlier this month,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the country’s second-largest bank, said it plans
to trim 3,000 staff by 2013.  Youth unemployment has been pushing up the jobless right.
Joblessness among those between the ages of 15 and 24 rose to
28.6 percent in March, from 28.3 percent the previous month,
Istat said today.  Even though export growth is helping sustain industrial
output, the impact of the recession was so severe that Italy’s
current economic expansion isn’t generating jobs, the  Bank of
Italy  said. With “production levels below the levels of before
the recession, employment isn’t rising,” the central bank said
in an April 15 report.  The outlook for employment in Italy contrasts with the
situation in the euro region’s biggest economy. Joblessness in
 Germany  fell last month to a 19-Year low of fewer than 3 million
unemployed. The jobless rate held at 7.1 percent, the Nuremberg-
based Federal Labor Agency said yesterday.  Istat originally reported a jobless rate for February of
8.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  