-- 
Jobs Chills as IPad Wannabes Hit Market: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-04-29T19:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/jobs-chills-as-ipad-wannabes-hit-market-rich-jaroslovsky-1-.html
It’s been a bit more than a year
since  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad went on sale, and almost every computer
and smartphone maker launched crash programs to match it. The
fruits of those efforts are now reaching the market, with each
manufacturer searching for some feature to help it stand out
from the crowd.  The latest entries are the G-Slate, from  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)  and  T-Mobile USA , and the Iconia Tab A500, from  Acer Inc. (2353) 
Both run “Honeycomb,” the tablet-optimized version of  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, and are powered by  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA) ’s dual-core Tegra 2 processor. One competes on features,
one on price. While both have attractions, neither will keep
 Steve Jobs  awake at night.  The G-Slate is the more interesting, combining two of the
buzziest options in consumer electronics at the moment: 3-D and
4G. Unfortunately, neither is all it’s cracked up to be.  Physically, the G-Slate -- known outside the U.S. as the
Optimus Pad -- is a “tweener.” Its vivid 8.9-inch screen is
larger than  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry PlayBook and
Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Tab, and smaller than the iPad
2 and the Xoom from Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  At the same time, it’s heavier than the iPad, requiring two
hands to comfortably hold, and its dimensions make it much
better for consuming movies and other video than for books,
magazines and web pages.  No Expansion  The single model available has 32 gigabytes of storage.
While there’s no slot for a card to increase its capacity, that
should be more than enough for most people. You can expect about
eight hours of use between charges.  The G-Slate may be the first tablet that ships with its own
3-D glasses, but don’t fantasize about immersing yourself in
 “Inception”  on your next long plane ride. The glasses are the
old-fashioned red-blue kind, and you’ll mostly use them to watch
videos you’ve shot with the rear-facing 3-D cameras. You can,
however, also shoot in other modes that you can view by hooking
the G-Slate up to a 3-D television with the included adapter
cable. (There’s also a front-facing 2-D camera for video
chatting.)  For me, at least, the 3-D novelty wore off in about 30
seconds. The anaglyph mode tends to wash out colors and gives
some folks a headache, and the other camcorder modes don’t do
you much good if you don’t have a 3-D TV.  4G Goes AWOL  The usefulness of the 4G feature is also limited, mostly
because the network it runs on is limited. T-Mobile’s 4G network
is actually its existing 3G network, tweaked in some areas to
provide faster service. Speeds can vary wildly depending where
you are.  Standing at the base of  San Francisco ’s Transamerica
Pyramid, for example, I averaged 3.9 megabits per second. A few
blocks away, I registered only .36 megabits. And don’t expect
the G-Slate to help you find those pockets of speed. The “4G”
indicator on its home screen lights up even when you aren’t in
one of those fast zones.  Some of the G-Slate’s shortcomings might be forgiven at the
right price, but at $750 without a service plan, it’s actually
$20 more than the larger, lighter, thinner, longer-battery-lived
iPad 2. (Getting the price down to $530 requires a two-year
contract.) Even with the ability to share its Internet
connection with other devices thrown in at no extra cost, the G-
Slate is no bargain.  Slicing Apple  At least Acer’s new Iconia Tab gives you a discount for its
compromises: At $450 for 16 gigabytes of storage, it’s $50
cheaper than the comparable iPad. While the Iconia is currently
available at Best Buy Co. stores only with a Wi-Fi connection,
Acer has said it is readying versions to run on Verizon
Wireless’s new, ultra-fast LTE network, as well as  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s
4G data service.  Unlike the Apple and G-Slate, it can be expanded with the
addition of a microSD memory card. There are both front and
rear-facing cameras -- no 3-D here -- and a battery capable of
going eight hours between charges.  The Iconia’s screen measures about 10 inches diagonally,
the same as the iPad 2, but it’s configured more like the G-
Slate, better for movies than for surfing or reading. The
principal drawback is its weight: At 1.69 pounds, it’s more than
25 percent heavier than the iPad 2, and heftier even than the
original iPad. This is a tablet that can comfortably be held one
way only: horizontally, with a firm grasp on both sides.  The Iconia, like the G-Slate, also suffers from a problem
beyond its control: the paucity of applications written for
Google’s operating system. The  Android Market  currently features
fewer than 100 apps specifically tailored for tablets; by
contrast, Apple claims more than 65,000 iPad-specific programs.  The gap will undoubtedly narrow as more Android tablets hit
the market, but in the meantime it’s the brave buyer who’s
willing to shell out several hundred dollars now and wait for
the Android ecosystem to catch up.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 