-- 
Kate’s Wedding Dress Designed by Sarah Burton of PPR’s Alexander McQueen

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n ,   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-04-29T12:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/kate-s-wedding-dress-designed-by-sarah-burton-of-ppr-s-alexander-mcqueen.html
Royal bride  Kate Middleton  picked
British label Alexander McQueen for her wedding dress, revealing
the design to the world as she arrived at Westminster Abbey to
marry  Prince William , the second in line to the British throne.  The floor-length ivory dress with lace detailing was
designed by Sarah Burton, assistant to McQueen for over a decade
before he committed suicide in 2010. Burton, a Briton, was
appointed creative director of McQueen, part of  PPR (PP)  SA, last
year. Middleton wore a diamond tiara and full veil.  “She looked just like a princess should and beautifully
British,” Peta Hunt, fashion director of  You and Your Wedding 
magazine, said in a telephone interview. “We have a new Grace Kelly amongst us,” she said, recalling the American actress who
married Prince Rainier of Monaco in 1956.  The dress was made of ivory and white satin gazar, a
loosely woven silk, with the skirt echoing an opening flower,
with white satin gazar arches and pleats and a train measuring
2.7 meters (9 feet). The ivory satin bodice, which is narrowed
at the waist and padded at the hips, draws on the Victorian
tradition of corsetry and is a hallmark of McQueen’s designs,
Prince William’s office said.  ‘Tradition and Modernity’  The bride “wished for her dress to combine tradition and
modernity with the artistic vision that characterizes  Alexander
McQueen ’s work,” William’s office said in an e-mail.  Middleton’s dress, which was a closely guarded secret in
the run-up to the wedding, featured a lace applique bodice and
skirt handmade by the  Royal School of Needlework  and lace
flowers on ivory silk tulle in a design incorporating the
symbolic rose of England, thistle of  Scotland , daffodil of Wales
and shamrock of Ireland.  The train of the dress was “big enough to fill the abbey
but not ostentatious,” and overall, Middleton’s outfit was
“simple, classic and chic,” Hunt said. “For a mere mortal to
buy that dress, I imagine you are looking at over 50,000 pounds
($83,000).”  The royal bride, 29, had a chance to see Burton’s work at
the wedding of friends. She designed a silk strapless dress worn
by Sara Buys, who married the Duchess of Cornwall’s son, Tom
Parker Bowles, in 2005. Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, is
Prince Charles’s second wife and William’s stepmother.  First Lady  Burton has also designed for  Michelle Obama , the U.S. first
lady, supermodel  Naomi Campbell , pop star Lady Gaga and
actresses  Cate Blanchett  and  Gwyneth Paltrow .  “She looked radiant; very royal,” said Elisabeth Altby,
18, a student from Gothenburg,  Sweden , who was watching the
wedding on a giant screen in Hyde Park. “The dress resembles
Grace Kelly’s.”  Her shoes were handmade by the team at McQueen of ivory
duchesse satin with lace hand-embroidered by the Royal School of
Needlework. The veil was made of layers of soft, ivory silk
tulle with a trim of hand-embroidered flowers.  The veil was held in place by a Cartier Ltd. “halo” tiara
made in 1936, lent to the bride by William’s grandmother,  Queen Elizabeth II . The bride’s earrings, a wedding present from her
parents, were diamond-set stylized oak leaves with a pear-shaped
diamond set drop and a pave-set diamond acorn suspended in the
center.  Middleton carried a shield-shaped wired bouquet of myrtle,
lily-of-the-valley, sweet-william and hyacinth flowers.  ‘Support British Fashion’  “There is always a big fuss about the dress, it’s the big
feature of the day,” royal expert Hugo Vickers, who acted as
consultant on the Academy Award-winning movie “The King’s
Speech,” said in a telephone interview. Middleton was bound
“to choose an English designer because she has to support
British fashion. There would be an outcry if she didn’t.”  British brides spend an average 1,250 pounds ($2,080) on a
wedding dress, according to Brides magazine. The dress worn by
the bride’s sister and bridesmaid, Pippa Middleton, was also
created by Burton. It was of a heavy, ivory satin-based crepe,
with a cowl front and with the same button detail and lace trims
as the bride’s dress.  William, 28, who as monarch will command Britain’s
military, was dressed in the uniform of a colonel of the Irish
Guards regiment, his senior honorary appointment in the army. He
is currently a flight lieutenant in the Royal Air Force, based
in north  Wales , and could also have worn a naval uniform. His
younger brother and best man Prince Harry, 26, wore the uniform
of a captain of the Household Cavalry.  Bride’s Mother  The bride’s mother, Carole Middleton, wore a sky-blue wool
crepe coatdress with matching satin piping and trimming at the
waist and cuff. Underneath, she wore a sky-blue silk shantung
“Sydney” day dress with short pleated sleeves and pleated
pockets. Both were made by the label established by  Catherine
Walker , who was a favorite of William’s mother, Diana, before
her death in 1997.  Queen Elizabeth  wore an Angela Kelly-designed single crepe
wool primrose dress with hand-sewn beading at the neck in the
shape of sunrays with a matching wool tailored primrose coat and
a matching hat.  Middleton’s dress will inspire designs for other brides for
“the next few years at least,” Hunt said. “It is a very
attainable look, compared to Diana’s dress” in 1981. “That was
a bit extreme.”  When Diana Spencer, then aged 20, married Prince Charles in
1981, she wore an ivory taffeta and antique lace dress with a
25-foot train and puffed sleeves, designed by Elizabeth Emanuel.  Even so, not many brides may follow Kate, said Maria
Shenton, who has sold dresses for 10 years at the Beverley
Wedgwood shop in Crewe, northwest  England .  “I don’t think she will necessarily set a trend because
brides are quite clued up these days about what suits them,”
Shenton said in an interview. “They read all the magazines and
are aware of the shapes out there. She is very slim so what
suits her will not necessarily suit all girls.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  