-- 
Kenya Commercial Bank to ‘Sustain’ First-Quarter Profit Growth, CEO Says

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-04-29T14:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/kenya-commercial-bank-to-sustain-first-quarter-profit-growth-ceo-says.html
Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , the
East African nation’s biggest lender by outlets, expects full-
year profit to increase by at least the same margin as the first
quarter as it expands in the region and into agency banking.  The company, known as KCB, yesterday reported net income
jumped 33 percent to 1.77 billion shillings ($21.2 million) in
the three months through March. Net interest income, the
difference between what banks pay out for deposits and earn for
loans, advanced 32 percent to 5.11 billion shillings.  “We should at least sustain that momentum” for the full
year, Chief Executive Officer Martin Oduor-Otieno said in an
interview today in Nairobi, the capital. “We are seeing very
strong growth on the balance sheet which drives the earnings.”  Bank earnings in East Africa’s largest economy have been
growing as accelerating economic growth spurs more Kenyans to
take out loans, open bank accounts and demand other financial
services. Lenders are poised to boost profit by an average of 30
percent this year as the difference between the interest they
pay on savers’ deposits and what they charge for loans widens,
African Alliance Securities Kenya Ltd. said in January.  Rival lender  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , the country’s largest by
market value, earlier today posted an 87 percent increase in
first-quarter profit to 2.52 billion shillings.  Regional Plans  KCB plans to open 10 more outlets in Kenya, where it
already operates 170 branches. In neighboring  Southern Sudan ,
three new offices have already opened this year and one more is
planned, bringing the total to 18.  In Uganda and Tanzania, there are 14 and 11 branches
respectively, while Rwanda has nine, Oduor-Otieno said.  The lender’s overall strategy is to be viewed as a pan-
African bank, with Burundi next on the list of countries KCB
plans start operating in the “near future,” Oduor-Otieno said.  In  Kenya , KCB has also started agency-banking services, in
which vendors including supermarkets and pharmacies are enabled
to accept deposits and issue withdrawals on the bank’s behalf.  “We are rolling out, by the end of this year, up to 2,000
agents,” he said. “We have already signed up 500.”  Last year, KCB raised 12.5 billion shillings through a
rights offer, which helped grow loans in the mortgage industry
and small and medium-enterprises segment, Oduor-Otieno said. In
addition, the company’s Ugandan, Tanzanian and Rwandan units
received 3 billion shillings of additional capital, he added.  IFC Loan  The bank is also in talks with the International Finance
Corp., the private lending arm of the  World Bank , about a $105
million loan that will be used for onward lending to KCB’s
customers involved in import and export trade, he said.  “I believe it is at least seven years duration,” Oduor-
Otieno said. “It is going to the IFC board in the next
fortnight. We would expect that we can draw down on this anytime
within the second quarter.”  Shares in KCB have advanced 18.4 percent so far this year,
outperforming a 9.1 percent decline in the  Nairobi Stock
Exchange ’s benchmark NSE-20 index over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  