-- 
Kenyan Inflation Accelerates to 12.05%, Exceeding Target for Fourth Month

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-29T08:35:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/kenyan-inflation-accelerates-to-12-05-exceeding-target-for-fourth-month.html
Kenya ’s inflation rate rose to
12.05 percent in April, exceeding the central bank’s 5 percent
target for the fourth straight month and increasing the chance
of further increases to the key lending rate.  Inflation in East Africa’s largest economy accelerated from
9.19 percent in March, the Nairobi-based  Kenya National Bureau
of Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement today. Prices rose
3.2 percent in the month, it said.  Kenya’s  Monetary Policy Committee  unexpectedly raised its
benchmark rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 6 percent
on March 22, undoing a cut two months earlier, as it moved to
head off faster inflation. Pressure on prices from higher oil
costs and dwindling local food stocks amid poor rains shows no
sign of easing,  Aly-Khan Satchu , a Nairobi-based independent
financial analyst, said on April 26.  “The central bank will have to show more steeliness on the
monetary policy side and tighten things up,” Satchu said,
forecasting a 2.5 percentage-point increase in the benchmark
rate by the end of the year. “Increases of up to 30 percent in
the price of food are basically bankrupting people.”  Kenyan Prime Minster  Raila Odinga  on April 27 proposed
removing taxes on kerosene, a fuel commonly used for cooking in
the country, and abolishing  import duties  on wheat and corn,
after consumer groups said that household budgets were squeezed.  Fuel and Wages  The government raised the maximum price for the most common
gasoline in the capital, Nairobi, by 8.5 percent to 111.17
($1.40) a liter effective April 15 to May 14 because of higher
global crude prices.  Rising food and fuel costs have spurred domestic wage
demands.  The Central Organization of Trade Unions may call for a
national strike unless the government raises the minimum wage by
60 percent to 11,734 shillings ($140.19) a month, Secretary-
General Francis Atwoli was cited as saying by the Standard
newspaper on April 25. The government will announce plans to
boost the basic wage on May 1, Odinga said.  Inflation will hover between 9 percent and 11 percent
throughout the year, putting pressure on the central bank to
raise the benchmark rate, which may damp economic growth,
British American Investments Kenya Ltd. forecast on April 27.
British American lowered its Kenyan growth estimate for this
year to between 4.5 percent and 5 percent, from an earlier
forecast of as much as 6 percent.  The government expects economic expansion to reach 5.7
percent, from 5.2 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 