-- 
Korean Regulator Extends Suspension of Seven Savings Banks

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-04-29T07:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/korean-regulator-extends-suspension-of-seven-savings-banks-1-.html
South Korea  extended its suspension
of seven savings banks whose operations were halted in February
because of a liquidity squeeze and threatened to order their
sale if they fail to improve finances.  The  Financial Services Commission  today shut the lenders --
Busan Savings Bank and four of its affiliates, plus Bohae Mutual
Savings & Finance Co. and Domin Mutual Savings Bank -- until
Oct. 28, according to an e-mailed statement. It plans to invite
offers for the banks in May and name preferred bidders in June
if they can’t raise capital or bolster finances within 45 days.  Korean savings banks are saddled with soured loans made to
property developers that are suffering amid a real estate slump.
The regulator has asked commercial lenders to help the banks by
taking over their bad debt.  The  Financial Supervisory Service , a privately funded
organization that enforces government regulations, yesterday
said it will replace officials in charge of inspecting savings
banks following public criticism that its response to the crisis
was inadequate.  Regulators found some “improper” deposit withdrawals at
the savings banks before their business was suspended and will
take “severe” action if they find banking rules were violated,
according to today’s statement.  Woori Finance Holdings Co., the country’s third-largest
financial company, in March acquired some assets at Samhwa
Mutual Savings Bank, another suspended savings bank. Lenders
including  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) , owner of South Korea’s
largest lender, have expressed interest in buying savings banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  