-- 
Korea’s Won Posts Second Weekly Gain on Growth, Current-Account Surplus

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-04-29T06:27:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/korea-s-won-set-for-weekly-gain-on-faster-growth-current-account-surplus.html
South Korea ’s won completed a
second weekly gain, supported by data showing economic growth
gathered pace in the first quarter and the current-account
surplus widened last month.  The currency halted its rally today after Deputy Finance
Minister Choi Jong Ku said yesterday South Korea may cut banks’
currency derivatives trading limits. The won touched a 32-month
high yesterday after the Federal Reserve renewed a pledge to
keep U.S. interest rates low.  “South Korea’s economic fundamentals are good and
continued improvement is likely to support the won in the longer
term,” said Seo Jeong Hun, a currency analyst at Korea Exchange
Bank in Seoul. “The Fed’s pledge fueled gains in the won. Still,
authorities made it clear they are uncomfortable with the pace
of the won gains and that reversed the direction of the won
today.”  The won strengthened 0.9 percent this week to 1,071.53 per
dollar as of the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was little changed today. The currency
touched 1,071.05 yesterday, the strongest level since August
2008, and has gained 2.4 percent this month.  Deputy Minister Choi said the won has risen “rapidly”
against dollar in recent days, in part due to “speculative”
trading in the non-deliverable forwards market. The contracts,
settled in dollars, are agreements to buy and sell assets at a
set price on a specified date. It’s the “government’s job” to
reduce volatility, Choi told reporters yesterday.  Bonds Advance  The nation’s gross domestic product increased 1.4 percent
in the first quarter from the previous three months, when it
gained 0.5 percent, central bank data showed April 27.
Industrial production rose 8.7 percent in March from a year
earlier, data showed today. That was less than the 9.1 percent
gain in February and the 11 percent median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled earlier
this week that the U.S. central bank will maintain its record
monetary stimulus. The target rate for overnight lending between
banks was kept at zero to 0.25 percent, as forecast by all
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds had a weekly
advance. The yield on the 3 percent note due December 2013
dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.77
percent this week, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.
The rate fell three basis points today and rose two basis points
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  