-- 
Shuttle Launch Delayed at Least Until May 2 as Power Unit Heater Assessed

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-04-29T20:59:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/nasa-postpones-shuttle-endeavour-s-launch-for-at-least-48-hours.html
The launch of the space shuttle
Endeavour, which President  Barack Obama  was scheduled to attend
this afternoon, has been delayed until at least May 2, the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration announced.  The shuttle Endeavour’s final trip to space was postponed
while engineers assess a fault with a heater in an auxiliary
power unit, NASA said. A statement said the launch would occur
no earlier than 2:33 p.m. local time on May 2.  The second-to-last scheduled mission in the shuttle
program’s 30-year history is commanded by Navy Captain  Mark Kelly , who is married to U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords .
The  Arizona  Democrat is still recovering from a head wound she
suffered in a mass shooting in Tucson, Arizona, on Jan. 8.
Giffords also was scheduled to watch the lift-off.  Obama and his family went ahead with a tour of the orbiter
processing facility at the  Kennedy Space Center , where shuttles
are maintained, after visiting tornado-ravaged neighborhoods in
 Alabama . The president also met privately with Giffords for
about 10 minutes and spoke with Kelly, according to an
administration official, before meeting with the shuttle
astronauts.  The shuttle program’s demise was set in motion by President
 George W. Bush  in 2004, and Obama’s plan to retool NASA’s
mission kept the decision in effect.  The president has directed NASA to focus on developing
rocket systems that may eventually take humans into deep space,
while relying on private companies to build spacecraft to ferry
astronauts -- and potentially tourists -- to the  International
Space Station .  Commercial Spaceships  On April 18, NASA announced $269 million in contracts to
four companies competing to build commercial spaceships, with
Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  receiving $92.3 million and Sierra
Nevada Corp., based in Sparks, Nevada, winning $80 million.
Space Exploration Technologies Corp. in Hawthorne,  California  --
whose chief executive officer, Elon Musk, gave Obama a tour of
his launch facility last year -- received $75 million. Kent,
Washington-based  Blue Origin  got $22 million.  In his fiscal year 2012 budget, Obama proposed $18.7
billion for NASA, $1.5 billion less than his request last year.
He also has ended NASA’s Constellation program, developed during
the  Bush administration , which would have built spacecraft for a
return to the moon by 2020. Instead, Obama is seeking to focus
NASA on exploring deep space and sending humans to  Mars  by the
mid-2030s.  Job Losses  The end of the shuttle program will translate into
thousands of lost  NASA  jobs in a state crucial to Obama’s re-
election.  “At the Cape they stand to lose seven or eight thousand
jobs in the next year because of the shuttle program ending,”
said Bretton Alexander, the president of the  Commercial
Spaceflight Federation , a Washington-based trade association of
companies promoting commercial human spaceflight. Obama and
Senator  Bill Nelson , a  Florida  Democrat who in 1986 flew one
shuttle mission as a payload specialist, “are taking a lot of
heat for that, but that was going to happen no matter what,” he
said.  Florida Republicans have criticized Obama’s approach.  “The president’s space policy is jeopardizing America’s
longstanding commitment to manned space exploration,” Senator
 Marco Rubio  wrote in the  Orlando Sentinel  on April 26. “This
has serious consequences for Florida.”  Impact on Florida  The job losses in the space program will add to the woes of
a state that has struggled to recover from the recession. While
the  Bloomberg Florida Index (BFLX)  of stocks has gained 9.8 percent
over the past year, the state’s unemployment rate is at 11.1
percent, compared with the national average of 8.8 percent.  Florida, the fourth-biggest U.S. state by population, has
been a swing state in national elections and is a target for
both parties in 2012.  Obama won Florida with 51 percent of the vote in 2008.
Republican Bush claimed it in the two prior presidential
elections, including the contested -- and pivotal -- balloting
in 2000. In 2012, Florida will have added importance because
population gains will add two more Electoral College votes,
giving whoever wins the state 29 of the 270 votes that are
required for victory in the presidential election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  