-- 
Nasdaq, ICE Said to Consider Tender Offer for NYSE After Board Rejection

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-04-29T20:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/nasdaq-ice-said-to-consider-tender-offer-for-nyse-after-board-rejection.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  may take their unsolicited
takeover offer for NYSE Euronext directly to shareholders,
bypassing board members who twice rejected their bid, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  At NYSE Euronext’s annual meeting in  New York  yesterday,
Chairman Jan-Michiel Hessels defended the company’s deal to be
purchased by Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse , saying the bid
from Nasdaq OMX of New York and Atlanta-based ICE is an “empty
vessel.” The rival offer, valued 9 percent more than Deutsche
Boerse’s agreement at 4:30 p.m. New York time, has been voted
down by NYSE Euronext board members including Hessels.  While announcing a tender offer for NYSE Euronext shares
would demonstrate Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s urgency, it carries
little weight, said Sang Lee, a managing partner at Aite Group
LLC, a Boston-based financial-research firm. That’s because the
Big Board’s governing documents, mandated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, prevent investors from accumulating a 20
percent stake in the company without the approval of the board.  “With a built-in restriction, a move like that would be
symbolic,” Lee said. “It may be intended to increase
shareholder pressure on NYSE management and the board to take
their offer more seriously and at a minimum have a discussion.”  Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, as well as
ICE’s Kelly Loeffler, NYSE Euronext’s  Richard Adamonis  and Naomi Kim of Deutsche Boerse declined to comment.  July Vote  NYSE Euronext shareholders will vote on the Deutsche Boerse
deal on July 7. Owners controlling at least half of NYSE
Euronext must back the transaction for it to be approved,
compared with 75 percent at Deutsche Boerse.  Nasdaq OMX and ICE may be helped by a tender because of the
chance it will lure traders who are less likely to be swayed by
NYSE Euronext’s claim that the Deutsche Boerse agreement holds
more long-term value, said Jamie Selway, managing director at
New York-based Investment Technology Group Inc.  “They could establish a foothold and try to get more
arbitragers involved in the stock rather than traditional
holders,” said Selway, a former chief economist for Archipelago
Holdings LLC, which  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  bought in 2006. “If risk arbs
begin to enter the stock or other folks sympathetic to the
transaction, they could attempt to block the Deutsche Boerse
deal,” he said.  Board Elections  All board members of NYSE Euronext won re-election
yesterday, getting about 80 percent support, according to a
preliminary vote count. That level is “rather low,” said Ted
Allen, head of publications and governance counsel at ISS Proxy
Advisory Services.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies have approved
directors with an average 96 percent support level in 2011,
according to ISS, the shareholder advisory unit of  New York- 
based MSCI Inc. Last year, NYSE Euronext owners re-elected all
but one director with 96 percent approval. The other director
received 91 percent of the votes, Allen said.  “It’s hard to know exactly what motivated them to withhold
support from NYX’s directors, but it appears that some
shareholders were not happy by the board’s rejection of the
Nasdaq/ICE offer,” Allen wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  NYSE Euronext’s five biggest owners as of Dec. 31 -- T.
Rowe Price Group Inc., BlackRock Inc.,  State Street Corp. (STT) ,
Vanguard Group Inc. and Legg Mason Inc. -- controlled 22 percent
of the company’s stock, ISS data show.  Unfulfilled Obligations  Bill Miller , the chief investment officer of Legg Mason
Capital Management Inc. in Baltimore, said April 27 that NYSE
Euronext’s refusal to meet with Nasdaq OMX and NYSE Euronext is
inconsistent with the company’s obligations.  “It is in the shareholders’ interest that the board work
to maximize value for owners,” Miller, whose mutual-fund
company is the fifth-biggest NYSE Euronext holder with 7.48
million shares, said in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News
yesterday. “We don’t see how being unwilling to meet with
Nasdaq furthers that goal.”  Heather McDonold, a spokeswoman for T. Rowe Price in
Baltimore, Alicia Curran of Boston-based State Street, and Jim
Marren of New York-based BlackRock declined to comment on NYSE
Euronext when contacted this week. John Woerth of Vanguard in
 Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania , didn’t respond to an e-mail.  Companies such as  stock exchanges  have stricter rules on
ownership because they’re viewed as critical to the economy,
Selway said.  “It’s all about checks and balances around the control of
regulatory assets via the concentration limits,” Selway said.
“Exchanges can still do mergers -- Deutsche Boerse can buy the
whole thing. But if you go above a threshold there are
constraints.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  