-- 
U.S. Orders New Jersey to Repay $271 Million Over Tunnel

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-04-29T21:44:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/new-jersey-must-repay-271-million-for-rail-tunnel-u-s-governement-says.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
ordered  New Jersey  to repay $271 million in federal money the
state transit agency spent on a commuter tunnel project before
Republican Governor  Chris Christie  canceled it in October.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood rejected Christie’s
contention that New Jersey was justified in canceling the tunnel
under the Hudson River, connecting the state with  New York City ,
because of potential cost overruns. LaHood disclosed the
decision by the Federal Transit Administration, part of his
department, today in a letter to Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New
Jersey Democrat.  “The law is clear on this matter,” LaHood wrote. “In
very specific and clear language, the statute requires FTA to
collect the taxpayers’ funds” if a project is canceled.  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie, said in an e-
mailed statement, “We disagree with the FTA’s conclusion and
its continued efforts to bill New Jersey taxpayers for completed
work that will be of substantial value to future transportation
projects not just in New Jersey, but in the Northeast corridor."  Roberts reiterated Christie’s position that the project had
to be canceled because of ‘‘billions of dollars in unaccounted
for cost overruns and re-estimates of project costs late in the
process."  Lautenberg and Senator  Robert Menendez , also a New Jersey
Democrat, called the situation ‘‘unfortunate’’ in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘‘We worked hard to get the parties to negotiate a fair
resolution to this conflict. However the state’s outside lawyers
pursued an all or nothing approach, which brings substantial
risk to New Jersey taxpayers,’’ they said in the statement.
‘‘Given the high stakes involved in this matter, we hope the
state’s approach is ultimately successful.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  