-- 
New York Investor ‘Confident’ Irish Debt Spat Accord Possible

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-04-29T09:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/new-york-investor-confident-irish-debt-spat-accord-possible.html
One of the two New York-based
investment firms challenging Irish plans to share losses with
 Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  bondholders said it is “confident a
mutually acceptable” resolution can be found.  Abadi & Co. and Aurelius Capital Management LP filed cases
on April 20 against the Irish government’s plans to change the
terms of Dublin-based Allied Irish’s subordinated debt. The bank
is 93 percent state owned.  “We would be willing to enter into a constructive dialogue
with the finance minister,” Carlos Abadi, president of Abadi &
Co., said in an e-mailed response to questions. The Irish
proposals “would appear to interfere with fundamental property
rights of creditors,” he said.  The cases would be the first test of the Irish plan to
share the 70 billion-euro ($103.7 billion) cost of bailing out
financial system with bondholders.  The two cases are “entirely unfounded” and the government
remains “fully committed” to burden sharing with subordinated
bondholders, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said on April 22.
Noonan has said he expects the bank to discount bonds by as much
as 80 percent.  On April 14, the government won an order from the  High
Court  in Dublin allowing Noonan to change the terms of Allied
Irish debt, using bank laws introduced last year in the wake of
Ireland’s financial collapse. The Irish state has already poured
7.2 billion euros into the bank, which needs another 13.3
billion euros in capital, according to stress tests.  Court Ruling  The judgment makes the payment of interest on some debt
optional and lifts restrictions on buybacks or redemptions of
some junior bonds. The same day, Noonan  said  the Dublin-based
bank will seek to buy back debt, allowing bondholders
“voluntarily exit” their investments.  If that isn’t successful, the  government  will take
“whatever other action is necessary to ensure appropriate
burden sharing,” Noonan said in a statement on April 14.  A compromise may be possible way “if the parties sit down
and negotiate in good faith,” said Abadi, who declined to say
how much Allied Irish debt he owns or when he bought it.  “One possibility would consist in a non-coercive liability
management exercise which would enable AIB to raise significant
capital while not tarnishing the image of either the bank or
Ireland in the international capital markets,” Abadi said.  Allied Irish has raised 2.97 billion euros over the past
two years from buying back and exchanging subordinated bonds at
discounts to face value.  The challenges are due to be heard in the  High Court  in
Dublin next month. A spokesman for the finance minister said
yesterday there was no further update to the April 22 statement.  In a letter to Noonan and the bank seen by Bloomberg News,
Aurelius said the government is displaying a “disregard for the
basic precepts of fairness and due process.” Aurelius had no
comment to make, according to spokeswoman Jennifer Burner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  