-- 
New Jersey Turnpike Accepts Toll-Collector Concessions to Avoid Firings

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-04-29T19:30:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/new-jersey-turnpike-board-accepts-toll-worker-givebacks-to-avoid-firings.html
New Jersey’s toll-road agency
approved contract concessions from unions representing fare
collectors to avert Governor  Chris Christie ’s proposal to turn
over the jobs to a private company.  The  New Jersey Turnpike  Authority’s board voted today to
accept the offer, which includes a 24 percent wage cut over two
years and the elimination of all fee takers by July 2013 as the
agency moves toward full electronic collection. The deal, which
needs union members’ approval, affects about 800 workers.  “It’s going to be tough and very difficult, but this buys
us two more years,” Fran Ehret, president of the International
Federation of Professional & Technical Engineers  Local 194 ,
which represents collectors, said after the vote. “There’s been
a lot of stress and a lot of worrying about what’s going to
happen to these families if those jobs were lost.”  Christie, a first-term Republican, has said turning over
toll collections to a private firm on the 148-mile (238-
kilometer)  New Jersey Turnpike  and 173-mile  Garden State Parkway 
would save the state as much as $43 million a year. The roads
generated a combined $952 million in toll revenue in 2009.  New Jersey  received four bids from private firms seeking to
replace toll collectors, who cost the state an average of
$100,000 a year in salary and benefits, Transportation
Commissioner James Simpson told lawmakers earlier this month.  Saving Jobs  Unions representing toll collectors sued to block the plan,
and offered concessions to save the jobs. Ehret said her union
agreed to nearly all stipulations sought by the authority.  Under the agreement, collectors’ top salaries would drop to
$57,000 after June 30 from $65,000, and to $49,500 the following
year, according to an agency memo. The deal also would lower the
number of sick days workers get to 12 a year from 15 and prevent
those who quit from collecting unused sick-day payouts.  Workers would also forgo a so-called separation bonus of
$500 for each year of service paid to employees with more than
10 years at the authority. Ehret said she expects as many as 100
retirements as workers seek to collect the bonuses and payouts
before the agreement takes effect July 1.  The deal will save the state $35 million over two years,
Simpson said. The agency expects to have fully automated toll
collection in place on the parkway within the two years and on
the turnpike within five, he said.  Full-time workers will vote on the agreement tomorrow, and
part-timers on May 2, Ehret said. Unions must approve the deal
by May 3 or the jobs may still be turned over to an outside
firm, said Simpson, who is also chairman of the agency’s board.  “This is unprecedented in this state,” he said following
the unanimous vote in Woodbridge. “These concessions were
significant and they brought it in line with privatization.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 