-- 
New York Jets Take Temple Defensive Tackle Wilkerson With NFL’s 30th Pick

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-29T05:58:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/new-york-jets-take-temple-defensive-tackle-wilkerson-with-nfl-s-30th-pick.html
The  New York Jets  selected Temple
University defensive tackle Muhammad Wilkerson in the first
round of the National Football League draft.  “Once that 30th pick came around, I just had the feeling
they were going to pick me up,” Wilkerson told reporters at
Radio City Music Hall in  New York  last night.  The 6-foot-4, 305-pound native of Linden, New Jersey, was
named second-team All-American last year after recording 70
tackles and 9 1/2 sacks in his junior season at Temple.  “He’s going to be an outstanding player,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said at a news conference. “Muhammad really fits with what
we want to do defensively.  ‘‘I don’t see him as a nose tackle,’’ Ryan added. ‘‘I see
where this young man can play defensive end in our system and
tackle as well.’’  Wilkerson is the third first-round pick in Temple’s history
and the first since 1987, when running back Paul Palmer was
chosen by the  Kansas City Chiefs . Wilkerson is the 59th player
from the Philadelphia-based school to be selected in the draft
since 1937 and the fourth to join the Jets.  Wilkerson, who grew up less than 20 miles from the New
Meadowlands Stadium that the Jets share with the  New York Giants 
in East Rutherford, New Jersey, learned about his selection
while at a restaurant in Linden with a group of about 80 friends
and family.  ‘‘I didn’t grow up a Jets fan, but right now I am a Jet,’’
Wilkerson said. ‘‘I am proud. I’m happy.’’  The Jets ended last season with the league’s third-best run
defense, allowing 1,454 yards on the ground and 11 touchdowns.
The team reached the American Football Conference title game for
a second consecutive season, losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers
one game shy of the  Super Bowl .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net . 