-- 
New Brazil Policies May Not Prevent Rising Ethanol Prices, Analyst Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-04-29T21:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/new-brazil-policies-may-not-prevent-rising-ethanol-prices-analyst-says.html
Brazil’s move to assume more
authority over the country’s ethanol supply chain may not
prevent a repeat of this month’s surge in prices for the
renewable fuel, an analyst said.  The nation’s fuel regulator  Agencia Nacional do Petroleo,
Gas Natural e Biocombustiveis  is taking on more control over the
production, import, export and storage of ethanol and other
biofuels, according to a  presidential decree  signed into effect
by President  Dilma Rousseff  yesterday. Brazil also reduced the
minimum amount of ethanol that can be mixed with standard
gasoline.  Ethanol prices reached record highs this month, the end of
the annual inter-harvest season when sugar-cane mills are shut
down and supplies wane. Prices may go even higher next year,
according to Arnaldo Luiz Correa, an analyst at Archer
Consulting in Sao Paulo, because demand is rising faster than
the supply.  “Cane won’t grow faster now that ANP is supervising it,”
Correa said in an interview today. The industry needs more
investment in production capacity or “the problem’s only going
to be worse next inter-harvest season,” which lasts from
January to April.  Gasoline sold at the pump currently includes 25 percent
ethanol, though the current policy permits blends as low as 20
percent. The decree reduces the lower limit to 18 percent.  Only a third of the ethanol produced in  Brazil  is blended
with gasoline. The rest is used in the growing number of flex-
fuel cars in Brazil that can run on pure ethanol, according to
the Sao Paulo-based sugar-cane trade group  Uniao da Industria de
Cana-de-Acucar .  Record Prices  The price of anhydrous ethanol that’s mixed with gasoline
rose to a record of 2.73 reais ($1.73) a liter on April 20, up
122 percent since the start of the year, according to
Piracicaba, Brazil-based research institute Centro de Estudos
Avancados em Economia Aplicada.  Those prices are coming down with the start of the new
harvest season, making it less likely the government will lower
anytime soon the 25 percent ethanol blend-rate currently in use,
said Jacqueline Bierhals, a manager at the Sao Paulo-based
research agency Informa Economics FNP.  By the end of this week, about 200 of the 335 mills in
southern Brazil will be processing sugar cane, according to a
Unica  statement  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  