-- 
NFL Players Ask Court to Reject Team Owners’ Request to Reimpose Lockout

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-29T21:10:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/nfl-players-ask-appeals-court-not-to-restore-labor-lockout-with-owners.html
National Football League  players
asked a U.S. appeals court to deny team owners’ request to
restore a labor lockout while appealing an order to end their
ban on player access to the clubs’ facilities and staff.  The players, in a brief filed today with the St. Louis-
based  U.S. Court of Appeals , reiterated their claim that the
NFL’s lockout is harmful and illegal.  “The district court found that the players were suffering
irreversible harm every day the lockout continued given their
short careers,” attorneys for the players wrote, citing U.S.
District Judge Susan Richard Nelson’s April 25 order now
challenged by the NFL.  Owners of the league’s 32 teams locked out the players on
March 12 after negotiations on a new collective bargaining
agreement collapsed and the National Football League Players
Association announced it would no longer function as a union.  The lawsuit, filed by 10 players led by Super Bowl-winning
quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and  Peyton Manning , was filed
on March 11. In it, they argue NFL policies are anticompetitive
and violate U.S. antitrust laws.  NFL owners had asked the appeals court to stay enforcement
of Nelson’s order until it rules on their challenge. Yesterday,
the New York-based league said it would comply with the lower-
court order by allowing players access to team training
facilities, coaches and staff.  Draft Begins  The NFL’s annual college player draft began last night with
the selection of Auburn University quarterback Cam Newton by the
 Carolina Panthers . The draft is continuing today.  After the appeals court granted the players permission to
file an overlong 30-page brief in response to the owner’s
motion, the NFL countered by asking the court for the right to
file by May 2 a 15-page reply, five pages longer than they’d
already be permitted to submit.  The league argued in court filings that preventing the
lockout during an expedited appeal “would cause irreparable
harm to the league but not the players.”  “We believe there are strong legal and practical reasons
that support a stay and that the Court of Appeals should have an
opportunity to address the important legal issues that will be
presented,”  Greg Aiello , an NFL spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement on April 27.  Lawyers for the suing players rejected the league’s
assertions in today’s appeals court submission.  “The NFL Defendants now must operate just like any other
business in America,” they said. Citing Nelson’s ruling, they
added the injunction doesn’t subject the owners to any harm
that’s distinguishable from the harm faced by a litigant without
a stay.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ). The appeal is Brady v.
National Football League, 11-1898, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals ( St. Louis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  