-- 
NFL No. 2 Overall Draft Pick Is Lockout-Blocking Lawsuit Plaintiff Miller

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-04-29T04:29:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/nfl-no-2-overall-draft-pick-is-lockout-blocking-lawsuit-plaintiff-miller.html
Von Miller celebrated his selection
by the  Denver Broncos  with the second pick in the  National
Football League  draft by strolling across the stage at Radio
City Music Hall in New York to embrace the man he’s suing.  Miller, 22, shook the hand of NFL Commissioner Roger
Goodell after being welcomed to the stage by cheers from fans
who had earlier booed Goodell and repeatedly chanted “we want
football.”  Miller is the only rookie among 10 named plaintiffs who
have successfully challenged the NFL’s lockout of players in a
class-action lawsuit that accuses the league of antitrust
violations and wage fixing.  “I think they checked my background to know I’m not a
troublemaker and I’m not a guy that just looks for attention,”
Miller, who won the  Butkus Award  as the nation’s top linebacker
at  Texas A&M University , told reporters after his pick. “I’m a
team guy. Whatever it takes to help my team is what I do. That’s
one of the main reasons why I joined.”  A day after Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , declined to delay enforcing her April 25 decision to
end the lockout, the NFL said players will have full access to
team practice facilities starting today. They’ll be able to work
out, seek medical treatment and meet with coaches.  DeMaurice Smith , executive director of the  NFL Players
Association , which abandoned its role as a union in collective
bargaining to file the players’ lawsuit last month, compared
Miller with the association’s first president, John Mackey, who
led a lawsuit against the league in 1977.  ‘New Group of Legends’  “Today on the players’ side there’s a new group of
legends,” Smith told reporters at a reception at a Times Square
hotel. “We are certainly not done with all the challenges that
confront us, but I do know that, when people can say Von
Miller’s name alongside John Mackey’s name, that’s a good day
for football and our fans and a great day for our country.”  NFL owners yesterday asked a federal appeals court to delay
enforcement of Nelson’s ruling ending the month-old lockout. The
league told the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals that Nelson
“brushed aside” legal obstacles in her decision.  Players asked the appeals court to hold “in abeyance” the
NFL’s request for a delay in enforcement of the lockout ban
“until we have an opportunity” to file a response. The players
intend to file opposition to the league’s motion by noon today,
said their lawyer, Theodore B. Olson, in a letter to the court,
which is based in  St. Louis .  Tears, Hugs  Miller attended the draft and the welcoming reception held
by players. When the Broncos called to inform him of his
selection, television cameras showed him tearing up, hugging his
family and donning his suit jacket before heading out to meet
Goodell.  Miller said that, during those moments, he remembered his
entire football career, from youth leagues, through his high
school and college ranks to the present.  “I just remembered the adversity I’ve been through and
what it took to overcome that,” he said. “I was just extremely
grateful to have this opportunity to prove myself in the
National Football League.”  Miller called Broncos coach John Fox a “guru” and “a
wizard” and said he looked forward to proving himself in
Denver. He said his role in the lawsuit wouldn’t impact his
performance on the field.  “It hasn’t been a distraction and I feel like it’s not
going to be a distraction,” he said. “I’m a little away from
the world, but when I get back to my cell phone, I’m sure I’ll
be updated with all that stuff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net . 