-- 
NFL Draft’s First Round Draws 1.3 Million Fewer Viewers Than 2010 on ESPN

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-04-29T23:04:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/nfl-draft-s-first-round-draws-1-3-million-fewer-viewers-than-2010-on-espn.html
ESPN’s telecast of the National
Football League draft drew 1.3 million fewer viewers for this
year’s first round than a year ago as the U.S.’s most-watched
television sport goes through a labor dispute that threatens the
2011 season.  The  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  unit attracted 6 million viewers,
compared with 7.3 million for last year’s prime-time debut,
according to fast national ratings released by ESPN.  The rating for last night’s telecast was 4.4, down 17
percent from 5.3 a year ago.  Last year’s draft, the first in prime time, brought ESPN
the most viewers in its 31 years of broadcasting the event. The
network said ratings rose 27 percent for its 14 1/2 hours of
coverage on ESPN and ESPN2 after the league expanded the 2010
draft to three days and aired the first three rounds in prime
time.  This year’s draft, which continues tonight and tomorrow at
Radio City Music Hall in New York, is being complicated by the
fight between owners and players over how to divide about $9
billion in revenue, the most of any sports league.  Commissioner Roger Goodell was booed by fans chanting “we
want football” before the  Carolina Panthers  selected Auburn
University quarterback Cam Newton with the first pick.  Goodell then greeted the No. 2 pick, Texas A&M linebacker
Von Miller, one of 10 named plaintiffs in a class-action lawsuit
led by  Super Bowl  winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning 
and Drew Brees that accuses the NFL of antitrust violations and
wage fixing.  NFL owners shut down the U.S.’s most-watched sports league
in March after the players’ union abandoned collective
bargaining and filed the suit.  U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson this week ended
the month-old player lockout and declined to delay implementing
her decision while the league appeals. The 8th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in St. Louis today granted the NFL’s request to
temporarily stay Nelson’s decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 