-- 
NFL Team Owners Reinstate Lockout After Winning Temporary Delay in Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/nfl-team-owners-win-temporary-stay-of-court-order-blocking-player-lockout.html
The  National Football League 
re-imposed a lockout of players after team owners won a
temporary delay of a court order requiring them to lift it.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  yesterday stayed a lower-court
ruling that the league lift the ban. In a 2-1 ruling, the
appeals panel said it wanted time “to consider the merits” of
the NFL’s request to put on hold U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson’s April 25 order to end the lockout while the
team owners appeal her decision.  “The NFL bears the financial risk of its actions, while
the players, if they ultimately prevail, would secure the bonus
of treble damages,” the owners had told the appellate panel in
their initial request for an order blocking Nelson’s decision.  NFL officials re-imposed the ban on players, some of whom
had already reported to team facilities following the lower-
court ruling. “The clubs have been told that the prior lockout
rules are reinstated effective immediately,”  Brian McCarthy , a
spokesman for the New York-based league, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Ten players, led by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and  Peyton Manning , accused the league in a
complaint filed March 11 of violating U.S. antitrust law. The
owners imposed the lockout on March 12 after collective
bargaining talks collapsed. Nelson ruled April 25 that the
players had shown it was likely they would be irreparably harmed
if the lockout continued.  Judge Kermit Bye, the dissenting member of the St Louis-
based appeals court panel in yesterday’s decision, questioned
whether a true emergency warranted the relief sought by league
owners.  Dissenting Judge  “If we ultimately grant the motion for a stay, the NFL can
easily re-establish its lockout,” Bye said.  James W. Quinn, a lawyer for the players, called the
appeals court ruling “expected and routine.”  “The big surprise is that Judge Bye didn’t want to grant
them a very small stay because the league can’t show they are
hurt by following the law of the land,” Quinn said in an e-
mailed statement.  On April 28, teams began allowing players access to their
practice facilities, coaches and staff, in compliance with
Nelson’s ruling which was then in force.  The NFL began its annual draft of college players on
April 28 with the selection of Auburn University quarterback Cam Newton by the  Carolina Panthers . The draft continued yesterday.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ). The appeal is Brady v.
National Football League, 11-1898, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals ( St. Louis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  