-- 
Nissan Partner Dongfeng Posts Profit of 2.86 Billion Yuan

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-29T11:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/nissan-partner-dongfeng-posts-profit-of-2-86-billion-yuan-1-.html
Dongfeng Motor Group Co., the
Chinese partner of Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co., posted
first-quarter profit of 2.86 billion yuan ($441 million).  Net income was 0.33 yuan per share, the company said in a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today, without giving
year-earlier figures.  Dongfeng, also a partner of French carmaker PSA Peugeot
Citroen, expects passenger vehicle sales to rise to 1.65 million
units this year as rising incomes boost demand in the world’s
largest vehicle market. Even so, the Wuhan, Hubei-based company
faces production disruptions, after  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake
and tsunami affected electric power and parts supplies at
several automakers, including Nissan and Honda.  Dongfeng fell 1.8 percent to HK$12.12 at the 4 p.m. close
of Hong Kong trading, before the announcement. The stock has
fallen 9.6 percent this year compared with a 3 percent gain in
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The Chinese carmaker’s joint ventures with Nissan and Honda
have suspended evening and weekend production because of a parts
shortage, Hung Bin Toh, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit
Suisse, wrote in a report, citing a conference call. The 9-
magnitude earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan have affected
electric power and parts supplies at several automakers,
including the world’s largest car company, Toyota Motor Corp.  Japan Quake Impact  The reduction in output will result in a monthly loss of
10,000 to 15,000 units and will likely worsen in May, Toh wrote.  Japanese automakers accounted for about 20 percent of
deliveries in China, according to figures from the  China 
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Japan’s earthquake has had a “minor impact” on Honda’s
China operations, and sales won’t be affected until the end of
June, Seiji Kuraishi, the carmaker’s China president, said at
the Shanghai auto show on April 19. The Tokyo-based company
reiterated a previous forecast for deliveries in China to grow
10 percent to 730,000 units this year.  Nissan targets sales of 1.15 million vehicles in China for
the year, Kimiyasu Nakamura president of Nissan’s venture
Dongfeng Motor Co., said in Shanghai this month. This is up from
1.02 million cars last year.  --Liza Lin. Editors: Suresh Seshadri, Abhay Singh  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  