-- 
Norsk Hydro Profit Rises on Higher Metal Price, Revaluation

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-04-29T11:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/norsk-hydro-profit-climbs-as-rising-demand-boosts-prices-1-.html
Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) , Europe’s third-
largest aluminum producer, said first-quarter profit jumped as a
rebound in consumption raised prices and the company revalued
interests following the acquisition of assets from Vale SA.  Net income rose to 5.04 billion kroner ($965 million) from
869 million kroner a year earlier, Oslo-based Hydro said today.
Profit included 4.22 billion kroner in income from revaluing
existing interests in the Alunorte plant and the CAP joint
venture. Sales rose 16 percent 21.1 billion kroner.  “Underlying results for Primary Metal rose significantly
in the first quarter from the fourth, due to higher realized
aluminum prices, higher realized premiums and lower fixed costs,
the company said. “Positive developments were partly offset by
rising raw material costs,” the company said.  A recovery in aluminum demand has boosted prices of the
metal used in cars, packaging and houses. Aluminum for three-
month delivery on the London Metal Exchange rose 15 percent in
the quarter from a year earlier to average $2,530.64 a metric
ton.  Underlying Miss  The company’s underlying earnings before interest and tax,
which excludes some derivatives gains and losses, disposals of
operations and other non-reoccurring items, rose to 1.45 billion
kroner from 688 million kroner, missing an SME Direkt estimate
for 1.54 billion kroner.  The shares dropped as much as 2 percent, and traded 1.5
percent lower at 46.39 kroner as of 1:35 p.m. in Oslo. The
shares have gained 8.9 percent this year.  “The most important divisions here are the upstream
divisions and particular primary metal and that division seems
to have done quite well,” said Oddvar Bjorgan, an analyst at
SEB Enskilda in Oslo who has a “buy” rating on the stock. “I
will make minimal changes to my estimates. If anything it will
be slightly to the upside.”  Hydro, competing in  Europe  with United Co. Rusal and Rio
Tinto Alcan Inc., completed the purchase of bauxite and alumina
assets from  Brazil ’s Vale in February, securing 100 years of
raw-material supply for aluminum production.  Expansion  Hydro said last month it will expand the new assets,
raising output at Alunorte, the world’s largest alumina
refinery, to 6.3 million tons from 5.8 million tons in 2010.
Production at the Paragominas bauxite mine will increase to 10
million tons from 7.5 million tons, it said.  “These are not assets for restructuring, these are assets
for improvement,” Chief Executive Officer Svein Richard Brandtzaeg said today in an interview.  “The aluminum smelter
is a very well operated, so we see some small potential but this
is probably one of the best smelters in  South America . The main
the job for us is really lifting volumes at Paragominas and
Alunorte.”  Existing sales contracts signed by Vale mean that Hydro
will not have alumina available to sell under an index price
mechanism until at least 2014, he said.  Hydro, along with
United Co. Rusal and  BHP Billiton Ltd (BHP) , has contributed to the
development of index pricing rather than pricing the metal as a
proportion of aluminum.  Hydro has reported setbacks at its Qatalum smelter in Qatar
after the commissioning of power-plant steam turbines was
postponed. The Norwegian company, which manages the plant in a
joint venture with  Qatar Petroleum , said the facility was at 60
percent of capacity at the end of the quarter, and that it
expects the facility to reach full annual output of 585,000 tons
in June, delayed from an earlier first-quarter target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net 
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ; 