-- 
Nuclear Future Is Now Because That’s Where Profit Is for Exelon: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-04-29T05:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/nuclear-future-is-now-because-that-s-where-profit-is-for-exelon-real-m-a.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC)  is trying to pull off
its largest takeover by acquiring more nuclear  power plants  --
less than two months after the industry’s worst disaster since
Chernobyl.  The biggest U.S. operator of nuclear power facilities
agreed to purchase  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  of Baltimore
for about $7.9 billion in stock, giving the Chicago-based
company stakes in five more reactors. Including net debt, the
transaction would be Exelon’s first acquisition over $1 billion
since 2002 after three deals fell apart in the past seven years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Exelon faces its biggest decline in earnings in a
decade next year as higher-priced power contracts that it sold
expire, Constellation’s nuclear assets will help Exelon boost
profitability as environmental regulations increase costs for
energy producers that own coal plants, according to Manulife
Asset Management U.S. LLC’s Greg Phelps. The takeover, which
will mark the end of John Rowe’s 11-year stint as Exelon’s chief
executive officer, comes as the partial meltdown of Japan’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in March prompts rivals such as  NRG
Energy Inc. (NRG)  to halt plans to build new reactors.  “It’s a bet on nuclear,” said  Mark Bronzo , who helps
manage $26 billion at Security Global Investors in Irvington,
New York. The deal will allow the companies to “focus their
energy and intention on those areas that will have a chance to
make the greatest profit margins. It makes sense because there’s
no appetite for people to build new nuclear plants,” he said.  Acquisition Cost  Paul Elsberg, a spokesman for Exelon, said the deal helps
the company diversify its operations because it will acquire
Constellation’s retail utility business in addition to the
reactors. Larry McDonnell, a spokesman for Constellation, didn’t
respond to phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  Including net debt of $2.65 billion, the acquisition value
of Constellation was about $10.2 billion when it was announced
April 28, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Constellation
shareholders will get 0.93 Exelon shares for each share owned,
or about $38.59 each based on Exelon’s closing price April 27.  The bid was 16 percent higher than Constellation’s average
share price in the 20 days prior to the announcement and would
enable Constellation’s investors to recoup all their losses in
the past year, the data show.  Rowe, 65, plans to retire when the deal closes, according
to the statement, handing over control of the combined entity to
Christopher Crane, Exelon’s 52-year-old chief operating officer.
Current Constellation Chairman and CEO Mayo Shattuck III, 56,
will become executive chairman.  Earnings Outlook  Exelon’s per-share profit will decline 25 percent in 2012,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, on
expectations lower energy prices will trim revenue on future
power contracts, said William Costello, a Dallas-based utility
analyst and fund manager at Westwood Holdings Group Inc., which
oversees $10 billion.  Natural gas futures have fallen more than 60 percent since
July 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Exelon said the Constellation deal will reduce its
reliance on nuclear power, buying the nuclear assets now will
strengthen Exelon’s dominance in the industry and bolster its
profit as the economic recovery gathers pace and fuels demand
for electricity, according to Security Global’s Bronzo.  Exelon earned 25.8 cents before interest and taxes for
every dollar of revenue in the past 12 months, 46 percent higher
than the average operating margin for U.S. integrated electric
companies with market values greater than $1 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Best in Class  Constellation’s 6.7 percent operating margin was the lowest
among the group, dragged down by its retail utility business and
its nuclear assets that weren’t as well managed as Exelon’s,
said Westwood’s Costello. The company wrote down the value of
its plants co-owned with Paris-based Electricite de France SA in
the third quarter of 2010, leading to a $1.41 billion loss.  “Exelon is probably the best nuclear power operator, so
they can improve those operations,” Costello said. “They will
be able to really help the Constellation team and run the assets
a little bit better.”  The nuclear business may also benefit from the Obama
administration’s attempt to impose stricter rules for air
pollution. The Environmental Protection Agency last month
proposed regulations limiting toxins such as mercury, arsenic
and acid gases spewed from coal-fired power plants.  Clean Energy Benefit  The proposed rule may cost as much as $100 billion for the
industry to comply, according to the  Electric Reliability
Coordinating Council , a Washington-based coalition of companies
such as Atlanta-based  Southern Co. (SO) , the biggest utility owner by
market value.  Constellation and Exelon were among companies that praised
the EPA’s proposal. The Obama administration has identified
energy sources such as nuclear, natural gas, wind and solar as
“clean” because they produce lower emissions of carbon dioxide
and other pollutants than sources such as coal or oil.  Exelon alone will earn an additional $800 million a year by
2015 because of the environmental regulations forcing the
closure of coal-fired power plants, said Hugh Wynne, an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The Constellation deal is valued at 6.9 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $1.48
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. If the
acquisition is successful, it would be the cheapest takeover of
an integrated electric utility since 2001, the data show.  ‘Cheap Side’  Exelon estimates cost and revenue benefits of the
combination at $200 million next year, rising to $260 million
after 2013, enough to boost profit by more than 5 percent that
year, the company said yesterday on a conference call.  “They saw Constellation’s entire nuclear power generating
fleet as being priced on the cheap side,” Manulife’s Phelps
said.  Exelon’s deal comes after setbacks to nuclear reactor
projects amid concern about the safety of atomic power.  NRG Energy, the largest U.S. independent power producer,
this month halted its plans to build two new reactors at a  Texas 
nuclear plant. The Princeton, New Jersey-based company cited
diminished prospects after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami
knocked out cooling systems at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Dai-
Ichi plant, leading to the spread of radiation across parts of
northern Japan.  More than 50,000 households were forced to evacuate and
Tepco may face compensation claims of as much as 11 trillion yen
($135 billion),  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
Corp. estimates.  ‘Game Changer’  The No. 4 reactor of  Chernobyl  exploded 25 years ago this
week, sending a radiation plume across  Europe  from what is now
Ukraine. The meltdown killed at least 31 plant workers and
firefighters in three months and forced the evacuation of a
quarter of a million people in what was then the  Soviet Union .  “The meltdown in  Japan  was a game changer,” said  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  for Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor
Inc., which oversees $3.6 billion. “Right now, people are going
to be overly cautious.”  Still, “as energy and commodity prices increase, nuclear
is something that logically would come more to the forefront,”
he said.  Constellation’s retail-utility business may help offset
profit declines before energy prices recover.  Regulatory Hurdles  Exelon, which benefits from higher power prices, can
protect itself during periods of low prices with Constellation’s
retail business. At that division, earnings rise when prices are
down, according to Angie Storozynski, a New York-based analyst
for Macquarie Capital USA.  The acquisition still faces regulatory hurdles as the
companies seek approval from utility overseers in  Maryland ,  New
York  and Texas, in addition to federal regulators, Exelon said
yesterday. Maryland officials have twice blocked takeovers of
Constellation. The two companies are prepared for seven months
of negotiations in Maryland, according to Shattuck.  “Most people recognize -- shareholders, regulatory
authorities -- that the combined company is probably better,”
said Security Global’s Bronzo. “It probably puts both companies
on more solid footing. The approval will be very time consuming,
but it will get done.”  Overall, there have been 8,062 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $800.4 billion, a 24 percent increase from
the $645.5 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at +1-214-954-9455 or  susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 