-- 
Tobacco Industry Doesn’t Owe Missouri Hospitals, Jury Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J o e   W h i t t i n g t o n
-- 
2011-04-29T17:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/tobacco-industry-doesn-t-owe-missouri-hospitals-on-smoker-costs-jury-says.html
Tobacco companies  aren’t liable to
 Missouri  hospitals for money spent on patients with smoking-
related illnesses who couldn’t pay their medical bills, a St.
Louis jury said.  About 40 Missouri hospitals sued  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip
Morris unit, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Lorillard Tobacco Co.
and other cigarette makers in 1998, claiming they manipulated
the nicotine content in cigarettes and misrepresented the health
effects of smoking. The hospitals were seeking more than
$455 million in damages, ranging from about $300,000 for some to
$86.4 million for the Truman Medical Center in  Kansas City .  The industry’s actions boosted spending for unreimbursed
and uncompensated tobacco-related health care, the hospitals
claimed. The tobacco companies denied any responsibility for
patient-care costs at the hospitals or any financial losses by
the hospitals. The state-court jury in  St. Louis  today rejected
the hospitals’ claims on a 9-3 vote in the seventh day of
deliberations.  “The jury correctly rejected the entirety of the
hospital’s claims,” Murray Garnick, Altria Client Services’
associate general counsel, said in a statement. The jury agreed
with Philip Morris “that ordinary cigarettes are not negligently
designed or defective,” he said.  ‘Common Sense’  The verdict “shows common sense,” Dal Burton, Reynolds
lawyer, said in an interview. “It shows that our product is not
defective just because it contains nicotine.”  The hospitals haven’t decided whether to appeal, said their
attorney Kenneth Brostron.  “We have to evaluate and we have to talk to our clients,”
he said in an interview. “We’ll talk to the jurors and see what
the issues were. We thought we made our case.”  The case is the third such health-care cost-recovery claim
to reach trial, according to regulatory filings by Altria. The
industry won the first, in  Ohio , in 1999. The second initially
resulted in a $17.8 million award for a health insurer by a New
York jury in 2001. That was reversed on appeal in 2004.  The Missouri suit, which didn’t include patients as
plaintiffs, went to trial in January.  The tobacco companies “sell their defective products here
and they take their money back to  North Carolina ,  Virginia  or
wherever,” Brostron, a lawyer for the hospitals, said April 13
in closing arguments in St. Louis. “They are responsible for
what they did and it’s about time they take responsibility.”  Indigent Care  The hospitals, which provide care to indigent and non-
paying patients, represent the majority of licensed, adult
acute-care hospital beds in Missouri, according to the
complaint. The hospitals said medical ethics require them to
serve people in need regardless of their ability to pay.  Tobacco companies should reimburse the hospitals for care
provided to patients who are unable to pay and are suffering
from tobacco-related illness, the plaintiffs said. Hospitals
also should “recover the increased costs incurred to providing
all health-care services” as a result of tobacco use and
exposure to tobacco smoke, according to the complaint.  “Hospitals didn’t lose money on smokers,” Diane Sullivan,
an attorney for  Philip Morris , said in her closing argument
April 14. “Hospitals make money off our bad habits.”  The case is City of St. Louis v. American Tobacco Co., CV
982-09652-01, Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Whittington in St. Louis at 
 joethewhitt@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  