-- 
Obama Says He’s Never Seen Devastation Like That in Alabama From Tornadoes

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-04-29T20:02:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/obama-stops-to-talk-with-alabamans-hit-by-tornadoes-during-tour-of-damage.html
President  Barack Obama  drove and
walked through some of the Alabama neighborhood that lie in
ruins after the worst day of tornadoes in 37 years ripped
through the U.S. Southeast, killing hundreds of people.  Obama and first lady  Michelle Obama  toured where the roofs
were shorn off businesses and houses were flattened. They
stopped to talk with residents of the area, including a family
who was sifting through the wreckage of their home. All that was
left intact was the foundation.  “I’ve never seen devastation like this,” Obama said. “We
are going to do everything we can to help these communities
rebuild.”  Alabama Governor Robert Bentley said there were 210
confirmed dead and 1,700 injured as a result of the storm in
 Alabama , which was the hardest hit among the six states ravaged
by the tornadoes that swept the region on April 27. Dozens more
storm-related deaths were reported in Mississippi, Tennessee,
Georgia,  Virginia  and Kentucky.  The president was met by Bentley and other state and local
officials when he landed at Tuscaloosa Regional Airport in the
west-central part of the state as he sought to reinforce his
pledge that the federal government would provide full
assistance.  Coordinated Recovery  Obama expressed condolences to local residents and promised
a sustained federal commitment and coordination with local
officials.  “In addition to keeping all the families who’ve been
affected in our thoughts and prayers, obviously our biggest
priority now is to help this community recover,” Obama said in
 Alberta , Alabama.  The president stopped at Holt Elementary School, just
outside Tuscaloosa’s city limits where a relief center had been
set up, even though the building sustained damage from the
storm.  Obama late yesterday signed a disaster declaration for
Alabama that makes grants for temporary housing and home repairs
and low-cost loans available to eligible individuals and
businesses in eight counties. More counties may be added after
damage assessments are complete. The governors of Mississippi,
Virginia and Tennessee also declared emergencies.  Deadliest Day  It was the deadliest single day for tornadoes in the U.S.
since April 3, 1974, when 310 people died, according to
AccuWeather Inc. The  National Weather Service  reported the
twister that hit Smithville,  Mississippi , packed winds of 205
miles per hour. That gave it an  EF-5 damage rating , the highest
on the scale and the first of that magnitude in the state since
March 3, 1966, the weather service said.  Insured losses will be in the hundreds of millions of
dollars and total damage may reach $1 billion, said Jose
Miranda, director of client advocacy for catastrophe risk
modeler  Eqecat Inc.  in Hackensack,  New Jersey .  Tuscaloosa, a city of 93,000 and home to the  University of
Alabama , was among the hardest-hit areas.  The  Federal Emergency Management Agency  has representatives
in Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, Kentucky and Tennessee, the
White House said in a statement. A support base has been
established at a military facility in Maxwell, Alabama, letting
the federal government move supplies such as water, infant
toddler kits and tarps closer to areas of destruction.  Obama left Alabama for  Florida  where he toured a portion of
the  Kennedy Space Center  and is scheduled to deliver a
commencement address later at Miami Dade College. The president
was scheduled to watch the final launch of the space shuttle
Endeavour, which was postponed by  NASA  until at least May 2 a
fault with an auxiliary power unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Tuscaloosa, Alabama at   kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  