-- 
Obama Imposes Sanctions on 3 Syrian Officials Over Crackdown

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-04-29T20:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/obama-imposes-sanctions-on-3-syrian-officials-over-crackdown-1-.html
President Barack Obama today
ordered a freeze on U.S. assets and other sanctions against
three Syrian officials, including the brother and a cousin of
President Bashar al-Assad, because of violence against anti-
government protesters.  The sanctions also target the Syrian General Intelligence
Directorate and the Quds Force of the Iranian Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps for providing “material support” for
the Syrian government’s crackdown on demonstrators. Separately,
the European Union today also announced an arms embargo on
 Syria .  “The U.S. strongly condemns the Syrian government’s
continued use of violence and intimidation against the Syrian
people,” an administration statement that accompanied the
executive order said. “We call upon the Syrian regime and its
supporters to refrain from further acts of violence and other
human rights abuses against Syrian citizens seeking to express
their political aspirations.”  The sanctions widen an executive order issued by President
 George W. Bush  in May 2004 and are aimed at Mahir al-Assad,
brother of Syria’s president and brigade commander in the Syrian
Army’s 4th Armored Division; Atif Najib, cousin of Assad and
head of the Political Security Directorate for Daraa Province
last month when protesters were killed by security forces; and
Ali Mamluk, director of Syria’s General Intelligence
Directorate.  ‘New Tools’  The order provides the U.S. with “new tools to target
individuals and entities determined to have engaged in human
rights abuses in Syria,” a White House fact sheet said.  Underscoring that message, the 27-nation European bloc said
it would ‘urgently consider further appropriate and targeted
measures’’ should the Assad regime not change course, according
to a statement released by the office of EU foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton .  The Commerce Department revoked some licenses for the
export and re-export to Syria of items needed for aircraft used
to transport senior officials of the Syrian government, White
House spokesman Tommy Vietor said in a separate statement.  “Due to the commission of human rights abuses related to
political repression in Syria, export and re-export of these
items is deemed contrary” to U.S. foreign policy interests,
Vietor said in an e-mail.  “The status quo in Syria is unacceptable,” Senate Foreign
Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a Massachusetts
Democrat, said in a statement. “What is clear is that we need
to increase the political and economic pressure so President
Assad understands that he must end the violence and embrace
reforms.”  United Nations Action  Adding to the pressure on Syria, the United Nations  Human
Rights Council  today “unequivocally” condemned the crackdown
and called for the UN human rights chief to send a team to
investigate “all alleged violations of international human
rights law.”  The 26-9 council vote endorsed a U.S.-sponsored  resolution 
that denounced the use of lethal violence against protesters and
urged the Syrian government to permit free expression and
assembly, allow access to the Internet and other communications
networks, lift censorship on reporting and release political
prisoners.  In  Washington , Jake Sullivan, the State Department’s
director of policy planning, told reporters that “if they
continue this violence, we have the flexibility to add
additional sanctions.” He declined to say when further action
might be taken.  ‘Outrageous’ Violence  Assad has failed to quell protests after pledging steps to
meet activists’ demands and end a 48-year state of emergency.
Syrians today took to the streets in such cities as Aleppo,
Qamishli, Latakia, Homs and Deir al-Zour, defying warnings from
the Interior Ministry not to hold demonstrations.  Obama has previously condemned Syria for its “outrageous
use of violence” and has urged Assad to “change course now and
heed the calls of his own people.”  Syria’s latest crackdown in the past week has led to more
than 450 deaths since mid-March, according to the country’s
 National Organization for Human Rights .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  