-- 
Hong Leong Said to Sweeten $1.7 Billion EON Capital Bid, Allowing Dividend

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-04-29T01:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/hong-leong-said-to-sweeten-1-7-billion-eon-capital-bid-allowing-dividend.html
Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK) ,  Malaysia ’s
sixth-biggest lender by market value, agreed to sweeten its 5.06
billion ringgit ($1.7 billion) takeover offer of smaller rival
 EON Capital Bhd. (EON)  by allowing it to pay a dividend to existing
shareholders as part of the deal, a person familiar with the
matter said.  EON’s board met last night to approve a dividend payment of
about 40 sen per share after obtaining Hong Leong’s agreement
following several rounds of negotiations, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the process is private.
Shares of EON and Hong Leong Bank were suspended on the  Kuala
Lumpur  stock exchange today, pending an announcement.  Primus Pacific Partners Ltd., a Hong Kong-based investment
fund which is EON’s biggest shareholder with a 20.2 percent
stake, has opposed the deal after paying 9.55 ringgit a share
for its interest in 2008. That’s 31 percent more than Hong
Leong’s all-cash offer, which equals to 7.30 ringgit per share.
While the takeover price remains the same, a one-off dividend
would partially cushion this shortfall.  EON’s minority shareholders voted in favor of the takeover
at a meeting last year. Primus then sued the bank and nine of
its directors, claiming they had exceeded their powers and
breached fiduciary and statutory duties in allowing the sale
vote to proceed. In the suit filed through its local unit in
June, the fund sought 1.11 billion ringgit in damages if the
transaction went ahead at the current offer price.  Court Ruling  A Malaysian court yesterday ruled that the planned
acquisition by billionaire Quek Leng Chan’s Hong Leong is legal,
thwarting Primus’s attempt to block the sale. There was no
answer at Quek’s office when phoned today for comment before
normal office hours.  With the court ruling, “the way is paved for a re-rating”
for Hong Leong Bank shares, OSK Research Sdn. analysts led by
Chris Eng wrote in a report today. “The deal will be value
accretive on all fronts,” according to the report.  Hong Leong’s stock rating was raised to “buy” from
“trading buy” and its fair value increased to 11.60 ringgit
from 9.86 ringgit, Eng said. An EON takeover would help Hong
Leong create the Southeast Asian nation’s fourth-biggest banking
group by assets, he said.  ‘Buying Time’  “The petitioner’s motive is purely to buy time in order to
secure another bidder who’d pay more than 7.30 ringgit per
share,” Judicial Commissioner Varghese George Varughese said
when delivering his judgment in a high court in Malaysia’s
northern Penang state. “Corporate democracy must prevail.”  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the world’s second-largest
lender by market value, expressed interest this month in buying
EON, two people with knowledge of the matter said on April 26.  The Beijing-based bank sent a letter to Malaysia’s central
bank asking for permission to start talks with some or all of
the major shareholders of EON, hoping to secure the highest
possible equity ownership in the Malaysian lender, according to
the people who asked not to be identified as the information was
confidential.  EON shares rose to 0.7 percent to close at 7.23 ringgit
yesterday in Kuala Lumpur trading, paring an earlier 3.1 percent
gain after this afternoon’s verdict. Hong Leong Bank Bhd. rose
0.6 percent to 10.40 ringgit, while its parent  Hong Leong
Financial Group Bhd. (HLFG)  jumped 4 percent to a record 9.90 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  