-- 
Feet Supplier to South Africa ‘Blade Runner’ Sprinter, Ossur, Not For Sale

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-04-29T15:25:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/ossur-feet-supplier-to-blade-runner-pistorius-not-for-sale.html
Ossur Hf (OSSR) ’s largest shareholder has
no interest in selling the Icelandic prosthetics maker whose
artificial feet are used by would-be Olympic runner Oscar Pistorius.  Ossur, based in Reykjavik, makes braces and replacement
knees and feet. Pistorius, the South African sprinter known as
the “blade runner” who is seeking to become the first athlete
with prosthetics to compete in the Olympics, uses the company’s
 Cheetah  carbon-fiber foot.  Makers of orthopedic devices may become takeover targets
after  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  agreed this week to acquire  Synthes
Inc. (SYST) , a manufacturer of products to treat trauma victims, for
$21.3 billion. William Demant Invest A/S, the investment company
for the Smoerum, Denmark-based Oticon Foundation, plans to
maintain its stake in Ossur at around 40 percent, said Niels Jacobsen, chairman of the  investment company .  “It is a long-term holding,” Jacobsen said today by
phone. “Our plan is to support the company’s plans to develop
their strategy and their growth.”  Ossur was unchanged at 8.70 kroner at the 5 p.m. close of
trading in Copenhagen, giving the company a market value of 3.95
billion kroner ($790 million). The stock has risen 2.4 percent
in the past year, compared with a 12 percent return for the
Bloomberg World Health-Care Products Index.  The foundation began acquiring Ossur shares in 2004 after
reviewing investment opportunities in health care, said
Jacobsen, who also is chief executive officer of hearing aid
maker William Demant A/S. Particularly when its Ossur holdings
were smaller, private-equity investors and other companies asked
if the foundation would sell, he said. The foundation declined.  “We’ve been very happy with our investment, which is why
we’ve been expanding our holding over the last eight years,”
Jacobsen said.  Ossur’s net income climbed 54 percent last year to $34.9
million and sales increased 8.4 percent to $358.5 million.  Pistorius, who has broken more than 25 Paralympic records,
is aiming to qualify for the 2012 London Olympics.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  