-- 
Total Confident New Projects, Discoveries Will Boost Output

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-04-29T16:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/total-confident-new-projects-discoveries-will-boost-output.html
Total SA (FP) , which reported a first-
quarter drop in oil and natural gas production, will meet output
growth targets in the coming years as new projects start and
“bolder” exploration bears fruit.  “We are very confident with our forecast of about 2
percent growth of production for the next five years,” Chief
Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Paris.  The French company is expecting to start production at the
Pazflor field in Angola in the fourth quarter and add about
120,000 barrels a day in output from a stake in OAO Novatek
bought for about $4 billion this month, de la Chevardiere said.  Drilling in “riskier” exploration areas in Azerbaijan,
Brunei and  French Guiana  could be completed this year while its
joint venture partner  Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE)  in the
 Gulf of Mexico  may get permission this “summer” to resume work
on a well, he said.  Total said in February it expected output to be little
changed this year because of a lull in startups and has pledged
to explore more aggressively. The company reversed a production
slump that touched a nine-year low in 2009 by starting new
fields and liquefied natural gas projects. It has forecast
average annual output growth of 2 percent through 2015. Output
dropped 2 percent in the first quarter.  Brazil  is “a hole in our portfolio,” de la Chevardiere
said in the interview. Buying assets where discoveries have
already been made is “too expensive for us,” he said, adding
that partnerships in exchange for expertise in deep offshore
development projects remains possible.  Africa  Competition  Total and other so-called oil majors have lost out on
discoveries in Africa to competition from smaller companies.
Tullow Oil Plc and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  are developing the
250,000 barrel-a-day Jubilee field off  Ghana  without a top 10
producer.  The French exploration company has started drilling at the
Absheron field in Azerbaijan as well as a well offshore, in
French Guiana, which is “similar to the Jubilee discovery,” de
la Chevardiere said on a conference call. A well deep offshore
Brunei will be drilled end of the third quarter.  “Of course there are no guarantees on exploration but
these prospects are examples of high potential wells we have
added to the exploration program,” he said.  Total aims to produce natural gas at Novatek’s Yamal LNG
project in the Arctic within about four years after closing a
deal around July for a 20 percent stake, he said. Projects for
unconventional hydrocarbons in Australia and  Canada  will also
boost output in the coming years, he said.  The company’s first-quarter production fell 2 percent to
2.37 million barrels of oil equivalent a day from a year
earlier, according to an earnings statement published today.
Production of 55,000 barrels a day was halted in  Libya  during
the period due to the unrest there and also fell due to price
effects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  