-- 
Panthers Opt for Auburn Quarterback Cam Newton With Top Pick in NFL Draft

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-29T05:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/panthers-opt-for-auburn-quarterback-cam-newton-with-top-pick-in-nfl-draft.html
The  Carolina Panthers  selected
quarterback Cam Newton with the first pick in the 2011 National
Football League draft, while both New York teams added to their
defensive options.  The Giants selected University of Nebraska cornerback
Prince Amukamara at No. 19 and the Jets took Temple University
tackle Muhammad Wilkerson at No. 30. The draft, whose first
round lasted three hours, 30 minutes, continues today with the
second and third rounds.  Auburn University’s Newton, the Heisman Trophy winner as
college football’s top player last season, joins a Carolina team
coming off an NFL-worst 2-14 record. The Panthers scored a
league-low 196 points last season, 75 fewer than the next-worst
total by the  Cleveland Browns .  “It was just like a shock went through my body,” Newton,
21, said yesterday in a televised interview at Radio City Music
Hall in  New York . “It’s a great organization and I’m ready to
get to work.”  The draft began two days after the league was ordered by a
judge to end a month-old lockout that followed the failure of
owners and players to agree on a new labor accord. The league,
which is appealing the decision, said players will be allowed to
resume the use of practice facilities starting today. NFL
Commissioner Roger Goodell was booed as he took the stage last
night by fans who also chanted, “We want football.”  Boos to Cheers  The crowd’s reaction to Goodell contrasted with the cheers
that erupted when the Giants selected Amukamara. The 21-year-old
cornerback, who said it was his first trip to New York, was the
2010 Big 12 Conference Defensive Player of the Year after
recording 59 tackles in his senior season. He joins a Giants
defense that gave up 210 passing yards per game last year.  “We thought he would get picked a lot higher than that,”
Giants General Manager Jerry Reese said in an e-mail. “But it
happens like that sometimes in the draft. Guys can fall right in
your lap.”  The 6-foot-4, 305-pound Wilkerson was chosen as a second-
team All-American last year after recording 70 tackles and 9 1/2
sacks in his junior season at Temple. The Jets gave up 1,454
yards on the ground last year, third fewest in the league.  The  Denver Broncos  selected Von Miller, a linebacker from
Texas A&M, with the second overall pick. Miller is one of 10
players named in a lawsuit that accuses the league of antitrust
violations and wage fixing.  Top Five  The  Buffalo Bills  opted for University of  Alabama  defensive
tackle Marcell Dareus with the third pick and the  Cincinnati
Bengals  selected wide receiver A.J. Green of the University of
Georgia next. The  Arizona Cardinals  completed the top five with
Patrick Peterson, a cornerback from Louisiana State University.  The  Atlanta Falcons  moved up 21 places to sixth in a trade
with the Cleveland Browns to take Alabama wide receiver Julio Jones and the Jacksonville Jaguars traded up six spots to the
No. 10 pick, previously held by the  Washington Redskins , to
draft Missouri quarterback Blaine Gabbert. The Falcons gave up
five picks; the Jaguars two.  Four of the first 12 picks were quarterbacks -- Newton,
Gabbert, Jake Locker to the Tennessee Titans at No. 8 and
Florida State’s Christian Ponder to the  Minnesota Vikings  at No.
12.  Newton, a junior who had one season at Auburn, follows
Matthew Stafford of the  Detroit Lions  in 2009 and  Sam Bradford 
of the  St. Louis Rams  last year as quarterbacks selected with
the first overall pick. He was the oddsmakers’ favorite to be
the first player selected.  National Title  The 6-foot-5, 250-pound quarterback led the Tigers to the
Bowl Championship Series national title, the Southeastern
Conference title and a 14-0 record in 2010.  Broncos quarterback  Tim Tebow , the University of Nevada’s
Colin Kaepernick, who has also entered the draft, and Newton are
the only players in college football history to throw for 20
touchdowns and rush for 20 touchdowns in the same season.  “I could scream right now, but I know that’s not the sane
thing to do,” Newton said. “Man, am I happy. There were a lot
of sleepless nights.”  Newton faced a probe into recruiting violations during his
junior season. The  National Collegiate Athletic Association 
cleared him to continue playing, ruling during the season that
he was unaware of a pay-for-play demand organized by his father.  Aldon Smith, selected No. 7 by the  San Francisco 49ers ,
said that the league’s labor issue had little effect on his
fellow rookies, aside from forcing them to coordinate workout
spots if team facilities weren’t open. The defensive end said
the dispute in no way diluted his draft experience, which he
called “a dream come true.”  “It’s something I cannot control and I think things are
working out fine,” Smith said at the players’ association’s
welcome reception yesterday. “It’s like my Christmas today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 