-- 
Panthers Take Auburn Quarterback Cam Newton With Top Pick in NFL Draft

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-29T00:06:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/panthers-take-auburn-quarterback-cam-newton-with-top-pick-in-nfl-draft.html
The  Carolina Panthers  selected
Auburn University’s Cam Newton with the first pick in the
National Football League draft, marking the third year in a row
that a quarterback went No. 1.  Newton, the Heisman Trophy winner as college football’s top
player last season, joins a team coming off an NFL-worst 2-14
record. The Panthers scored a league-low 196 points, 75 fewer
than the next-worst total by the  Cleveland Browns .  Newton, a junior who had just one season at Auburn, follows
Matthew Stafford of the  Detroit Lions  in 2009 and  Sam Bradford 
of the  St. Louis Rams  last year as quarterbacks selected with
the first pick. He was the oddsmakers’ favorite to be the first
player selected tonight.  The 6-foot-5, 250-pound Newton led Auburn to the Bowl
Championship Series national title, the Southeastern Conference
title and a 14-0 record in his final year, while passing for
2,854 yards, 30 touchdowns and seven interceptions.  Newton led his conference with 1,473 yards rushing and 20
rushing touchdowns. He and the University of  Nevada ’s Colin
Kaepernick, who has also entered the draft, are the only players
in college football history to throw for 20 touchdowns and rush
for 20 touchdowns in the same season.  Newton also faced a probe into recruiting violations during
his junior season. The  National Collegiate Athletic Association 
cleared him to continue playing, ruling during the season that
he was unaware of a pay-for-play demand organized by his father.  The Panthers took quarterback Jimmy Clausen of Notre Dame
with their first pick a year ago. He was one of four
quarterbacks who played for Carolina last season, throwing for
three touchdowns and nine interceptions while completing 53
percent of his passes. The team ranked last in the league with
143.1 passing yards per game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 