-- 
Americans Increased Spending in March as Gasoline, Grocery Prices Climbed

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-29T21:27:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/personal-spending-in-u-s-rises-0-6-incomes-climb-more-than-forecast.html
Americans increased their spending
in March as they paid more for gasoline and groceries,
suggesting income gains may need to pick up to prevent a bigger
squeeze on household finances.  Purchases rose 0.6 percent after a revised 0.9 percent gain
the prior month that was higher than previously estimated, the
Commerce Department said today in Washington. After adjusting
for changes in prices, the spending that accounts for 70 percent
of the economy rose 0.2 percent in March.  Workers are finding limited success asking for pay raises,
a reason  Federal Reserve  policy makers will maintain record
monetary stimulus after ending large-scale bond purchases in
June. Another report showed business activity grew in April at a
pace that’s consistent with steady expansion in manufacturing.  “A larger share of consumers’ money must be allocated
toward gasoline and food,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York .
“Manufacturing is continuing to expand and looks healthier than
other parts of the economy.”  Stocks gained as results at  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and Goodyear
Tire & Rubber Co. beat estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,363.61 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York.  “We expect that the pace of world economic growth will
support continued recovery in the key industries we serve,”
 Doug Oberhelman , chairman and chief executive officer of
Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, said in a statement.  Business Barometer  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer dropped to 67.6 in April from 70.6 in
March. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion, and the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists called for a
decline to 68.2.  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession in mid-2009 has been helped this year in part by
President Barack Obama’s December compromise with congressional
Republicans on taxes. Companies will be able to depreciate 100
percent of investments in capital equipment in 2011.  The Commerce Department’s report showed Americans’
disposable incomes, or the money left over after taxes, rose 0.1
percent after adjusting for inflation, following no change in
February, a reminder of the challenge represented by rising food
and energy costs. The savings rate held at 5.5 percent.  ‘Like a Tax’  “The higher food and energy prices function like a tax in
the short term, and discretionary spending is going to bear the
brunt of that,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “Anything that
increases consumer income will increase  consumer spending , be
that more jobs or higher wages. We do expect the rebound in the
labor market to continue.”  The report showed the Fed’s preferred price measure, the
so-called core inflation reading that excludes food and fuel,
rose 0.9 percent in March from a year earlier, matching the 12-
month gain in February. The Fed’s so-called central tendency
forecast calls for a 1.3 percent to 1.6 percent increase this
year.  Figures from the Labor Department today showed employment
expenses rose in the first quarter at a rate that indicates
inflation may stay subdued in coming months.  The 0.6 percent increase in the employment cost index  from
January through March followed a 0.4 percent gain in the prior
three-month period, Labor Department figures showed today.
Economists projected a 0.5 percent climb, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Labor Costs  More than 13.5 million people were unemployed last month,
giving workers little leverage to ask for wage increases. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week that surging commodity
prices are “unlikely to induce significant” inflation in labor
costs.  The economy began 2011 on a weaker note, expanding at a 1.8
percent annual rate in the first quarter after a 3.1 percent
gain in the final three months of 2010, Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday. Consumer purchases rose at a 2.7
percent pace, more than forecast, following a 4 percent gain the
previous quarter.  Americans may find it difficult to boost their spending as
they pay more for groceries and gas. Regular fuel was $3.89 a
gallon on April 27, the highest since August 2008, according to
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization. Food costs rose
0.8 percent last month, the most since July 2008, consumer-price
index data from the Labor Department showed on April 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net  