-- 
Peru Stocks, Bonds Advance as Fujimori Cuts Humala’s Lead in Election Poll

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-29T18:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/peru-stocks-bonds-advance-as-fujimori-cuts-humala-s-lead-in-election-poll.html
Peru  stocks and bonds jumped after
a national poll showed ex-military rebel Ollanta Humala’s
presidential election lead fell to the narrowest since he won a
first-round vote.  The Lima General Index of 36 stocks climbed 3.3 percent to
19,603.43 at 2:18 p.m. New York time, for a 4.3 percent gain
this week. The index pared its loss this year to 16 percent. The
yield on the nation’s benchmark August 2020 bond fell 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 7.15 percent, according to
Deutschebank.  Humala’s support among voters in a poll published today
narrowed to 1.2 percentage points over Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, down from 3.8 percentage points in a survey issued
yesterday. The  Lima  stock index has dropped 7.8 percent since
Humala’s first-round victory on April 10. The presidential
runoff is June 5.  “The market can’t stand Humala, so this poll was good
news,” said Gustavo Urrutia, chief economist at Inteligo SAB, a
Lima-based brokerage. “Keiko Fujimori is also bringing
respected economists onboard her team.”  Humala had 41.5 percent support and Fujimori had 40.3
percent in Lima-based Datum International’s survey published
today in newspaper Peru.21. The poll of 1,200 people from April
25-27 had a margin of error of 2.8 percentage points. The gap is
the narrowest of the three polls published since Humala, leader
of Peru’s Nationalist Party, won the April 10 first-round vote.  Poll Results  The index rose the most in almost two years yesterday and
sol bonds surged after researcher CPI issued a poll that showed
Humala with a 3.8 percentage point lead over Fujimori, narrower
than his six-point advantage in a separate April 16-21 poll.
Datum said 18 percent of those surveyed were either undecided or
would cast a blank vote.  A former army officer and one-time ally of Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez , Humala has pledged to raise mining taxes
and renegotiate free-trade agreements. Fujimori says she will
maintain existing economic policies and backs industry
privatization.  Copper exploration company  Alturas Minerals Corp. (ALT)  jumped 13
percent, leading today’s gains. Thirty stocks in the Lima
General index rose, while one fell and five were little changed.
Alturas is up 31 percent this week, the biggest gain in the
benchmark gauge since April 22.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 214, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Voters appear to have broken towards Fujimori in this
latest poll and we believe investors will react positively to
this,” Cesar Perez-Novoa, managing director of Santiago-based
brokerage Celfin Capital, wrote today in a note to clients.
“Her proposals have the potential for appeal to people across a
range of various socio-economic groups, and also the
undecided.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  