-- 
Philippine Bonds, Peso Gain This Month on Budget-Deficit Data

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-04-29T08:28:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/philippine-bonds-peso-gain-this-month-on-budget-deficit-data.html
Philippine three-year bonds had
their biggest monthly gain in two years and the peso advanced on
optimism investors will increase purchases of the nation’s
assets as state finances improve.  The peso completed a third monthly gain as government data
this week showed the  budget deficit  was 26.2 billion pesos ($612
million) in the first quarter, less than an official ceiling of
112 billion pesos. The  Philippines ’ credit rating may be raised
“sooner rather than later,” Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday.  “The improving fiscal-consolidation picture is good for
sentiment,” said Radhika Rao, a regional economist at Forecast
Pte in  Singapore . “The positive comments from Moody’s on
rating-upgrade prospects could also stoke appetite for the
peso.”  The yield on the 6.25 percent note due January 2014 dropped
60 basis points, or 0.60 percentage point, to 4.43 percent this
month as of 4:11 p.m. in  Manila , according to Tradition
Financial Services. The slide was the biggest since the bonds
were first sold in January 2009. The rate fell four basis points
from yesterday.  The peso strengthened 1.4 percent this month and 1.1
percent this week to 42.802 per dollar at the close of local
trading, according to prices from inter-dealer broker Tullett
Prebon Plc. The currency advanced 0.3 percent today.  The first-quarter budget data was “very, very
encouraging,” Moody’s Assistant Vice President Christian de
Guzman said in an interview yesterday. “It is very impressive.
There is a very strong case for an upgrade to be made sooner
rather than later.”  Moody’s raised its outlook on Philippine debt to positive
from stable in January, indicating it is more likely to upgrade
the Ba3 debt rating, which is three levels below investment
grade.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 