-- 
Porsche Reports Profit After Volkswagen’s Record First-Quarter Earnings

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-04-29T14:34:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/porsche-reports-profit-after-volkswagen-s-record-first-quarter-earnings.html
Porsche SE, the holding company
that owns 51 percent of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s common shares, posted a
profit on higher earnings at VW and its sports-car business.  First-quarter net income was 691 million euros ($1.03
billion), the Stuttgart, Germany-based company said in a
statement. Porsche, which reported quarterly earnings for the
first time today, did not provide a comparison figure.  VW,  Europe ’s biggest automaker, posted record earnings
before interest and tax of 2.91 billion euros on April 27.
Porsche’s carmaking division said this week operating profit
more than doubled to 496 million euros. Porsche said it expects
to generate a profit this year before potential changes to the
value of options on the Porsche car business.  The company, which is controlled by the Porsche and Piech
families, agreed to combine with VW in August 2009 following a
failed attempt by the sports-car maker to acquire its larger
rival. The merger may be delayed until next year because of
German investigations into allegations of Porsche share-price
manipulation and U.S. lawsuits.  Porsche raised 4.9 billion euros in a rights offering
earlier this month. Proceeds from the share sale decreased net
debt to 1.8 billion from 6.7 billion euros. A further reduction
will take place after VW’s planned dividend payout of 2.20 euros
a share next month, Porsche said.  The two companies agreed to merge after Porsche racked up
more than 10 billion euros in debt in its failed effort to gain
control of VW.  Shares Gain  Porsche preferred shares rose as much as 56 cents, or 1.2
percent, to 49.20 euros and was up 0.4 percent to 48.83 euros as
of 4:28 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has dropped 4.2
percent this year, valuing the company at 15 billion euros.  VW is satisfied with the progress of integration and still
sees a 50 percent chance that shareholders approve the deal this
year, Hans Dieter Poetsch, chief financial officer at both VW
and Porsche, said earlier this week. VW took a 400 million-euro
charge last quarter on the value of an option to buy the rest of
Porsche’s sports-car business. VW owns 49.9 percent of the unit.  VW, based in Wolfsburg,  Germany , more than tripled first-
quarter net income to 1.6 billion euros, led by demand for
Audi’s revamped A8 sedan and new A7 Sportback as well as VW’s
Tiguan compact sport-utility vehicle.  China Demand  VW expects rising demand in China to help boost revenue and
earnings before interest and taxes this year. Its Chinese joint
ventures contributed 557 million euros to first-quarter
earnings. The Porsche car-making business more than doubled Ebit
after a revamp of the Cayenne SUV led to a 62 percent gain in
deliveries of its best-selling model.  Luxury-car makers, including Bayerische Motoren Werke AG
and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz, are anticipating record demand
this year, boosted by growing wealth in  China  and rebounding
spending in the U.S. Porsche aims to double global sales to
about 200,000 cars by 2018 by adding models such as a compact
SUV and increasing sales in emerging markets.  Investors claim Porsche misled them by denying through much
of 2008 that it intended to acquire VW. Porsche said in October
of that year it controlled most of VW’s common stock, causing
the shares to surge as short-sellers raced to cover their
positions. Porsche has denied the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  