-- 
Prince Amukamara Lands at New York Giants as No. 19 Pick in NFL Draft

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-04-29T06:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/prince-amukamara-lands-at-new-york-giants-as-no-19-pick-in-nfl-draft.html
Prince Amukamara had never been to
 New York  City until this week. After being taken as the 19th
pick in the National Football League draft by the Giants, he’ll
be spending a lot more time there.  The 21-year-old cornerback was chosen by the Giants last
night at Radio City Music Hall in New York after being named the
Big 12 Conference defensive player of the year.  “I wouldn’t actually call myself the Prince of New York
yet, but I’m definitely glad I landed here in New York City,”
Amukamara told reporters.  Amukamara is the 34th first-round NFL pick in University of
Nebraska history. He had 59 tackles and a sack in his senior
season. Behind the 6-foot, 206-pound defensive back, the
 Cornhuskers  allowed 153.6 passing yards per game last season,
the fewest in the Big 12 and fifth lowest in the nation.  “This guy is big and he’s fast,” Giants General Manager
Jerry Reese said an e-mailed statement. “He’s a good tackler;
physical player.”  The  Detroit Lions  selected Ndamukong Suh of the Cornhuskers
as the No. 2 overall pick last year. Amukamara’s selection gives
Nebraska back-to-back first-round picks for the first time since
Michael Booker was chosen by the Atlanta Falcons in 1997 and
Grant Winstrom and Jason Peter were taken by the  St. Louis Rams 
and  Carolina Panthers  the following year.  ‘All the Tools’  “He has the all the tools to be an outstanding pro,”
 Nebraska  coach Bo Pelini said about Amukamara on the school’s
website. “He has worked hard to get to this point in his
career.”  Amukamara joins a Giants secondary that ranked ninth out of
32 NFL teams last season. New York gave up 3,352 passing yards
and 24 touchdowns through the air.  “We were surprised that he was there when we picked,”
Reese said. “We thought he would get picked a lot higher than
that.”  The Giants had a 10-6 record last season to finish second
in the National Football Conference East division behind the
 Philadelphia Eagles . Amukamara said he believed he was better
off being picked at No. 19 by the Giants, who won the 2008  Super
Bowl , than he would have been as the first overall selection.  “The Giants are already good, that’s why they are picking
at number 19,” he said. “I’m just glad they picked me to help
contribute to win another championship.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novywilliams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  