-- 
Putin Raises Russia’s Gasoline Export Tax to Fight Shortage

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-29T11:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/putin-raises-russian-gasoline-export-tax-44-to-fight-shortages.html
Russian Prime  Vladimir Putin  raised
the export taxes on gasoline by 44 percent to fight regional
motor fuel shortages as parliamentary and presidential elections
approach.  The tax will climb to $408.30 a metric ton on May 1 from
from $283.90 this month, according to an April 28 order posted
today on the government website. Putin earlier this week
approved a 7 percent increase in the export tax on so-called
light oil products, raising the duty to $304 next month.  Russian regions from  St. Petersburg  to the  Far East  are
experiencing gasoline shortages amid state pressure to hold down
prices on refined products as international crude prices. The
Federal Anti-Monopoly Service has begun an investigation of the
country’s biggest oil producers related to the shortages.  “Putin is moving quickly to head off a potential problem
in an election year,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib
Financial Corp., said by telephone today. Russia will hold
parliamentary elections in December and the presidential
election next year.  Russia’s three largest oil companies, OAO Rosneft, OAO
Lukoil and TNK-BP, don’t export motor fuel that meets domestic
quality standards, according to company spokesmen called
yesterday by Bloomberg. Rosneft said it ships only low-grade
fuel abroad.  ‘Bad Decision’  Raising export taxes on gasoline will further discourage
production at refineries, said Luis Saenz, London-based director
of international sales at Otkritie Securities Ltd.  “One bad decision leads to a worse one,” Saenz said in an
e-mailed note. “The government’s decision to force down
domestic gasoline prices at the expense of the oil industry was
short-sighted, in our view, predictably resulting in fuel
shortages in the world’s largest oil-producing country.”  In a concession to oil producers, Putin yesterday ordered
the government to consider reducing excise duties or the mineral
extraction tax. The Energy Ministry said it will seek to stop
all Russian gasoline exports next month.  Russia’s economy has expanded, and with it the number of
cars being driven, while gasoline output doesn’t appear to have
kept pace, Weafer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  