-- 
Quake-Hit Japan’s LNG Volumes Drop as Costs Climb on Crude

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-04-29T08:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/quake-hit-japan-s-lng-volumes-drop-as-costs-climb-on-crude-1-.html
Japan , the world’s biggest importer
of liquefied natural gas, paid about 5 percent more for the fuel
in March compared with a year earlier as volumes dropped after
the country’s biggest earthquake damaged ports and power plants.  The nation paid $4.3 billion for the fuel, or $651 a metric
ton, in March from $4.16 billion, or $620 a ton, a year earlier,
according to data from the country’s  Ministry of Finance .
Deliveries fell 0.6 percent to 6.67 million tons after the March
11 temblor and subsequent tsunami shut LNG import facilities and
thermal power stations.  “The current demand for power may be weaker than expected
because of the knock-on effect of the quake, particularly on car
manufacturers and an austerity campaign,” said Tony Regan, a
Singapore-based with consultant at Tri-Zen International. “That
must have an impact on electricity demand and consequently, LNG
demand.”  About 3 percent of gas-fired capacity in Japan, or 2,071
megawatts, was unavailable after the disaster off the east
coast, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in March.  LNG prices in  Asia  for term supplies are typically linked
to a basket of Japanese crudes with a lag of three to six
months.  New York  crude futures increased 15 percent last year.  Qatar Supplies  Japan paid the highest prices in March for term supplies of
LNG from Qatar, the world’s biggest producer, at $738 a ton,
according to the data.  Qatargas Operating Co. agreed this month to ship additional
LNG volumes equivalent to more than 60 conventional cargoes to
Japan to compensate for a reduction in that nation’s nuclear
power capacity after the temblor.  Japan bought three spot cargoes in March from two a year
earlier and three in February, according to Ministry of Finance
data.  Equatorial Guinea  supplied two spot cargoes, which are
linked to global gas price benchmarks such as the U.K.’s
National Balancing Point or  Henry Hub , for $608 a ton, or $11.6
per million British thermal units, and a Trinidad & Tobago
shipment cost $571 a ton.  Gas for June delivery traded at $4.568 per million Btu in
New York today, while front month U.K. gas closed yesterday at
56.77 pence a therm, or about $8.69 per million Btu, according
to Bloomberg data.  LNG is natural gas that’s chilled to liquid form, reducing
it to one-six-hundredth of its original volume for transporting
by ship to destinations not connected by pipeline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  