-- 
Rajaratnam Jury Fails to Reach Verdict After Week of Meeting

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/rajaratnam-jurors-go-home-for-the-weekend-without-verdict-in-insider-trial.html
Jurors deciding the insider-trading
trial of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam failed to
reach a verdict after a week of deliberations and are set to
return May 2 to resume weighing evidence.  The federal court jury in  Manhattan  put in a half-day
yesterday before leaving for the weekend. They submitted no
notes to the judge and haven’t asked to review evidence since
April 27.  The nine women and three men have deliberated for about 29
hours since U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell instructed them
on the law on April 25. In that time, they have asked to hear
about 15 wiretap recordings of Rajaratnam’s telephone calls.  “It’s not surprising it’s taking this long with a case as
complicated as this,” said  James DeVita , a New York-based
criminal-defense lawyer who isn’t connected to the case. “These
kinds of cases are difficult for lay jurors. Each one of those
counts is the equivalent to a case in and of itself.”  Rajaratnam, 53, was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about 15 stocks,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Clearwire
Corp.  Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, is
charged with five counts of conspiracy and nine counts of
securities fraud. He faces as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted of the most serious charges. The trial began March 8.  Bernard Ebbers  New York  jurors deliberated into their eighth day before
convicting former WorldCom Inc. Chairman Bernard Ebbers of
accounting fraud in 2005. Like the Rajaratnam case, that trial
featured six weeks of testimony.  It also took eight days in 2004 for jurors to render a
guilty verdict on some fraud counts against Adelphia
Communications Corp. founder  John Rigas  and his son Timothy.  A deadlocked jury in Manhattan weighed the evidence for six
days in 2004 before a judge declared a mistrial in the
obstruction-of-justice case against former Credit Suisse First
Boston banker  Frank Quattrone . Quattrone’s conviction at a
second trial was reversed on appeal.  The first trial of former Cendant Corp. Chairman Walter Forbes in Connecticut ended in a mistrial in 2005 when jurors
were unable to reach a unanimous verdict after 33 days of
deliberations. His second trial also ended in a mistrial, after
27 days of deliberation. He was convicted at a third trial.  Scrushy Acquittal  In 2005, jurors in Alabama deliberated for 21 days before
acquitting Richard Scrushy, the former chief executive officer
of  HealthSouth Corp. (HLS) , of directing a $2.7 billion accounting
fraud.  It took jurors in Brooklyn, New York, just one day to
acquit former Bear Stearns Cos. hedge-fund managers  Ralph Cioffi 
and Matthew Tannin of  securities fraud  charges in 2009, after a
monthlong trial.  Anthony Sabino , a professor at the Tobin School of Business
at St. John’s University in New York, said the outcome of the
Rajaratnam case presents “infinite possibilities.”  “It’s anybody’s guess,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  