-- 
Ranbaxy, Samsung, Getty, SAFA, ABC: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-04-29T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/ranbaxy-samsung-getty-safa-abc-intellectual-property.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  and the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration urged a federal judge to
dismiss a lawsuit filed by Mylan Inc. challenging one company’s
exclusive rights to begin selling copies of the cholesterol pill
Lipitor later this year.  The FDA told U.S. District Judge James Boasberg in
 Washington  yesterday that Mylan has no legal authority to force
the agency to act immediately on Ranbaxy’s application to sell a
generic version of Lipitor.  “The key here is however much Mylan would like, or the
whole industry would like, the FDA to decide this early, there
is no legal right or duty that the FDA owes,” said Andrew
Clark, a lawyer for the  Justice Department .  Ranbaxy plans to begin selling copies of the drug in
November, although it doesn’t yet have FDA clearance. Mylan had
sued the agency in March, claiming that it and other generic-
drug makers should be allowed to enter the market as early as
June because of manufacturing violations at two Ranbaxy
factories in  India .  The FDA said it is reviewing applications to sell generic
versions of Lipitor, the world’s best-selling medicine, and
rejected Mylan’s claim that there has been an “unreasonable
delay” in making a decision. Ranbaxy, based in Gurgaon, India,
contends it is entitled to a six-month period of selling the
only approved generic Lipitor as a reward for challenging
Pfizer’s patents on the medicines.  “We all want the FDA to follow its procedures and issue a
decision,” said Carmen Shepard, a lawyer for Ranbaxy.  Boasberg said he will issue a decision on whether to
dismiss to the parties on May 2. A public version of his
decision will be available later, he said.  The six-month period of exclusivity may add as much as $585
million to Ranbaxy’s sales, according to the median of four
analysts’ estimates. That would make the generic version the
biggest product in the Indian drugmaker’s history. Ranbaxy had
sales of 85.5 billion rupees ($1.9 billion) last year.  In its complaint, Mylan contends that Ranbaxy isn’t
eligible for that marketing exclusivity because of “false and
unreliable data” from its manufacturing site in Paonta Sahib,
India, used in Ranbaxy’s application for generic Lipitor.
Ranbaxy has said it’s working with the FDA to resolve
outstanding questions.  Mylan asked Boasberg to force the FDA to say publicly
whether Ranbaxy’s application “is tainted by Ranbaxy’s
misconduct” and that therefore the application must be denied
and the 180-day reward voided.  Mylan, based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , contends it would
be able to enter the market in June, when some of the Lipitor
patents expire, if Ranbaxy isn’t given the exclusivity period.  The case is Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, 11-cv-00566, U.S. District Court, District
of Columbia (Washington).  Samsung Broadens Patent Dispute Against Apple With U.S. Suit  Samsung Electronics Co., the second-largest maker of mobile
phones, broadened its patent-infringement dispute with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  by suing the iPhone creator in the U.S. a week after making
claims in  Asia  and  Europe .  Apple is infringing 10 patents related to mobile phones,
Samsung said in a lawsuit filed April 27 in federal court in San
Jose,  California . The Suwon, South Korea-based company, which
sells the Galaxy smartphone and tablet, claims Apple is using
Samsung’s inventions without paying.  The lawsuit intensifies a legal dispute that began when
Cupertino, California-based Apple sued Samsung earlier this
month, claiming the Galaxy products “slavishly” copied iPad
and iPhone technology and design. Samsung, which is also a
supplier of some Apple chips, retaliated last week with lawsuits
in  Seoul ,  Tokyo  and Mannheim,  Germany .  In the U.S. complaint, Samsung accuses Apple of violating
patents that “relate to fundamental innovations that increase
mobile device reliability, efficiency, and quality, and improve
user interface in mobile handsets and other products.”  The patented technology includes ways that a phone allows
calls and Internet surfing at the same time; improvements in how
text messages and attachments are sent; reductions in
interference among mobile devices; and increases in the capacity
of mobile networks, according to the complaint.  Samsung, which received the second-highest number of U.S.
patents last year after  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,
is seeking an order to prevent further use of its innovations by
Apple plus cash compensation.  “Apple continues to violate Samsung’s patent rights by
using these patented technologies without a license,” Samsung
said in the lawsuit.  Apple’s April 15 complaint claims Samsung is infringing
seven patents related to the way Galaxy devices understand user
gestures, including selecting, scrolling, pinching and zooming.
Samsung is also copying three patents on the design, including
the flat black face of the iPhone and iPad, according to Apple.  The Galaxy phones and tablet, which use Google Inc.’s
Android software, were specifically designed to copy Apple
products, Apple claims.  Apple is seeking a court order to block further use of its
patents and trademarks, along with cash compensation and
“reasonable funds for future corrective advertising.”  Samsung’s mobile-phone business “crossed the line,” Tim
Cook, Apple’s chief operating officer, said last week after the
company reported profit that almost doubled from a year ago.  The case is Samsung Electronics Co. v. Apple Inc.,
11cv2079, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California (San Jose).  Cephalon, Teva Face EU Antitrust Probe Over Generics Delay  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  face
a European Union investigation into a deal that may have delayed
generic versions of Cephalon’s biggest product, Provigil.  The European Commission in Brussels said it would examine
“as a matter of priority” whether the companies’ 2005
agreement to settle British and U.S. patent litigation “may
have the object or effect of hindering the entry” of the sleep-
disorder drug, known as modafinil.  “As part of the settlement agreement Teva undertook not to
sell its generic modafinil products” in Europe before October
2012, the EU said in an e-mailed statement.  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generics producers might harm consumers. Bayer AG
was among drug firms told by EU officials in January to submit
details of patent-settlement deals that may be used to delay the
sale of generic versions of medicines.  Teva “will defend very robustly any allegation of
infringement of regulations,” Yossi Koren, a spokesman for the
Petah Tikva, Israel-based company, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We believe that we have acted within the law at all
times.”  Natalie de Vane, a spokeswoman for Frazer, Pennsylvania-
based Cephalon, didn’t immediately return a phone call and an e-
mail seeking comment. Provigil, which last year generated sales
of $1.12 billion, faces a loss of patent protection in April
2012.  Cephalon last year lost an attempt to dismiss U.S.
antitrust suits, including one by the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission, over patent-infringement settlements it reached
regarding generic versions of Provigil. It also lost a U.K. bid
in November that sought to block Mylan Inc. and  Orchid Chemicals
& Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (OCP)  from selling generic versions of the drug
in Britain before a patent trial.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Settlement Reached in Tavern on the Green Trademark Dispute  A bankruptcy judge in  Manhattan  approved a settlement
between the City of  New York  and the Chapter 7 trustee for
Tavern on the Green Ltd. Partnership LP and LeRoy Adventures
Inc. concerning ownership of the trademark “Tavern on the
Green,” according to a statement from Streambank LLC, which
will be marketing the IP assets under court approval.  Under terms of the agreement, the City of New York will own
the “Tavern on the Green” trademark registration for
restaurant and bar services and will have the exclusive right to
use the name for restaurant services in New York. The city will
also receive 25 percent of the net proceeds from the sale of the
rights for other uses.  The buyer of the other rights will be permitted to use the
name for branding purposes on a variety of goods, and for
restaurants located outside of New York,  New Jersey ,  Connecticut 
and part of Pennsylvania, according to the statement.  SAFA Says Price Asked for Bafana Bafana Trademark Too High  The South African Football Association is balking at paying
the 33 million rand ($5 million) a South African businessman is
asking for the Bafana Bafana trademark for that nation’s soccer
team, the Sowetan newspaper reported.  Wayne Smidt’s Stanton Woodrush clothing company holds the
trademark for the phrase that has been used for the soccer team,
according to the Sowetan.  SAFA is arguing the price is exorbitant, the newspaper
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Hellman & Friedman’s Getty Images Buys Copyright Technology  Hellman & Friedman’s Getty Images unit has acquired
Herzliya, Israel’s  PicScout Inc. , a provider of technology used
to enforce copyrights on images, PicScout Chief Executive
Officer Offir Gutelzon said in a blog  posting .  Getty, based in Seattle, operates an online photo archive,
and licenses images through the Internet and on CD-ROM disks.  Getty Images will invest in PicScout’s technology and
continue to work across the image industry to improve and expand
protection of intellectual property, according to a PicScout
 statement .  Financial terms of the transaction weren’t disclosed.  Russian Pornography BitTorrent Tracking Site Seized, Shut Down  Authorities seized the servers of Pornolab.net, the largest
Russian BitTorrent site, the TorrentFreak website  reported .  The site, which operated out of a data center in Kiev,
Ukraine, served more than 2 million users, TorrentFreak
reported.  The grounds on which the site was shut down and the servers
seized was distribution of pornographic material without age
restriction rather than copyright infringement, according to
TorrentFreak.  The police action follows the February 2010 seizure of the
Torrents.ru domain name on copyright-infringement grounds,
TorrentFreak reported.  ABC’s Chasers Comedy Group Can’t Use Royal Wedding Footage  The Australian Broadcasting Corporation canceled some of
its coverage of today’s wedding of Prince William and Catherine
Middleton because of restrictions on the use of the content by
the U.K.’s royal family, the Australian broadcaster  reported.   Conditions barred use of the footage “in any drama,
comedy, satirical or similar entertainment program or content,”
according to ABC.  The broadcaster had planned to use footage in a program
with the satirical comedy team The Chasers, according to BGC.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 