-- 
Raser Technologies, Renewable Energy Developer, Files for Bankruptcy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-04-29T22:28:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/raser-technologies-renewable-energy-producer-files-bankruptcy.html
Raser Technologies Inc. (RZTI) , a
geothermal-energy developer, sought  bankruptcy protection  with a
restructuring agreement worked out with bondholders and secured
creditors.  The company, based in Provo, Utah, listed $107.8 million in
debt and $41.8 million in assets as of Dec. 31, in Chapter 11
documents filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,
 Delaware . Nineteen affiliates also sought court protection.  Raser is a renewable energy company focusing on geothermal
power development, according to a March press release. The
company has one operating plant in Utah and another eight early
and development stage projects in Utah,  New Mexico ,  Nevada  and
Oregon.  “The Company will restructure substantially all of its
liabilities, including over $90 million of secured and unsecured
debt and over $5 million in trade obligations and other claims,
and will receive an infusion of new capital to ensure that the
Company will be in a position to continue its operations,” the
company said in a statement issued today. Business operations
won’t be affected by the bankruptcy, said Chief Executive
Officer Nick Goodman.  The company hasn’t recorded a profit since it began posting
its results in the quarter ending March 31, 2001, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Long-Term Relief  “Today’s action will provide long-term relief from our
debilitating legacy debt and allow us to pursue development of
innovative geothermal and other renewable energy solutions,”
Goodman said in the statement.  The company’s sole operating plant near Beaver, Utah, named
Thermo No. 1, has a power generation capacity of 10 megawatts.
The City of Anaheim,  California , agreed in 2008 to buy the
generated electricity for 20 years.  Raser said in July that it was considering selling an
equity stake in the project to finance installation of larger,
more efficient turbines, after it failed to perform up to
expectations. Thermo currently uses 250-kilowatt Pratt & Whitney
PureCycle technology, instead of multimegawatt turbines that
geothermal plants traditionally use.  Last week, Raser said it had not completed debt payments
with the lenders for Thermo, according to a regulatory  filing .  Raser has seven other development-stage projects in Utah,
New Mexico, Nevada, and Oregon, as well as rights to geothermal
resources on 100,000 acres of property in  Indonesia .  All of Raser’s equity will be wiped out under the proposed
restructuring, according to the statement. The company will
borrow $8.75 million from two bondholders to help fund
operations during the turnaround.  The case is: In re Raser Technologies Inc., 11-11315,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 