-- 
Real Madrid, Barcelona Trade Complaints as UEFA Probes Semifinal Incidents

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-29T00:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/real-madrid-barcelona-trade-complaints-as-uefa-probes-semifinal-incidents.html
UEFA  opened disciplinary cases
against Real  Madrid  and Barcelona over incidents in their
Champions League semifinal opener as the Spanish rivals lodged
formal complaints with European soccer’s governing body.  The case against Real relates to items thrown on the field
two days ago at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium in Madrid, people
coming onto the field, a red card given to defender Pepe, and
the dismissal of and “inappropriate” media comments made by
manager  Jose Mourinho , UEFA said on its  website  yesterday.  Barcelona, which won the match 2-0, is being investigated
for a red card shown to reserve goalkeeper Jose Pinto. The cases
will be heard by UEFA’s Control and Disciplinary Body on May 6,
three days after the return game in  Barcelona .  The third meeting between the archrivals in 12 days
featured three red and five yellow cards. The teams had to be
separated, with the help of police, as they left after a
scoreless first half and Pinto was red-carded for his part in
the fracas.  Pepe was ejected in the second half for a foot-first
challenge and Mourinho was sent to the stands in the aftermath
after mockingly applauding the decision.  Lionel Messi  then
scored two goals in the final 14 minutes to give Barcelona the
first-leg victory.  Following the game, Mourinho called Pepe’s red card a
“scandal” and said it “disgusts me to live in this world of
soccer.” He also said he didn’t know whether referee Wolfgang
Stark had wanted to give publicity to Unicef, the  United Nations
Children’s Fund , whose name Barcelona wears on its jerseys, or
to please UEFA with some of his decisions.  ‘No Chance’  “It’s clear that against Barcelona you have no chance,”
Mourinho said after the match. “I don’t know if it’s the
publicity of Unicef, I don’t know if it’s because they are very
nice, but they’ve got this power.”  Following an extraordinary meeting of the club’s board
yesterday, Barcelona said it would make a formal complaint to
UEFA’s Control and Disciplinary Body over Mourinho’s comments.  “It is absolutely unacceptable that someone can call into
question our history, our titles,” Barcelona spokesman Toni
Freixa said on the Catalan club’s website.  Real, which won the last of its record nine European Cup
titles in 2002, countered late yesterday by issuing its own
complaint to UEFA concerning what it described as “repeated
unsportsmanlike behavior” by Barcelona.  Real said in a  statement  on its website that Barca’s
players “consistently feigned aggressions with the sole purpose
of misleading the referee of the match, which clearly led to the
unfair decision to dismiss our player, Pepe.”  Mourinho has the club’s “full support,” Real said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 