-- 
U.S. Treasury Proposes Exemptions for Foreign-Exchange Swaps

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-04-29T21:15:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/treasury-proposes-dodd-frank-exemption-of-foreign-exchange-swaps-forwards.html
The U.S. Treasury Department
proposed exempting foreign exchange swaps and forwards from most
of the derivatives rules required under the Dodd-Frank Act,
saying the market already meets many of the law’s objectives.  “Congress recognized that the foreign exchange swaps and
forwards market already reflects many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s
goals including high levels of price transparency, effective
risk management and electronic trading,” Assistant Treasury
Secretary  Mary Miller  said today at a briefing for reporters in
Washington. “We think this narrow slice should be exempted.”  Under Dodd-Frank, foreign exchange swaps and forwards are
subject to the same clearing and trading rules as other swaps
unless the Treasury secretary determines they are different.
Today’s proposal will be released for 30 days of public comment.  Swaps and forwards are part of a $4 trillion global daily
turnover in the foreign exchange market, according to the Basel-
based  Bank for International Settlements . A coalition of 20
firms, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
and  UBS AG (UBSN) , asked Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to
grant an exemption in a November letter.  “Our companies, with well established global footprints,
have financial transactions in dozens of currencies and rely on
the FX market to help manage receipts and payments,” firms
including Cargill Inc.,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  3M Co. (MMM)  said in a
letter urging an exemption.  Trading Revenue  Foreign exchange contracts were the largest source of
trading revenue for banks’ derivatives and cash positions in
2010,  according  to the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. U.S. commercial banks recorded $9.1 billion in revenue
on trading of foreign exchange derivatives.  “Our investors are increasingly more interested in global
investment products and hence a greater need to be able to hedge
in a variety of currencies,” Richard Prager, managing director
and head of global trading at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said today in an
interview. “It is one of the most global, 24-hour markets.”  Miller, the Treasury Department’s assistant secretary for
financial markets, said foreign exchange swaps and forwards
present significantly less counterparty credit risk than other
derivatives and there are procedures to mitigate risk.  “Central clearing could actually jeopardize the practices
in the FX swaps and forwards market,” Miller said.  Loophole  In comment letters to Treasury last year, Democratic
Senators  Carl Levin  of Michigan Maria Cantwell of Washington
discouraged the department from granting the exemption.  “The secretary attempted to strike a balance in his
proposal to exempt foreign exchange swaps and forwards from some
of the recent reforms,” Levin said in a statement released
today. “I have concerns that his proposed exemption relies on
current industry practices that are inadequate and could be
changed by the industry unless the exemption is conditioned upon
their remaining in place.”  The Treasury proposal doesn’t exempt foreign-exchange
derivatives from Dodd-Frank’s reporting requirements and
business conduct standards. And the proposed exemption doesn’t
cover foreign exchange options, currency swaps and non-
deliverable forwards, which will be subject to clearing and
trading requirements, Treasury officials said in a statement.  ‘Swallow Up’  During the congressional debate over Dodd-Frank, the
Treasury Department fought unsuccessfully to exclude foreign
exchange from regulation over the objections of  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  Chairman Gary Gensler  An exclusion threatened to “swallow up the regulation” of
derivatives if interest rate or credit swaps are structured as
foreign exchange swaps to benefit from the exemption, Gensler
wrote in an August 2009 letter.  The CFTC proposed rules on April 27 designed to give
regulators “anti-evasion” authority to regulate as swaps
transactions that may be “willfully structured” to benefit
from an exemption of foreign exchange swaps and forwards.  “Clearly things can be structured to look like something
else,” BlackRock’s Prager said. “There is a lot of financial
engineering and those can happen. Our regulators would see that
for what it is and I think could be very responsive to that.”  The 20-bank coalition said making currency derivative
traders post margin in the U.S. -- a requirement for mandatory
clearing -- would drive the remaining domestic market offshore.
The letter was filed by three associations on behalf of 20 banks
they termed the “Global FX Division.”  The group said in a statement today that the Treasury
proposal “is a major step in ensuring the continued
availability of cost-effective hedging for corporate and
investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  