-- 
Renault Head Ghosn Pledges to ‘Restore Trust’ After Spy Scandal

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-04-29T14:21:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/renault-head-ghosn-pledges-to-restore-trust-after-spy-scandal.html
Renault SA (RNO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Carlos Ghosn  pledged to “restore trust” in the French carmaker
following the firing of three executives falsely accused of
corporate spying.  Chief Operating Officer Patrick Pelata, who is stepping
down over the scandal once a replacement is found, remains an
“asset” to the Renault-Nissan corporate alliance, Ghosn said
today at the manufacturer’s annual shareholder meeting in Paris.  Renault is missing a permanent operational leader after
Pelata resigned April 11 over his role in an internal espionage
investigation that led to the executives’ wrongful firings in
January. The company, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-
Billancourt, is seeking to make its main carmaking business
consistently profitable with targets unveiled eight weeks before
Pelata’s exit was announced.  A successor will be chosen “within a timetable that is
compatible with the smooth running of the company,” Marc Ladreit de Lacharriere, a board member who leads the automaker’s
governance committee, told investors today.  Ghosn, who splits his time between Renault and 43.4
percent-owned Japanese affiliate Nissan Motor Co., handed day-
to-day operational control of the French automaker to the COO in
2008. The French automaker has “several possible internal
candidates” to replace Pelata, Ghosn said in an April 13
interview with Les Echos newspaper, without identifying them.
Pelata will take a yet-to-be-defined role at the alliance with
Nissan, Renault said when announcing his departure.  Targets  Renault is targeting an operating margin exceeding 5
percent of revenue by 2013, with annual deliveries of more than
3 million vehicles and 2 billion euros ($3 billion) of
cumulative free  cash flow . The goals, issued on Feb. 10, compare
with 2.63 million deliveries and a 2.8 percent margin last year
and replace targets missed in 2009, when Ghosn pledged to
increase profitability to 6 percent of revenue and volume to
3.33 million autos.  Renault rose as much as 0.9 percent to 41.06 euros and was
up 0.8 percent as of 4:18 p.m. in Paris trading. The stock has
fallen 5.7 percent this year, the worst performance on the
eight-member Bloomberg Europe Autos Index. French competitor PSA
Peugeot Citroen has gained 6.9 percent in the period. Renault is
15 percent-owned by  France ’s government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  