-- 
RIM Plunges as Analysts See Lost Credibility in Forecast Cut

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-04-29T20:11:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/rim-plunges-as-analysts-see-lost-credibility-with-forecast-cut.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  shares fell
14 percent as analysts said a reduced profit forecast hurts
management’s credibility and raises pressure on the company as
it heads into an annual trade show next week.  The Waterloo, Ontario-based company lowered its outlook for
this quarter, a month after providing figures. Profit will be
$1.30 to $1.37 a share, RIM said yesterday, instead of $1.47 to
$1.55, a forecast below analysts’ estimates at the time.  “This further damages already low credibility, making them
the ‘poster boy’ for a show-me story from here,”  Mike Abramsky ,
an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in a research
note. He slashed his price estimate for RIM stock to $55 from
$90 and his rating to “sector perform” from “top pick.”  RIM is struggling to compete against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  in the smartphone market. The company, which will host the
BlackBerry World conference starting on Monday, has to update
its BlackBerry lineup and provide some evidence its products can
do better against Apple’s iPhone and devices that run Google’s
Android operating system, said  Paul Taylor , chief investment
officer at BMO Harris Private Banking in Toronto.  “Management needs to deliver on the product side,” said
Taylor, who manages about $14.5 billion including RIM and Apple
shares. “That includes competitive next-generation smartphones
and building out the app library.”  ‘Aging’ BlackBerrys  Apple offers more than 350,000 software applications, or
apps, and Google’s Android Market has more than 150,000,
compared with more than 25,000 in BlackBerry App World.  RIM fell $7.94 to $48.65 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading for the biggest drop since September 2009.
The stock has lost 16 percent this year.  Four other analysts -- Jefferies & Co. Inc.’s  Peter Misek ,
Cormark Securities Inc.’s Richard Tse, Gleacher & Co.
Securities’ Stephen Patel and National Bank Financial’s Kris Thompson -- reduced their ratings on the stock.  Co-Chief Executive Officer Jim Balsillie told analysts on a
conference call yesterday that he wished the new products would
come sooner to replace current BlackBerry devices.  “The issue is an aging that happens in your higher-end
products and it affects margin,” Balsillie said. “All things
being equal we would love to have these products earlier and not
be having this call. Because it’s such a big upgrade, it takes
longer.”  Scrap co-CEO structure?  Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Northern Securities Inc. in
Toronto, suggested the company should consider adopting Android
for its range of consumer devices to stay competitive. He also
said RIM should scrap its two-CEO structure.  “It is apparent that this dual structure is not working at
RIM,” he wrote in a note. “A change in management structure is
required and believe the vote is clearly in favor of Mr. Mihalis
‘Mike’ Lazaridis, who is the technical brains behind the
company.”  In updating its forecast, RIM said BlackBerry shipments
will be at the lower end of the range of 13.5 million to 14.5
million it projected last month, and the mix of devices will
shift toward cheaper models. Sales in the quarter ending May 28
will be “slightly below” the $5.2 billion to $5.6 billion the
company had forecast.  Analysts had predicted earnings of $1.50 a share on sales
of $5.44 billion, the average estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Off a Cliff’  “The sales on their existing devices must have fallen off
a cliff,” said  Matt Thornton , an Avian Securities LLC analyst
in  Boston  who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. “They are
getting hit by a combination of a stale portfolio and heated
competition on devices.”  RIM said shipments of its PlayBook tablet computer, which
started selling in the U.S. April 19 to challenge Apple’s iPad,
are in line with its previous estimates.  The company said full-year earnings will be about $7.50 a
share, after projecting earnings in excess of $7.50 last month.
The company said it anticipates “strong” revenue growth in the
third and fourth quarters, helped by new BlackBerry models and
“prudent” cost management.  “Anytime a company guides down, that’s not good,” said
BMO’s Taylor. “It’s a little uncomfortable how backloaded in
the year their product cycle is.”  Sliding Share  RIM’s share of global smartphone sales fell to 14 percent
in the fourth quarter from 20 percent a year earlier, according
to Canalys, a British research firm. Android’s share more than
tripled to 33 percent and Apple was unchanged at 16 percent.  The forecast shows that higher-end BlackBerrys like the
Torch, designed to compete with the iPhone and Android devices,
are missing estimates, said Michael Walkley, an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity Ltd.  “Higher-end phones have not sold so well,” said Walkley,
who has a “hold” rating on the stock. “The investment
community was already skeptical about the full-year guidance of
$7.50 and this gives them reason to be more skeptical.”  RIM has a chance to show off new products next week in
 Orlando ,  Florida . Though the company may introduce new touch-
screen devices and possibly new smartphone software, the
forecast cut risks overshadowing any announcements next week,
Abramsky said.  “Clearly, they need to refresh their product lineup,”
said Charles Golvin, an analyst at Forrester Research Inc.
“They need to put their phones on a diet. They need a little
sexy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  