-- 
Russia’s Nuclear-Submarine Maker May Sell Shares By 2013

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-04-29T09:46:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/russia-s-nuclear-submarine-maker-may-sell-shares-by-2013.html
OAO United Shipbuilding Corp.,
 Russia ’s state-owned maker of nuclear submarines, said it may
sell shares to the public in 2013 to raise funds that would help
the company expand internationally.  An initial public offering would allow deals and industrial
alliances, United Shipbuilding President Roman Trotsenko said in
an interview at the Moscow headquarters. The company could be
evaluated at $2 billion to $2.5 billion, he said.  “We would be interested in an IPO,” said 40-year-old
Trotsenko, appointed by the state in 2009 to run the company.
“Having an evaluation of shares lets you use them as an
instrument for various deals.”  The company is seeking to garner more commercial orders to
lessen its historic dependence on defense orders. The shipmaker,
which accounts for 80 percent of Russia’s marine-building
capability, boosted sales by a third to 140 billion rubles ($5.1
billion) last year, and revenue is poised to reach about 200
billion rubles in 2011, Trotsenko said.  United Shipbuilding’s assets stretch from the western
exclave of Kaliningrad to the  Far East , providing access to
numerous potential export markets.  Some engineering assets in  Europe  should be added this year
to extend its offering and reach, Trotsenko said. Trotsenko, a
career transport professional who owns Aeon Corp. with assets in
transport and real estate that he estimates are worth at least
$1 billion, said he aims to overhaul United Shipbuilding by the
end of this year.  President Putin  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  ordered the creation of
United Shipbuilding in 2007, when he was Russian president, as
part of the government drive to revive the industry following
the collapse of the  Soviet Union . The move sought to create a
holding structure with sufficient resources to fulfill domestic
orders and compete internationally.  Selling shares would follow other state-owned companies,
including the OAO TransContainer unit of Russia’s state railway,
whose November 2010 IPO raised about $400 million.  Russia’s shipbuilding industry accounts for just 0.4
percent of the global commercial market, which is dominated by
 South Korea ,  China  and  Japan , Trotsenko said. By focusing on
special-purpose vessels such as ice-breaking ships, United
Shipbuilding could grab 2 percent to 3 percent market share in
the next decade, he said  “For us, a leading position in commercial shipbuilding is
not achievable,” Trotsenko said. “We can only aim for a niche-
focused strategy, be like a partisan. These are ice-resistant
drilling platforms, icebreakers, supply vessels for the Arctic
to service Russian exports.”  Nuclear Icebreakers  Russia, holder of the world’s biggest natural-gas reserves,
aims to expand its presence in the Arctic. The region is home to
untapped oil and natural gas, attracting competing interest from
 Canada , the U.S., Denmark and  Norway . Russia will need four new
nuclear icebreakers and as many as 10 diesel-powered vessels in
the next 20 years to explore resources in the Arctic and
adjacent waters, Trotsenko said.  A 25 megawatt diesel ice-breaker can cost up to 12 billion
rubles, half the price of a nuclear equivalent with 60 to 70
megawatt capacity, Trotsenko estimates.  Commercial projects account for one-third of the company’s
business. The rest make up of orders from domestic and foreign
military forces, including Borei-class nuclear submarines for
Russian Navy and an Admiral Gorshkov aircraft carrier for India.
United Shipbuilding plans to borrow up to 100 billion rubles
from state banks to fulfill domestic defense contracts.  Russia and  India  in 2004 signed an agreement for the sale
and overhaul of the Admiral Gorshkov. The project hit delays and
cost overruns. Trotsenko said the $2 billion refitted carrier is
on schedule to be delivered in December 2012.  “We have more than 3,000 people engaged, and work is
proceeding well,” Trotsenko said. “We think we will deliver it
without delay.”  Russia last December also selected a proposal by  France ’s
state-owned military contractor DCNS and United Shipbuilding to
provide the French Mistral helicopter carrier for its navy.  Negotiations with France about the details of the plan have
entered “an active phase,” said Vyacheslav Davidenko,
spokesman for Russian state arms dealer Rosoboronexport.
Trotsenko declined to comment on the course of pre-contract
negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  