-- 
Russia RTS Index Futures Advance as Oil Rises on Weak Dollar

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-04-29T22:28:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/russia-rts-index-futures-advance-as-oil-rises-on-weak-dollar.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
rose as a weaker dollar helped fuel gains in oil, the country’s
biggest export.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
rose 1.1 percent. Russian markets are closed May 2 for a
national holiday.  “Oil is well supported around current levels because of
the weak  U.S. dollar  and because of the headlines from the
Middle East,” Chris Weafer, chief strategist at UralSib
Financial Corp., said in an e-mailed report today. “Russia
remains a solid attraction.”  Oil traded near a 31-month high in  New York , capping an
unprecedented eighth straight month of gains. The euro gained
against the dollar after a report showed inflation in the  euro
zone  accelerated to the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years, fanning
speculation the Europe Central Bank may raise  interest rates 
again.  Contracts on OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil
producer, rose 0.8 percent, and agreements on OAO Lukoil,
Russia’s second-biggest oil producers, increased 0.5 percent.
OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, added 0.6
percent. The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, dropped 0.8 percent.  Some investors buy oil as a hedge against weakening dollar.
The greenback extended its decline this week after the  Federal
Reserve  pledged on April 27 to keep interest rates near zero to
bolster the economic recovery, boosting demand for alternative
assets such as commodities.  Sberbank, Novatek  Crude for June delivery rose almost 1 percent today,
settling at $113.93 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Oil has risen 6.8 percent in April. Futures have
gained 34 percent in the past year.  Russia’s benchmark stock index, the Micex, fell 0.5
percent, to 1,741.84 in Moscow. The RTS Index fell 0.1 percent
to 2,026.94.  Sberbank fell 1.1 percent. OAO Novatek, the country’s
second-largest natural gas producer, declined 2.1 percent, while
OAO Uralkali, a potash producer, slipped 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  