-- 
Russia Unexpectedly Raises Benchmark Interest Rate Quarter Point to 8.25%

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-29T09:11:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/russia-unexpectedly-increases-benchmark-intereat-rate-to-fight-inflation.html
Russia ’s central bank unexpectedly
increased its benchmark rate for the second time this year to
quell inflation.  Bank Rossii  raised the refinancing rate to 8.25 percent
from 8 percent, it said on its website today. Fifteen of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey expected no change. Policy
makers in Moscow also increased the deposit rate a quarter point
to 3.25 percent and the overnight auction-based repurchase rate
by the same amount to 5.5 percent. The change is effective May
3.  The inflation rate has been above the central bank’s target
of between 6 percent and 7 percent for this year since October,
driven by rising food and fuel prices. The  European Central Bank 
lifted  interest rates  this month for the first time in almost
three years, while regulators in  Brazil ,  India  and  China  raised
borrowing costs at least four times in the past year.  "The decision was made due to continued high inflation
expectations, exceeding inflation guidelines for the year, and
also noting the mixed effect on the Russian economy of the
trends on global financial and commodities markets," the bank
said in its statement.  The ruble was 0.8 percent higher against the dollar at
27.3000 and 0.4 percent stronger at 40.5875 per euro at 12:57
p.m. in Moscow.  ‘Doesn’t Begin’  The Russian central bank had relied on currency gains and
higher  reserve requirements  for lenders to quell inflation,
seeking to avoid choking economic growth. Modernizing the
economy, a priority for President  Dmitry Medvedev , "practically
doesn’t begin" with inflation above 7 percent, Finance Minister
Alexei Kudrin  said  April 21.  "The central bank wouldn’t like to hurt the recovery in
credit and investment by hiking its benchmark rate, not until
inflation threat becomes real," Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief
economist at Moscow-based Otkritie Financial Corp., said by e-
mail before the release. "They’d like to narrow the gap between
various rates, so they can make another move in deposit/repo
rates."  The economy grew 4 percent last year after a 7.8 percent
contraction in 2009. The Economy Ministry expects gross domestic
product to expand 4.2 percent this year before slowing to 3.5
percent in 2012. Medvedev said in February that Russia should
seek growth of as much as 10 percent a year within five years to
keep up with the pace of rival so-called BRIC developing
economies.  February Increase  Russia raised all of its main policy rates in February,
adding to a quarter percentage point increase to the deposit
rate in December. The central bank also raised  reserve
requirements  for banks at its first three policy meetings this
year.  Consumer prices will probably rise 0.4 percent in April
from the previous month, slower than a monthly increase of 0.6
percent in March, Sergei Voloboev, a London-based emerging-
markets economist at Credit Suiss Group AG, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  The inflation rate fell from a 15-month high of 9.6 percent
in January to 9.5 percent in February and March as the ruble
rose about 11 percent against the dollar this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  