-- 
Russia Unexpectedly Raises Benchmark Rate to Subdue Prices

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-29T15:30:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/russia-unexpectedly-raises-benchmark-interest-rate-quarter-point-to-8-25-.html
Russia’s central bank unexpectedly
increased its  interest rates  for the second time this year to
cap inflation in the world’s biggest energy supplier.  Bank Rossii  raised the refinancing rate to 8.25 percent
from 8 percent, it said on its website today. Fifteen of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey expected no change. Policy
makers in Moscow also increased the overnight deposit rate a
quarter point to 3.25 percent and the overnight auction-based
repurchase rate by the same amount to 5.5 percent. The change is
effective May 3. Reserve ratios remained unchanged.  The inflation rate has been above the central bank’s target
of between 6 percent and 7 percent for this year since October,
driven by rising food and fuel prices. The  European Central Bank 
lifted interest rates this month for the first time in almost
three years, while regulators in  Brazil ,  India  and  China  raised
borrowing costs at least four times in the past year.  “The decision was made due to continued high inflation
expectations, exceeding inflation guidelines for the year, and
also noting the mixed effect on the Russian economy of the
trends on global financial and commodities markets,” the bank
said in its  statement .  Ruble Gains  The ruble gained 0.6 percent to 27.3575 per dollar at the
close of trading in Moscow and appreciated 0.3 percent to
40.6300 against the euro euro.  The Russian central bank had relied on currency gains and
higher  reserve requirements  for lenders to quell inflation,
seeking to avoid choking economic growth. The regulator today
cited “the significant role of monetary factors in keeping up
inflationary pressure.”  Modernizing the economy, a priority for President  Dmitry Medvedev , “practically doesn’t begin” with inflation above 7
percent, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin  said  April 21.  “Raising both the repo and the deposit rates sends a
signal to the market that the central bank is focusing primarily
on inflation, and is less concerned about the mixed signals in
the first quarter on the recovery of domestic demand,”  Clemens Grafe  and  Anna Zadornova , economists at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. “The move also
suggests that ruble strength is a lesser concern for the bank
than inflation.”  ‘Good Object’  German Gref , chief executive officer at OAO Sberbank, said
today the ruble is expected to strengthen 10 percent, making
Russian assets a “good object for investments,” according to
an e-mailed statement from  Russia ’s biggest lender.  The economy grew 4 percent last year after a 7.8 percent
contraction in 2009. The Economy Ministry expects gross domestic
product to expand 4.2 percent this year before slowing to 3.5
percent in 2012. Medvedev said in February that Russia should
seek growth of as much as 10 percent a year within five years to
keep up with the pace of rival so-called BRIC developing
economies.  Retail sales increased 4.8 percent last month from a year
earlier even as real wages unexpectedly fell for the first time
in 16 months and disposable income dropped 3.4 percent.  Banks boosted lending to households in March at the fastest
monthly pace since December as loans rose 2.2 percent after a
0.6 percent advance in February, central bank  data  show.
Corporate loans advanced 1.3 percent last month.  Propensity to Save  “Retail trade outstripping real incomes in recent months,
combined with growing lending to individuals and slower growth
of retail deposits, suggest a likely drop in people’s propensity
to save,” the central bank said in the statement. This “may
become a factor of increasing inflation risks.”  Russia raised all of its main policy rates in February,
adding to a quarter percentage point increase to the deposit
rate in December. Bank Rossii also raised  reserve requirements 
for banks at its first three policy meetings this year.  The regulator left the mandatory reserve level unchanged
today to avoid triggering a “liquidity deficit” in the banking
industry, ZAO Raiffeisenbank economists said by e-mail.  Money held at Bank Rossii in deposit and correspondent
accounts, a key indicator of liquidity, fell to 865 billion
rubles ($31.6 billion), dipping below 1 trillion rubles for the
first time since December, OAO Gazprombank, the lending arm of
Russia’s gas export monopoly, said today by e-mail.  Repo Auctions  In a sign of deteriorating liquidity, lenders today bid for
the central bank’s repo funds at two auctions, receiving a total
of 9.9 billion rubles in the first auctions held by the
regulator in four months, Bank Rossii  said  today on its website.  MosPrime, the average rate banks charge to lend money to
each other overnight, hit a 5-month high of 4.5 percent today.  Consumer prices will probably rise 0.4 percent in April
from the previous month, slower than a monthly increase of 0.6
percent in March, Sergei Voloboev, a London-based emerging-
markets economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  The inflation rate was at 9.6 percent as of April 25, the
central bank said. The rate fell from a 15-month high of 9.6
percent in January to 9.5 percent in February and March as the
ruble rose 12 percent against the dollar this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  