-- 
Saab Targets Smaller Gripen Orders After Losing Bid for India

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-29T12:45:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/saab-targets-smaller-gripen-orders-after-losing-bid-for-india.html
Saab AB (SAABB) , the Swedish maker of the
Gripen jet fighter, is focusing on winning smaller orders from
as many as nine countries after being excluded from India’s
military program, Chief Executive Officer Hakan Buskhe said.  Saab sees potential for Gripen orders in Brazil, Romania,
Croatia, Denmark, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Bulgaria,
Hungary and the Czech Republic, Buskhe said in an interview
today. Hungary and the Czech Republic are existing customers
that may expand their orders, he said.  “We feel good about the Gripen program, it has lots of
potential,” Buskhe said, adding that it “remains a profitable
business.”  India’s defense ministry informed Saab April 27 that the
Gripen hadn’t been shortlisted for its plan to buy 126 jets.  India is focusing on France’s  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  and the
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. after also turning down
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , Buskhe said  Saab still has a “good chance” to win an order from
Brazil, which initially plans to buy 36 planes, Buskhe said. The
Stockholm-based company has “not received any negative
signals” from Brazil, and hopes for a decision “within
months,” the CEO said.  Saab said today that first-quarter net income rose to 279
million kronor ($46.5 million) from 69 million kronor, beating
the average estimate of 205 million kronor in a Bloomberg survey
of five analysts.  The shares rose as much as 3 percent, or 4.1 kronor, and
traded at 136.80 kronor, up 1 percent, at 2:11 p.m. in
 Stockholm . Saab has risen 11 percent this year, valuing the
company at 14.9 billion kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  