-- 
Saab Auto Said to Near Deal With Chinese Carmakers to Raise Cash

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-29T09:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/saab-auto-said-to-near-deal-with-chinese-carmakers-to-raise-cash.html
Saab Automobile, the cash-strapped
Swedish carmaker owned by  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR) , is negotiating an
investment and production deal with three Chinese carmakers,
which may result in a deal within days, two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  Saab is in talks with Great Wall Motor Co., China Youngman
Automobile Group Co. and Jiangsu Yueda Group Co., said the
people, who declined to be identified as the discussions are
private. The talks with all three companies are advancing and a
deal with one could soon be finalized, the people said.  Saab is seeking a Chinese partner to raise funds amid a
cash crunch that has forced it to halt production. The move
would also give it an entrance to the world’s largest auto
market. Yesterday Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov  won tentative
approval from former Saab owner  General Motors Co. (GM)  and the
Swedish National Debt office to invest in Spyker.  A Chinese partnership agreement would likely include an
investment in the Swedish carmaker as well as forming a joint
venture to produce Saab vehicles in China, the people said. It
may also include the Chinese company distributing the Swedish
brand at its dealerships.  Eric Geers, a Saab spokesman, declined to comment on the
talks. Shang Yu Gui, Great Wall’s director of communications,
said he has “no idea” if talks are happening. An official at
Jiangsu Yueda Group Co.’s president’s office declined to comment
as did staff in the chairman’s office at  China  Youngman.  Quarterly Loss  Spyker today reported a first-quarter net loss of 79
million euros ($118 million) compared with profit of 6.96
million euros a year earlier. Saab won’t meet a target to sell
80,000 cars this year because of the production halt, it said.  “It is unclear at this time what the consequences of the
recent production stoppages and funding issues will be for our
full-year 2011 forecast,” Victor Muller, chief executive
officer of Zeewolde, Netherlands-based Spyker, said in a
statement. The company is working on achieving financing
solutions “very shortly.”  Spyker fell as much as 25 cents, or 5.8 percent, to 4.10
euros and was down 5.5 percent as of 11:11 a.m. in Amsterdam
trading. That narrowed the stock’s gain this year to 18 percent,
valuing the company at 83 million euros.  Chinese Growth  China’s growing economy is fueling record demand for  luxury
vehicles . Volkswagen AG reported this week that Ebit more than
tripled to 2.91 billion euros boosted by China demand for the
high-end Audi brand, while its Lamborghini supercar unit may
sell more vehicles there than the U.S. for the first time this
year. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG expects the sales of luxury
cars to outpace overall demand in the market, sales chief  Ian Robertson  said last week.  The production aspect of the Saab deal would focus on the
Chinese company producing the updated 9-3 model, scheduled for
release late next year, the people said.  Great Wall Motor, China’s largest maker of  pickup trucks ,
has been one of several Chinese companies in talks about a joint
venture with Tata Motors Ltd.’s Land Rover, Chairman Wei Jianjun
said last month, adding then that “nothing concrete” had come
out of the talks so far.  Saab suspended manufacturing after component makers stopped
deliveries and demanded payment. The Swedish unit is short of
cash after last year’s sales of 31,696 cars fell short of an
original target range of 50,000 to 60,000 vehicles. Spyker,
whose models include the C8 Aileron supercar, bought Saab from
Detroit-based GM in early 2010. The Dutch manufacturer
reiterated today that it will be unprofitable this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 