-- 
Samsung Says ‘Adverse’ Business to Continue After Net Falls; Shares Drop

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-04-29T08:38:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/samsung-electronics-1st-quarter-net-falls-30-matches-analysts-estimates.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the
world’s largest maker of TVs and flat-screen panels, said
consumer-electronics sales may stay muted in the second quarter
after profit fell for the first time in more than a year.  The company said demand for TVs and liquid-crystal display
panels may be damped amid uncertainty about the global economy.
The Suwon, South Korea-based manufacturer of Galaxy smartphones
and tablets reported a 30 percent drop in first-quarter net
income today as competition drove down prices.  Samsung, which this month agreed to sell its hard-disk
drive unit, plans to introduce more smartphones and tablet
computers to take on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and revive profitability.
Already hurt by stagnant TV sales and falling prices, Samsung
and other manufacturers are introducing new technology such as
3-D functionality and Internet connectivity to lure consumers
into upgrading their older LCD televisions.  “I’m not so sure about the second quarter,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $30 billion. “The key is
going to be price and whether sales will revive is up to the
strategies of TV manufacturers.”  The shares dropped 0.8 percent to 893,000 won at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Seoul, taking the year-to-date decline to
5.9 percent. The benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI)  fell 0.7 percent.  Significant Decline  The company expects the “adverse” business environment to
continue in the second quarter, Robert Yi, vice president of
 investor relations , said on a conference call today. Slow demand
for TVs is likely to continue while the March 11 earthquake in
 Japan  contributed to a “significant decline” in LCD display
sales, said Lee Jung Ryul, vice president at the panel unit.  “Global demand is not 100 percent clear,” Yi said, citing
uncertainty about the global economic recovery and a possible
impact from the earthquake in Japan.  The average price for flat-screen TVs in the U.S. fell for
a third straight month in February as manufacturers tried to
clear inventory before rolling out new models, according to
research company IHS ISuppli. Samsung sold 8.8 million units of
flat-screen televisions in the first quarter, five percent more
than a year ago, the company said.  Net income in the three months ended in March fell to 2.78
trillion won ($2.6 billion), Samsung said in a statement. That
matched the 2.8 trillion won average of 12 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 6.8 percent to 37 trillion
won, in line with a preliminary estimate announced on April 7.  Displays, Semiconductors  Operating income, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, fell 33 percent to 2.95 trillion won,
in line with the company’s preliminary estimate. Operating
profit at Samsung’s TV-making unit fell 3.3 percent to 100
billion won from a year ago, while sales rose 5 percent to 13.5
trillion won.  Analysts had predicted profit at the division will be 85
billion won, based on the median of seven estimates surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The display division had a loss of 230 billion won,
exceeding the 140 billion won loss in the survey. Sales fell 5
percent to 6.5 trillion won, Samsung said.  Profit at the semiconductor division fell 5.9 percent to
1.6 trillion won on sales of 9.18 trillion won, compared with
the 1.7 trillion won median of the seven analyst estimates.  Profit at the telecommunications unit rose 1.2 percent to
1.4 trillion won, surpassing the 1.2 trillion won median of the
seven analyst estimates. Sales increased 19 percent to 10.64
trillion won.  Samsung aims to sell 60 million units of smartphones this
year, J.K. Shin, head of the mobile-phone division said in
January, after the company met its target to sell 10 million
units of the Galaxy S smartphone last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 