-- 
Schapiro Aide Said to Be Leaving SEC for PwC Accounting Firm

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-29T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/sec-s-schapiro-said-to-be-losing-aide-to-pwc-accounting-firm.html
Kayla J. Gillan, a senior adviser
to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , is resigning to take a job at PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, according to people familiar with the matter.  Gillan will be a principal in a new group at the firm
focusing on regulations affecting auditing firms, according to
one of the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
the move hasn’t been announced.  Gillan was hired to be Schapiro’s deputy chief of staff in
2009 as an advocate of the investor community. The SEC had noted
then that Gillan had experience regulating auditors as one of
the founding members of the  Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board , the industry’s U.S. watchdog.  She becomes the first former PCAOB member to later work for
one of the so-called Big Four accounting firms that she once
regulated. Other ex-SEC officials also have moved to the firm,
including Lori Richards, the agency’s former inspections and
compliance chief. Her replacement, Carlo di Florio, came from
PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Gillan, a former general counsel of the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , joined the PCAOB in 2003 and was
the point person for investor interests. In February 2008, she
became chief administrative officer of RiskMetrics Group Inc.,
now a unit of New York-based  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , and left a year later
for the SEC.  Congress established the PCAOB, a nonprofit corporation
funded by fees on public companies and reporting to the SEC, to
oversee auditing firms.  Gillan didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Steven G. Silber, a PricewaterhouseCoopers spokesman, declined to
comment.  Escaped Regulation  The industry largely escaped new regulation from the Dodd-
Frank Act, the financial regulatory overhaul enacted last year.
All of the major firms, including Ernst & Young LLP, KPMG LLP
and  Deloitte & Touche LLP , had audited companies that got U.S.
bailouts or, in the case of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , went
bankrupt.  On April 6, Senate lawmakers held a hearing to examine
accounting firms’ role in the financial crisis and how the
profession might help prevent another one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 