-- 
Shimmering Donna Murphy Duels Mean Daughter in ‘People’: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-04-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/shimmering-donna-murphy-fights-nasty-daughter-in-people-jeremy-gerard.html
Comedy in jackboots is, with all
due respect to Mel Brooks, a tough sell.  Ernst Lubitsch  found
this out with his brilliant 1942 film “To Be, or Not To Be,”
about a ragtag theater troupe struggling to survive in Warsaw
during Hitler’s rise to power. The reaction to the movie was
brutal, despite a cast headed by Carole Lombard and Jack Benny.  “The People in the Picture,”  the Roundabout ’s new musical
at Studio 54, has a similar plot. Switching in time between 1977
Manhattan, and  Poland  from 1935 to 1946, the show tells the
story of the “Warsaw Gang,” who sing “We play the shtetl
circuit, a lousy deal no matter how you work it.”  That clunker comes in the first minutes of the show, which
has a book by “Beaches” writer Iris Rainer Dart, with a
pastiche score by Mike Stoller (of Leiber and) and Artie Butler.  There are groaners galore in “Picture” -- I hope it’s the
only time I’ll ever hear “ Jerusalem ” rhymed with “bamboozle
’em” -- but I’m going to assume they’re intended. The Warsaw
Gang is part Yiddish theater, dedicated to bowdlerized
Shakespeare (Romeo and Juliet live! Iago’s not so bad!) and part
slap-stick burlesque.  The darling of the company is leading lady Raisel, who we
first meet as a grandmother, Bubbie, in 1970s Manhattan. Bubbie
has photographs of the company. She regales her adoring
granddaughter, Jenny, with tales of romance and survival while
her hostile, actively uninterested daughter trundles off to work
each day (as a writer on a comedy show, no less).  Shimmering Star  In Donna Murphy, the creators have a shimmering star who
can play a tender, doting grandma and yet evoke Lombard, that
irresistible mix of winks and minx.  But along with some syrupy writing, a mean streak runs
through this show. For the first half, Jenny’s mom, Red, is
played (by Nicole Parker) as a strident over-achiever, hardened
to her own mother’s suggestion that she quit her job and care
for her daughter herself.  In Act II, as the story of what happened to Raisel and her
baby emerges, Bubbie, too, is taken down a few notches.  Leonard Foglia’s hyperactive production is lovely, with set
designer Riccardo Hernandez taking the title at face value and
offering up lots of gilded frames to frame the action. James F.
Ingalls’s lighting evokes an Old World glow in Warsaw, steelier
light in  Manhattan , and Ann Hould-Ward’s costumes also place us
in those cities with subtle specificity.  And the cast couldn’t be bettered. The standouts include
Alexander Gemignani, Chip Zien and Lewis J. Stadlen as troupers,
Parker as the mother and a young charmer, Rachel Resheff, as
Jenny.  Through June 19 at Studio 54, 254 W. 54th St. Information:
+1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 