-- 
Singapore’s Jobless Rate Drops to 3-Year Low as Growth Quickens

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-04-29T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/singapore-s-jobless-rate-drops-to-3-year-low-as-growth-quickens.html
Singapore ’s unemployment rate fell
to the lowest level in three years as employers expanded
payrolls to meet demand for goods and services in an
accelerating economy.  The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell to 1.9
percent in the three months through March from 2.2 percent the
previous quarter, the  Ministry of Manpower  said in a statement
today. That’s lower than the median estimate of nine economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News for a rate of 2 percent. The economy
added an estimated 23,700 jobs last quarter, it said.  Singapore, ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place to
do business, has cut taxes in recent years to encourage
investment in the city state.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Micron Technology
Inc. are among companies that are setting up or expanding
capacity on the island as the government aims to attract as much
as S$14 billion ($11.4 billion) of investments this year.  “We may see about 100,000 jobs created this year,” Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, said before the report. “With the economy near full
employment and demand for workers remaining pretty strong, wage
pressures will become a bigger issue in coming quarters.”  The services industry added 22,800 jobs last quarter, while
manufacturing companies reduced payrolls by 500, the report
showed, citing preliminary data. Construction employment rose by
1,100 in the three months through March, the government said.  Companies added about 116,000 jobs last year when the
economy grew a record 14.5 percent, and 59,700 of the new
positions created went to foreigners, the Ministry of Manpower
said last month. Gross domestic product rose at an annual rate
of 23.5 percent last quarter from the previous three months,
when it climbed 3.9 percent, the trade ministry said April 14.  Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, who’s seeking to
extend his party’s rule in elections next week, defended the
government’s immigration policy on April 21, saying the influx
of foreign workers has boosted the economy and citizens have not
been disadvantaged by the labor strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  