-- 
South African Minister Tresvor Manuel to Co-Chair Green Climate Fund Panel

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-04-29T10:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/south-african-minister-tresvor-manuel-to-co-chair-green-climate-fund-panel.html
The head of  South Africa ’s National
Planning Commission,  Trevor Manuel , has been named a joint
chairman of a committee set up to design a Green Climate Fund to
help poorer nations adapt to  climate change .  The other two chairmen are Mexican Finance Minister Ernesto Cordero Arroyo and Kjetil Lund, state secretary in the Ministry
of Finance in Norway, Manuel told reporters in  Cape Town  today.  The 40-member panel is tasked with devising how the fund
will collect and distribute $100 billion in annual grants until
2020. Part of the funding will be raised through a system of
environmental taxes, such as the carbon levy proposed by the
South African government, he said.  “ Carbon emissions  must be priced,” he said. “The fact that
you can pollute the atmosphere and not pay for that pollution
has to be one of the most manifest market failures.”  The committee will meet at least four times this year and
will prepare a report on the fund for a meeting of climate
negotiators from more than 190 nations in December in  Durban ,
South Africa.  “It’s very important that we are able to resolve this issue
to the satisfaction of the many gathered in Durban” so the
meeting can focus on other issues, he said.  Manuel was also appointed as a member of the Seoul-based
 Global Green Growth Institute  founded last year by former South
Korean Prime Minister Han Seung-Soo. The 14-member committee
will provide policy options to promote a “greener, lower carbon
economic future,” Manuel said. The institute will hold its next
meeting on June 19, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen at  at
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 