-- 
Spain’s CaixaBank Reports 27% Drop in First-Quarter Profit

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-04-29T10:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/spain-s-caixabank-reports-27-drop-in-first-quarter-profit-1-.html
CaixaBank, the lender created from
restructuring Spanish savings bank  La Caixa , posted a 27 percent
drop in first-quarter profit as lending revenue declined.  Net income fell to 300 million euros ($445 million) from
410 million euros a year earlier,  Criteria CaixaCorp SA (CRI) , the La
Caixa group’s listed holding company, said today in a filing.  La Caixa is being folded into Criteria to allow the bank to
meet  Spain ’s new capital requirements and expand by acquiring
other lenders. Criteria, which will change its name to CaixaBank
when the restructuring is complete, gained 29 percent in Madrid
trading this year, making it the best-performer on the 48-
company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  “The strategic coherence we have maintained and the good
reception granted to the CaixaBank project, have meant that
Criteria’s shares have had an excellent performance,” Isidro Faine, chairman of Criteria and La Caixa, said in a statement.  CaixaBank’s bad loans as a proportion of total lending rose
to 3.95 percent from 3.65 percent in December, the bank said.  The company has a core capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, of 9.3 percent compared with 8.9 percent in
December. Net interest income fell 17 percent from 801 million
euros a year ago.  CaixaBank includes La Caixa’s insurance business, 10.1
percent of  Austria ’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and a 20 percent
holding in Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB, the financial services
firm controlled by Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim .  Restructuring Target  The restructuring agreement means that La Caixa’s stakes in
real estate companies won’t be passed to Criteria. Criteria will
transfer some of its holdings including Gas Natural SDG SA and
Abertis Infraestructuras SA to La Caixa while Criteria will keep
its stakes in Telefonica SA and Repsol YPF SA.  The general assembly of La Caixa approved the restructuring
at a meeting yesterday. Criteria, which aims to complete the
reorganization by August, will sell 1.5 billion euros of bonds
that automatically convert into shares to enable it to meet new
 capital requirements .  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  