-- 
Spanish Unemployment Rate Rises to More Than 21% as Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-04-29T14:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/spanish-unemployment-rate-rises-to-more-than-21-as-inflation-accelerates.html
Spanish unemployment, the highest
in  Europe , rose more than expected as inflation accelerated and
retail sales plunged, undermining the nation’s recovery from its
worst recession in six decades.  Joblessness rose to 21.3 percent in the first quarter, the
National Statistics Institute said today in Madrid, compared
with 20.3 percent in the previous three months and a median
forecast of 20.7 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer prices gained 3.5 percent in April from a year
earlier, based on a European Union measure, after increasing 3.3
percent in March. Retail sales fell 8.6 percent in March from a
year earlier, the steepest decline in two years, INE said.  Spain is trying to steer the economy back to growth while
slashing the euro region’s third-largest  budget deficit  with the
deepest austerity measures in at least three decades. Rising
interest rates and  oil prices  prompted the government to revise
its growth and unemployment forecasts on April 6, even as it
still sees growth of 1.3 percent this year, led by exports.  “In the current scenario, with rising interest rates, I’m
not at all sure this is the peak” in unemployment, said Jose Luis Martinez, a strategist for Spain at Citigroup in Madrid.
“The decline in employment, rising interest rates, and rising
prices leave little margin for consumption to be reactivated.”  ‘Hard to Predict’  Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa said the first
quarter is traditionally weak for employment, and the data
should start to improve. Asked if the jobless rate had peaked,
he told reporters in  Madrid  it’s “hard to predict the future.”
Asked the same question later in Madrid, Deputy Prime Minister
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba said the rate had peaked in what he
called a “risky” prediction.  Spain has 4.9 million jobless, the survey showed today, the
most since the data series started in 1996. That compares with 3
million in  Germany , a country twice its size.  As companies adjust to forecasts of slower growth in Spain
after a decade-long boom,  Telefonica SA (TEF) , the country’s largest
telecoms operator, said on April 14 it plans to cut its
workforce in its home market by 20 percent over the next three
years. London-based Burberry Group Plc closed a warehouse in
Spain last year, while  Diageo Plc (DGE)  cited “economic weakness” on
Feb. 10 when it said its Spanish whisky and vodka sales declined
in the last six months of 2010.  Austerity Measures  Spain’s recovery from the collapse of the debt-fueled
property bubble is being undermined by spending cuts and tax
increases as the government aims to narrow the budget deficit to
6 percent of gross domestic product this year -- in line with
 France ’s projected shortfall -- from 9.2 percent in 2010.  The government expects the jobless rate to average 19.8
percent this year, the  Finance Ministry  said on April 6,
compared with a previous forecast of 19.3 percent. The economy
will expand 1.3 percent in 2011 after two years of contraction,
with growth accelerating to 2.3 percent next year and 2.4
percent in 2013, it said.  “The market consensus is around 0.7 percent” for 2011
growth, said Martinez, adding that the government should revise
its forecast “as there have been a lot of negative factors.”
He said he sees a jobless rate of 21 percent this year.  The  European Central Bank  increased its benchmark interest
rate on April 7 for the first time in almost three years and
policy makers have signaled more increases may follow. That
risks further crimping household spending in  Spain , where 97
percent of mortgages have variable interest rates.  Price Pressures  The ECB is trying to stem inflation, which accelerated to
2.8 percent in the euro region in April, from 2.6 percent in
March, a separate report said today. The inflation rate in
Spain, Portugal and  Greece , which are all struggling to rein in
growing debt burdens and spur growth, is higher than the euro-
region average.  As part of plans to raise  tax revenue , the government
passed measures today to press employers to legalize underground
jobs. The plan increases fines on companies that don’t register
workers with tax authorities and on people claiming jobless
benefits while working informally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  