-- 
Steel Authority Profit Falls 28% on Higher Coking Coal Cost

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-04-29T12:56:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/steel-authority-profit-falls-28-on-higher-coking-coal-cost-1-.html
Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) , the
nation’s second-biggest producer, reported a 28 percent decline
in fourth-quarter profit as floods in  Australia  increased coking
coal prices.  Net income fell to 15.1 billion rupees ($341 million), or
3.65 rupees a share, in the three months ended March 31 from
20.85 billion rupees, or 5.05 rupees, a year earlier, the
company said today in a statement. The average profit of 17
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 15.4 billion rupees.
Sales were little changed at 119.4 billion rupees.  Record rains in Australia’s Queensland state, the world’s
largest exporter of coking coal, pushed up contract prices for
the quarter by as much as 74 percent as output of miners
including BHP Billiton Ltd. Rio Tinto group and Xstrata Plc
declined and flooded railway tracks hampered shipments. Steel
Authority imports about 70 percent of its coking-coal needs.  “Coking coal prices crossed the $300 mark and are expected
to move higher in the July to September quarter,”  Rahul Jain ,
an analyst at RBS Equities India Ltd. in Mumbai, said before the
announcement. “Steel prices have not kept pace with raw
material price increases as demand is not robust enough. The
profit margins of Indian steel companies will be under pressure
during the first half of this fiscal,” said Jain, who has a
“hold” rating on Steel Authority shares.  Shares of New Delhi-based Steel Authority fell 1.6 percent
to 159.30 rupees at close of trade in Mumbai. The stock has
declined 13 percent this year, compared with a 6.7 percent drop
in the key Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Demand Outlook  Steel Authority’s raw material costs rose 26 percent to
53.9 billion rupees in the quarter, while total expenses rose 8
percent to 102.1 billion rupees, the company said.  India ’s steel demand, which grew 9.9 percent last fiscal
year, is forecast to grow more than 10 percent in the year
started April 1, helped by demand for automobiles and spending
on roads and ports, G.K. Basak, executive secretary of the steel
ministry’s joint plant committee, said today.  The prices of benchmark hot-rolled coils, used to make cars,
averaged about 30 percent more in the quarter from a year
earlier, according to the Steel Index. Prices touched a 28
month-high of $837.8 a metric ton on March 8.  Kobe Steel Ltd.,  Japan ’s fourth-largest maker of the alloy,
in November said it will form a technology partnership with
Steel Authority and consider jointly making high-value sheets
used in cars and nuclear-power plants. The two companies are
also considering setting up a mill in northern state of  Uttar
Pradesh  to make steel products, according to a statement on
March 14.  Steel Authority is also planning a venture with  South
Korea ’s Posco for a 2 million ton mill in the eastern state of
Jharkhand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  