-- 
U.S. Human Embryonic Stem-Cell Research Can Continue, Appeals Court Says

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-04-29T19:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/stem-cell-research-funding-can-continue-during-legal-case-u-s-court-says.html
U.S. funding of human embryonic
stem-cell studies can continue while a lower court decides
whether the government-backed research violates the law, a
federal appeals court said.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  today reversed a
preliminary order that would have blocked the U.S. Health and
Human Services Department and the  National Institutes of Health 
from spending government money on researching embryonic stem-
cells, known as ESC, until the district court judge rules. The
court had put a hold on the order in September.  “The hardship a preliminary injunction would impose on ESC
researchers” would be “certain and substantial,” the court
said. “Their investment in project planning would be a loss,
their expenditures for equipment a waste, and their staffs out
of a job.”  The government argued that without the ability to support
research on embryonic stem-cell lines, years of progress toward
finding cures for diseases and disorders will be lost and
scientists will look to other countries such as  China  to
continue their work.  The appeals court found that the plaintiffs were unlikely
to succeed on the merits of their case so the “extraordinary
remedy” of a preliminary injunction could not be justified.  Research Grants  In fiscal 2010, NIH spent about $200 million to fund more
than 200 human embryo research grants, the  Justice Department 
and the institutes’ director,  Francis Collins , said in court
papers.  “This is a victory for the patients around the world
suffering from incurable diseases,” Susan L. Solomon, the chief
executive officer of the New York Stem Cell Foundation, a
research and policy group, said in a statement.  Embryonic stem cells can grow into any of the 200 types of
cells in the human body. Scientists say these cells have the
potential to be used for repairing cells damaged by injury or
disease.  President  Barack Obama  in March 2009 opened up government
funding for the study of embryonic stem cells when he reversed
an executive order of his predecessor,  George W. Bush , limiting
research to about 20 existing lines of the cells.  In response to Obama’s order, the NIH wrote guidelines
allowing research on cells derived from embryos that would
otherwise be disposed of following in vitro fertilization
procedures.  Dickey-Wicker Amendment  Two doctors, identified in court papers as adult stem cell
researchers, sued in August 2009, arguing that the guidelines
breach a 1996 law called the Dickey-Wicker Amendment. The law
prevents expenditure of government money on research where a
human embryo is damaged or destroyed.  James Sherley, a researcher at Boston Biomedical Research
Institute, and Theresa Deisher of  Seattle  won the right to sue
by claiming they were unfairly disadvantaged in competing for
NIH funding with researchers who used embryonic cells.  The government said the stem-cell research is separate from
any that destroys the embryo because the cells must be grown in
a medium and are then “differentiated” into other cells, such
as nerve cells.  The appeals court agreed with the government’s contention
that because the Dickey-Wicker Amendment is written in the
present tense the “statute strongly suggests it does not extend
to past actions.”  ‘Entirely Reasonable’  “It is entirely reasonable for the NIH to understand
Dickey-Wicker as permitting funding for research using cell
lines derived without federal funding, even as it bars funding
for the derivation of additional lines,” according to the
court’s opinion.  In a dissenting opinion, Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson
accused her colleagues on the three judge panel of “linguistic
jujitsu” in parsing verb tenses in order to narrow the
amendment’s meaning from what Congress intended.  The plaintiffs’ challenge is likely to succeed because the
amendment prohibits federal funding of embryonic stem cell
research “in all of its sequences,” LeCraft Henderson wrote.  Today’s decision reverses an Aug. 23 order by U.S. District
Judge Royce Lamberth in Washington requiring the U.S. Health and
Human Services Department and the NIH to stop funding embryonic
stem-cell research.  Stem Cells ’ Derivations  Lamberth said the administration was attempting to separate
the derivation of the embryonic stem cells from research on
them, and “the two cannot be separated.”  The appeals court in September put Lamberth’s injunction
against funding on hold until it reviewed his decision. The case
remains with Lamberth, who is considering motions from both
sides to end the matter in their favor.  Since 2002, the government has spent $546 million on human
embryo research, Collins wrote in an Aug. 31 court filing. If
the ban were upheld, Collins said, it would result in the loss
of more than 1,300 full-time or part-time jobs, as well as “the
potential loss of top U.S. scientific talent as lead scientists
may be forced to move to other countries to pursue their
cutting-edge research.”  Stem-cell researchers are seeking cures for illnesses such
as  Parkinson’s disease , spinal cord injuries, and genetic
conditions. Embryonic stem cells can grow into any kind of
tissue and may have the potential to accelerate a range of
research.  The appeal case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 10-5287,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the  District of Columbia  Circuit (Washington).
The original case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 1:09-cv-01575, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington
at   michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 