-- 
Swiss Franc Rises to Record After Hildebrand Comment, KOF Data

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-29T11:32:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/swiss-franc-rises-to-record-after-hildebrand-comment-kof-data.html
The franc strengthened to a record
against the dollar after Swiss National Bank President Philipp
Hildebrand said monetary policy risks stoking inflation and
strong economic data boosted demand for the currency.  The Swiss currency advanced against all its major
counterparts after Hildebrand said  price stability  might be
threatened by higher commodity prices, a weakening franc and the
central bank’s expansionary policy.  Switzerland ’s leading
economic indicator unexpectedly increased to the highest since
August 2006, signaling the economy is gaining momentum.  “It was a one-two punch with the comments and data,” said
Peter Rosenstreich, chief market analyst in Geneva at at
Swissquote Bank SA. “First was Hildebrand’s bullish assessment
of the Swiss economy and inflation expectations, plus his
hawkish comment that if rates stayed low there would be longer
term issues, which supports the view of a rate hike in June.
Then the KOF number just reinforced the concept that the Swiss
economy is running hot.”  The franc appreciated as much as 1 percent to 86.53
centimes per dollar, before trading at 86.69 centimes as of
11:46 a.m. in  London . It strengthened 0.5 percent to 1.2885 per
euro.  “Should the Swiss franc weaken again rapidly, rising
commodity prices could also have an impact in our country,”
Hildebrand said at the central bank’s annual general meeting in
the capital Bern. “Furthermore, the expansionary monetary
policy carries long-term risks for price stability.”  The Swiss leading indicator gauge that aims to predict the
economy’s direction about six months ahead climbed to 2.29 this
month, compared with a revised 2.25 in March, the KOF Swiss
Economic Institute said today. Economists expected a decline to
2.20, according to the median of seven in a Bloomberg News
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 