-- 
Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Increased in April on Jobs

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-29T14:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/u-s-consumer-sentiment-gains-as-index-climbs-to-69-8-from-67-5-in-march.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
climbed in April from the lowest level in more than a year as
job growth helped Americans withstand rising fuel costs.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment rose to 69.8 from March’s 67.5 reading that
was the lowest since November 2009. The gauge was projected to
rise to 70, according to the median forecast of 52 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, and compares with a preliminary
level of 69.6.  Six straight months of expanding payrolls and a declining
unemployment rate are allowing households to sustain their
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. At
the same time, mounting grocery bills and the costliest gasoline
since August 2008 indicate it will be hard to achieve bigger
gains in  consumer confidence .  “Job growth is driving spending, but higher fuel costs
mean there’s less money to spend on other things,”  Scott Brown ,
chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , said before the report. “ Gas prices 
nearing $4 a gallon are not a help at all.”  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 68.5 to
72, according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 89 in
the five years leading up to the recession that began in
December 2007.  Consumer Gauges  Other consumer gauges have been mixed. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 45.1 in the week ended
April 24, the first decline in a month. The Conference Board’s
confidence index rose to 65.4 in March, more than the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Today’s figures showed the Michigan survey’s index of
current conditions, which reflects Americans’ perceptions of
their financial situation and whether it is a good time to buy
big-ticket items like cars, held at 82.5.  The index of consumer expectations for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
climbed to 61.6 from 57.9 in March.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 4.6 percent over the next 12 months, the same
as in the March survey.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expect a 2.9 percent rate of
inflation, compared with 3.2 percent the prior month, the report
showed.  Gasoline Price  The average price of regular gasoline climbed to $3.89 a
gallon on April 27, the highest level since August 2008,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc. (DPS) , the maker of the 7Up and
Canada Dry brands, is among companies seeing that consumers are
weathering higher fuel expenses so far.  “I think people are feeling better about the economy,”
 Larry Young , chief executive officer of the Plano, Texas-based
company, said on a conference call with analysts on April 27. At
the same time, “it’s no secret that higher input and fuel costs
pose a significant threat to an increasingly healthy but still
fragile consumer.”  The economy added 216,000 jobs in March, the most since May
2010, while the jobless rate fell for a fourth straight month to
a two-year low of 8.8 percent. Labor Department data due on May
6 may show payrolls also increased in April, according to the
Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  