-- 
U.S. May Be Open to Revise Japan’s $6 Billion Pledge on Moving U.S. Troops

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-04-29T02:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/u-s-may-be-open-to-revise-japan-s-6-billion-pledge-on-moving-u-s-troops.html
The U.S. may be open to
renegotiating  Japan ’s pledge of more than $6 billion to help
cover the costs of moving some U.S. military forces to Guam to
ease the Asian nation’s financial recovery from this year’s
natural disasters, a top Pentagon official said.  Undersecretary of Defense for Policy Michele Flournoy told
an audience in Arlington,  Virginia , last night that the Obama
administration hasn’t brought up the relocation plan yet because
both countries are focusing on the aftermath of Japan’s
earthquake, tsunami and nuclear power plant disaster. The topic
likely will be raised when Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  meet with their Japanese
counterparts in the coming months, Flournoy said.  The U.S. wants to hear Japan’s assessment of impact of the
multiple disasters on the realignment plans, Flournoy told
Defense Department officials, contractors and analysts at a
forum organized by  Johns Hopkins University ’s Applied Physics
Laboratory.  “We want to be absolutely steadfast in supporting them,”
Flournoy said. “And we want to understand how that experience
and that context affects their commitment going forward.”  Flournoy didn’t give specifics and said the U.S. is
proceeding with the current plan for the time being. “Certainly,
we are always examining our options,” she said.  Clinton meets today in  Washington  with Japanese Foreign
Minister Takeaki Matsumoto.  Relocation Plan  The U.S. and Japan are seeking to quell opposition from the
Japanese public to the U.S. military presence while maintaining
regional security by moving 8,600 Marines and 9,000 dependents
from Okinawa, Japan, to Guam, and relocating others to less
populated areas nearby. Japan has committed $6.09 billion to the
relocation.  More than 38,000 U.S. military personnel, 43,000 dependents
and 5,000 civilian employees are stationed in Japan under a
security treaty.  The U.S. Defense Department and representatives from  Guam 
and the Northern Mariana Islands signed an agreement on March 9
to begin the move of forces that will relocate away from Japan.
Two days later, Japan was struck by a 9-magnitude earthquake and
tsunami that also damaged a nuclear power plant.  The U.S. Treasury Department has $834 million in Japanese
government funding in hand for projects on Guam, Jackalyne Pfannenstiel, the department’s assistant secretary for energy,
installations and environment, told a Senate Armed Services
subcommittee at a March 17 hearing on military construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  