-- 
U.S. Citizens Extradited to Face Taliban-Conspiracy Charges

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-04-29T19:26:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/u-s-citizens-extradited-to-face-taliban-conspiracy-charges-1-.html
Two naturalized U.S. citizens will
appear in court to face charges that they conspired to sell
weapons to the Taliban, including surface-to-air missiles to be
used to protect heroin labs in  Afghanistan .  The two suspects, Alwar Pouryan, 36, and Oded Orbach, 52,
were arrested in Bucharest in February and remained in the
custody of Romanian authorities until their extradition today,
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement. They are
scheduled to make their first appearance in federal court in
 Manhattan  today.  The defendants are two of seven people charged by the U.S.
in February with plotting to smuggle drugs and sell missiles to
the Taliban. The defendants are accused of meeting with
confidential sources working with the U.S.  Drug Enforcement
Administration  who pretended to be representing the Taliban
starting in the summer of 2010, Bharara said.  During meetings in Ghana, Ukraine and  Romania  starting in
November, Pouryan, Orbach and a co-conspirator, Maroun Saade,
allegedly agreed to arrange the sale of weapons to the
confidential sources, the statement said.  Saade allegedly introduced the confidential sources to
Pouryan, who Saade said was an arms trafficker affiliated with
Hezbollah, the statement said. Pouryan and Orbach then met with
the confidential sources and discussed “specifications, pricing
and the provision of training for the sale of various weapons,”
including surface-to-air and anti-tank missiles, grenade
launchers, AK-47s and M-16s.  Conspiracy Charges  Saade, Pouryan and Orbach are both charged with conspiracy
to provide material support and resources to terrorists, which
carries a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison, and conspiracy
to acquire and transfer anti-aircraft missiles, which carries a
maximum sentence of life in prison with a mandatory minimum of
25 years.  Saade, Nasr, Ahissou, Dato and Bouraima were arrested in
Monrovia, Liberia, on Feb. 10 and Feb. 12, and transferred to
U.S. custody. They pleaded not guilty in a court appearance in
February.  The case is U.S. v. Saade, 1:11-cr-00111, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  