-- 
UBS Co-Head of Americas M&A Lee LeBrun Plans to Retire in May

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-04-29T18:40:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/ubs-s-lee-lebrun-is-said-to-retire-in-may-at-44-as-americas-m-a-co-chief.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s co-head of mergers and
acquisitions for the Americas, Lee LeBrun, will retire in May
from Switzerland’s largest bank.  LeBrun, 44, is leaving to spend time with his wife and
three children, according to Torie von Alt, a spokeswoman for
the Zurich-based bank. Cary Kochman assumed sole leadership of
the Americas M&A business in July, when LeBrun took a
sabbatical. Kochman was named global co-head of M&A last month.  UBS’s  investment-banking  unit has been going through
management changes since 2008 when the company cut its bonus
pool by 80 percent because of the financial crisis. In July,
Richard Leaman left as chairman of the division to join Moelis &
Co., the New York-based investment bank founded by former UBS
executive Kenneth Moelis. In 2009, most of UBS’s health-care
investment-banking group defected to New York-based  Jefferies
Group Inc. (JEF)   In April, UBS hired Stephen Cummings, Wachovia Corp.’s head
of corporate and investment banking, as chairman of investment
banking in the Americas. Cummings will work with Aryeh Bourkoff,
38, who in March became head of investment banking for the
Americas, succeeding Kevin Cox, who was appointed global
chairman of the general industries group.  LeBrun joined UBS in 2001 from Donaldson, Lufkin &
Jenrette. His deals included advising Smith International Inc.
on its $13 billion sale to  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  last year. He also
advised Japan’s Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. on its $8.8 billion
acquisition of Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. in 2008.  In 2005, he advised Adelphia Communications Corp. on its
$17.6 billion takeover by Comcast Corp. and Time Warner Inc.
That year, he also advised Gillette Co. on its $57.2 billion
acquisition by  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 