-- 
Ugandan Police Fire Bullets, Tear Gas in Kampala Amid Protests Over Prices

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-04-29T14:51:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/ugandan-police-fire-bullets-tear-gas-in-kampala-amid-protests-over-prices.html
Ugandan police fired bullets and
tear gas in the capital, Kampala, to quell riots over opposition
leader  Kizza Besigye ’s arrest that local media said left him in
a “critical condition.” At least two people died.  “We are using all resources available to put out all fires
lit on the roads and bring the situation to normal,” Judith
Nabakooba, the force’s spokeswoman, said by phone from the city.
The police suspect “hooligans” may be behind this morning’s
protests, she said.  At least 71 people were taken to Mulago Hospital in Kampala
with “major injuries,” Catherine Ntabadde, a spokeswoman for the
Uganda Red Cross, said in a phone interview. Two people died in
today’s violence, she said, without providing further details.  Besigye, the head of the Forum for Democratic Change, has
been arrested five times this month amid demonstrations over
surging prices for staple foods and gasoline. Inflation
accelerated to 14.1 percent in April, from 11.1 percent in
March, as food costs jumped 31 percent, the  Uganda  Bureau of
Statistics said today.  Besigye, defeated by President Yoweri Museveni in a Feb. 18
election, was granted bail on April 27 after being held in
custody for six days for taking part in the so-called walk-to-
work protests. Yesterday, he was arrested while driving to his
bank to withdraw money, according to his party.  Besigye ‘Weak’  The  Daily Monitor , a Kampala-based newspaper, described the
55-year-old opposition leader’s arrest yesterday as “violent.”
Besigye’s condition is “weak,” though he is able to speak, it
said, citing Olive Kobusingye, his personal physician.  Besigye was today being treated at his home in Kasangati,
north of Kampala, said Sarah Eperu, a deputy spokeswoman for the
Forum for Democratic Change. He was discharged from hospital
yesterday after being admitted following his arrest, she said.  Internal Affairs Minister Kirunda Kivejinja said police
used “appropriate force” and pepper spray to arrest Besigye,
before charging him and six others with taking part in an
unlawful assembly and assaulting a police officer.  Besigye was granted bail, while “accomplices” were remanded
in prison, Kivejinja said.  Today’s protests were “a spontaneous action,” Eperu said.
“They are reacting to the mistreatment that Dr. Besigye was
subjected to yesterday by the state,” she said.  Kampala was deserted at midday local time as shops closed
and security forces worked to clear burning tires from the
middle of roads across the city.  “The situation is under control,” Kivejinja said in an e-
mailed statement. “Anyone who disturbs the peace should be
reported to the authorities for prompt action.”  Uganda, with a population of more than 30 million, is
 Africa ’s largest producer of robusta coffee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 