-- 
UN Rights Council Condemns Syrian Crackdown on Protesters

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-04-29T18:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/un-rights-council-condemns-syrian-crackdown-on-protesters-1-.html
The United Nations  Human Rights
Council  “unequivocally” condemned the crackdown by Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad on peaceful demonstrators and called
for the UN human rights chief to send a team to investigate
“all alleged violations of international human rights law.”  “With today’s vote, the council has stood against attempts
to silence dissent with the use of gratuitous violence, which is
not the act of a responsible government,” the U.S. Ambassador
to the United Nations  Susan Rice  said in a statement.  The 26-9 council vote endorsed the U.S.-sponsored
 resolution  which denounced the use of lethal violence against
protesters and urged the Syrian government to permit free
expression and assembly, allow access to the Internet and other
communications networks, lift censorship on reporting and
release political prisoners.  It also called on the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
to “urgently dispatch a mission” to Syria to investigate and
report back to the council “with a view to avoiding impunity
and ensuring full accountability” for the perpetrators of the
violence. Syria’s National Organization for Human Rights says
the Syrian government crackdown on protests has left more than
450 dead.  The motion was approved by 26 countries while nine,
including Russia, China and  Pakistan , voted against it.  Saudi
Arabia  was among seven nations that abstained.  Syria is the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit by the
wave of uprisings that deposed long-time rulers in Egypt and
 Tunisia  and sparked an armed conflict in  Libya . Assad’s regime
is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring Lebanon,
where it supports Hezbollah, an armed Shiite Muslim group.  ‘Better Late than Never’  “Earlier action might have prevented the current monthlong
massacre, but it’s better late than never for the 47-nation body
to begin addressing the long-suffering victims of state-
sponsored brutality in Syria,” said Hillel Neuer, executive
director of Geneva-based rights group UN Watch.  Thousands of Syrians took to the streets around the country
today, defying warnings by the Interior Ministry not to hold
rallies, as the popular challenge to Assad’s rule escalates.  The UN General Assembly is due to elect four new members of
the rights council on May 20. Four seats are available for Asian
nations and  Syria  is one of four candidates, putting it in
position to win a three-year term.  ‘Brutal Repression’  The resolution and the ongoing “brutal repression” in
Syria “further underscore the hypocrisy of Syria’s bid for
membership” in the council, Eileen Chamberlain Donahoe, the
U.S. ambassador to the human rights body, said in a statement
following the vote.  The initial U.S. initiative said Syria’s record in
protecting and promoting human rights must be considered when
the council votes on its candidacy. That wording was removed
from the final resolution.  Syrian Ambassador Faysal Khabbaz Hamoui said he was
“astonished at the use of artificial motives, including the
pretext of humanitarian intervention, to take the world back to
the era of colonization.” He criticized the governments that
convened the special session of the council, saying they should
“respect dialogue to guarantee human rights and not intervene
in internal affairs to overthrow a government.”  European Pressure  European nations have stepped up pressure on Syria,
summoning ambassadors and pushing for a UN vote to protest the
violence. China and  Russia  led opposition that blocked an April
27 initiative by the U.S. and its European allies for the UN
Security Council to condemn the Syrian government’s attacks on
peaceful protesters.  European Union officials are meeting in Brussels today to
discuss Syria.  Germany  favors sanctions on the country’s
leadership, including travel restrictions and financial freezes,
German government spokesman Steffen Seibert said on April 27.  In  Washington , President  Barack Obama  ordered an asset
freeze today on Assad’s brother, Mahir, as well as two other
Syrian military leaders, the Syrian intelligence service, and
the Iran’s Revolutionary Guards’ Quds Force for their roles in
the crackdown on protesters. Syria and the Iranian Revolutionary
Guards are already covered under U.S. terrorism sanctions, and
the individuals are unlikely to hold significant assets in the
 United States .  While Assad has outlined a reform agenda, abolishing
emergency laws that for half a century gave the government a
free hand to arrest people without cause, the crackdown hasn’t
eased and his pledges of future political and economic measures
have failed to halt the spread of protests. About 200 mostly
low-level members of Syria’s ruling Baath Party have resigned
over Assad’s crackdown.  More than 1,000 people have been arrested across Syria
since the most recent demonstrations began on April 22, bringing
the total number of detentions since the unrest started to at
least 2,000, according to Mahmoud Merhi, who heads the Arab
Organization for Human Rights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 