-- 
Unipetrol Hits Four-Month High on Profit Increase, Dividend

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-04-29T15:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/unipetrol-first-quarter-net-income-increases-50-on-higher-crude-oil-price.html
Unipetrol AS (UNIP)  rallied to its highest
in four months after the Czech Republic’s largest oil refiner
said first-quarter profit rose an annual 50 percent on higher
oil prices and shareholders will decide on dividends.  The stock rose 2.7 percent to 194 koruna at its 4:24 p.m.
close in Prague after earlier surging to as much as 4.5 percent
to 197.5 koruna, its strongest level since Jan. 4.  Net income in the three months through March rose to 464
million koruna ($28.5 million) from 309 million a year earlier,
the Prague-based company said today. That nearly matched the 463
million-koruna median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Shareholders will discuss a dividend payout from the
2010 profit at a general meeting in June, the company said.  The earnings were “slightly higher than market
estimates,” analyst Ondrej Moravansky at Cyrrus brokerage in
Brno,  Czech Republic , wrote in a report to clients today. Plans
to discuss a dividend “could be regarded as a positive signal
as the company last paid a dividend in 2008,” he wrote.  Revenue rose 28 percent to 23.1 billion koruna and earnings
before interest and taxes, or Ebit, gained 10 percent to 571
million koruna. Revenue growth was dampened by an unplanned
shutdown of its Litvinov hydrocracker in February, the company
controlled by Poland’s PKN Orlen SA said today.  “Looking at the underlying business, the profitability is
extremely weak,” Erste analyst Radim Kramule said in a research
note before the figures were released. “Should oil drop again,
all these positive effects would be reversed and Unipetrol could
easily fall into red figures.”  First-quarter Ebit margin supports Unipetrol’s 2011 target
of a margin wider than last year’s 1.95 percent, the company
said in a presentation on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in  Prague  at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Kirkland at   skirkland@bloomberg.net  