-- 
Turkish Trade Deficit Almost Doubles to Record $9.8 Billion

-- B y   A y d a n   E k s i n
-- 
2011-04-29T14:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/turkish-trade-deficit-almost-doubles-to-record-9-8-billion-1-.html
Turkey ’s trade deficit jumped 91
percent from a year earlier in March, as central bank policies
failed to slow growing domestic demand that draws in imports of
goods and raw materials.  The deficit was $9.8 billion in the month, compared with
$5.1 billion a year earlier, the statistics office in Ankara
said on its website today. The figure exceeded a median estimate
for a $7.8 billion deficit in data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The authorities so far have been employing unorthodox
policies to contain domestic demand; measures that are aimed at
containing the credit supply,” analysts Selim Cakir and Emre Tekmen of Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said in an e-
mailed report to clients. “Credit growth and foreign trade data
so far confirm that these policies have failed to achieve the
stated objectives.  Imports gained 44 percent to $21.6 billion last month.
Exports rose 20 percent to $11.8 billion, the office said.  The central bank cut the benchmark one-week repo rate by a
total of 0.75 percentage points in December and January to a
record low of 6.25 percent, bidding to deter capital inflows
that strengthen the lira and hurt exports. It’s trying to offset
the possible inflationary effect of the cuts by increasing
banks’ reserve requirements to limit their ability to lend.  Lira Rises  Still, the lira has strengthened 0.4 percent since Dec. 15,
the day before the central bank made the first of the two rate
reductions. Consumer loans have grown each week since Nov. 19
and the expansion accelerated in the past two weeks, rising at a
rate of 0.7 percent in the week to April 22, central bank data
published yesterday showed.  “We believe that the current fiscal-monetary policy mix
leaves the domestic economy vulnerable to sudden stops and
confidence reversals,” Ilker Domac, economist at Citigroup Inc.
in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed report.  The main ISE National 100 share index gained 0.5 percent to
68,806.06 at 4:17 p.m., reversing losses made after the trade
data was released. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell 1
percentage point to 8.33 percent. The lira rose 0.5 percent to
1.5177 per dollar.  Growth in bank lending will start to slow from the second
quarter, central bank governor Erdem Basci said this week. The
bank stands ready to take more measures to slow the expansions
should they be needed, he said.  Elections  “Fiscal policy is the right tool to address the problem,
yet we do not expect much tightening given the elections and the
likely post-election agenda,” said  Inan Demir , chief economist
at Finansbank AS in Istanbul. “The burden will be borne by
monetary policy, and we continue to expect further reserve
requirement hikes.”  Turkey will hold parliamentary elections on June 12, when
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is seeking a third term with
an increased legislative majority. He’s pledged to pass a new
constitution, possibly in a nationwide referendum, and discuss a
switch to a presidential system of government.  The central bank yesterday raised its inflation forecast
for 2011 to 6.9 percent from 5.9 percent, more than analysts
expected, citing rising  oil prices  and taxes on imported
textiles. The decision pushed bond yields up the most in a
month.  Inflation slowed to a four-decade low of 3.99 percent last
month. The rate is expected to rise in the second quarter, fall
in the third, then risen again in the last three months, the
bank said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aydan Eksin at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  