-- 
Van Hollen Calls for ‘Balance’ in Deficit-Cut Plan (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-29T18:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/van-hollen-calls-for-balance-in-deficit-cut-plan-transcript-.html
Chris Van Hollen , the top U.S.
House Democrat on budget issues, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend, that any deficit-cutting deal must be
“balanced” to include higher  tax revenue  as well as
spending reductions.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with the senior Democrat on
the House Budget Committee, Congressman Chris Van Hollen of
 Maryland . Congressman, thank you so much for being with us.  REPRESENTATIVE CHRIS VAN HOLLEN: Great to be with you.  HUNT: There were protests against Republican budgets
at town hall meetings when the members went home this past
week. Republicans say it was no big deal, it was
orchestrated by Democrats, it’s nothing like the 2009
protests against you all.  VAN HOLLEN: Well, what’s happening is the American
people are figuring out exactly what is in the Republican
House budget. And at its core, they made a decision. They
said that we’re going to end the Medicare guarantee, we’re
going to force seniors into the private insurance market
where they’ll have to eat the rising costs of health care.
At the same time, they provide another round of tax breaks
to the wealthiest in America. So the fact that the American
people are rising up on this issue is a very important part
of the process.  HUNT: And how big of a campaign issue will that budget
be in 2012?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, I think all choices that politicians
make are going to be issues in the campaign. You know, to
govern is to choose, as they say -  HUNT: You think they’ll pay a price?  VAN HOLLEN: I think that they will, because the
American people don’t like what they see.  HUNT: Let’s talk about the battle over the budget
right now. It seems obvious that a clean debt ceiling
extension, whatever the merits, isn’t going to happen. Even
Democrats (inaudible). What sort of deficit reduction
provision can you envision would be feasible to put on the
debt ceiling that might be acceptable to the White House.  VAN HOLLEN: Well, everybody agrees we’ve got to come
together sooner rather than later, I mean, this week, to
come up with a deficit reduction plan. I hope people won’t
say that if they don’t get 100 percent of what they want in
that process they’re going to shut down the economy and
throw people out of work. I mean, that would be a huge
mistake.  But in terms of the outlines of the plan, I think the
president’s proposal to create a debt fail-safe is the
right approach, or at least one approach that should be
looked at. In other words, let’s set a target for deficit
reduction. And if the Congress is unable to reach that
target through the regular order, through passing laws and
appropriations bills, then you would have a trigger take
place where you would reach the deficit in a balanced way.  HUNT: So by your likes - it has to be both taxes, as
well as spending?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, the bipartisan fiscal commission has
said that that’s a balanced approach required of us.  HUNT: There’s a bipartisan group of senators that are
proposing ultimately capping federal spending at 20.6
percent of GDP. Is that something that’s worth considering?  VAN HOLLEN: Again, that’s not a balanced approach. If
you’re just looking at the spending side and not talking
about revenues, not talking about getting rid of some of
these huge subsidies the big  oil companies  are getting, not
talking about the Republican plan to provide enough tax
breaks to the folks on the very top, then you’ve got a
lopsided approach to this issue.  HUNT: So any side deal has to be balanced with both
revenues and -  VAN HOLLEN: You’ve got to have a balanced approach.  HUNT: Congressman, do you also agree that any long-
term fix, or whatever we call it on the deficit, has to be
balanced and that it has to include entitlements, including
Social Security, as well as revenues?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, let’s - on Social Security, I think
the best way to deal with that - and that was not part of
the Republican budget in the House - is the model that Tip
O’Neill and  Ronald Reagan  used, where you’re focused
specifically on making sure you shore up the long-term
solvency of Social Security and you don’t get it mixed up
in the other deficit reduction politics.  HUNT: So you’d do that separately?  VAN HOLLEN: Yes.  HUNT: With a commission?  VAN HOLLEN: Or the kind of approach that, you know,
Tip O’Neill and Ronald Reagan have just sort of a summit
dealing with that issue where everyone understands that the
focus is on making sure that, beyond the year 2037, because
Social Security is fully covered 100 percent through then,
that you make whatever changes are necessary to keep it
going beyond that.  HUNT: There’s a lot of talk about record oil industry
profits. There may be some money there for the government.
 John Boehner  last week, your speaker, said Congress ought
to look at oil subsidies, and they ought to be paying their
fair share. Within a day or two, he began to walk back and
say, no, no, no, I’m not interested in any kind of taxes on
oil companies.  You’re the ranking Democrat on the House Budget
Committee. Is oil company profits and taxes a possibility
in these budget deliberations? And what will you do on the
House floor?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, sure, it should be. And it was part
of the alternative Democratic budget that we put forward.
Look, at a time when you’ve got huge oil company prices -
and nobody can argue that they need these taxpayer
subsidies to motivate them to go and to drill for more oil,
when you’ve got a big deficit issue, we should ask for some
shared sacrifice, and certainly the oil companies that are
making these big profits should -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Can you get a vote on the House floor on that?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, Speaker Boehner indicated that he
wanted to do something about it. As you said, he sort of
walked it back. But others on the Republican side have said
they’ve got to take a look at this. President Bush, at the
end of his term, said there’s no justification for these
extra (OFF-MIKE)  HUNT: So in the weeks ahead, this may well be on the
table?  VAN HOLLEN: I think it’s very much on the table.  HUNT: Soaring gas prices. Anything that can be done
about it? And who’s going to pay the price for it?  VAN HOLLEN: Well, there’s no silver bullet on soaring
gas prices. And there are lots of factors that feed into
this. The one thing we do need to look into very closely -
and the  Justice Department  is doing it - is to what extent
there’s excessive speculation in the market, to what extent
people are trying to hit certain positions and manipulate
price and if that’s a factor. Now, if that is a factor,
then the president should very seriously consider releasing
some of the oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  And if there is a bubble out there - and, frankly, the
CFTC and the regulators have been trying to look at this,
and a lot of the Republican members have been trying to gut
their funding so they don’t have the ability to oversee
this process - but if they make a determination that that’s
what’s going on, then, under those circumstances, I think
it’s very justifiable to release some funds from the
Strategic - and the American people would get a pretty good
price on the market (OFF-MIKE)  HUNT: One question on campaign finance reform. You
brought a suit on disclosure against the FEC. The White
House is planning to issue an executive order requiring all
federal contractors to disclose political spending.
Republicans and the Chamber of Commerce say this will have
a chilling effect, and this is just trying to do through
the backdoor what you can’t do legislatively.  VAN HOLLEN: Well, that’s totally wrong. All this
requires is disclosure. The Republicans are trying to put
out this story that this is about trying to chill freedom
of speech. This doesn’t prevent anybody from running any ad
or saying whatever they want. It simply says, if you’re
going to run that ad, tell the American people who’s
funding it. People have a right to know what interests are
in play. It should not be a secret process. It should be a
transparent process.  HUNT: And when do you expect the White House to put
out the executive order?  VAN HOLLEN: I don’t know exactly when they’re going to
do that.  HUNT: But you do expect the White House to do it?  VAN HOLLEN: By all accounts, they’re planning to do
that, because what’s the issue here? If you’re a Federal
contractor - let’s say you’re a big (inaudible) contractor.
And there’s a big vote on the floor of the House on a big
weapons system. Why should you be able to secretly fund the
campaigns of people who voted in your favor and secretly
fund opponents to people who might have voted against you?
That has a terrible impact on the political process.  And what we’re saying is, if you’re getting lots of
federal taxpayer dollars, at least tell people - it doesn’t
say you can’t spend the money on campaigns. It doesn’t say
you - it doesn’t limit what you can say. It just says, tell
us who you are. Tell the American people who you are.  HUNT: Chris Van Hollen, thank you so much for being
with us today.  VAN HOLLEN: Thank you.  HUNT: And when we come back, born in the USA. The
president provides proof again. And continuing unrest in
the Arab world, we talk to Bloomberg reporters.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF
THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<610771.1204164.2.1.87.23378.25>#
-0- Apr/29/2011 18:13 GMT
 