-- 
Vietnam Increases Rates to Fight Highest Inflation in 28 Months

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-29T17:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/vietnam-raises-rates-after-inflation-surged-to-28-month-high-1-.html
Vietnam  intensified efforts to
tackle the highest inflation since 2008, saying interest rates
will rise in May for the second time in a month.  The refinancing rate will be boosted to 14 percent from 13
percent, effective May 1, the  State Bank  of Vietnam said
yesterday, adding to increases in February, March and April 1.
The central bank said it will also raise the discount rate to 13
percent from 12 percent on the same date. It left the repurchase
rate unchanged at 13 percent.  Vietnam’s government has cut the target for credit growth
and ordered a tighter monetary policy as it strives to restrain
price gains and stabilize the nation’s currency. Officials in
April capped rates payable on dollar deposits, helping spur the
dong to its best week since at least 1997 on optimism demand for
the higher-yielding currency will increase.  “I think the question is not so much now how much they
tighten, but how long they tighten,” said Jonathan Pincus, a Ho
Chi Minh City-based economist with the Vietnam Program at the
Harvard Kennedy School. “If they are willing to endure the
political pressure -- the pressure from business and consumers,
who are inconvenienced by higher interest rates -- for a long
enough period of time, then inflation will abate.”  The currency gained 1.8 percent this week to 20,550 per
dollar as of 5 p.m. in  Hanoi  yesterday, according to prices from
banks compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest weekly rise
since at least March 1997. The dong was devalued for the fourth
time in 15 months on Feb. 11 to try and curb Vietnam’s trade
deficit, risking higher import costs.  Shares Rise  The VN Index, the benchmark measure of the  Ho Chi Minh City 
Stock Exchange, rose 1.5 percent to 480.08 yesterday, the
highest level since March 11.  The State Bank of Vietnam said it will also raise to 14
percent from 13 percent the overnight rate for interbank
electronic payments. The rate on loans to finance short balances
in clearing transactions between the central bank and commercial
banks will also rise to 14 percent from 13 percent, it said.  The central bank boosted its refinancing and repurchase
rates on April 1 and will lift reserve ratios for dollar
deposits in May, joining Asian counterparts from  Thailand  to
 China  in extending the fight against inflation this year. It
capped rates on dollar deposits at 3 percent for individuals and
1 percent for non-credit institutions from April 13.  Inflation surged to a 28-month high of 17.51 percent in
April, stoked by increases in fuel and electricity prices. Gross
domestic product rose 5.43 percent in the three months through
March from a year earlier, slowing from a 7.34 percent pace in
the fourth quarter of 2010.  Market Rates  Alan Pham, chief economist at VinaCapital Investment
Management Ltd. in Ho Chi Minh City, said he expects the
refinancing rate to be raised again to 15 percent in the second
quarter since it still lags behind market  interest rates .  Credit growth was 5.05 percent in the first four months of
the year, Nguyen Dong Tien, the central bank’s deputy governor,
said yesterday.  Money supply  has risen 1.5 percent since the
start of 2011, he said.  “At that pace, controlling credit growth is an issue that
requires continued, cautious management,” Tien said.  The monetary authority also said it will stop commercial
banks from lending in gold and restrict deposits of the precious
metal from May 1. The move is designed to reduce “dollarization”
in the economy and prevent the use of gold as a payment tool, it
said.  Premier’s Shift  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said in February that he
aims to curb credit growth to less than 20 percent this year
from an earlier target of 23 percent. He also intends to narrow
the  budget deficit  to below 5 percent of GDP and cap the jump in
money supply at 15 percent to 16 percent in 2011.  Lending growth is likely to decelerate under currently
“high” interest rates,  Standard & Poor’s  said in April. Higher
rates are also aimed at boosting returns on dong deposits to
ease pressure on the currency, whose weakness has increased the
cost of imported goods,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  has said.  “Vietnam’s policy rates lag rather than lead the market,”
said Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based assistant vice
president at Moody’s Investors Service. “Until these rates are
jacked up even more to bring them into line with market rates,
they won’t be as effective as they could be as a guide to
gauging Vietnam’s monetary policy stance.”  The central bank said on March 1 that it will use the
refinancing rate and open-market operations interest rate,
combined with other unspecified monetary policy tools, to manage
market borrowing costs. The repurchase rate is also known as the
open-market operations rate.  The  base rate , which has been held at 9 percent since
November, is “ineffective and no longer the policy rate,”
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. With assistance from K.
Oanh Ha,  Nicholas Heath , Nguyen Kieu Giang. Editors: Sunil
Jagtiani, K. Oanh Ha  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  