-- 
Twelve Charged With Running Drug Rings in Brooklyn’s Park Slope

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-04-29T22:12:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/twelve-charged-with-running-drug-rings-in-brooklyn-s-park-slope.html
Twelve people were arrested and
accused of being in four drug rings that operated in the
 Brooklyn  neighborhood of  Park Slope , New York prosecutors said.  Undercover officers bought cocaine and more than $70,000
worth of heroin, some of it in glassine baggies stamped with the
“brand name” Sin City, Bridget Brennan, the  special narcotics
prosecutor  for  New York City , said today in a statement.  The sales took place “in broad daylight” on “brownstone-
lined streets” next to  Prospect Park , Brennan said. The main
target, Edwin Perez, was arrested April 26 outside his home on
19th Street in Brooklyn. The home was outfitted with a security
system with surveillance cameras and metal plates to protect the
windows, the prosecutor said.  Perez directed customers to meet him at his “office,”
code for the blocks adjacent to Prospect Park West in the heart
of Park Slope, Brennan said. He conducted sales from a Can-Am
Spyder three-wheeled motorcycle or a luxury car, authorities
said. He would pull up alongside customers’ vehicles, throw the
drugs through the window and receive cash in exchange, they
said.  The investigation’s largest sale came on March 18, when
Perez delivered a shopping bag containing 2,000 baggies of
heroin in exchange for $10,000. On another occasion his
preschool-age child sat in the front passenger seat as he
conducted a sale, the prosecutor said.  New Names  Police said they seized the motorcycle, which was parked in
a storage facility, and found 1,400 baggies of heroin in a front
compartment and a helmet painted with the words “Sin City.”  Later in the investigation, the traffickers changed the
name of the heroin to others, including “True Life,”
“Guilty,” “King,” and “WD-40.”  Perez pleaded not guilty and was held on $500,000 bail
after a hearing today in  New York  Supreme Court in  Manhattan ,
said Kati Cornell, a spokeswoman for Brennan’s office, in a
telephone interview. Perez’s attorney, Joseph Corozzo, didn’t
immediately return a telephone message left at his office.  Two of Perez’s associates were arrested on the same day,
one today, and four other suspects were arrested last month and
charged with about a dozen drug sales in Windsor Terrace. Four
others also have been charged, according to the prosecutor’s
office.  Park Slope, located just west of Prospect Park in northwest
Brooklyn and bordered by 15th Street, Flatbush Avenue, Prospect
Park West and Fourth Avenue, was ranked the “most livable”
neighborhood in the city by  New York Magazine  last year.  The average sales price of homes in northwest Brooklyn
dropped 1.7 percent in the first quarter to $725,650, above the
average $569,799 sales price of all Brooklyn homes, according to
a  report  by broker Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate.  The average price of all city properties fell 23 percent to
$660,000 in the first quarter, according to the Real Estate
Board of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  