-- 
World Bank Clears $100 Million to Serbian Budget for Welfare

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-04-29T15:32:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/world-bank-clears-100-million-to-serbian-budget-for-welfare.html
The  World Bank  approved a $100
million loan for  Serbia  to support poverty relief and changes to
the country’s public finances and pension system.  The World Bank’s Board of Directors approved the amount as
part of a four-year, $900 million loan program for the Balkan
country, the organization’s Belgrade office said in an e-mailed
statement today. The installment will increase the number of
low-income families receiving welfare by 25 percent.  A condition for the loan was a change in Serbia’s poverty
reduction system, the World Bank said. The changes will triple
the amount of cash transfers to low-income families with more
than three members.  “The number of people living below the poverty line
increased by 60,000 in 2009 and the risks of falling back to
poverty remain high in Serbia,” Loup Brefort, the  World Bank ’s
country manager for Serbia, said in the statement.  Serbia’s  statistics office  said today that the percentage
of people living in “absolute poverty,” with less than 8,544
dinars ($128) a month, increased to 9.2 percent last year, from
6.9 percent in 2009.  The loan also supports a streamlining of Serbia’s public
administration to reduce the public-sector wage bill from about
to 8 percent of gross domestic product from about 10 percent and
will support “Serbia’s efforts to establish a comprehensive
public debt database and medium-term public debt management
strategy.”  The country also needs to change pension spending as it is
currently the second-highest in  Europe  and Central Asia in
relation to state budget, according to the statement. The World
Bank did not give a breakdown on the planned use of the loan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  