-- 
Yale Weighs ROTC Decision as Ivy League Schools Restore Programs

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-29T13:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/yale-weighs-rotc-decision-as-ivy-league-schools-restore-programs.html
Yale University  may become the
third Ivy League college this year to restore the military’s
 Reserve Officers Training Corps  after spurning the program
during the Vietnam War.  Harvard University , the oldest U.S. college, said last
month that it will reinstate a Navy ROTC program, and  Columbia
University  in  New York  said April 22 that it will “re-engage”
with the military in a similar arrangement. Yale faculty will
vote May 5 on a committee’s  recommendation  that the school again
recognize ROTC.  The colleges, members of the Ivy League of eight elite
northeastern U.S. schools, are reaching out to the military
after Congress voted in December to repeal the Pentagon’s
“don’t ask, don’t tell” policy prohibiting open homosexuality.
The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, also helped raise
awareness of the contributions and sacrifices made by service
members, said Graham Allison, formerly an adviser to the U.S.
Defense Secretary in the Clinton administration.  “If you ask most people today whether they’re grateful for
the ways in which the U.S. military is enhancing their security,
they’d say yes,” said Allison, who is now director of Harvard’s
 Belfer Center for Science & International Affairs  in a telephone
interview. “The military is popular.”  The  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia, Cornell
University in Ithaca, New York, and Princeton University in
Princeton,  New Jersey , kept their ROTC programs on campus
through the war.  Yale’s 1969 Actions  As protests intensified against U.S. involvement in
Vietnam, the faculty at Yale, in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , decided
in 1969 and 1970 to take away academic credit for ROTC courses
and strip the program’s teachers of their faculty titles. Yale
also pulled funding for administering ROTC on campus. Since
then, Yale students have performed officer training at the
University of Connecticut in Storrs or the  University of New
Haven , said Thomas Conroy, a spokesman for Yale.  Harvard, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , Columbia, Brown
University in Providence, Rhode Island, and Dartmouth College in
Hanover, New Hampshire, all took similar steps in the  Vietnam 
era. While Dartmouth began restoring its ROTC program in 1975,
the other four colleges maintained their bans, citing the
military’s policy on homosexuality. Days after Congress voted to
repeal the 1993 rule on gays, Harvard President Drew Faust, a
Civil War historian whose father, grandfather and brother all
served in the military, said she would move to welcome ROTC back
to campus.  Military service is “an honorable and admirable calling, a
powerful expression of an individual citizen’s commitment to
contribute to the common good,” Faust said March 3 at a
ceremony to mark its agreement with the Navy.  Levin’s Statements  Yale President Richard Levin said in January that he spoke
with Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  about returning ROTC to the
campus. Discussions with the military are continuing, Conroy
said.  Brown President Ruth Simmons appointed a panel to make
recommendations on how to proceed on ROTC in February. The panel
published a two-page series of questions and answers in the
April 25 issue of the  Brown Daily Herald , the student newspaper,
saying that the Navy ROTC program is interested in returning to
the college, probably through a partnership with the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  Stanford Decision Pending  ROTC may also return to  Stanford University  near Palo Alto,
 California , where the faculty senate voted 28-9 yesterday, with
three abstentions, to invite the program back to campus,
according to the Stanford Daily student newspaper. Of about
7,000 Stanford undergraduates, 14 students participate in ROTC
through programs at the  University of California , Berkeley, and
other area colleges, said Lisa Lapin, a Stanford spokeswoman.  While the programs’ reinstatement represents a successful
“beachhead,” much more work needs to be done to successfully
re-establish a military presence at Harvard and other  Ivy League 
campuses, said Paul Mawn, chairman of  Advocates for Harvard
ROTC .  “In general, there aren’t enough ROTC students at Ivy
League schools to justify programs,” Mawn said. “They have to
take a more proactive stance of promoting ROTC, as Harvard has
done in the past.”  Institutions of higher education should enroll more ROTC
students as part of their efforts to increase campus diversity,
said Mawn, a retired U.S. Navy captain. More Ivy League colleges
can create a positive campus environment for ROTC students by
seeking applications from military veterans, as Columbia and
Dartmouth have done, he said. The universities should also bring
back Army and Air Force ROTC programs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: at   Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 