-- 
Yemenis Rally to Protest GCC Plan Giving Saleh Immunity

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-04-29T14:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-29/yemenis-rally-to-protest-gcc-plan-giving-saleh-immunity-1-.html
Hundreds of thousands of Yemenis
took to the streets across the country today to reject the Gulf
Cooperation Council’s mediation plan and demand the immediate
resignation of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  In what they dubbed “Friday of Loyalty to Martyrs,”
protesters gathered in the capital, Sana’a, and other cities
including Taiz and Hodiedah calling for the immediate end of
Saleh’s three-decade rule. They denounced the plan backed by
Gulf Arab states, which would protect Saleh from prosecution if
he steps down within 30 days.  “We refuse any immunity from prosecution given to the
killers,” said Samir Mohammed, a protester in Sana’a with a
Yemeni flag wrapped around his neck and a paper poster on his
head reading “Leave, you mass killer.”  More than 100 people have died as security forces
repeatedly fired on demonstrations that began on Feb. 11,
according to the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human Rights in
Sana’a. The main opposition group has agreed to sign the GCC
plan, though it has threatened to pull out if Saleh’s forces
continue to kill protesters.  The GCC plan calls for Saleh’s departure to be followed by
elections two months later. It’s due to be signed in  Saudi
Arabia  on May 2, Saleh told  Russia Today  in an interview
yesterday, according to an Arabic  transcript  on its website.  Demonstrators Injured  Six demonstrators were injured today in the port city of
Hodiedah when armed government supporters opened fire with live
bullets on a crowd of hundreds of thousands, said activist
Abdulhafiz Mujaab in a phone interview. Two of the injured
protesters were kidnapped by the attackers, and police used
batons to beat the demonstrators, arresting 12 of them, he said.  In Sana’a, activists buried the bodies of some of the 12
protesters killed two days ago, in a cemetery near the site of
the rally.  Saleh may not sign the GCC plan if Qatar’s representatives
attend the signing ceremony in  Riyadh , the president told Russia
Today. He accused Qatar, where Al Jazeera television is based,
of funding and conspiring against Yemen and using the television
station to bring chaos to the country.  “We will have reservations on the signing if Qatar’s
representatives were present” at the ceremony, Saleh told
Russia Today.  Tens of thousands of Saleh’s supporters also gathered today
near the presidential palace. Their term for today is the
“Friday of Constitutional Legitimacy.” In an address to the
rally, Saleh called his opponents “traitors and agents.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 