-- L.A. Credit Boosted to Aa2 by Moody’s on Growing Tax Base
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-01-24T03:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/l-a-credit-boosted-to-aa2-by-moody-s-on-growing-tax-base.html
Los Angeles  got its first credit-
rating increase in more than 20 years from Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited growth in property taxes in the nation’s
second most-populous city.  The action, lifting the city’s general-obligation rating to
Aa2, the third-highest level, from Aa3, affects $3.3 billion in
outstanding debt, Moody’s said yesterday in a statement.  Property taxes are expected to yield about  $1.5 billion , or
about 20 percent of the city’s general revenue, in the year
ending June 30, up from  $1.4 billion  in fiscal 2012, according
to city budget documents.  “Despite the last few years’ extreme housing market
volatility, the assessed valuation of Los Angeles’ property tax
base has proven quite stable and is now on an upward track,”
Moody’s said in its report. “Assessed valuation growth in the
past two fiscal years has more than compensated for the slight
declines that occurred in the prior two years.”  Moody’s said Los Angeles continues to have a “substantial
structural deficit” and must deal with growing pension and
employee health-care costs. The city has little ability to raise
taxes to cover the costs, the ratings company said.  The Los Angeles City Council voted in November to ask
residents to boost the local  sales tax  0.5 percentage point,
bringing the total levy -- local and state -- to 9.5 percent. In
the previous month, the council voted to raise retirement ages
for new employees to 65 from 55 and to reduce pension benefits.  Moody’s cut Los Angeles to Aa3 in April 2010. The ratings
company hadn’t raised the city’s rating in at least 20 years, a
company spokesman,  David Jacobson , said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  