-- Abbott Forecasts 2013 Earnings That Meets Analyst Estimates
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-01-23T21:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/abbott-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-after-discharge-of-debt.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , the medical
device and nutritional products maker, forecast 2013 earnings in
line with analyst estimates after splitting off its drug
business this month.  Full-year profit excluding one-time items may be $1.98 to
$2.04 a share,  Abbott Park , Illinois-based Abbott said in a
statement today. Analysts estimate annual earnings of $1.96,
according to the average of 23 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Abbott, which also sells diagnostic tests and generic medicines,
separated the drug division into a new company on Jan. 1.  Sales from the businesses that comprise the new Abbott were
strong, particularly nutritional products and diagnostics, said
 Jeff Jonas , co-portfolio manager of the Gabelli Healthcare &
Wellness Trust fund. The combined company posted sales of $10.8
billion in the quarter, up from $10.4 billion a year earlier.  “The fourth quarter was pretty strong across the board,”
Jonas said in a telephone interview. “The guidance was ahead of
what most on the Street was looking for, potentially beating $2
a share if they come in at the high end of guidance.”  Earnings excluding one-time items of $1.51 a share beat by
1 cent the consensus estimate due to stronger than expected
sales, said Danielle Antalffy, an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co.
in  New York .  The company today reported fourth-quarter profit declined
35 percent in its last quarter as a consolidated company, due to
costs related to Abbott’s separation of its drug unit and
discharge of debt.  Net income  decreased to $1.05 billion, or 66
cents a share, from $1.6 billion, or $1.02, a year earlier.  Abbott fell less than 1 percent to $32.81 at 4 p.m. in New
York trading.  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , the new North Chicago, Illinois-based
 drug company  spun off from Abbott, rose 3.8 percent to $37.80.  AbbVie, which sells the rheumatoid arthritis medicine
Humira and the other  prescription drugs , is scheduled to
announce its earnings forecast on a Jan. 30 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  