-- Macquarie Sees German Power Rising 19% by 2016 on Carbon Gains
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-01-23T12:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/macquarie-sees-german-power-rising-19-by-2016-on-carbon-gains.html
German year-ahead power prices may
recover 19 percent by 2016 as higher carbon costs outweigh
structural deficiencies in the country’s electricity market,
according to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)   Australia ’s largest investment bank is bullish on wholesale
power, forecasting the year-ahead contract may climb to 50.40
euros ($67.04) a megawatt-hour by 2016, Robert Schramm-Fuchs, a
London-based analyst at Macquarie, said in an e-mailed report.
The 2014 contract, a benchmark in  Europe , was at 42.25 euros at
11:49 a.m. in Berlin, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Electricity prices are tumbling to record lows as carbon
permits, which fossil-fuel producers must buy to operate, are
near their all-time low due to an oversupply that’s equivalent
to about half of one year’s supply, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. A proposal by the European Commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, to delay the sale of some permits will succeed
in cutting the glut, according to Macquarie.  “Our price forecast for German baseload assumes a slight
recovery from current forward prices,” Schramm-Fuchs said. “We
are more optimistic than the forward curve at this point.”  Macquarie estimates that European Union carbon permits will
rise to 16.50 euros a metric ton in 2016 from 5.16 euros today.  “We are assuming a gradual recovery in the EU carbon price
as we believe that political intervention will eventually
tighten the market over the coming years,” Schramm-Fuchs said
in the report.  Record Lows  Germany ’s power market is “structurally broken” as retail
power prices are increasing while wholesale prices have
declined, and needs a radical overhaul, Schramm-Fuchs said.
Germany will fail to transition to low-carbon power generation
if cleaner natural gas is being priced out of the market while
dirty lignite thrives, he said.  “Anomalies have formed in the German market that seem
irreversible under the current market design,” he said.  Low electricity demand and priority access to the grid for
 solar  and  wind  generators are pushing down wholesale power
prices. At the same time the cost of building cables to carry
renewable energy to where it is needed is pushing household
bills higher, he said.  Shut Down  About 50 percent of hard coal and lignite plants in Germany
are older than 30 years and near the end of their usable lives,
according to Macquarie’s estimates. Some 10 gigawatts of
capacity will be shut down in the next three years, the bank
said.  Total German generation capacity was about 177 gigawatts at
the end of 2012, up from about 166 gigawatts at the end of 2011.
The increase is due to the addition of 7.6 gigawatts of solar,
1.7 gigawatts of wind and 1.4 gigawatts of thermal capacity.  German clean-dark spreads for 2014, a measure of coal plant
profitability, will rise to 11 euros a megawatt-hour in 2013,
Macquarie said. That’s compared with 7.53 euros today, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The clean-spark spread, a measure of
profits from burning natural gas, stood at minus 14.86 euros a
megawatt-hour as of 1:19 p.m. Berlin time.  “Clean-spark spreads are unlikely to recover, and in fact
we assume a further compression of peak spark spreads,”
Schramm-Fuchs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  