-- Mafia Victim’s Son Holds Key to Bersani Winning Key Region
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2013-01-24T16:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/mafia-victim-s-son-holds-key-to-bersani-winning-italy-s-ohio-.html
Italy ’s Lombardy region,  Silvio Berlusconi ’s stronghold for 20 years, is the main battleground
for February’s national vote, with the Democratic Party pinning
victory hopes on the son of a lawyer killed by the Mafia.  Democratic Party head Pier Luigi Bersani leads in national
polls for the Feb. 24-25 elections, though Berlusconi’s
coalition is gaining and could deny him a majority in the
Senate, where seats are based on regional support. Bersani has
tapped Umberto Ambrosoli to run for governor of Lombardy in
hopes he’ll help boost Bersani’s Senate tally in a region dubbed
Italy’s  Ohio  for its importance in shaping the vote’s outcome.  “The real battle is here,” Bersani, the center-left’s
candidate for prime minister, said at a Jan. 19 press conference
in Milan, Lombardy’s capital. “Our efforts and the energy we’re
putting into this show the national dimension of Lombardy.”  Without Lombardy, which has 49 of the Senate’s 315 seats,
Bersani would probably have to win the remaining 19 regions or
seek an alliance with Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s coalition to
govern. Such a pact could strain Bersani’s ties with his union-
backed partners, risking political instability in a country that
has averaged almost a government a year since World War II.  Fifth of GDP  With 10 million people, Lombardy is the most populous of
the country’s 20 regions and its economy is equivalent to the
size of  Austria ’s, generating a fifth of Italy’s $2.2 trillion
 gross domestic product . The national vote coincides with a
regional ballot in Lombardy to choose a new governor after the
administration of Roberto Formigoni -- backed by Berlusconi and
the  Northern League  -- collapsed after 17 years in power amid
several corruption probes.  Ambrosoli, whose father Giorgio was shot dead in 1979 by
the Mafia after investigating Sicilian banker Michele Sindona,
is challenging frontrunner Roberto Maroni and former Milan mayor
Gabriele Albertini for the governor’s position. Head of the
once-separatist Northern League, Maroni served as interior
minister in Berlusconi’s last government.  Ambrosoli, a 41-year-old criminal lawyer, is portraying
himself as a political outsider who can restore credibility to a
regional government tainted by corruption investigations.
“Scandals at a national level and a regional one, where the
center-right was ruling, have shown that those who governed were
more concerned with themselves than the public good,” Ambrosoli
said in a Jan. 22 interview.  Corruption Cases  Among the regional council members under probe are Nicole
Minetti, a former showgirl and dental hygienist, for allegedly
securing young women for Berlusconi’s parties, as well as
Northern League founder  Umberto Bossi ’s son Renzo, who resigned
in April amid an investigation into party financing. Both have
denied wrongdoing.  Maurizio Pessato, head of polling firm SWG, said while the
Berlusconi-Northern League alliance has a stronger base in
Lombardy, Ambrosoli is helping keep the race close. Maroni is
leading 35.2 percent to 34.5 percent, according to the average
of seven polls this month. That’s within the margin of error.  “By betting on a victory by Ambrosoli, Bersani hopes that
he can produce a knock-on effect on the national vote and ensure
the prize of Lombardy in the Senate, which is key for
governability.”  Under voting rules in the Senate, the winning coalition
gets a bonus premium and is awarded at least 27 seats with the
other parties sharing the remaining 22. In the Chamber of
Deputies that premium is granted nationally, so the winner
automatically gets 54 percent of seats in the lower house,
increasing governability there.  Opinion Polls  Bersani’s coalition has the support of 39.2 percent of
potential Senate voters nationally compared with 26.2 percent
for Berlusconi’s bloc, according to a poll by Ipsos released on
Jan. 22. Even if that prediction proves accurate, without
Lombardy Bersani will probably fall short of a Senate majority.  Even carrying the region in the Senate may still not be
enough for Bersani to win control of the upper house, according
to the polls. The center-left may need to grab areas such as
Campania, the country’s second-biggest region, or both Sicily
and Veneto, where Berlusconi’s forces are strong. Bersani said
in an interview on RAI 3 television today that a report today in
newspaper La Stampa saying he would ask for a second vote in
just the Senate if he doesn’t win a majority is “fantasy.”  Campaign Spending  Ambrosoli is running a low-budget campaign, having spent
186,000 euros ($247,000) so far for billboards in Lombardy,
which extends north to the Swiss border. The Maroni-led
coalition’s total budget is less than “a third of 1 million
euros,” the Northern League’s Stefano Candiani said on the
party’s Facebook page today. Still, Ambrosoli said he’s
convinced voters are seeking change after almost two decades of
center-right rule. “This time the center-left can win.”  Maroni, 57, rebuffed accusations of lower ethical standards
in the center-right group, saying on Twitter Jan. 18 that he
will build on his experience as former interior minister
fighting organized crime. Maroni is trying to lure voters with a
proposal to cut regional taxes and merge Lombardy with other
northern areas to bolster their influence.  “My opponents are just talking, I have concrete
proposals,” such as keeping 75 percent of  tax revenue  within
the region, Maroni said at Cernobbio’s Villa Erba on Jan. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  