-- Africa Infrastructure Deficit Widening, SABMiller Chairman Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-01-23T16:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/africa-infrastructure-deficit-widening-sabmiller-chairman-says.html
The lack of basic infrastructure in
Africa is hampering investments by companies such as  SABMiller
Plc (SAB)  and  Bharti Airtel Ltd (BHARTI) , said their chairmen.  “Heroic endeavors” are often required in remote parts of
Africa to move products to markets or across borders,
SABMiller’s Graham Mackay, who is also chief executive officer,
said today at a panel discussing risks on the continent at the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland. “On balance, the
infrastructure deficit is widening rather than narrowing.”  Africa needs $93 billion per year over a decade to improve
infrastructure, with almost half of that required to boost power
supply, according to the  World Bank . The economies of sub-
Saharan African countries will  expand  5.3 percent this year, the
same pace as 2012 and higher than the global figure of 3.6
percent, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan , who also attended the
panel, said it was easier to move between Africa and other parts
of the world than within the continent. Nigeria, Africa’s
largest oil producer and most populous country with more than
160 million people, has electricity production capacity of about
4,000 megawatts, less than half of total demand.  “The infrastructure gap is significant in Africa,” said
Jonathan, who was elected in 2011 on pledges to increase power
supply, build roads and bridges, and fix refineries.  ‘Biggest Risk’  Lack of such facilities is “the biggest risk to Africa’s
growth,” Bharti chairman  Sunil Mittal  said, praising Ghana,
Rwanda,  South Africa  and some regions of Nigeria for
development. He said countries where the gap is widest include
the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, Niger, Chad and Sierra Leone.  “There are some changes, but if you ask me are the
infrastructure investments keeping up with economic growth, I’d
say no,” Mackay said. Africa’s economic growth could be doubled
“quite easily,” with the required measures, he said.  Areas that need improvement include roads, bridges,
electricity and water supply, refuse removal and sewage,
according to Mackay. He cited South Africa as an exception where
“hard infrastructure” is better than many other African and
non-African countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  