-- African Rainbow Looking at Platinum Purchases, Motsepe Says
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-23T11:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/african-rainbow-looking-at-platinum-purchases-motsepe-says.html
African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI) , the
South African mining company controlled by billionaire Patrice Motsepe, is looking at opportunities to buy platinum mines in
the country, he said.  “Platinum is a key sector for us,” Motsepe, the richest
black South African, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Davos, Switzerland, where he’s attending the World Economic
Forum. “We’ve been looking for the last few years and there are
good opportunities.” The company is looking at assets on the
eastern and western limbs of the Bushveld Complex, the richest
source of platinum in the world.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the biggest producer of the
metal globally, said Jan. 15 it planned idle four shafts and
sell its Union mine as part of plans to return to profit. Mining
companies in South  Africa  are struggling to cope with higher
output costs after a spate of strikes led to above-inflation
wage gains. Producers in the continent’s largest economy shut
nine platinum-mine shafts and dismissed 3,332 workers in the
second half of last year, according to the Department of Mineral
Resources.  African Rainbow Minerals has a joint venture with Anglo
American Platinum at Modikwa Deeps.  Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu said the
government could revoke mining licenses owned by Anglo if it
continues with its proposal. Gwede Mantashe, secretary-general
of the ruling African National Congress, yesterday accused
London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  of theft after its platinum unit
announced the restructuring plan, which may result in as many as
14,000 job losses. He said the country needs to take “bigger
interest and control” of mines.  Nationalization Failure  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union’s
president, Joseph Mathunjwa, called for the shut shafts to be
nationalized.  “The track record of nationalization speaks for itself,”
Motsepe said. “It’s been a failure. Private-sector partnerships
with labor and government have proven themselves worldwide.”  African Rainbow has interests in gold, ferrous metals, base
metals and platinum. Its stock price rose 11 percent last year.  Motsepe is also chairman of Harmony Gold Mining Co.,
Africa’s third-largest bullion producer.  “The challenge is we have to run our companies in the
mining industry in a globally competitive manner,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  