-- Thai Editor Sentenced to 10 Years for Stories Insulting King
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-01-23T07:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/thai-editor-sentenced-to-10-years-for-stories-insulting-king-1-.html
A Thai magazine editor was sentenced
to 10 years in prison for allowing the publication of two
articles that defamed  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , prompting
criticism from the European Union and human rights groups.  “The articles accused the king of having power over all
past governments and being behind most crackdowns against
demonstrators,” Bangkok’s  Criminal Court  said in a statement.
“The information in those articles was incorrect. And as the
editor of the publication, the defendant should take extreme
caution in publishing.”  The editor, Somyot Pruksakasemsuk, is the third person
convicted in the last month for insulting the royal family as
calls grow within Thailand to change laws used to shield the
monarchy from criticism. He was arrested in April 2011, five
days after helping start a campaign to change the lese-majeste
law.  “The courts seem to have adopted the role of chief
protector of the monarchy at the expense of free expression
rights,” Brad Adams, Asia director at New York-based Human
Rights Watch, said in a statement after the verdict. “The
court’s ruling appears to be more about Somyot’s strong support
for amending the lese-majeste law than about any harm incurred
by the monarchy.”  Thailand ’s lese-majeste law mandates jail sentences as long
as 15 years for defaming, insulting or threatening the 85-year-
old king, queen, heir apparent or regent. The  Computer Crimes
Act  has also been used to punish offenders who criticize the
monarchy online.  Freedom of Expression  “The verdict seriously undermines the right to freedom of
expression and press freedom,” the EU said in a statement. “At
the same time, it affects Thailand’s image as a free and
democratic society.”  Somyot received a further year in jail for a previous
defamation sentence that had been suspended, the court said. The
articles were written by former cabinet minister Jakrapob Penkair, according to the court. Jakrapob, who also faces lese-
majeste charges, now lives overseas.  Somyot will appeal, defense lawyer Suvit Thongnual told
reporters, adding that they are seeking bail with collateral of
1.6 million baht ($54,000). “He has no intention to insult the
king. He is just an editor.”  Comedian, Trader  Last week, a court sentenced a comedian to two years in
prison for implying that Bhumibol interfered in politics. He was
freed on bail while he appeals the sentence.  On Dec. 25, a former equity trader received a four-year
jail term for posting information on Bhumibol’s health that the
court said caused the stock market to slide in October 2009.  Bhumibol assumed the throne in 1946 and serves as head of
state. Thailand’s constitution says the king “shall be
enthroned in a position of revered worship and shall not be
violated.” Thailand has seen violent crackdowns on protesters
pushing for greater democracy throughout Bhumibol’s 67-year
reign, including in 1973, 1976, 1992 and 2010.  In August, the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary
Detention  said  that Somyot’s detention contravened the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which was
ratified by Thailand in 1996. It called for the government to
release Somyot, noting that all public figures, including heads
of state, are subject to criticism and political opposition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  