-- Thai Exports Climb for a Fourth Month as Global Demand Improves
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-01-23T08:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/thai-exports-climb-for-a-fourth-month-as-global-demand-improves.html
Thai exports rose for a fourth
straight month in December as demand for electronics and auto
parts increased, even as a rising baht curbed the pace of growth.  Overseas sales  rose 13.45 percent last month from a year
earlier to $18.1 billion after climbing a previously reported
26.86 percent in November, the Ministry of Commerce said in a
statement today. The  median  estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of 15 economists was a 21.5 percent gain. Shipments increased
3.12 percent last year, the ministry said.  The Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
 yesterday  risks to growth have declined amid a firmer global
recovery and that shipments show signs of a broad-based recovery.
Still, Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said last week the
 exchange rate  is “not at a good level” and that exporters will
face difficulties should the baht strengthen further.  “Shipments of industrial and agricultural goods have both
improved,” Kampon Adireksombat, an economist at Tisco
Securities Co. in Bangkok, said before the release. “The strong
baht may have some impact on future orders. Still, the impact
shouldn’t be much if global demand is stronger.”  The currency has advanced about 2.8 percent so far this
year, the biggest gainer among 11 widely-traded Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The baht fell 0.2 percent to 29.82 per
dollar as of 3:18 p.m. in Bangkok.  “We hope the authorities will take care of the baht,
making sure it is stable and not too strong,” said Srirat
Rastapana, director-general for the ministry’s Department of
International Trade Promotion. “We hope it won’t strengthen
further because exports already face many negative factors.”  Imports rose 4.67 percent in December from a year earlier
for a  trade deficit  of $2.37 billion, compared with a shortfall
of $1.45 billion reported earlier for November. The deficit in
2012 was $18.1 billion. Export growth may average between 8
percent and 9 percent this year, the ministry said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  