-- AIG Saw Starr’s Lawsuit as Likely to Fail, Damaging
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-24T00:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/aig-saw-starr-s-lawsuit-as-likely-to-fail-damaging.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
opted against joining a lawsuit against the U.S. government over
its 2008 bailout because the case was unlikely to succeed and
risked harming a reputation the insurer is seeking to restore.  The case “threatened to destroy much of the good work that
AIG and its employees had done rebuilding AIG and its name,”
the insurer’s board said in a letter released today from its
lawyers. “This concern was consistent with the media coverage
and statements made by elected officials highly critical of AIG
for even considering the demand.”  The insurer’s board voted unanimously on Jan. 9 to reject
joining the suit, filed by former AIG Chief Executive Officer
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg’s Starr International Co. Greenberg,
87, says the U.S. violated shareholders’ rights by taking over
New York-based AIG during a bailout that began in 2008 and
swelled to $182.3 billion.  “Starr’s claim had a low likelihood of success on the
merits,” said Paul Curnin, an attorney for AIG’s board at
Simpson Thatcher & Bartlett LLP. He estimated Starr’s chance of
prevailing at about 20 percent, according to the letter, signed
by him and Collins J. Seitz, a lawyer for the board at Seitz
Ross Aronstam & Moritz LLP.  The letter was addressed to  David Boies , who represents
Greenberg’s Starr at Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP. It was
included in a filing AIG made today in a court in  Washington .  Dawn Schneider, a spokeswoman for Boies, declined to
comment.  Lawmakers Critical  Greenberg’s case required AIG to weigh suing the U.S.
because it makes claims on the company’s behalf. News of the
deliberations drew criticism from lawmakers including Senators
 Elizabeth Warren  and  Robert Menendez  and Representative  Elijah Cummings , who said suing the U.S. would be an insult to
taxpayers.  AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche , 68, has been working to restore
the company’s reputation after repaying the U.S. bailout last
year. He’s reached deals to sponsor U.S. and New Zealand rugby
teams, restored the insurer’s name to units, and began running
television and newspaper ads to thank taxpayers for the rescue.  The U.S. owned as much as a 92 percent  stake  in AIG during
the rescue, and recouped the cost of the bailout in part by
auctioning the shares. The insurer plunged 97 percent in 2008
amid losses tied to a collapsing housing market.  Advisers hired by the board contested Starr’s claims that
AIG had no choice on the bailout and that the government paid
far less for the stake than it was worth. Bankruptcy could have
stripped the shares of all value, one adviser said.  “A choice between rock and hard place is still a choice,”
Erwin Chemerinsky, dean of the University of California  Irvine 
School of Law, said in the letter.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 1:11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  