-- Taiwan Dollar Touches a Two-Week Low as Output Trails Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-01-23T09:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/taiwan-dollar-gains-as-data-may-show-pickup-in-factory-output.html
Taiwan ’s dollar touched a two-week
low as data showed factory output grew less than economists
estimated.  Government bonds  were little changed.  Industrial production rose 2.4 percent in December from a
year earlier, following a 5.9 percent increase in November, the
Ministry of Economic Affairs reported. The gain fell short of
all 13 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. The currency erased an
earlier advance on speculation policy makers will seek to curb
appreciation that threatens to hurt exports. The central bank
has intervened on most days in the past nine months to damp the
currency’s strength to protect local manufacturers, according to
traders who asked not to be identified.  “There’s no doubt the weaker than expected IP number
indicates the recovery is still a bumpy one as demand from the
U.S. has yet to fully rebound,” said Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-
based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “We should expect more
volatility in data in the coming months.”  The currency closed little changed at NT$29.092 per dollar
after falling as low as NT$29.12, the weakest level since Jan.
9, according to prices from Taipei Forex Inc. The currency lost
a 0.4 percent gain in the final minute of trade. One-month non-
deliverable forwards fell 0.1 percent to NT$28.973, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  One-month implied volatility in the  Taiwan dollar , a gauge
of expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, was
unchanged at 2.80 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It reached 2.6 percent yesterday, the lowest level
since September 2007.  The yield on the 1.125 percent bonds due September 2022 was
little changed at 1.163 percent, according to Gretai Securities
Market. The  overnight interbank lending  rate was steady at 0.387
percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  