-- Akbank Mandates Banks for Turkey’s First Lira Bond Sale Abroad
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-01-23T11:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/akbank-mandates-banks-for-turkey-s-first-lira-bond-sale-abroad.html
Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the Turkish lender part-
owned by Citigroup Inc., mandated banks to market a sale of
lira-denominated bonds abroad, taking advantage of demand for
lira assets as central bank policies stabilize the currency.  Akbank hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank
AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup and HSBC Holdings Plc for
the sale, it said in a statement to the  Istanbul Stock Exchange 
today. Meetings will take place between January 25-29, according
to a person familiar with the plans, who declined to be named
because the information isn’t public. Akbank applied to  Turkey ’s
market regulators in December for a sale of as much as $1
billion of notes in dollars, foreign currency or liras.  The sale announcement comes as Central Bank Governor Erdem
Basci’s variable rates policy has succeeded in making the
Turkish lira the least volatile among 8 major currencies in
emerging  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s boosted appetite for lira debt and
helped Turkey win its first investment-grade rating in 18 years
when  Fitch Ratings  upgraded the country in November.  “The timing is right for these lira issues after the
recent sovereign upgrade and in expectations of yet another
upgrade,” Ugursel Onder, a fixed-income analyst at Is Invest,
Turkey’s biggest brokerage by trading volume, said by phone
today. “This shows there’s risk appetite for Turkish corporate
debt abroad.”  First Sale  Akbank may issue about 500 million liras ($282 million)
worth of the lira-denominated bonds in its first sale, with
maturities ranging between five and seven years, Onder said.
Akbank could borrow at costs of between 40-50 basis points over
similar sovereign bonds, she said. Turkey’s lira notes due March
2017 traded at 6.3 percent today, while the sovereign bond due
January 2020 yielded 6.4 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Moody’s Investors Service may follow Fitch in giving Turkey
an investment-grade rating this year, according to a report by
Morgan Stanley economist  Tevfik Aksoy  yesterday. Moody’s said
yesterday it will hold a conference call on Turkey on January 28
to discuss topics including the sovereign’s move toward an
investment-grade rating.  Lower Costs  “Turkish banks will definitely get lower funding costs
compared with the deposit rates with these bonds,” Mete Yuksel,
assistant general manager at TEB Invest, a unit of Turkiye
Ekonomi Bankasi AS, which is part-owned by BNP Paribas SA, said
today by phone. “I would expect other major Turkish banks to go
for lira bond issues this year as well.”  The weighted average  interest rate  for three-month deposits
stood at 8.4 percent, according to  central bank data . The
average cost of Turkish corporate debt in dollars was 4.17
percent, compared with the average for emerging market corporate
debt of 4.59 percent, according to JPMorgan CEMBI indexes.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s largest bank by market
value, said on January 11 it plans to sell as much as $3 billion
of bonds in liras and foreign currency.  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS,
Turkey’s largest by assets, will sell 500 million liras to 1
billion liras of notes abroad,  Milliyet  newspaper reported on
January 18, citing the bank’s deputy chief executive officer
Erdal Aral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  