-- Algeria Attack No Outlier as Oil Targeted 3 Times a Week: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-01-23T16:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/algeria-attack-no-outlier-as-oil-targeted-3-times-a-week-energy.html
While the attack in Algeria that
killed at least 38 hostages was the deadliest raid on the oil
industry in five years, it’s far from unprecedented.  From Colombia to Yemen, oil workers have suffered violence
for decades as militants strike an industry seen symbolizing
political and economic power. The bloodiest attack came in 2007
when 72 people died after a secessionist group in Ethiopia
overran a camp run by  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
according to the University of Maryland’s Global Terrorism
Database. Each week about three attacks were made worldwide on
oil employees and installations in 2011, the data show.  “This attack has surely got some attention, but I wouldn’t
say it’s an outlier,” said Gal Luft, co-director of the
Institute for the Analysis of Global Security in Washington.
“If you want oil and gas you have to go to these places. This
is the cost of doing business.”  Oil companies, and the states where they work, tend to
react to attacks by improving security rather than scaling back
operations, said Charles Bird, a former U.K. diplomat who’s now
a fellow at St. Andrews University.  Saudi Arabia  responded to
terrorist threats by establishing a special force of 35,000 to
defend oil installations. Producers use private security
contractors to protect people and plants in dangerous countries.  ‘Remain Committed’  “We have high-quality assets in Algeria, where we’ve been
present for 60 years,” said David Nicholas, a spokesman for  BP
Plc (BP/) , joint operator of the In Amenas plant attacked last week.
“We remain committed to operating there.”  BP said yesterday that four unaccounted for workers may
have died. It has evacuated 14 of the 18 workers who were on the
site when it was attacked.  “In many years of terrorism, Algeria has never seen an
attack of this scope,” said Abdennour Benantar, associate
professor at the University of Paris VIII. “The government will
step up security and oil companies will likely remain. There’s
much money to be made.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Italy’s Eni SA
still operate in Nigeria after years of kidnappings, raids on
oil platforms and pipeline bombings by militants demanding a
greater share of oil wealth. Paris-based  Total SA (FP)  continues to
work in Yemen in the face of regular attacks. BP remained in
Colombia as rebel groups targeted the industry, including a
pipeline explosion that killed 45 people in 1998.  “Companies will still be attracted to places with high
risks because they offer higher returns,”  Chakib Khelil , who
was Algerian oil minister from 1999 to 2010, said in a phone
interview from Washington. “They need to look at what went
wrong, and what was the defect in security and reinforce it.
That’s all you can do.”  Pertamina  PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state-owned oil company, will
proceed with a $1.75 billion bid to buy stakes in three Algerian
 oil fields  from ConocoPhillips, a deal agreed before the
attacks, Ali Mundakir, vice president of corporate
communications, said at a conference in Jakarta yesterday.  Groups linked to al-Qaeda have targeted the oil industry.
In 2004,  Osama bin Laden  declared energy installations a
legitimate target because higher  oil prices  would damage
economies in the U.S. and Europe, according to  Daniel Yergin ’s
“The Quest,” a contemporary history of the  energy industry .  In 2006, Saudi Arabian insurgents tried unsuccessfully to
attack the Abqaiq oil processing plant, which handles 8 percent
of the world’s crude oil production, according to Yergin. That
followed the 2004 killing of 22 foreigners at two oil industry
buildings at Khobar on the  Gulf coast .  North Africa  Last week’s attack was carried out by a group led by a
former leader of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, raising
concern of an Islamist campaign against the industry across
northern Africa. Algeria’s neighbor Libya, where government
control remains flimsy after 2011’s overthrow of Muammar Qadaffi’s regime, is also a major oil and gas producer.  “It’s the strength and severity of this attack that’s
shocking,” said Valerie Marcel, a fellow at London-based think
tank  Chatham House  who’s based in Toronto. “It shows a security
vacuum in the desert. It means that oil facilities in Libya and
elsewhere in Algeria are bigger potential targets than we
thought.”  The figures taken from the Global Terrorism Database
figures include attacks on pipelines, wells and  oil companies .
They exclude attacks on gas stations or government officials
working in the oil ministry.  “It doesn’t mean people are going to invest less, there’s
still a lot of money to be made of out of oil and gas,” said
Bird, a fellow at St. Andrews’s Center for the Study of
Terrorism and Political Violence. “It will mean that costs will
be higher because of problems of providing security.”  Statoil ASA (STL) , who operates In Amenas with BP and the
Algerian state oil and gas company Sonatrach, said it will
remain in the country.  “We neither will nor can let terrorism dictate our
strategy or our choices,” Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund 
said Jan. 21. “We have a responsibility to run our business and
support daily operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  