-- Mali’s Refugees From Northern War Pressure Families
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-01-23T13:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/mali-s-refugees-from-northern-war-pressure-families.html
Abdou Maiga was sent four teenagers
at first, then five more when it became clear that schools in
the rebel-controlled Malian city of Timbuktu weren’t going to
reopen. Two months ago, he convinced his parents to join the
northerners fleeing to the south.  Timbuktu is in control of Islamists, less than two weeks
after the start of French airstrikes on insurgent-held towns in
Mali. That prompted at least 7,500 people to flee their homes,
the United Nations Refugee Agency  said  yesterday. The Malian and
French armies have reclaimed three towns and halted a rebel
advance toward Bamako, the capital. The U.S. is providing France
airlift support and intelligence, the Pentagon said yesterday.  “My relatives arrived in waves,” Maiga said in an
interview in Bamako, swatting away a mosquito as a gaggle of
children watched television in the living room. “In our
culture, you don’t refuse hospitality. It’s simply not done.”  His family are part of a growing refugee crisis, as
thousands have left their homes to seek shelter within Mali and
in neighboring nations including Niger, Mauritania and Burkina
Faso, according to the United Nations. The flood of people is
putting pressure on families in one of the world’s poorest
countries.  Maiga and his wife are feeding members of their extended
family who left the north when rebels overran the area in April.
In Timbuktu, the fighters ransacked clinics, schools and banks
in a bid to impose a strict version of Shariah law, destroying
part of the fabled desert city’s infrastructure.  Medical Treatment  Maiga, who works for a transportation company, spends all
of his 500,000 CFA-franc ($1,010) monthly salary on making sure
his relatives are being fed and going to school. He rented a
separate apartment for his parents after his two-bedroom home
became crowded.  “My father initially refused to leave Timbuktu, but he
couldn’t get the regular medical treatment he needs,” he said.
“I’m also paying school fees for the kids, clothes, food, you
name it.”  An estimated 230,000 people have been displaced within  Mali 
since the crisis began and 150,000 in neighboring countries,
according to the UN. Many have been taken in by relatives, in
keeping with traditions like Maiga’s that homes are always open
to family.  French Airstrikes  “My savings are gone,” said 48-year Abdallah Adiawiakoye,
who took in his brother’s family last year. “I used to take my
two daughters to the zoo on weekends, but that’s not possible
anymore. I’ve got too many mouths to feed. I stopped planning
for the future. We’re all living hand to mouth.”  Internal refugees have devised systems to get money back
home, including an informal cash-transfer network among traders,
Maiga said. That helps to keep power turned on from 5 p.m to 11
p.m., he said.  Mali ranks 175th out of 187 nations on the UN Human
Development Index, which measures indicators including literacy,
income and gender equality. Its $10.6 billion economy contracted
4.5 percent last year as the occupation of the north disrupted
agricultural output and led to a virtual collapse of tourism as
Islamists expanded their control to popular sites in the
historic Dogon country, according to the International Monetary
Fund.  The economy is forecast to expand 3 percent in 2013, partly
because gold mining hasn’t been affected by the conflict, the
IMF said on Nov. 14. Mali vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-
largest producer of the metal, with  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and
 Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  among the companies operating in the
country.  Aid Agencies  The crisis in Mali may spill over into North and West
Africa if the situation isn’t contained and terrorist groups are
profiting from crime in the north, Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan said at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland
today.  Humanitarian groups are struggling to meet the basic needs
of Malian refugees, according to U.K.-based Oxfam. Local non-
governmental organizations are planning to distribute food
supplies to displaced people in Bamako, Remi Dourlot, public
information officer of the UN Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs, said by phone from the city on Jan. 21.  “Aid agencies estimated at the beginning of the month that
they need $370 million for Mali this year,” he said. “The call
to donors went out before the French military campaign began. So
far, we have received $2.8 million.”  Even with the efforts he made to help his family,
Adiawiakoye said he still feels that he’s failed. “I tried to
convince a sister in Timbuktu to send me her 14-year-old son,
who was the best of his class. She hesitated because he was her
favorite son,” he said.  The boy died of malaria about a month after the Islamists
occupied the city, Adiawiakoye said. With clinics shut, the
child was unable to access health care and if he had been in
Bamako, he might have been saved, according to Adiawiakoye. “I
still feel sad about it. I can’t shake the thought that I didn’t
try hard enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Bamako at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  