-- Allergan Will Buy Map Pharmaceuticals for $958 Million
-- B y   A n d r e w   P o l l a c k
-- 2013-01-23T21:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/allergan-to-buy-map-pharmaceuticals-for-958-million.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN) , the maker of the
wrinkle filler Botox, agreed to buy  Map Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MAPP)  in
a deal valued at $958 million to gain an experimental inhalable
migraine treatment.  Allergan will pay Map investors $25 a share, a 60 percent
premium over yesterday’s closing price in  New York , the
companies said in a statement. The boards of both companies
unanimously approved the deal, which is expected to close late
in the first quarter or in the second quarter.  Allergan has targeted sales growth in specialty
pharmaceuticals and skin care as it considers divesting its
weight-loss unit, including the Lap-Band device, Chief Executive
Officer David Pyott has said. The  Irvine , California-based
company has announced  five acquisitions  in the past two years,
including a $350 million deal in November for a unit of
SkinMedica Inc.  Map, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is seeking U.S.
regulatory approval of Levadex, an inhaled form of a 60-year-old
migraine drug, for patients who have acute attacks, defined as
fewer than 15 a month. Allergan’s Botox is approved as a
treatment for chronic migraine patients, those who suffer
attacks more than 15 days a month. The companies agreed in
January 2011 to co-promote Levadex should it gain approval.  “Levadex is about as perfect as one can imagine for a
complementary product,” Pyott said today on a  conference call .
“We’re really excited by the Levadex opportunity, and forecast
that peak sales will be approximately $500 million.”  Regulatory Schedule  “We do believe that the acquisition fits well with
Allergan’s neurology franchise as the company already has a
sales force in place to support Botox’s neurologic
indications,” said Shibani Malhotra, an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets , in a note to clients.  Map’s drug was rejected last March by the  Food and Drug
Administration  because of manufacturing issues, Chief Executive
Officer Tim Nelson said then. The company has resubmitted its
application for approval and the FDA has scheduled a decision by
April 15, the companies said in the statement.  Allergan said it expects the deal will reduce 2013 earnings
by 7 cents a share and, should the migraine drug gain marketing
approval, add to earnings by the second half of 2014.  Allergan fell 1 percent to $104.65 at the close in New
York. The shares have  increased  17 percent in the past 12
months. Map rose 59 percent to $24.71.  Migraine Sufferers  More than 36 million Americans suffer from  migraines , a
neurological condition that triggers headaches, dizziness,
nausea and sensitivity to sound and light. The global market for
treatments should increase 38 percent to $4.4 billion from $3.2
billion in 2013, according to Burlington, Massachusetts-based
Decision Resources. If approved, Levadex may be worth $1 billion
a year by 2020, the firm said.  “We are pleased that we and Allergan share similar values
and a common vision in neuroscience that make for a strong
cultural and scientific fit between our companies,” Nelson said
in the statement. “We believe this acquisition by our partner
Allergan will increase the potential for our product candidates
to make a meaningful difference for patients we have worked so
hard to serve.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. acted as financial adviser to
Allergan. Centerview Partners LLC was Map’s financial adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Pollack in  San Francisco  at 
 apollack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  