-- Amazon Gives Users Musical Time Capsule: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-01-23T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/amazon-gives-users-musical-time-capsule-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Now, just when did I buy Carole King’s “Tapestry”?  Not when the iconic album came out on vinyl in the ’70s. If
I wanted to hear it back then, I just had to stroll down the
hall of my college dorm, since every other room was playing it.  But at some point, I did purchase it on compact disc from
 Amazon.com. (AMZN)  Though I never got around to copying the tracks to
my digital music collection, and the disc is long-lost, I can
now listen to it anytime I want thanks to a new Amazon service
called AutoRip.  The idea behind AutoRip is simple. Buy an eligible CD from
Amazon and get access to the tracks in digital form for free.
Forget having to wait even the two days for Amazon Prime
delivery of the disc: The digital tracks are available as soon
as you click the “Purchase” button. Talk about instant
gratification.  Amazon gives you the choice of either streaming a track
from the cloud or downloading it to save a local copy. Recent
releases by Adele, Mumford & Sons and Carrie Underwood are among
those that now include digital access, as is the movie cast
recording of “ Les Miserables .”  Real Treat  The real treat, though, is that you effortlessly gain MP3
versions of music dating back to 1998, when Amazon first began
selling CDs. That, of course, was three years before  Apple (AAPL) 
released the first iPod, which revolutionized how we listen to
music, and five years before its iTunes Music Store created a
legal, mass marketplace for digital tracks.  You access your  AutoRip  songs via Amazon’s Cloud Player
service and software, which is built into the company’s Kindle
Fire tablets and is available as a free app for iPods and
iPhones and for devices running  Google (GOOG) ’s Android software.  You can also play the songs through the web browser on any
Windows PC or Mac, or via Internet-connected  Samsung (005930)  TVs, Roku’s
streaming-media set-top box and the Sonos multi-room music
system.  Logging into  AutoRip  with my Amazon username and password
was like opening a musical time capsule. There were 148 tracks
in the vault, many of which I’d never bothered to rip -- either
out of laziness or to save space back in the days when storage
wasn’t as cheap and generous as it is now.  Vintage Stones  Besides Ms. King, AutoRip gave me unexpected digital access
to some vintage Rolling Stones tracks,  Green Day ’s “21st
Century Breakdown” and a little Jason Mraz, among others.  I can also now listen to 1999’s “Europop,” from the
Italian dance band Eiffel 65, which I apparently purchased on CD
for my then-grade-school-aged daughter. I’m told the track
“Blue (Da Ba Dee)” was ubiquitous toward the end of the
Clinton administration, though you couldn’t prove it by me.  Although Amazon really, really wants you to use its
software rather than Apple’s or someone else’s to play your
tracks, you can incorporate them into an existing iTunes
library. In my case, I downloaded Amazon’s free MP3 installer to
my Mac, then selected the AutoRip tracks to be saved to the
computer.  For some reason, the auto-import function on the Mac
failed, so I had to open the Mac’s Finder, locate the files, and
manually add them to iTunes. The process was smoother on a
Windows PC, where the songs were automatically added to iTunes.  Holes  There are a number of caveats about the AutoRip service.
For one thing, so far it’s only available to U.S. customers. In
addition, only about 50,000 of the vast number of albums in
Amazon’s catalogue are included, though the company says it will
be adding more content -- both past and present-day.  What’s there so far skews heavily toward popular music. So
my 2001 purchase of Vivaldi string concertos isn’t included. Nor
is my 2003 copy of “Abbey Road.” (iTunes still has the
exclusive franchise on the Beatles.)  But given that I never expected to get digital versions of
those CDs in the first place, it seems a little churlish to
gripe. AutoRip is an unexpected gift from Amazon to its
customers, not to mention a potentially potent weapon in its
struggle with Apple and Google to dominate the delivery of
digital content to tablets, phones and other devices.  Meanwhile, I’m already imagining what it would be like to
have an AutoRip service for books I’ve purchased from Amazon
over the years. Publishers, are you listening?  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 