-- Ambow Slumps as Data Clouds Economy View: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-23T22:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/ambow-slumps-as-data-clouds-economy-view-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell in New York
for the first time in four days, led by consumer stocks, as data
showing a leading index rose less last month than in November
undermined optimism over the economic recovery.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. retreated from a one-week high to
drop 0.5 percent to 101.24 yesterday.  Ambow Education Holding
Ltd. (AMBO)  sank to a record low, while hotel chain  China Lodging Group
Ltd. (HTHT)  slid 2.5 percent. Oil refiner  China Petroleum and Chemical
Corp.  traded at the first discount in two weeks to its Hong Kong
stock, while  Bona Film Group Ltd. (BONA)  lost the most in a month.  E-
House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  jumped for a second day.  The China-US measure followed the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises (HSCEI)  Index lower after the New York-based Conference
Board’s leading gauge for China’s economy rose 0.4 percent in
December, from a 1.1 percent climb the previous month. A reading
of  10-day volatility  on the index of Chinese stocks listed in
New York fell to 13.9, the lowest level this year.  “In terms of  China , flows are still very neutral for
November and December, so I wouldn’t say investors are all in,”
Audrey Kaplan, lead manager of the $605 million Federated
InterContinental Fund at Federated Global Investment Management
Corp., said by phone in New York yesterday. “Maybe investors
are waiting on more signs of economic growth.”  ETF Retreats  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., dropped 0.5 percent to $41.53,
after rising the previous three days. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 0.1 percent to a five-year high of 1,494.81, as
the House voted to temporarily suspend the federal borrowing
limit amid better-than-forecast earnings.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises measure declined 0.2
percent to 12,166.70, falling from the highest level since
August 2011. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese
shares added 0.2 percent to 2,320.91.  “A decline in real estate activity, a drop in new export
orders, and weak  consumer confidence  accounted for the slowing,
while credit extension and improved conditions in the
manufacturing supply chain offered only little support,” Andrew Polk, an economist with the Conference Board in Beijing, said in
a statement yesterday.  China Petroleum, Asia’s largest oil refiner, known as
Sinopec, sank 1.3 percent to $118.71 in New York in its first
drop in four days. Sinopec’s American depositary receipts traded
0.3 percent below its Hong Kong stock, the first discount since
Jan. 8. Each ADR is equal to 100 underlying shares in the
Beijing-based company.  Sinopec’s Output  Sinopec said its 2012 crude oil output rose 2 percent from
a year earlier to 328.3 million barrels and oil processing
increased 1.8 percent to 221.3 million tons, according to a
statement to the  Shanghai  Stock Exchange yesterday. The growth
in oil-processing volume slowed from 2.7 percent in 2011, while
the increase in crude output quickened from 0.4 percent,
according to the company’s history data.  The International Monetary Fund cut its global growth
predictions yesterday while maintaining its forecast for China,
seen growing 8.2 percent this year and 8.5 percent in 2014.
China’s economic risks have shifted back to growing too quickly
as new regional-government officials try to boost development,
Fan Gang, a former China central bank adviser said in an
interview yesterday in Davos, Switzerland.  Ctrip’s Results  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , China’s biggest online travel
agency, slumped for a second day, losing 1.3 percent to a two-
week low of $23.59.  The Shanghai-based company will probably report on Jan. 31
that fourth-quarter net income fell 56 percent from a year
earlier, following 40 percent decline in the third quarter,
according to the average projection of seven analysts compiled
by Bloomberg.  Ambow, a private education company based in Beijing,
tumbled 3.9 percent to a record $1.98. Its ADRs have lost 12
percent this year after falling 68 percent in 2012.  Ambow reported in July a net loss for the three months
through March of $12.7 million, compared with net income of $2
million a year earlier. The company hasn’t published financial
results since. An e-mail on Jan. 22 to Dan Phillips, the
chairman of Ambow’s audit committee, asking about the schedule
of the company’s financial reports, wasn’t returned. Ambow’s
Beijing-based media manager Mandy Li didn’t respond to e-mails
requesting comment on the company’s earnings.  TAL Slides  TAL Education Group (XRS) , a tutoring services provider which
gave on Jan. 22 a slower-than-estimated sales forecast for the
three months through February, sank 2.7 percent on its fourth
losing day to $8.59, the lowest level since Dec. 6. Deutsche
Bank AG yesterday cut its price estimate for TAL to $13.8 from
$15.6, maintaining a buy rating on the shares.  China Lodging, the Shanghai-based operator of budget
hotels, dropped 2.5 percent to a one-week low of $17.9, paring
its gain this year to 5 percent. ADRs of Beijing-based Bona Film
tumbled 5.7 percent, the steepest loss in a month, to $5.  E-House, a real estate brokerage based in Shanghai,
advanced 4.1 percent to a four-month high of $5.33, rising the
most among gainers on the China-US gauge.  Trading volume  on its
ADRs was 1.8 times the daily average over the past three months,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a
basket of companies that gained U.S. listings after buying firms
that already trade, sank 1 percent to 79.18, retreating from the
highest price in more than eight months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  