-- American Century Tops Target-Date Funds: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/american-century-tops-target-date-funds-riskless-return.html
Investors seeking peace of mind from
target-date funds for their retirement planning may find the
biggest risk lies in choosing the  money manager .  American Century  Investments’ group of target-date funds,
which have a lighter allocation to stocks relative to peers, had
the best performance among large providers after adjusting for
price swings in the three years ended Dec. 31, according to the
BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. The firm’s funds topped five
of eight categories grouped by retirement date, or vintage.
 AllianceBernstein LP (AB) ’s more-aggressive funds were last in all
but one group.  Target-date funds are designed to reduce the level of risk
as the investor gets closer to a chosen retirement date. While
as a group the funds have succeeded in becoming more
conservative as clients age, specific fund families such as
American Century and AllianceBernstein go about investing in
very different ways, meaning the manager selection can have a
greater impact on risk-adjusted performance than the vintage.  “Investors should assume these funds are not created
equally,” Josh Charlson, a senior fund analyst in  Chicago  at
research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a telephone interview.
“There are a lot of differences in their  asset allocation ,
especially around the point of retirement.”  The Riskless Return ranking included funds from the 20
largest target-date providers linked to retirement years ranging
from 2015 to 2050. Consistent with holding riskier assets,
average volatility of the funds increased with the target date,
as did returns before adjusting for price swings. The only
exception was the vintage of 2050, where total returns on
average were lower than for funds targeting a 2045 retirement.  Biggest Providers  Target-date vehicles, multiasset mutual funds that trim
stocks and increase fixed income at a preset rate as a holder
ages, have almost tripled in five years to $460 billion in U.S.
assets, according to the  Investment Company Institute . They
promise a no-fuss way to keep savings appropriately invested for
decades. The biggest providers include Boston-based  Fidelity
Investments  and  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group
Inc.  Investors rewarded  Kansas City , Missouri-based American
Century’s Livestrong series with $3.2 billion in target-date
deposits in the past three years, lifting assets to $6.3 billion
as of the end of November, according to Morningstar. That’s the
fourth-highest growth rate among large providers based on assets
at the start of the period. New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
had the strongest rate of growth and Fidelity had the most
assets as of Nov. 30, with $155 billion.  Market ‘Anomaly’  AllianceBernstein, based in  New York , lost $953 million to
net withdrawals from its target-date series in that time, more
than any other firm.  Risk and return patterns in the past three years represent
an “anomaly” as stocks outperformed bonds by a relatively
modest margin in historical terms, Christopher Nikolich, head of
research for AllianceBernstein’s defined-contribution team, said
in an interview. Three years isn’t enough time to fairly measure
performance, he said.  “We design these funds for participants in what will be a
very long  investing cycle  -- 20 or 30 years,” Nikolich said.
“What’s going to drive success will be their wealth
accumulation over that period, not a short-term risk-adjusted
return measure.”  Target-date funds first appeared in 1993, and didn’t breach
$100 billion in assets until 2006. AllianceBernstein opened its
first target-date funds in 2005.  Conservative Mix  Measuring performance over five years would have eliminated
45 funds opened between Jan. 1, 2008, and Dec. 31, 2009, or more
than a quarter of those examined in the rankings.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, and gives a measure of performance per
unit of risk. Higher volatility means the price of an asset can
swing dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential
for unexpected losses.  American Century’s risk-adjusted returns ranged from 2.7
percent for its Livestrong 2015 fund to 1.9 percent for the 2050
version.  American Century’s funds keep a more conservative mix of
assets than rivals for most of their lives, as measured by
allocation to stocks,  Richard Weiss , senior portfolio manager at
the firm, said in an interview. Holding less in stocks makes a
fund less volatile.  Equity Allocations  The MSCI ACWI Index of global stocks was 3.6 times as
volatile as the Barclays Global Aggregate Bond Index over the
past three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  American Century’s  2050 fund  had 85 percent in equities,
compared with 95 percent for AllianceBernstein and an industry
average of 91 percent, according to a Sept. 30 report from
Morningstar. The firm’s  2015 fund  had 50 percent in stocks,
versus 72 percent for AllianceBernstein and 52 percent for the
industry.  American Century’s equity allocation doesn’t drop lower
than 45 percent, a level it reaches within about two years after
the target date. Many competitors reduce the number of stocks
over a period of 10 years or longer past the point clients enter
retirement.  “We have a relatively flat glide path and that’s by
design,” Weiss said, using the industry’s term for the
declining level of equities over the life of a fund.  Glide Path  “The overall effect of American Century’s approach is one
of moderation, in line with management’s goal of reducing the
risk of shocks,” Charlson wrote in Morningstar’s report.  A flatter glide path reduces an investor’s reliance on the
favorable timing of stock-market gains.  “If you’re always 50-50 stocks and bonds, you don’t care
whether the bull market is early or late,” Weiss said. “If you
go from 100-0 to 0-100, you really need the bull markets up
front.”  Weiss cautioned against using only equity allocation as a
proxy for risk. Over time, his funds also shift their stock
investments out of companies expected to increase profits and
into those whose shares are seen as undervalued. Emerging-market
stocks, high-yield bonds and real estate investment trusts also
give way to domestic stocks, investment-grade bonds and
inflation-protected Treasuries.  That, he said, has helped the Livestrong series curb
volatility across vintages and garner above-average returns.  Lowest Volatility  Cumulative total returns for the firm’s funds over the past
three years ranged from 26 percent for the 2015 fund to 31
percent for the 2050 version. Average returns in those vintages
were 24 percent and 27 percent, respectively, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. American Century was among the three
lowest funds for volatility in all target years.  MSCI’s global stock index returned 23 percent over the
period, and the Barclays Global Aggregate Bond index returned 16
percent, all before adjusting for volatility.  American Century contributes to Livestrong Foundation, the
nonprofit organization founded by  Lance Armstrong , and has an
agreement in place for the use of its name. American Century,
which never sponsored Armstrong directly, said in August it
would continue its connection to and support of the foundation,
which raises money to fight cancer. Armstrong had his seven Tour
de France cycling championships stripped last year for using
performance-enhancing drugs. American Century’s founder, Jim Stowers, and his wife, Virginia, are both cancer survivors.  Safest Fund  American Century’s returns also benefit from low fees. The
funds carry an annual expense ratio of 0.67 percent for shares
investors can buy through a 401(k) retirement plan, compared
with the industry’s 0.79 percent average, according to
Morningstar. AllianceBernstein’s funds had an average annual
expense ratio of 0.96 percent for similar shares.  American Century’s safest fund, its 2015 vintage, had a
higher total return than even the riskiest funds offered by four
competitors in the 2050 vintage, including those from
AllianceBernstein and Fidelity.  AllianceBernstein, whose funds held above-average stock
allocations in every vintage, had the lowest total returns over
three years, except among the 2015 group, where Massachusetts
Mutual Life Insurance Co.’s fund trailed. Returns of
AllianceBernstein’s funds ranged from 18 percent to 21 percent,
with volatility above par in each target year.  The funds did better in 2009, as the global economy
rebounded. AllianceBernstein Retirement Strategy 2015 surged 31
percent that year, before adjusting for price swings, while
Livestrong 2015 returned 18 percent.  The American Century funds are likely to look good in the
long haul even if they trail peers in equity bull markets, said
Morningstar’s Charlson.  “It’s a well-designed series that’s done well in different
types of markets,” he said. “They might lag in a very frothy
market when lower-rated bonds and lower-quality stocks are doing
well, but that wouldn’t affect them terribly on a risk-adjusted
basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  