-- Amgen Tops Profit Estimates on Sales of Cancer Drugs
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-01-23T22:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/amgen-tops-profit-estimates-on-sales-of-cancer-drugs.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat
analyst estimates as sales of arthritis and bone drugs rose.  Net income declined 16 percent to $788 million, or $1.01 a
share, from $934 million, or $1.08 a share, a year earlier, on
higher expenses for late-stage clinical trials and drug
promotion, the  Thousand Oaks , California-based company said
today in a statement. Earnings, excluding some items, of $1.40 a
share topped by 1 cent the average of 10 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 11 percent to $4.42 billion.  Amgen is looking for new products and  acquisitions  as its
former core anemia business declines. Last month, the company
agreed to buy DeCode Genetics Inc., a genetics research company,
for $415 million. Amgen acquired Micromet Inc. last year for
$1.16 billion to add an experimental leukemia drug, signed a
development deal with London-based AstraZeneca Plc and boosted
its cancer-market presence with Xgeva, a bone drug that reduces
fractures.  “We enter 2013 with good momentum, a broad late-stage
pipeline and a continued focus on building our business
internationally,” Amgen Chief Executive Officer Robert Bradway
said in the statement.  Amgen declined less than 1 percent to $83.07 at the close
in  New York  before earnings were announced. The company’s shares
have dropped 7.9 percent since Dec. 12 when they reached their
highest value ever at $90.17. The stock gained 34 percent in
2012, it’s  best  annual increase since 1999, as investors
rewarded the company for its buyback program, dividend and sales
increase.  Earnings Forecast  Amgen  forecast  2013 earnings, excluding some items, from
$6.85 to $7.15 a share. Analysts had expected $7 a share, the
average of 26 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Last year “was a fantastic year of execution and out-
performance, they met or beat estimates every quarter and raised
guidance multiple times,”  Michael Yee , an RBC Capital Markets
analyst in  San Francisco , said in an interview. “On a relative
basis, it’s going to be a less exciting year.”  Sales of Xgeva, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to reduce fractures in cancer patients in
November 2010, and Prolia, used to treat osteoporosis in
menopausal women, increased 72 percent to $369 million in the
quarter and reached $1.22 billion in 2012, meeting analyst
estimates.  Enbrel Sales  Sales of Amgen’s best-seller Enbrel, used to treat
rheumatoid arthritis, gained 23 percent to $1.16 billion in the
quarter. Analysts had estimated $1.08 billion.  Amgen has two late-stage drugs in development that may add
to sales if approved, potentially in 2015. One, a heart
medication called AMG-145, targets cholesterol-regulating gene
PCSK9 in the liver. The other therapy, romosozumab, aims to grow
bone for patients with osteoporosis.  The company is focusing on the potential of the
experimental treatments to help offset declining revenue from
its anemia drugs Aranesp and Epogen. Sales of Aranesp fell 9.1
percent to $489 million, and Epogen, an older version, declined
1.4 percent to $479 million in the fourth quarter.  Amgen is almost finished with its $10 billion share
repurchase plan, begun in 2010, and said last month it would buy
back an additional $2 billion and boost its dividend 31 percent
to 47 cents. The company has repurchased about 20 percent of its
outstanding shares since 2011, Bradway said earlier this month
during a presentation at the annual health-care conference
sponsored by JPMorgan Chase & Co. in San Francisco.  Sensipar Protection  Sales of Sensipar, a treatment for end-stage renal disease,
rose 19 percent to $256 million. The drug is among several that
won’t be included in a U.S. government plan to trim costs for
dialysis patients until after 2016.  The provision protecting the drug from potential cuts was
included in the tax deal passed by Congress and signed by
President  Barack Obama  on Jan. 2. It was backed by Amgen to give
the company and U.S. health officials time to address patient
access and care issues, said Ashleigh Koss, a company
spokeswoman. The inclusion of the drug pricing benefit in the
tax bill has drawn criticism.  “The special exception is the sort of thing that saps
health-care reform of the moral legitimacy its proponents like
to wrap around it,”  Erik Gordon , a professor at the  University
of Michigan ’s Ross School of Business, wrote in an e-mail. “At
the end of the day, it works like any federal regulation that
can hurt a company’s profits: it’s an invitation for political
contributions in return for relief.”  U.S. Representative  Peter Welch , a Democrat from  Vermont ,
introduced legislation to repeal the provision, which he said is
worth $500 million.  “This 11th-hour, backroom deal confirms the American
public’s worst suspicions of how Congress operates,” Welch said
today in a  statement .  “As the nation’s economy teetered on the
edge of a congressional-created fiscal cliff, lobbyists for a
private, for-profit company seized an opportunity to feed at the
public trough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  