-- Man. United Fights Arsenal for Cesar, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-01-23T11:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/man-united-fights-arsenal-for-cesar-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  Cesar’s Future  Manchester United  and Arsenal are eyeing Queens Park
Rangers’ Julio Cesar to solve their goalkeeping issues,  the Sun
said.   The clubs have been considering the 33-year-old Brazilian,
who won the  Champions League  with  Inter Milan , to compete with
their younger players, the newspaper said.  United’s David de Gea and Arsenal’s Wojciech Szczesny have
struggled this year, and the managers are looking to bring in an
experienced player, the newspaper said.  QPR, which is last place in the league, need to sell either
Cesar or fellow goalkeeper  Robert Green  to cut its wage bill,
although it will probably keep Cesar because of his strong play
this year, the Sun said.  Coutinho Close?  Liverpool is close to signing Inter Milan midfielder
Philippe Coutinho despite the Brazilian’s comments that he wants
to stay to fight for a place in the Italian team,  the Guardian
said.   Although Inter rejected a bid of 8 million pounds ($12.7
million) last week, Liverpool is confident the team will accept
an increased offer for the 20-year-old, the newspaper said.  Marin Move?  Marko Marin, who has started just once since joining
Chelsea this season, may be loaned to  CSKA Moscow , the  Daily
Express  said.  The Russian team’s chairman has contacted Chelsea’s
billionaire Roman Abramovich to suggest a switch to allow the
German player more game time, the newspaper said.  Zaha Questions  Manchester United’s 15 million-pound move for Crystal
Palace winger Wilfried Zaha will need the approval of Britain’s
Football League because of the Premier League leader’s plan to
loan him back to his current club,  the Daily Mirror said .  The governing body wants to look at the proposal because of
tightening up of rules that cover such deals, the newspaper
said. United manager  Alex Ferguson  would be happy to keep the
player, although Palace boss Steve Parish told fans that Zaha
would stay the entire season, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  