-- Lance Armstrong Sued for Peddling ‘Fiction’ as Memoir
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/lance-armstrong-sued-for-publishing-fiction-as-autobiography.html
Lance Armstrong , who admitted he
used performance-enhancing drugs to win a record seven  Tour de
France  titles, was sued by two California book buyers over
claims he sold fiction as autobiography.  Rob Stutzman, a former communications adviser for  Arnold Schwarzenegger , said in a complaint filed Jan. 22 in federal
court in Sacramento that he wouldn’t have bought “It’s Not
About the Bike: My Journey Back to Life” had he known the truth
about Armstrong’s misconduct and involvement with doping.  In the 2000 book and the 2003 follow-up, “Every Second
Counts,” Armstrong denied ever having used banned substances
and attributed his successes to “superior physical training,
proper diet and an extraordinary spirit and drive to succeed,”
Stutzman and co-plaintiff Jonathan Wheeler, a chef, said in the
complaint.  The 41-year-old Armstrong, whose survival from testicular
cancer helped create the largest athlete-founded charity in the
U.S., was banned from competing in Olympic-level sports for life
in October after the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency published a report
that said it found proof he engaged in serial cheating though
the use, administration and trafficking of testosterone,
erythropoietin and blood transfusions.  Armstrong admitted to cheating in an interview with  Oprah Winfrey  broadcast last week.  Books ‘Exposed’  “Both books have now been exposed as frauds,” the
plaintiffs said. “Armstrong now admits that without his use of
banned performance enhancing drugs beginning in the mid-1990’s,
he would not have won and continued to win cycling races,
including seven consecutive Tour de France races.”  Mark Fabiani , a spokesman for Armstrong, had no immediate
comment on the lawsuit.  Stutzman met Armstrong privately in 2005 and told him
“It’s Not About the Bike” was inspiring and that he had
recommended the book to friends who were fighting cancer,
according to the complaint.  The two plaintiffs seek to represent other California
buyers of Armstrong’s books to recover unspecified damages
against Armstrong and Penguin Group (USA) Inc., the publisher of
“It’s Not About the Bike,” and against  Random House  Inc., the
publisher of “Every Second Counts.”  They accuse Armstrong and the publishers of marketing the
books as “true and honest” works of nonfiction and allege they
violated California laws against unfair competition and false
advertising, among other allegations.  Stuart Applebaum, a spokesman for Random House in  New York ,
declined to comment on the allegations. Erica Glass, a Penguin
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a call to her office.  The case is Stutzman v. Armstrong, 13-00116, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  