-- Handelsbanken Proposes Industrivaerden’s Chief as New Chairman
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-01-23T08:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/handelsbanken-proposes-industrivaerden-s-chief-as-new-chairman.html
Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Sweden ’s
second-largest bank, nominated Industrivaerden AB Chief
Executive Officer Anders Nyren as its new chairman, putting the
head of one of its largest shareholders in the post.  Nyren, 58, will replace Hans Larsson, who declined to be
re-elected after being chairman since 2008 and serving on the
board since 1990, Stockholm-based Handelsbanken said in a
statement today. The company’s shareholders will vote on the
proposal, which also includes lowering the number of board
members to 11 from 12, at the annual meeting on March 20.  Nyren is also the chairman of  Sandvik AB (SAND)  and sits on the
boards of  Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAA) , steelmaker SSAB, Swedish
truckmaker  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and Ericsson AB, the world’s largest maker
of mobile-phone networks. As a result of being nominated to
become Handelsbanken’s chairman, Nyren said today he has
informed the nomination committees of Ericsson and SSAB that he
doesn’t plan to stand for re-election to their boards.  “Taking over as chairman from Hans Larsson, who has
decided not to stand for re-election, is a significant
commitment,” Nyren said in the statement. Larsson “has been a
very skilled chairman” who “for more than 40 years has made
successful contributions in various positions in the Swedish
business community.”  Industrivaerden  holds 10.3 percent of the voting rights of
Handelsbanken, making it the second-largest shareholder after
Oktogonen, Handelsbanken’s employee profit-sharing foundation.  Handelsbanken’s change of chairman follows management
changes at its Swedish rivals.  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , the largest lender
in the Baltics, on Jan. 16 nominated Deputy Chairman Anders Sundstroem to replace Lars Idermark as chairman of the bank’s
board.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s largest lender, said
on the same date that it appointed Torsten Hagen Joergensen as
its new chief financial officer to replace Fredrik Rystedt, who
left the Swedish lender after more than four years in the post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  