-- Andrew Solomon Charms Katie Couric With Special Kids Epic
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2013-01-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/andrew-solomon-charms-katie-couric-with-special-kids-epic.html
Andrew Solomon’s “ Far From the
Tree ” may have the most intriguing table of contents ever.  “Deaf,” “Dwarfs,” “Down Syndrome,” “Autism,”
“Schizophrenia,” “Prodigies” and “Transgender” are some of
the blunt chapter titles.  Solomon spent more than 10 years interviewing parents of
children who were different from them in a significant respect.
He investigates questions such as how hearing parents can raise
a deaf child to be fluent in both sign language and written
English and whether it’s right to give hormone blockers to a
pre-teen who wants a sex change.  The book is a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle
Award in non-fiction, which will be announced next month.  Solomon  spoke with members of the Muse team recently in
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Muchnick: Your book is a bestseller and Katie Couric
devoted a whole hour to it on TV. Did you think it would be such
a hit?  Solomon: It’s a thousand pages long and deals with disabled
children. A few months ago I thought it might never sell a copy,
so I was surprised.  I’d hoped that it would reach a larger audience, and I
strongly believe that the message of the book is applicable to
all parents, not just the parents of children with special
needs.  Extreme Parenting  It’s like the way we test children’s pajamas by putting
them in an inferno so they won’t catch fire when someone reaches
across the stove. I think that in looking at these more extreme
kinds of difference, it’s really a way of looking at difference
altogether, which is part of the experience every parent has
with their child.  Every parent looks at their child sometimes and thinks
“Where did you come from? Why are you like that?”  Muchnick: Were some of the families unhappy to be lumped
with the others?  Solomon: I thought it was a sign that I was on to something
good that all of them objected to being lumped with the others.  The people with autism said, “Some of us are incredibly
brilliant; how can you put us with Down syndrome people?” The
people who committed crimes said, “OK, but we’re not weird like
the transgender people.” And the prodigies couldn’t understand
what they were doing in the middle of this whole thing at all.  Book Party  But as I talked to them they began to see the
commonalities. I invited a lot of  people in the book  to the book
party, and I got an e-mail a few days later saying that the
father of an autistic child, a dwarf and a woman with
schizophrenia had all talked at the party and were going out to
have dinner together. I thought OK, there it is in micro. This
is what we’re trying to achieve.  Muchnick: Did you find yourself getting very involved with
the people you were interviewing?  Solomon: It could be very emotionally draining, but I set
out to write about people I admire rather than people who seemed
obviously flawed and not coping well.  There are plenty of parents of children with special needs
and challenges who abandon and neglect them, but that isn’t the
topic of the book.  So I ended up liking most of them -- not all of them, but
most -- and I wanted to make sure they didn’t feel exploited.
And so I tried to remain present in their lives as far as they
wanted me to, but at the same time to set some boundaries just
because of time.  There were some interviews in the book that I did and I
came home and fell asleep -- the next day I just felt paralyzed.
It had been so intense and emotional.  Musical Prodigies  Muchnick: What are the special issues of the prodigy?  Solomon: In the same way that it’s very difficult to live
in the world if you have the mind of a small child in the body
of an adult, it’s very difficult to live in the world if you
have the mind of an adult in the body of a small child.  The problem with prodigies is asynchrony: They’re either
with their intellectual peers who are 20 years older than they
are and not very interested in hanging out with a little kid, or
they’re with their age peers who have absolutely not the
slightest idea what they’re talking about.  Muchnick: Can you talk about how you found your voice for
this book?  Personal Stories  Solomon: I wanted to bring together personal stories
because I think the statistics in these areas, while they sound
very scientific and reliable, actually don’t tell you very much.
I think people’s lives are lived through narrative and it was by
finding other people’s narratives that I was able to illuminate
these points.  And then I had to do all this endless research and become
an expert in problems with the juvenile justice system, the
genetics of autism and the autism rights movement, the question
of musical genius.  They’re very diffuse topics and that’s part of why it took
so long. Various people said to me, “You can do just a book on
one of these things or a couple of these things,” but I felt --
well, I hope -- I had insights in each area.  And I feel the primary insight was the synthetic one that
said all of these apparently diffuse experiences really fit
together, and the way we deal with them is a thermometer for how
we’re dealing with the diversity of the world.  “Far From the Tree” is published by Scribner in the U.S.
and will be published in the U.K. on Feb. 7 by Chatto & Windus
(962 pages, $37.50, 30 pounds). To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Katya Kazakina  on art and  Ryan
Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 