-- Manti Te’o Joins Notre Dame’s Long Tradition of Hooey
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-01-23T23:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/manti-te-o-joins-notre-dame-s-long-tradition-of-hooey.html
Whatever else Manti Te’o manages to
accomplish in  his interview  with  Katie Couric , the humiliated
Notre Dame linebacker will at least be proving Karl Marx right:
All historical events really do occur twice, first as tragedy,
then as farce.  Last year, we watched  a mythic  college football program --
 Joe Paterno ’s Penn State -- unravel in a horrific child-sex-
abuse scandal. Now we’re watching another unravel in a screwball
comedy that could have been scripted by Mel Brooks.  As singularly ridiculous as the  Te’o story  may seem -- that
his incredible season was inspired by the phony death of an
imaginary woman -- the only real difference between it and the
rest of the horse-pucky generated in  South Bend ,  Indiana , is
that his heartwarming story of triumph over tragedy was exposed
more or less in real time, before it had a chance to set as
myth.  As lore has it, an obscure Fighting Irish team
revolutionized college football in 1913 by using the forward
pass to beat Army. In reality, as Murray Sperber details in  his
book  “Shake Down the Thunder,”  Notre Dame  was already a well-
known football school at that point, and the forward pass didn’t
catch on until many years later, not even in South Bend.  ‘Four Horsemen’  Sports myths don’t create themselves. They feed off the
bloated copy of rapturous sportswriters, and Notre Dame’s were
nourished by the very best of the very worst. Before Pete
Thamel, the author of  Sports Illustrated ’s now-infamous Oct. 1
 cover story  on Te’o, there was the great, purple-prosed monster
of the post-World War I press box, Grantland Rice, who famously
compared the Irish’s 1924 backfield -- average weight: 158
pounds -- to the “ Four Horsemen  of the Apocalypse.” (While
we’re deconstructing myths, it’s worth noting that Rice didn’t
even dream up this image himself. According to Sperber, he got
the idea from a student press assistant.)  The story of Notre Dame football was so good that Hollywood
had to tell it. And so it did, in the 1940 biopic “Knute Rockne, All American,” which, on the eve of the nation’s entry
into World War II, turned a good football coach into a Great
American. Never mind Rockne’s enduring battle with Notre Dame to
lower admission standards for football players, his advice
column for college-football gamblers and his fixation on money.
 The movie  is vague about Rockne’s final, fatal plane trip to
 California . In case you ever wondered, he was on his way to  Los
Angeles  to sign a big deal for rights to his life story.  Let’s not overlook Rockne’s co-star, George Gipp, played by
 Ronald Reagan , who as a politician would later present a lot
like the charming, insouciant halfback portrayed in the film.
The real Gipper was a hard-drinking pool-hall hustler who bet on
his own team’s games. His endlessly quoted deathbed speech to
Rockne -- and Gipp may well have died from pneumonia brought on
by a three-day drunk -- never happened. Rockne concocted “Win
one for the Gipper” himself. He knew from experience that these
fictitious last prayers, whether from a dying child or a former
Fighting Irish star, almost always helped motivate his team.  Forget Notre Dame’s record of national championships and
Heisman trophies. Far more remarkable is the sheer quantity of
manufactured history that this football program has produced --
and we haven’t even gotten to  “Rudy,”  the saccharine 1993
movie about the diminutive walk-on whose dream was “to play
football for the Irish.”  In the film’s most iconic scene, the team’s seniors march
one by one into the coach’s office to lay their jerseys on his
desk, a collective act of protest intended to force the coach to
allow Rudy to suit up for his final game of eligibility. Yes,
this, too, was a complete fabrication.  Unhappy Ending  Here’s something that did happen: The real-life Rudy,
Daniel Ruettiger, parlayed his fame from the movie into a
successful career as a motivational speaker and corporate
trainer, offering clients such pearls of wisdom as, “Follow
your passion, instead of chasing the dollar.”  Alas, Rudy failed to heed his own advice. He borrowed
heavily against his fancy Las Vegas home, and then tried to dig
himself out of debt by incorporating a company to market his new
 sports drink , “Rudy.” Only, according to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, the real purpose of the company, Rudy
Nutrition, was to serve as the vehicle for a penny-stock scam
that bilked investors out of $11 million.  “Investors were lured into the scheme by Mr. Ruettiger’s
well-known, feel-good story but found themselves in a situation
that did not have a happy ending,”  the SEC said  in 2011,
charging Rudy with  securities fraud . (Ruettiger ultimately
settled with the SEC, agreeing to pay a substantial fine.)  Which brings us back to Manti Te’o’s well-known, feel-good
-- and now thoroughly discredited -- story. In a way, it’s the
myth of the Gipper updated for the social-media age. In place of
a dying halfback, we now have a dead fake Internet girlfriend.  However this plays out, it’s safe to say that Te’o has
already secured his place in Notre Dame’s grand tradition of
hooey.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View
and a contributing writer for the  New York  Times Magazine. He is
the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx
Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy
Valley.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Stacey Shick at   sshick@bloomberg.net . 