-- Samsung Gets Review of Apple Victory in U.S. Trade Fight
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-01-24T05:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/apple-win-in-trade-dispute-against-samsung-to-be-reviewed-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest smartphone producer, persuaded a U.S. trade agency to
review a preliminary ruling that more than a dozen models of its
mobile phones copied  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patented features.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington   said 
yesterday it would review the findings, and it ordered a judge
to address specific issues on two of the four patents found to
be infringed. ITC Judge Thomas Pender in October recommended the
agency order a ban on U.S. imports of Samsung products found to
violate Apple’s patent rights.  The review means a final decision, originally scheduled for
March 27, will be pushed back. The case is one of dozens in
which the world’s two largest smartphone makers are using their
patents to try to force each other into changing products or
removing some models from store shelves. They are fighting for
increased share of a mobile device market that researcher  Yankee
Group  expects to double to $847 billion by 2016.  Apple has generally been more successful in its litigation
in the U.S., including a $1 billion jury verdict it won in
August that Samsung is trying to overturn. Samsung has filed
regulatory challenges to some of Apple’s designs in  Europe  to
keep German cases on hold, and it won a ruling in the U.K. that
it didn’t infringe an Apple design patent.  Patents Disputed  “We remain confident that the full commission will
ultimately reach a final determination that affirms our
position,”  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Samsung, said. Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, said the company had no comment.  Pender in October said Samsung infringed a design patent
for the flat front face with wider borders at the top and bottom
and a lozenge-shaped speaker slot above the display screen.
Apple’s design chief, Jonathan Ive, and its late co-founder,
 Steve Jobs , were among the inventors.  Also found to be infringed were a feature patent for a
multitouch screen that lists Jobs and Apple’s former iOS
software chief,  Scott Forstall , among the inventors; one that
covers the translucent images for applications displayed on a
screen; and one for a way to detect when headphone jacks are
plugged in. There was no violation of two other patents, he
said. Each side asked the commission to look at aspects of the
case it lost.  While the commission said it was reviewing the decision
“in its entirety,” it told the judge to issue additional
findings regarding infringement of two of the patents. The
review concerns whether Samsung products infringe elements of
the patents for translucent images and headphone jacks.  New Deadline  The commission said it didn’t need additional written
arguments from the parties at this time. Pender will have to set
a new deadline to complete the investigation.  Pender also found that Samsung in some instances had
designed devices to avoid infringing the patents, a finding
Apple challenged. Any exclusion order would have to be reviewed
by President  Barack Obama  on public policy grounds, and the
underlying patent case would be heard by an appeals court that
specializes in  patent law . Presidents rarely overrule the ITC on
import bans in these types of cases.  Samsung, which denies infringing any of the Apple patents,
said that its products shouldn’t be shut out of the U.S. market.
In a Dec. 3 filing with the agency, Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung said such an order would “create a void in the
marketplace, harming consumers and wireless carriers.”  Biggest Competitor  The company lost the first round in its own ITC patent-
infringement case against Apple when a trade judge said there
was no violation. The full commission is reviewing that case and
is scheduled to issue a final decision March 7.  The companies make about half of the world’s smartphones,
and Samsung is the biggest competitor to Apple in sales of
tablet computers. It’s also the biggest supplier of components
to Cupertino, California-based Apple.  Apple said yesterday that it sold 47.8 million iPhones and
22.9 million iPads in the quarter ended Dec. 29. The iPhone 5
went on sale in September.  Samsung, in a preliminary statement of results on Jan. 8,
reported an 89 percent jump in profit in the three months ended
in December, boosted by its Galaxy line of smartphones. Samsung
sold about 62 million smartphones in the quarter, according to a
Daewoo Securities Co. estimate.  Google Filing  Google Inc., (GOOG)  which makes the Android operating system that
runs the Samsung phones and tablets at the center of the
dispute, also urged the ITC not to block Samsung products even
if it does find a violation.  “To justify this extraordinary remedy, which would harm
consumers and sellers alike in one of this country’s most
critical and fastest-growing industries, Apple asserts patents
that cover only small aspects of the feature-packed Android
platform and that do not drive consumer demand,” Google said in
a Dec. 3 filing.  Samsung lost a bid yesterday to have a U.S. judge order
Apple to provide it with documents and iPhone exemplars,
including one shown by Jobs during a 2007 presentation, for use
in a separate court case between the companies in  Japan .  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal in  San Jose ,  California ,
denied Samsung’s request because a similar petition already is
pending before a court in  Tokyo . Grewal said Samsung could renew
its request after the Japanese court issues its decision.  The Apple trade case against Samsung is In the Matter of
Electronic Digital Media Devices, 337-796, and Samsung’s case is
In the Matter of Electronic Devices, Including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computers, 337-794, both U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  