-- Harper Says Slowing Canada Economy to Have Fiscal Impact
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-01-23T18:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/harper-says-slowing-canada-economy-will-have-fiscal-impact.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper said a slowing economy will affect the government’s
finances and impede employment.  “There has been a general slowing of the economy over the
past, really the past half-year so it is obviously a concern to
us,” Harper told reporters in Cambridge, Ontario. “This is
obviously going to have some fiscal impact on us, will have some
impact on the pace of job creation.”  Canada’s economy probably had its worst six-month
performance since the end of the 2009 recession in the second
half of last year, as exports fell and concerns about the global
expansion prompted businesses to curb spending, leading
economists and policy makers to scale back their expectations
for 2013.  The Bank of Canada cut its forecast for 2012 GDP growth
today to 1.9 percent from an October projection of 2.2 percent,
and 2 percent in 2013 from 2.3 percent.  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty, seeking to return the
country to surplus while ensuring fiscal tightening doesn’t
impede growth, scaled back revenue projections in a November
budget update by C$7 billion ($7 billion) for the next fiscal
year and by C$36 billion over five years, citing lower commodity
prices.  A person with direct knowledge of the government’s budget
planning told Bloomberg News the deteriorating revenue outlook
is making it more difficult to bring the budget into balance as
planned by 2015.  Still, Harper said that he has been encouraged by recent
job  gains  in the Canadian economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  