-- Second-Half Surge Lifts Arsenal Over West Ham in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/arsenal-beats-west-ham-5-1-in-english-soccer-s-premier-league.html
Arsenal scored four goals in a 10-
minute span just after halftime on its way to a 5-1 rout of West
Ham in English soccer’s Premier League.  Olivier Giroud scored twice last night at  Emirates Stadium ,
with  Lukas Podolski , Santi Cazorla and Theo Walcott adding a
goal each.  “We got a good response” after consecutive league defeats
to  Manchester City  and Chelsea, manager  Arsene Wenger  said on
Arsenal’s website. “In the second half from the start on we
created chance after chance and played at a very high pace.”  Jack Collison had the goal for West Ham, which finished
with 10 men as Dan Potts was taken off the field on a stretcher
with a head injury after the Hammers had made all three of their
substitutions.  West Ham went in front in the 18th minute when  Matt Taylor ’s corner kick was headed away by Olivier toward Collison,
whose left-footed shot from the edge of the area beat Wojciech
Szczesny. The lead lasted four minutes as Podolski fired a shot
from 25 yards (22 meters) that left goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen with no chance.  Podolski had a shot cleared off the line by Joey O’Brien
and Arsenal’s  Aaron Ramsey  kept Carlton Cole’s flicked shot over
Szczesny out of the net. Jaaskelainen then made a lunging save
of Cazorla’s free kick in first-half injury time.  Arsenal took control of the match in the opening 12 minutes
of the second half.  Four Goals  Giroud put the Gunners in front in the 47th minute by
directing Walcott’s low corner kick past Jaaskelainen. Cazorla
made it 3-1 six minutes later off a pass from Podolski, who then
provided a ball for Walcott’s goal one minute later. Giroud
closed the scoring in the 57th minute when he poked another
Podolski pass past Jaaskelainen.  “I’m just stunned by what happened at the start of the
second half because we were so comfortable from a defensive
point of view,” manager  Sam Allardyce  said on West Ham’s
website. “They got to their brilliant best and we couldn’t live
with them for 10 minutes.”  The referee added 12 minutes of injury time at the end of
the game to account for the onfield treatment of 18-year-old
Potts, who fell unconscious after colliding with Bacary Sagna in
the 75th minute.  Potts was carried off on a stretcher and taken to the
hospital with a “severe concussion,” Allardyce said. He’ll
remain there at least until today, the coach added.  “He didn’t really know where he was,” Allardyce said.
“He had a bad bang on the head to start with and landed with
his head hitting the ground.”  Arsenal remains in sixth place in the 20-team standings
with 37 points through 23 games. West Ham stays 12th, with 27
points.  Manchester United  leads with 56 points, five more than
Manchester City in second place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 