-- Aurizon Explores Other Deals After Rejecting Alamos Offer
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-01-23T21:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/aurizon-explores-other-deals-after-rejecting-alamos-offer.html
Aurizon Mines Ltd. (ARZ) , a producer of
gold in Quebec, rejected a C$780 million ($786 million)
unsolicited takeover bid from  Alamos Gold Inc. (AGI)  and said it will
explore other potential deals.  Aurizon has adopted a shareholder rights plan to find
alternatives to the Alamos offer because the bid is
“financially inadequate,” Vancouver-based Aurizon said in a
statement today. A special committee of Aurizon directors is
helping to assess alternatives.  Options include building on existing initiatives and
holding discussions with third parties regarding “potential
alternative transactions,” George Brack, chairman of the
special committee, said in the statement.  Alamos, which operates the Mulatos mine in  Mexico  and owns
projects in  Turkey , said Jan. 14 it made the takeover bid to add
Aurizon’s projects in the Abitibi region of northwestern Quebec.
Aurizon shareholders would get either C$4.65 or 0.2801 of an
Alamos share for each share they own. Alamos has already
acquired 16 percent of Aurizon, making it the biggest
shareholder of the company, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The rights plan, or so-called poison pill, typically allows
a company to issue new shares to block a takeover in the event
of an unsolicited bid. Although Alamos has said its proposal
depends on Aurizon not adopting such a plan, the offer is still
likely to prevail, said Brian Quast, a Toronto-based analyst at
BMO Capital Markets.  March Meeting  BMO “views the potential for an interloper bid as low and
expects the Alamos takeover bid to succeed in its current
form,” Quast, who rates Aurizon a sell and Alamos a hold, said
today in a note.  Aurizon Chief Executive Officer George Paspalas said the
company’s Casa Berardi mine has high ore grades and ten years of
estimated reserves, up from six years when it began operating in
2006.  “People want an asset like that,” he said in a phone
interview today. “Put it in  Quebec , where it rates very highly
in terms of mining jurisdictions, and of course people want to
have a look at this.”  The Alamos offer is opportunistic because Aurizon was
trading near a multiyear  low  when it was announced and because
this year will be “non-typical” for operations at Casa
Berardi, Paspalas said. Aurizon is slowing output there for
development work that will allow it to access new areas of the
mine, according to a Nov. 8 statement.  Unsolicited Offers  The bid from Alamos is the second unsolicited offer for
Aurizon in the past ten years. Northgate Minerals Corp., another
Canadian gold producer, withdrew its bid in July 2006 after the
British Columbia Court of Appeal upheld a judge’s ruling that
the bid violated an agreement between the companies. Northgate
was acquired by  AuRico Gold Inc. (AUQ)  in 2011.  Aurizon shareholders will meet March 7 to vote on the
rights plan. Jo Mira Clodman, vice president of  investor
relations  at Toronto-based Alamos, didn’t immediately return
phone calls seeking comment on Aurizon’s statement.  Aurizon said its board and special committee received
written opinions from Scotia Capital Inc. and CIBC World Markets
Inc. that the Alamos offer was financially inadequate for
shareholders other than Alamos.  Dundee Capital Markets Inc. is Alamos’s financial adviser
and Torys LLP is its legal adviser.  Aurizon rose 0.2 percent to C$4.76 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.
Alamos gained 0.6 percent to C$16.05.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  