-- Australia’s Slower Inflation Expands RBA Rate-Cut Scope: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-23T06:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/australia-consumer-prices-gain-less-than-forecast-aussie-drops.html
Australian  consumer prices  gained
less than economists forecast last quarter on cheaper food and
health care, pushing down the local dollar and giving the
central bank scope to reduce  interest rates .  The trimmed mean gauge of core prices rose 0.6 percent from
the prior quarter, the  Bureau of Statistics  said in Sydney
today, compared with the median forecast of 26 economists for a
0.7 percent gain. The broader  consumer price index  advanced 0.2
percent from three months earlier, half the forecast increase.  The data contrast with quicker consumer-price growth in
Singapore last month, while the  Bank of Japan  tries to bolster
its economy with a 2 percent CPI target. In Australia,
moderating prices validate  Reserve Bank  Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s
decision to cut rates 1.75 percentage points since Nov. 1, 2011,
and revive non-mining areas of the economy.  “Today’s figures tell us we saw a slowdown in the
Australia’s economy in the second half of the year,” said Paul Bloxham, chief economist for HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a
former RBA official who forecast a trimmed mean CPI rise of 0.6
percent. “We’re seeing signs globally that there’s a turnaround
and we’re seeing early signs that monetary policy is lifting the
Australian economy.”  The so-called Aussie weakened, buying $1.0538 at 4:49 p.m.
in Sydney compared with $1.0559 immediately before the report.
The yield on 10-year government debt fell to 3.29 percent from
3.36 percent yesterday. Investors see a 48 percent chance the
RBA will reduce the benchmark rate at its Feb. 5 meeting,
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Grocery Wars  Competition between Australia’s two largest supermarket
chains,  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and Wesfarmers Ltd.-owned Coles, has
also driven grocery discounts. A push to sell milk at A$1
($1.05) a liter contributed to a 27 percent profit fall at the
dairy and drinks division of Kirin Holdings Co.’s Lion unit, the
company said in August.  In Asia, Singapore’s consumer prices rose 4.3 percent in
December from a year earlier after a 3.6 percent climb the prior
month, a government report showed today. In Malaysia, inflation
probably accelerated to 1.4 percent in December from 1.3
percent, a survey showed before figures due out later today.  Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa yesterday agreed
to set the 2 percent inflation target urged by Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, stopping short of immediate action to achieve it.
Most Asian stocks fell today, with Japanese shares trading lower
as the yen strengthened. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.6
percent as of 2:56 p.m. in Tokyo.  European Sentiment  Elsewhere, euro area consumer sentiment and French business
confidence probably improved in January, economists predicted.
The  Bank of England  will release the minutes of its Jan. 10
meeting, and a survey forecasts the U.K. statistics office will
say jobless claims rose in December.  The Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  is
scheduled to release an update to its World Economic Outlook
today. The U.S. Mortgage Bankers Association will report
mortgage applications for the week ended Jan. 18, while a survey
predicted the U.S.  Federal Housing Finance Agency  will say  home
prices  gained 0.7 percent in November from the previous month.  Today’s Australia report showed food and non-alcoholic
beverages dropped 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter as vegetable
prices declined 5.7 percent. Health-care costs slumped 0.9
percent as pharmaceutical products fell 3.5 percent, it showed.  Fuel Rise  Prices for transportation gained 0.7 percent as fuel
advanced 2.6 percent, the report showed. Clothing and footwear
increased 0.8 percent.  Contained prices are a boost to Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government, trailing in opinion polls, as it seeks re-
election later this year. “Contained inflation is one of the
things that gives the central bank room to move when it comes to
monetary policy,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told reporters in
Brisbane today.  Today’s report showed the weighted-median gauge of
inflation, a separate core measure that excludes the largest
price increases and declines, advanced 0.5 percent in the fourth
quarter, compared with economists’ estimates for a 0.6 percent
gain. That took the year-on-year rate to 2.3 percent versus a
forecast 2.4 percent rise.  From a year earlier, the trimmed mean gauge advanced 2.3
percent, compared with economists’ forecasts for a 2.4 percent
increase.  Inflation Target  The central bank has a goal of keeping inflation in a 2
percent to 3 percent range on average, and typically uses as its
guide the core measures -- those that strip out items with the
biggest price moves. The RBA’s  official cash rate  is 3 percent,
matching a half-century low set during the 2009 global
recession.  The CPI increased 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, compared with economists’ estimates for a 2.4
percent increase.  The statistics bureau released a seasonally adjusted
consumer price index that showed a 0.5 percent increase last
quarter, for a year-over-year gain of 2.2 percent.  “While the Reserve Bank will debate another rate cut at
the February board meeting, the recent improvement in the global
economic outlook, rising share markets, healthy  house prices  and
improving confidence levels may stay board members’ hands,”
said  Savanth Sebastian , an economist in Sydney at a unit of
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia . “The central bank is unlikely
to want rates to get too far from normal unless conditions take
a drastic turn for the worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  