-- Stephens Ousts Williams in Australia; Federer, Murray Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-23T14:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/azarenka-beats-kuznetsova-to-reach-australian-open-semifinals.html
American teenager Sloane Stephens
fought back to beat an injured Serena Williams yesterday at the
Australian Open, setting up a semifinal against defending
women’s champion Victoria Azarenka in  Melbourne .  Four-time winner Roger Federer of Switzerland and third-
seeded Andy Murray of Britain got past Frenchmen Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Jeremy Chardy and will meet tomorrow for a place in
the final. Murray leads Federer 10-9 in career meetings.  Stephens, at 19 the youngest player remaining in either
draw, won the all-U.S. quarterfinal 3-6, 7-5, 6-4 at Rod Laver
Arena to end Williams’s 20-match winning streak and reach the
final four at a Grand Slam tennis tournament for the first time.  “This is so crazy,” the 29th-seeded Stephens, who had a
poster of Williams on her bedroom wall while growing up, said in
a televised courtside interview. “I think I need a poster of
myself now.”  The third-seeded Williams, 31, who entered the tournament
as bookmakers’ favorite to win a sixth Australian Open title,
needed treatment after suffering a back spasm in the eighth game
of the second set. She’d been seeking her third straight major
singles championship and 16th overall after winning Wimbledon
and the U.S. Open last year.  Second-seeded Federer slugged it out with former runner-up
Tsonga in a match full of momentum swings, 7-6 (7-4), 4-6, 7-6
(7-4), 3-6, 6-3 to move to his tenth consecutive Australian Open
semifinal.  “I feel a bit lucky to come through,” Federer, a 17-time
Grand Slam champion, said in a court-side interview after he won
with a smash on his fifth match point. “It was a tough close,
the whole match was tough. Any set could have gone either way.”  The 31-year-old from Switzerland, who hadn’t dropped a set
until the quarterfinals, produced 49 winners, compared to 66 for
Tsonga. The Frenchman had 61 unforced errors, while Federer
struck 47.  Today’s semifinals line-up includes second-seeded Maria Sharapova of Russia against Li Na of  China , the No. 6 seed,
followed by Stephens against Azarenka of Belarus. Men’s
defending champion Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  faces Spain’s David Ferrer. Temperatures are forecast to reach 36 degrees Celsius
(97 degrees Fahrenheit) in Melbourne.  Williams’s Woes  Williams had a troubled run through the season-opening
major. She rolled her ankle in her opening match and bloodied
her lip with her racket in the second round. Against Stephens,
she jarred her back when trying to avoid hitting the net, and
was forced to take a medical timeout. When she returned, her
service speed dropped and she struggled on backhand shots.  “I totally locked up after that,” Williams said in a news
conference. “It was a little painful. It was hard to rotate to
the backhand. I’m already on anti-inflammatories for my ankle,
so you can’t do too much more.”  She said it had been the worst two weeks she’d experienced
in her 50 appearances at the sport’s four major events.  “I’m almost relieved that it’s over because there’s only
so much I felt I could do,” Williams added. “I’ve been thrown
a lot of balls these two weeks.”  In a match in which each player hit  23 winners , Stephens
committed nine fewer unforced errors and held her composure in
the deciding set after Williams broke serve to go up 4-3. It was
Stephens’s first career win against a top-10 player.  Fully Focused  Stephens, whose best performance in her six previous
appearances at majors was the fourth round of the French Open
last year, said not allowing herself to get distracted by
Williams’s injury was a key to her win.  “In the last three weeks it’s happened to me a lot, so I
was prepared,” Stephens, who lost to Williams when they met in
Brisbane three weeks ago, told reporters. “I just tried to stay
focused on myself, stay within myself, because otherwise it
would have been a disaster.”  Stephens, the daughter of late former New England Patriots
running back John Stephens, is the first American teenager to
reach the semifinals of a Grand Slam since Williams did it at
the 2001 U.S. Open.  Top-seeded Azarenka, who broke through for her first major
title 12 months ago in Melbourne, earlier won a 77-minute
opening set en route to a 7-5, 6-1 win against unseeded Svetlana Kuznetsova of  Russia .  “In the beginning, I needed a little bit of adjustment
because she has a very different game,” said Azarenka, a 23-
year-old from Belarus. “I’m glad I could produce my best tennis
when it was needed.”  ‘Good Job’  While she’s never played Stephens before, Azarenka said
she’s been impressed by the teenager.  “Her game has come together,” said Azarenka, who needs to
win the tournament to keep her No. 1 ranking. “She has a good
potential. It’s just a matter of her getting all those details
in place and really wanting to achieve great things.”  In the final day match at Rod Laver Arena, U.S. Open
champion Murray cruised past the unseeded Chardy 6-4, 6-1, 6-2
to reach the final four at Melbourne Park for the fourth
straight year.  “I’ve done a good job so far in this tournament,” said
Murray, the runner-up in 2010 and 2011. “I can’t be
disappointed with where my game’s at. Hope the next round I play
better again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net ; Danielle
Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  