-- Bank Funding Threatened by Basel III and Solvency II, Thiam Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-01-23T10:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/bank-funding-threatened-by-basel-iii-and-solvency-ii-thiam-says.html
Banks may struggle to raise funds
from insurers due to a conflict between Basel III rules for
lenders and Solvency II regulation for insurers,  Prudential Plc (PRU) 
Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam said.  “The inconsistencies between Solvency II and Basel III are
a major issue,” Thiam, 50, said today at a panel discussion
with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon and  UBS AG (UBSN)  Chairman
Axel Weber at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
“Who’s going to provide capital to the banks?”  Basel III’s liquidity rules mean European banks may need to
raise as much as 2.3 trillion euros ($3.1 trillion) in long-term
funding, New York-based McKinsey & Co. said in 2010. Insurers,
the biggest buyers of such debt, are being dissuaded from buying
long-term bonds under the European Union’s Solvency II rules,
which makes them more expensive to hold.  “At a high level they want banks to have more capital and
you know who owns the banks -- it’s us,” said Thiam, who leads
the U.K.’s biggest insurer by market value. “Solvency II, which
is our own solvency regime, says that we cannot invest in banks.
I’ve made the point here to many regulators: How does that
work?”  Basel III, due to be implemented in 2019, proposes
requiring banks to hold enough cash or liquid assets to meet
liabilities for a year. The aim is to wean banks off the short-
term funding from other lenders that dried up during the crisis
and sent Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. into bankruptcy. To meet
this requirement, banks may have to sell long-dated bonds, which
are currently bought by insurers.  ‘Very Confused’  Meanwhile, the EU’s Solvency II regulations, which may not
come into force before 2016, make holding long-dated corporate
bonds more costly. They may be prohibitively expensive for
insurers, Thiam said.  “Right now we see an environment where the debate is very
confused,” he said. “Things are going in all directions.”  To encourage better collaboration between regulators and
insurers, the Bank of  England , which will take over
responsibility for financial regulation in the U.K. this year,
is discussing an exchange of employees with the insurance
industry, Thiam said.  The  Association of British Insurers  “is working closely
with the Bank of England to organize a swap of staff,” he said.
“They all agree that that is desirable. It doesn’t matter how
smart people are, there’s no substitute for first-hand
experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  