-- Bank of Spain Says Recession Deepened After Latest Cuts
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-23T11:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/bank-of-spain-says-recession-deepened-in-fourth-quarter.html
Spain’s recession deepened in the
last quarter of 2012 after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
government approved its fifth austerity package in a year to
reduce the second-largest  budget deficit  in the euro area.  Gross domestic product  shrank for a sixth quarter,
contracting 0.6 percent from the previous three months, when it
slipped 0.3 percent, the  Bank of Spain said  in an estimate in
its monthly bulletin today. Fourth-quarter GDP matched the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists.  Output may have contracted 1.3 percent in 2012 as budget
cuts weighed on economic activity, the Madrid-based Bank of
Spain said. While it’s not yet clear if Spain will meet its 2012
deficit target set by the European Union, satisfying this year’s
goal “will require a very ambitious additional fiscal effort
from the central government and the regions,” it said.  Rajoy is seeking to avoid a full bailout as a slump in the
euro area’s fourth-biggest economy enters its fifth year,
undermining efforts to meet EU targets. The  European Central
Bank ’s pledge to provide support to nations struggling to bring
down yields may curb borrowing costs until a recovery, he said
last month.  ‘Extremely Weak’  “This is a reminder that although market pressures have
eased in response to the ECB’s promised intervention, the
economic picture in the country is still extremely weak,”
 Jonathan Loynes , chief European economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London , said by telephone. “If anything, the
contractions are getting bigger rather than smaller, the labor
market remains in a dreadful condition with no signs of
improvement.”  Spain’s  10-year bonds  advanced today, pushing the yield
down to a session low of 5.066 percent at 11:22 a.m. in  Madrid .
That compares with an intraday record of 7.75 percent on July
25, before ECB President  Mario Draghi  said he would do all it
takes to save the euro. Even so, Spain still pays 3.51
percentage points more than  Germany  to borrow for 10 years.  “Uncertainty remains high and elements of fragility
persist,” the Bank of Spain said. The country’s borrowing costs
remain high and  interest rates  haven’t fallen for households and
companies while declining revenue and income make it difficult
for them to de-leverage, it said.  Demand Declines  While Spanish lenders raised more than 8 billion euros
($10.7 billion) as they returned to bond markets this year, ECB
data show they charged companies almost 5.1 percent on new loans
of as much as 1 million euros in November, up from 4.9 percent a
year earlier.  Domestic demand may have fallen 3.9 percent from a year
earlier in 2012 after a 1.9 percent drop in 2011, the bulletin
shows. Output also suffered from a slowdown in  Spain ’s trading
partners as export growth may have eased to 3.3 percent in 2012
from 7.6 percent the previous year.  “It’s difficult to see any recovery coming,” said Sara Balina, chief economist for Spain at Madrid-based consultancy
Analistas Financieros Internacionales. “More budget cuts are
going to be necessary whether Spain’s deficit targets are eased
or not by the EU.”  Deficit Target  The European Commission yesterday said the nation will
probably miss its 2012 deficit target even if the most recent
budget cuts produce their full effect in the last quarter. It
forecasts GDP contracted 1.4 percent in 2012 and will shrink as
much this year, taking the shortfall to 8 percent of output last
year and 6 percent in 2013. That compares with goals of
respectively 6.3 percent and 4.5 percent.  Rajoy’s People’s Party government raised income and
property taxes upon coming to power 13 months ago and ended last
year by lowering civil servants’ wages, as part of the deepest
budget cuts in the nation’s three-decade democratic history.  Some of those measures, including public-sector job cuts,
are only starting to weigh on domestic demand, Balina said.
Households’ net available income fell 1.6 percent from a year
earlier in the third quarter as Spaniards dug into their
savings, Spain’s National Statistics Institute, or INE, said
Jan. 9.  The  unemployment rate  in the fourth quarter, due to be
released tomorrow by INE, probably rose to 26 percent, according
to the median of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. One in
three jobless in the euro region is in Spain.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , which has 4,300 employees in Spain,
said last week it’ll scrap 900 jobs due to declines in revenue.
Banks are shrinking their branch networks with thousands of
firings through 2015.  “Domestic demand is likely to continue to contract,
increasing the risks for Spain to reduce its budget deficit,”
said  Ricardo Santos , a euro-area economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “At some stage, the market will turn to the
fundamentals and the worries about growth and deficit could
change the current mood.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  