-- BHP Says Alumina, Nickel Units Pressured, Spurring Sale Talk
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-01-23T06:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/bhp-says-alumina-nickel-units-pressured-spurring-sale-talk.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said the high Australian dollar and weak
prices are hurting its local alumina and nickel operations,
spurring speculation of possible writedowns or asset sales.  “BHP is a likely seller of its Nickel West and aluminum
businesses,”  Lyndon Fagan , a Sydney-based resources analyst
with JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in an e-mail after the
Melbourne-based company made the comments today in its second-
quarter production report.  The company in August cut the value of its nickel sites in
 Western Australia  by $450 million as margins fell. BHP wanted to
control costs and wouldn’t allocate new capital to units such as
aluminum and nickel, Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers 
told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. in August, adding that
its aluminum and alumina assets had been “impairment tested.”  “From a broader perspective, the strong Australian dollar
and weak pricing environment continued to place pressure on the
group’s Australian alumina and nickel operations,” BHP said.  BHP gained 1.3 percent to A$37.06 at the close of trading
in Sydney, while the key S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.2 percent.  Aluminum Value  “People are wondering if BHP will write down the value of
its aluminum business,” said  Adrian Wood , a Sydney-based
resources analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd. “With a comment
like that in there, I don’t think you can ignore that
potential.”  Eleanor Nichols, a spokeswoman for BHP, declined to comment
on the potential of any writedown when contacted by phone, and
Fiona Hadley, another spokeswoman, declined to comment on any
potential sales.  After BHP reported the nickel writedown in August, Deutsche
Bank AG estimated the value of Nickel West had dropped to $2.2
billion. The bank said in February that BHP may consider selling
aluminum and nickel assets. BHP could potentially write down the
value of its aluminum business by $2 billion to $3 billion when
it reports half-year earnings next month, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said in a report this month.  Rio Tinto Group, the second-biggest mining company, said
last week it will book a writedown of as much as $11 billion on
the carrying values of aluminum assets. Prices on the London
Metal Exchange have fallen 7.5 percent in the past year, hurting
producers such as United Co. Rusal and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)   Unchanged Alumina  Alumina, a raw material in the production of the light-
weight metal, is set to remain unchanged this year,  Australia ’s
Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said last month, while
the Australian dollar has stayed above parity with the U.S.
currency for more than six months, its longest stretch above
that threshold on record.  Rio in October placed its Gove bauxite and alumina
operation in the Northern Territory under review because of
higher costs and low alumina prices. BHP’s Australian assets
include the Worsley bauxite mine and alumina refinery, while
Nickel West comprises mines, concentrators, a smelter and a
refinery, according to information on the company’s website.  BHP last year completed a $3 billion mine and refinery
expansion at Worsley, adding 1.1 million metric tons for a total
production capacity of 4.6 million tons of alumina. BHP owns 86
percent of Worsley, with the rest held by Japan Alumina
Associates Ltd. and Sojitz Alumina Pty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  