-- Bird-Flu Research to Start Again After New Safety Rules
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/bird-flu-research-to-start-again-after-new-safety-rules.html
After a yearlong halt based on
safety concerns, research will resume on forms of the H5N1 bird-
flu virus that scientists made easily transmissible within some
mammals, and could potentially be a threat to humans.  Researchers should restart their projects in countries
where governments have approved appropriate biosecurity
measures, according to a letter signed by 40 researchers and
published by the journals  Science  and  Nature . This doesn’t
currently include the U.S., the scientists wrote.  In January 2012, researchers worldwide issued a moratorium
on testing H5N1, a strain of  bird flu virus  that can infect
people after contact with diseased fowl. During the past year,
scientists have established rules designed to make the studies
less risky, allowing them to resume, said  Ron Fouchier , a
researcher at Erasmus Medical Center in the Netherlands.  “All of the conditions for which the moratorium has been
installed have been met, except in the USA,” Fouchier said
yesterday in a conference call with reporters. “In those
countries where the research can be done safely, the research
should restart.”  Because of the risk that mutations of the bird-flu virus
could make it easier for mammals to spread the infection,
research is needed to test the effectiveness of vaccines and
anti-viral medications against an airborne H5N1, Fouchier said.  In May, research led by Yoshihiro Kawaoka at the University
of Wisconsin at Madison and published by Nature, showed how H5N1
would become easily transmissible by mixing with the H1N1 swine
flu virus that sparked the 2009 pandemic. In June, Science
published studies by Fouchier and colleagues showing that five
genetic tweaks made the virus airborne  among ferrets , the
mammals whose response to the flu is most like that of humans.  Publication Delays  Publication of both studies were delayed after scientists
were asked to censor their work to prevent it from being used by
bioterrorists.  At a meeting of the World Health Organization in February,
experts including Kawaoka, Fouchier and Anthony S. Fauci,
director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, agreed that the full findings should be published to
help scientists design vaccines and drugs, and to help for
pandemic preparations.  “We knew this was coming at some point,” said Gregory Hartl, a WHO spokesman, in an interview. “The fact that they
had this self-imposed moratorium for almost a year when it was
only supposed to be six months gave everyone a chance to sit
back and look at issues, breathe a bit and understand what we
need to do going forward.”  U.S. Review  The U.S. is in the process of finalizing criteria to
determine what bird flu projects it will fund, said Fauci,
director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  That review, currently being done by the Department of
Health and Human Services, may be complete in several weeks,
Fauci said. Once those criteria are established, the NIH will
begin reviewing research requests on a case-by-case basis and
let those that meet the safety framework to proceed, he said.  Under the U.S. guidelines, researchers will only be allowed
to conduct experiments that could occur naturally, not “some
crazy Frankenstein type of experiment,” Fauci said.  The research will also have to have a benefit to public
health that out weights the risk and be done in the least risky
way possible, he said.  “Even though we feel a complete moratorium is over,
whether or not you can specifically do an experiment with NIH or
CDC money will depend on whether you fulfill the criteria,” he
said in a telephone interview.  Moratorium Lesson  The biggest lesson from the moratorium was learning how to
better communicate the benefits of  research on H5N1 , Richard Webby, a virologist at St. Jude’s Research Hospital who also
signed the letter, said during the call.  Scientists have been monitoring for pandemic-inducing
changes in H5N1 since the strain was recovered from a farmed
goose in  China ’s southern province of Guangdong in 1996. The
virus has since spread across Asia,  Europe , the Middle East and
parts of  Africa , devastating poultry flocks and causing sporadic
infections in people, though it doesn’t spread well in humans.  More than 600 people have been infected with bird flu, and
almost 60 percent have died,  according to  the Geneva-based WHO.  Appropriate security measures include enhanced biosafety
level 3 laboratories that work on infectious diseases that can
cause serious sickness or death. In some countries, such as
 Canada , a higher level of safety may be required.  “We are certainly not restarting today,” Fouchier said.
“It takes time to shut down research and it takes time to start
it back up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  