-- BNP Says Investor Anxiety Over MNB Chief Choice Overblown
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-01-23T13:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/bnp-says-investor-anxiety-over-mnb-chief-choice-overblown.html
Investor anxiety that the Hungarian
government’s self-described unorthodox economic policies will
spread to the central bank with a new Magyar Nemzeti Bank chief
named this year are unjustified,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  said.  Market conditions don’t warrant unconventional policies
from the new central bank president, according to Bartosz Pawlowski, BNP’s London-based head of emerging-markets strategy.
Quantitative easing in the form of the central bank buying
 government bonds  “is hardly necessary” at current yields, he
said.  “I’m not sure why all the fuss,” Pawlowski said by phone
today. “What we know is that whoever takes over would be on
good terms with the government and whoever takes over will
probably continue with interest-rate cuts.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is expected to name a
replacement next month for MNB President  Andras Simor , whose
six-year term ends March 3. The successor should “bravely use
unorthodox tools” to provide monetary stimulus, including
measures used by the  European Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal
Reserve, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , Simor’s most-likely
successor according to the Index news website, said last month.  The central cut the  main rate  to 5.75 percent on Dec. 18,
still the European Union’s highest after five quarter-point
reductions.  The government wants to stimulate an economy going through
its second recession in four years, with elections scheduled for
next year. Investors expect the central bank to cut the two-week
deposit rate by a full percentage point within a year, forward-
rate agreements indicate.  Orban’s Policies  Orban has used what his government described as unorthodox
measures to close budget holes and avoid cuts in European Union
funding, contributing to the economic slump. They included the
effective nationalization of private-pension fund assets,
imposing retroactive industry taxes, levying the highest bank
tax in  Europe  and curtailing the power of courts.  The MNB may try to purchase corporate bonds, according to
Pawlowski. The yield on the government bond maturing in 2023
dropped to 6.42 percent today, compared with 9.2 percent one
year ago. BNP, which has been “bullish” on  Hungary  for the
past year, recommends buying 2015 bonds.  Hungary will start investor meetings in the U.S. and Europe
on Jan. 28 as the government prepares to end a 20-month absence
on international debt markets, a person familiar with the plans,
who declined to be named because the information isn’t public,
said yesterday.  The government hired BNP,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Deutsche Bank AG
and  Goldman Sachs Inc. (GS)  to arrange the meetings.  Candidate List  The 10-year yield rose from 6 percent on Jan. 3 as
strategists including those at Citigroup and  Bank of America 
Corp. warned in the past month of weakening local assets should
Matolcsy be tapped for the top central bank job.  Istvan Torocskei, the head of the Debt Management Agency;
Gyula Pleschinger, Torocskei’s predecessor and currently
Matolcsy’s state secretary; Mihaly Varga, a former finance
minister and the minister in charge of international aid talks;
as well as former central bank Vice President Henrik Auth are
among the candidates to lead the MNB, the Budapest-based
newspaper  Napi Gazdasag  reported this week.  Orban may announce his decision at a ruling-party retreat
between Feb. 5 and 7, Index news website reported Jan. 17,
without citing anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  