-- BOE Cites Pound as Rebalancing Obstacle in 8-1 Stimulus Vote
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-01-23T09:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/boe-cites-pound-as-rebalancing-obstacle-in-8-1-vote-correct-.html
Bank of England policy makers said
the pound’s level may prove an obstacle to rebalancing the
economy and David Miles cited the currency as he repeated his
call for an expansion of stimulus.  The Monetary Policy Committee voted 8-1 to keep their bond-
purchase plan unchanged at  375 billion pounds  ($595 billion),
according to minutes of the Jan. 10 decision published in London
today. Members diverged on the risks to the economy, with some
saying there was scope for wages to pick up while others noting
that the economy could grow faster without generating inflation.  “Substantial headwinds to recovery remained, including the
drag to activity from fiscal consolidation, a further squeeze in
household real incomes, and the deterioration in U.K.
competitiveness over the past couple of years,” the minutes
said. “The sterling real exchange rate might be above the level
compatible with the necessary rebalancing of the economy.”  The Bank of England halted bond purchases in November and
is relying on its so-called Funding for Lending Scheme to aid
the recovery. Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said
yesterday that credit conditions have improved, and “should
improve further as the impact of the FLS kicks in.”  The pound rose after today’s minutes report and data
showing falling unemployment. The currency was up 0.2 percent
today at $1.5871 as of 9:35 a.m. in  London .  King’s View  “We could provide even more monetary stimulus through
further asset purchases,” King said in Belfast yesterday
evening. “We will continue to assess the benefits and costs of
further reductions in overnight interest rates. Be in no doubt
that we are ready to provide more stimulus if it is needed.”  Miles said that there was enough slack in the economy to
allow policy makers to stoke growth without generating
inflation, and that there was a “strong” case to do so. He
voted to increase bond purchases by 25 billion pounds, repeating
his call from last month.  “An easing of monetary policy, in part by discouraging any
further appreciation of sterling, could help the rebalancing and
avoid potentially lasting destruction of productive capacity and
increases in unemployment,” the minutes showed him as saying.  Jobless claims unexpectedly fell in December and a
quarterly measure of unemployment also dropped, according to a
separate report today. Benefit claims dropped by 12,100 to 1.56
million, the lowest since June 2011. The median forecast of 28
economists in a Bloomberg News Survey was for a gain of 500.  Unemployment Report  Unemployment measured by International Labour Organization
methods fell to 7.7 percent in the three months through
November, the lowest since the quarter through April 2011.  All nine policy makers voted to keep the benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 0.5 percent, the minutes showed.  Developments during the month were “modestly positive,”
and global financial market conditions had improved, policy
makers said.  Along with developments in the U.S. and global growth
prospects, “tensions associated with the imbalances within the
euro area appear to have eased further,” the minutes said.
“These developments had contributed to better financial market
sentiment and generally higher asset prices.”  While developments “had not substantially altered the
balance of risks associated with maintaining and increasing the
size of the monetary stimulus, they had strengthened the belief
of some of these members that no further asset purchases were
required at the current juncture,” the minutes said.  Some policy makers said that factors driving inflation,
currently at 2.7 percent, were likely to persist. The Bank of
England targets 2 percent inflation.  “There was a risk that the prospect of continued above-
target inflation could result in an erosion of credibility in
the monetary policy framework which could affect wage and price-
setting behavior,” the minutes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  