-- Bosch Plans Spending Cuts After Currencies Rescue Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-01-23T09:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/bosch-plans-spending-cuts-after-currencies-rescue-sales.html
Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s
biggest car-parts maker, said it will hold back on investments
this year as a recession in  Europe  caused profitability in 2012
to miss targets and sales rose only because of currency effects.  The operating return on sales was about 2 percent last
year, compared with a long-term goal of 8 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Volkmar Denner said at a press briefing.
Revenue, which increased 1.6 percent to 52.3 billion euros
($69.5 billion) from 51.5 billion euros in 2011, would have
fallen without a boost from exchange rates, he said.  “We can’t be satisfied with the business year 2012,”
Denner said at the press conference in Bosch’s headquarters city
of Stuttgart,  Germany . “We’re looking at fixed costs very
closely, and will be restrictive regarding investments and
acquisitions.”  The European auto market contracted by 16 percent last year
to the lowest in almost two decades, and carmakers such as  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  have announced factory
shutdowns in response. Bosch also said today that it wrote down
600 million euro in assets at its unprofitable solar-panel
division, a unit whose future it’s reviewing.  “No final decision has been made for the strategic
realignment” of the solar division, which posted a loss of
about 450 million euros at its operating business last year,
Denner said. The unit has been hurt by price declines of about
40 percent, he said.  The company didn’t specify  earnings  for other divisions.
Bosch is scheduled to report detailed 2012 figures April 18.  Revenue in Europe fell 2 percent to 29.7 billion euros last
year, Bosch said. Sales rose 9 percent to 10 billion euros in
the Americas and 5 percent to 12.6 billion euros in the Asia-
Pacific region.  “We expect a slightly better increase, but no strong
revenue growth this year,” Denner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Stuttgart, Germany, via 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  