-- Bosch Reviews Solar Future After $1.4 Billion of Charges, Losses
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-01-23T13:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/bosch-reviews-solar-future-after-1-4-billion-of-charges-losses.html
Robert Bosch GmbH  is reviewing the
future of its solar-panel business after the biggest car-parts
maker posted $1.4 billion of charges and losses from the unit.  Bosch wrote down 600 million euros ($800 million) in assets
at the division, which also reported a 2012 operating loss of
about 450 million euros, it said today in an e-mailed statement.  “No final decision has been made for the strategic
realignment,” Chief Executive Officer Volkmar Denner said late
yesterday. The solar unit, which employs about 3,200 people, has
been hurt by price declines of about 40 percent, he said.  Rising competition in the solar-energy industry cut panel
prices in half last year, squeezing profit margins and tipping
more than a dozen companies into bankruptcy including Q-Cells
SE, once the world’s largest producer of power-generating cells.  Siemens AG said today it booked a 115 million-euro charge
on a Spanish solar project. The company’s concentrated solar-
energy unit was put up for sale in October, two years after it
was founded by combining assets acquired in the industry
including Archimede Solar Energy and Solel Solar Systems.  Bosch has spent almost 2 billion euros on solar operations
since 2008, with acquisitions of Ersol Solar Energy AG, Bosch
Solar CIS Tech GmbH and a majority stake in  Aleo Solar AG. (AS1)   The company, which invested in factories in Germany and
 France , hasn’t pushed forward with plans to build a 520 million-
euro facility in  Malaysia . There has been no activity since it
bought a site early last year, Katrin Lauterbach, a spokeswoman
for Bosch Solar Energy, said today by phone from Arnstadt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  