-- BP Agrees to Join Tanap Gas Pipeline Project by Taking 12% Stake
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-01-23T12:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/bp-agrees-to-join-tanap-gas-pipeline-project-by-taking-12-stake.html
BP Plc (BP/)  will join the Trans-Anatolia
project developed by State Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan  to deliver gas
from the Caspian field of Shah Deniz to Europe along a pipeline
that will extend as far as  Turkey ’s western border.  BP signed a “framework” accord to take 12 percent of the
Tanap pipeline, BP Azerbaijan Vice President for Shah Deniz Al
Cook said today in the Azeri capital of Baku. The deal follows
Chief Executive Bob Dudley’s Dec. 18 visit to the city.  “BP is very committed to Tanap,” Cook said, adding a
commercial agreement will be signed in the next few months.  Azerbaijan and Turkey agreed in June to build the 2,000-
kilometer (1,300 mile) pipeline for an estimated $7 billion to
$10 billion. Socar holds 80 percent. Turkish government pipeline
company Boru Hatlari Ile Petrol Tasima AS and Turkiye Petrolleri
AO have a combined 20 percent. Socar plans to sell 12 percent to
Statoil ASA and 5 percent to Total SA, the company said in 2012.  Socar, in an agreement with BP, will set up a company to
sell Shah Deniz gas to  Europe , Cook said. Socar has the right to
expand gas exports beyond a planned 25 billion cubic meters
through the BP-operated South Caucasus pipeline connecting Baku
to Turkey’s eastern town of Erzurum through  Georgia , he said.  “This means in future the South Caucasus pipeline can
carry not only Shah Deniz gas but all gas from Azerbaijan,”
Cook said. “Socar will take the leadership role in gas exports
from Azerbaijan to Europe for the first time.” BP will remain
the technical operator of the pipeline, he said.  BP and the Azeri government cleared the second phase of the
Shah Deniz project last year to expand the field’s production.  Shah Deniz 2, including a planned expansion of the South
Caucasus pipeline from the current 9 billion cubic meters a year
to 25 billion cubic meters, is estimated to cost $25 billion,
Cook said. The final decision on the Shah Deniz investment is
scheduled for the second half, Cook said.  Shah Deniz 2, the South Caucasus pipeline expansion, Tanap
and either the Nabucco West or Trans-Adriatic pipeline is
estimated to cost about $40 billion in total, he said. The Shah
Deniz group will choose between Nabucco West and TAP by June
after the pipelines submit plans by April 1, Cook said. In the
next 18 months, it plans to commit to $10 billion of contracts
and orders after spending more than $1 billion so far, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  