-- BP Says German Energy Switch to Raise Prices, Hurting Investment
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-01-23T11:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/bp-says-german-energy-switch-to-raise-prices-hurting-investment.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the operator of  Germany ’s
Gelsenkirchen refinery, said it’s concerned the country’s plans
to shut nuclear plants and expand renewable energy will drive up
power prices, blocking investments in  Europe ’s biggest economy.  “This development makes it increasingly difficult for the
industry to remain internationally competitive,” said Michael Schmidt, chief executive officer of BP Europa. “This doesn’t
encourage investments in German locations. Production know-how
moves away, eventually drying out the local value chain.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is seeking to more than
triple the share of renewables in Germany’s power mix by 2050.
The costs and scope of the industry overhaul, the country’s
biggest since World War II, have moved energy to the center of
the political and economic agenda before elections this fall.  Companies are shifting away from Germany in favor of the
U.S., where industrial power prices have dropped to 2 to 3 euro
cents (3 to 4 U.S. cents) a kilowatt-hour, about half the price
on German exchanges, according to Schmidt. While U.S. prices
will fall further, German costs will be pushed higher by the
energy switch, he said today in Berlin.  The development of shale gas in North America sent U.S. gas
prices to their lowest in a decade. That’s attracted investments
from large industrial energy users such as steel producers.
Austrian steelmaker  Voestalpine AG (VOE) , which has German plants in
Butzbach, Brandenburg and Gotha, said Dec. 19 it may build a 500
million-euro factory in the U.S.  BP operates the Gelsenkirchen refinery near Dusseldorf and
the Lingen refinery in Lower Saxony. Its crude-processing,
petrochemical and chemical plants in Germany consume about 1
percent of the country’s total power needs, according to the
London-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  