-- BP Singapore Oil Analyst Serio Said to Leave for Noble
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-01-23T16:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/bp-singapore-oil-analyst-serio-said-to-leave-for-noble.html
BP Plc’s (BP/)  head oil analyst for Asia,
Giovanni Serio, plans to join  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  in Singapore,
four people with knowledge of the matter said.  Serio, 39, resigned at the end of last year and is
scheduled to start at Noble in April, they said, asking not to
be identified because the matter is confidential. Serio will
lead the global commodities research team at Noble, two of the
people said. He previously worked for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Mark Salt, a spokesman for BP in London, declined to
comment on the matter when contacted by phone on Jan. 17. An
official at Noble in  Hong Kong  said in a Jan. 18 e-mail that the
company doesn’t comment on personnel matters. Noble is Asia’s
biggest publicly listed commodity trader.  Serio, an Italian, was head of market analysis in Asia for
BP’s integrated supply and trading division based in Singapore.
He joined BP in London in a similar role after leaving Goldman
Sachs in 2009.  BP fuel oil trader Koh Leong Teck left the company’s
Singapore team this month, according to five people with
knowledge of his departure. The company hired  Steven Taylor  from
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  to head Asia crude trading in Singapore,
two people with knowledge of the appointment said in September.  Noble approached banks this month to arrange $2 billion in
loans to refinance debt, according to four people familiar with
matter. The Hong Kong-based company reported in November a
third-quarter  profit  of $75.2 million, missing the $154.6
million mean estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
as revenue from its agricultural business fell.  Cutting Costs  Noble’s stock was raised to buy by  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) 
last month because the company is poised to benefit the most
among coal and iron ore suppliers from an economic recovery in
China in 2013, according to analyst James Koh.  BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  announced plans in
November 2010 to trim the company’s trading operations after oil
price volatility dropped. That year, BP cut management to reduce
risk and lower costs as it sought to conserve cash to help pay
for damages linked to an oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The
company reports fourth-quarter and full-year earnings on Feb. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  