-- Brazil Posts Record Current Account Deficit in December
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-01-23T13:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/brazil-posts-record-current-account-deficit-in-december-1-.html
Brazil ’s  current account deficit 
widened to a record in December, as exports fell more than
imports in the world’s second-biggest emerging market.  The deficit in the current account, the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, expanded in December to $8.4
billion from $6.0 billion a year earlier, the central bank said
in a report distributed today in Brasilia. The gap was larger
than predicted by any of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
whose widest forecast was for a gap of $7.7 billion, and whose
median estimate was a deficit of $6.3 billion.  Foreign direct investment  in December rose to $5.4 billion
from $4.6 billion in November, the central bank said. Economists
forecast investments of $4.1 billion, according to the median
estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Foreign
investment totaled $65.3 billion for the year.  President  Dilma Rousseff  in December called on companies to
increase investments after the government in 2012 cut taxes on
industry and consumer goods, lowered the benchmark  interest rate 
to a record and announced plans to revamp infrastructure.
Foreign direct investment has remained near record highs, as
international investors bet that Brazil will rebound after
posting the slowest growth among major  emerging markets  last
year.  Growth Forecast  The central bank on Dec. 20 cut its 2012 growth forecast to
1 percent. Brazil’s economy will grow 3 percent to 4 percent
this year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on Dec. 27.  Brazil’s trade surplus in December fell 40.8 percent from a
year earlier to $2.2 billion, according to the central bank.
Exports fell 10.8 percent to $19.7 billion from a year earlier,
while imports fell 4.5 percent to $17.5 billion.  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s largest insurer, announced Brazil
investment plans this month. Allianz Global Corporate &
Specialty, the unit of Munich-based Allianz that underwrites
marine, aviation and corporate risks, said in Jan. 15 it had
opened offices in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo upon winning a
license from local regulators.  Recent economic indicators show that Brazil’s economic
recovery remains uneven. Industrial production in November fell
for the second time in three months on lower capital goods
purchases. While retail sales grew in November for the sixth
straight month, the pace of growth slowed for the first time
since August.  Inflation in the world’s sixth largest economy has remained
above the midpoint of the central bank’s 4.5 percent target for
three years.  Consumer prices  in the month through mid-January
rose by 0.88 percent, more than forecast by any of 38 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, and annual inflation accelerated to 6.02
percent from 5.78 percent in mid-December.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.90 percent at 10:40 a.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.2 percent to 2.0385 per  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  