-- Brazil Mid-January Consumer Prices Rise Faster Than Expected
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-01-23T13:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/brazil-january-ipca-15-consumer-prices-rise-0-88-vs-month-ago.html
Brazilian  consumer prices  rose more
in the month through Jan. 15 than forecast by any economist
surveyed by Bloomberg, increasing doubts that policy makers will
be able to keep  interest rates  at a record low this year. Swap
rates rose.  Prices as measured by the IPCA-15  price index  gained 0.88
percent, the national statistics agency said on its website
today. That was higher than every  forecast  from 38 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median estimate was 0.82 percent.
Annual inflation accelerated for the fourth straight month to
6.02 percent, the fastest pace in a year.  The central bank ended in November the biggest interest
rate-cutting cycle among the Group of 20 nations and pledged to
keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged for a long period.
While inflation is slowing in Mexico and  Chile , price pressures
are building in  Brazil  as the government also reduced taxes,
boosted credit and pushed banks to trim borrowing cost in an
effort to revive the slowest growth in three years.  “Unless inflation calms down by the end of the first
quarter, the bank may have to start reexamining its position on
rates,” Daniel Snowden,  emerging markets  analyst at Informa
Global Markets, said by telephone from  London . “They’ll cling
on for a little while, but right at the start of the year we’re
already over 6 percent.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose one basis point to 7.89
percent at 10:15 a.m. local time. The real strengthened 0.1
percent to 2.0408 per  U.S. dollar .  Stable Rates      The central bank’s monetary policy committee unanimously
decided last week to hold the Selic rate at its record 7.25
percent low, citing “the balance of risks for inflation, which
worsened in the short-term.” Policy makers reduced the Selic
rate by 525 basis points from August 2011 to October 2012.  The central bank said the best way to guarantee convergence
of inflation to its target is maintaining stable monetary
conditions for a “sufficiently prolonged period of time.”
Consumer price increases have exceeded the bank’s 4.5 percent
goal in the last 29 months.  Economists in the latest central bank survey increased
their 2013 inflation forecast for the third straight week to
5.65 percent.  Widespread Inflation   Mid-month inflation has exceeded the median estimate of
economists for seven straight months. Inflation through mid-
January was boosted by a 1.8 percent jump in personal expenses
and a 1.45 percent rise in food and beverage prices. Housing and
transport prices increased 0.74 percent and 0.68 percent,
respectively.  “It’s not just a temporary effect, it’s a widespread
phenomenon,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at  Banco Espirito
Santo de Investimento SA , said by telephone. “That’s why it’s
so hard to believe in an improvement in the inflation dynamic
from now on, which is what the central bank is betting on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  