-- Brazil Swap Rates Drop Before Central Bank Minutes; Real Rises
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-01-23T20:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-inflation-accelerates-real-unchanged.html
Brazil ’s swap rates fell, reversing
an earlier increase, on speculation the central bank will
reiterate in minutes to be released tomorrow its pledge to keep
borrowing costs at record lows to support the economy.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 dropped two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.86 percent at the
close in Sao Paulo. The real appreciated 0.3 percent, the
biggest gain since Jan. 10, to 2.0360 per  U.S. dollar .  The  central bank  held the target lending rate at a record
low 7.25 percent for a second straight meeting on Jan. 16,
saying the domestic recovery was “less intense” than expected
and the balance of risks for inflation worsened in the short
term. Swap rates rose earlier today as a report showed inflation
accelerated more than analysts forecast.  “The market was up in the morning on bad inflation data,
and then the perception returned that the central bank will not
raise rates,” Andre de Carvalho Ferreira, director at Futura
Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “The meeting
minutes will say tomorrow that everything is worse and the rate
stays the same.”  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for
Brazil’s economic growth in 2013 to 3.5 percent from a 4 percent
projection in October. The world economy will also expand 3.5
percent this year, less than a previous forecast of 3.6 percent,
the Washington-based IMF reported today.  Brazil’s IPCA-15 consumer price  index  increased 0.88
percent in the month through mid-January, compared with 0.69
percent in the prior period, the national statistics agency
reported today. The highest forecast of 38 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a 0.86 percent advance.  The real was supported as foreign direct investment rose to
$5.4 billion in December from $4.6 billion in the prior month
and higher than the median forecast of $4.1 billion in a survey
of 16 economists by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  