-- Brazil Sugar-Cane Forecast Raised by Unica on Rain
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-01-23T13:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/brazil-sugar-cane-forecast-raised-by-unica-on-rain.html
Sugar-cane growers in  Brazil ’s
Center South, the world’s largest producing region, will harvest
more than previously expected as rainfall benefits crops, a
director at industry association Unica said.  Output of the tropical plant used to make sugar and ethanol
will rise to a record of between 580 million and 590 million
metric tons in the season starting April 1, compared with about
580 million tons estimated in Dec. 20, Unica’s technical
director Antonio de Padua Rodrigues said in a telephone
interview today. Production will rise from 531.3 million tons in
the current crop year.  “We have good, widespread showers,” Padua said from Sao
Paulo. “So far I can say that crop yields won’t disappoint.”  Brazil’s Center South produces about 90 percent of the
country’s sugar and ethanol.  Latin America ’s largest economy
ships about half of global sugar exports.  Mills will turn less cane into sugar as Brazil plans to
raise the mandatory amount of ethanol blended into gasoline to
25 percent starting in June from 20 percent now. Mills will turn
between 46 percent and 47 percent of the cane into sugar in the
coming 2013-14 season, the least in three years.  About 20 percent of crops are being replanted with higher-
yielding varieties this year, Padua said. The replanting should
translate into higher cane yields in the 2014-15 harvest, Padua
said. Most growers use the plants for as many as six harvests
because stalks grow anew after being cut.  Growers are stepping up planting after excess rain hindered
the renewal of crops in past weeks, Padua said.  “We did have some delays in the past couple of weeks
because of non-stop light rainfall, but mills will be able to
catch up now,” he said.  Most of planting runs from October to March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  