-- Cairo Slum-Dwellers Despair of Mursi on Uprising Anniversary
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-01-24T15:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cairo-slum-dwellers-despair-of-mursi-on-uprising-s-anniversary.html
Maher Moustafa calls his decrepit
neighborhood in Cairo the “street of tragedy.” When he’s in a
bad mood, he just calls it “Egypt.”  Largely home-bound by diabetes, the 50-year-old ex-teacher
spends his days watching neighbors in the Basateen district from
a fourth-floor window. Some suffer from ailments like his. Most,
he says, have slumped from euphoria after  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster
to despair under President Mohamed Mursi. “I wish things had
even stayed the same, but they’ve got worse,” Moustafa said.
“Mursi sold out this country for the votes of his party.”  Egypt will mark tomorrow’s second anniversary of the
uprising the same way it began, with mass protests. This time
Mursi will be the target, accused of sidelining judges and
pushing through an Islamist constitution to consolidate the
Muslim Brotherhood’s hold on power.  Such measures have aroused the ire of the opposition groups
planning rallies. What they haven’t done is improve daily life
in places like Basateen. Many people there profess indifference
to the ideological disputes that dominate headlines, while few
can point to improvements in pre-uprising problems like
corruption, or even traffic jams. And the Mursi era has brought
new dangers. A plunge in Egypt’s currency threatens  inflation ,
and the  International Monetary Fund  may demand austerity that
could hurt the poor, in return for a $4.8 billion loan.  ‘Being Honest’  While Mursi inherited a legacy of mismanagement, the area
“in which he failed most is being honest with the Egyptian
people about where the country stands economically, about the
need for sacrifice, about what his plan is,” said Yasser el- Shimy, Middle East analyst at the Brussels-based  International
Crisis Group . The country’s economic woes have fueled
disillusion not just with Islamists “but the democratic process
itself,” he said.  Egypt’s  foreign reserves  are still almost 60 percent below
pre-uprising levels. The 7 percent slide in the pound over the
past month is the biggest for a decade. Economic growth in the
past two years was the  slowest in two decades . The benchmark
 stock index  is down about 30 percent in dollar terms since the
end of 2010, even after a  rally under Mursi .  The president last month suspended tax rises linked to his
IMF-backed economic plan.  Ahmed Sobea, a media adviser to the Brotherhood’s Freedom
and Justice Party, acknowledges a lack of progress yet says that
in prevailing conditions it’s to Mursi’s credit that things
aren’t worse.  Too Early  “We can’t say that the living standards of people have
improved, but they haven’t deteriorated, despite the economic
situation and the currency crisis,” Sobea said in a phone
interview. It’s also early to judge Mursi, he said. “How can
you hold someone accountable at the beginning of their term?”  A political agenda full of repeats has added to criticism
that Mursi isn’t moving  Egypt  forward.  Parliamentary elections will be held again in the coming
months after courts dissolved the legislature’s lower chamber.
Mubarak and his interior minister, sentenced to life, will be
retried after the verdicts were overturned. The IMF loan bid,
twice halted by the government, is onto its third try.  Disasters such as train crashes and building collapses are
frequent, killing scores and reminding Egyptians of the problems
to be addressed  “I didn’t expect Mursi to just make the problems vanish,
that would take years,” said Ayman Hafez, a 37-year-old civil
servant. Still, Hafez says he regrets his vote for Mursi because
the Islamist hasn’t lived up to his promise “about being a
president for all of us.”  ‘Major Projects’  Sobea, from the Brotherhood’s party, said the government is
working to attract funds for “major projects that can transform
Egypt,” and that constant protests are destabilizing the
country without offering practical ways forward.  “The people want to eat and drink,” he said. “What we
want from the Egyptian opposition is to help in the building
efforts.”  While Mursi and his government have borne the brunt of
criticism, the opposition has also struggled to broaden support.
The constitution passed comfortably in last month’s referendum,
though almost 70 percent of eligible voters failed to turn out.  Egyptians call it the “Couch Party” -- the majority that
has stayed on the sidelines in post-Mubarak votes. Both sides
are stepping up efforts to reach them.  Grassroots Appeal  The Brotherhood this week announced a new program to
provide free medical services to a million people, upgrade
hundreds of schools and ensure staple goods are sold at cost
price. It’s a return to the kind of grassroots efforts that
allowed the group to amass millions of backers as the most
powerful opposition under Mubarak.  The opposition’s diverse strands, including secular and
youth activists, minority Christians and politicians from a
range of parties have pledged to unite for elections, something
they’ve failed to do in the past.  “We have no other option,” because of the “threat that
the  Muslim Brotherhood  presents to the future of Egypt,” Khaled
Dawoud, a spokesman for the National Salvation Front umbrella
group, said by phone.  Protesters clashed with security forces in Cairo today as
they sought to take down concrete barriers on a street near the
Cabinet’s office, the  Interior Ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement.  Burial Costs  Dawoud said the Front’s supporters will be demonstrating
again tomorrow against Mursi. Some poorer Egyptians say they’re
weary of protests that they see as representing the concerns of
a privileged elite.  “My sons are looking for work and they’re just blocking
the streets, demanding the revolution continue,” said Hussein
El-Guindy, a retired driver in Manshiyat Nasr, a sprawling slum
of crumbling mud-brick buildings and narrow alleys. “They’re
all just interested in who sits in the president’s chair. They
have no more of an idea about running this country than Mursi
does.”  El-Guindy, 62, pointed to the cemetery that lies across the
neighborhood’s main road and is a home for the living as much as
the dead. “I can’t even afford to be buried there,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  