-- Cameroon Seeks to Boost Cocoa Quality to Sustain European Sales
-- B y   P i u s   L u k o n g   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-23T15:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cameroon-seeks-to-boost-cocoa-quality-to-sustain-european-sales.html
Cameroon, West Africa’s fourth-
biggest cocoa grower, wants to boost the quality of its crop to
sustain exports to  Europe , the largest processing region.  The government started a campaign to stop farmers from
drying beans on tarmacked roads, according to Jean Assogo
Angoula, an official at the Trade Ministry. The practice
contaminates beans with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, which
is banned in the 27-nation European Union, Lome, Togo-based
 Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  said in a report Jan. 18.  “The European Union will no longer tolerate the
importation of low-quality beans,” Angoula said by phone from
Yaounde on Jan. 11.  About 20 percent of Cameroon’s crop is dried on tarmac,
according to  Edward George , head of soft commodities research at
Ecobank. Production was 210,000 metric tons in 2011-12, the
International Cocoa Organization in  London  estimates.  Europe processes some 40 percent of the world’s cocoa
production, according to the ICCO .  Farmers use paved roads to
speed up the drying process, helping them to sell beans quicker,
Jean Marie Belibi, a cocoa farmer in Awae, near Yaounde, said by
phone Jan. 11.  About one ton of cocoa dried on a road along the Yaounde-
Bafoussam highway was seized from farmers and destroyed on Jan.
9, Angoula said. The quality “is putting off the major trading
houses from purchasing Cameroonian beans as they are typically
mixed with  beans  from other origins to make cocoa products,
potentially making these products unsuitable for sale,”
Ecobank, which finances cocoa trade, said in the report.  Oven Drying  The government also wants to stop farmers in the southwest
from drying beans in ovens, which can contaminate them with
smoke, said Forwang Laurence, an official of the Ministry of
Agriculture and  Rural Development . Some farmers use ovens
because it often rains after the harvest, Laurence said. More
than 50 percent of the crop is dried that way, Ecobank’s George
said.  About 60 percent of Cameroon’s population depends on cocoa,
which accounts for 42 percent of the country’s gross domestic
product, according to the Alliance of Cocoa Producing Countries,
a Lagos, Nigeria-based intergovernmental group of 10 cocoa
producing countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pius Lukong in Yaounde at 
 plukong@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  