-- Cameron’s Plan to Change Europe
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-23T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cameron-s-plan-to-change-europe.html
Prime Minister David Cameron’s much-
hyped  speech  on the U.K.’s place in the European Union turned
out to be both domestically astute and a gamble with Europe
whose outcome is hard to predict.  At a stroke, it has defused the explosive Europe question
that was tearing apart Cameron’s Conservative Party -- at least
until the next U.K. parliamentary elections. It also ignited the
issue for the opposition Labour Party, which must decide how to
respond.  Yet the way in which Cameron secured those tactical gains
for his party creates risk and uncertainty for the U.K. as a
whole. Within five years, Scotland may leave the U.K. in one
referendum, and what remains may leave the EU in another. The
result, still unlikely but now possible, could be a diminished
U.K. and a weakened Europe.  Speaking at Bloomberg LP’s European headquarters in London,
Cameron promised first to renegotiate the terms of the U.K.’s
membership in the EU, and then to hold a referendum by 2018 for
Britons to choose whether to accept the new deal and remain
members, or to pull out.  By any measure those are high stakes. Concern over what
Cameron would say in his speech led both the U.S. administration
and chief executives in the U.K. to warn him against quitting
the EU. To his credit, Cameron made a strong case for
membership, citing the trade, investment and other advantages
that a middling economic power gains by belonging to a union of
27 nations (28 after Croatia joins in July).  Thatcher’s Model  Cameron inevitably based his address on the  iconic speech 
that Margaret Thatcher gave in the Belgian city of Bruges in
1988. He made some of the same valid points, including that the
U.K. has big goals within the EU -- to persuade other members to
create an effective  single market , for one, and to go on
allowing new members to  join , for another.  Much has happened since Thatcher’s time, though. As Cameron
said, the euro-area crisis has pushed the 17 countries involved
to integrate their fiscal and economic policies, even to take
steps toward a banking union. He is right that the U.K. and
other EU countries that have no intention of adopting the euro
need to make sure the settlement works for them, too. The
question is how.  Cameron proposed a wholesale renegotiation of the U.K.’s
membership and a new two-speed EU structure to accommodate the
change. That last idea has long been favored by EU enthusiasts,
because it would allow the euro area to integrate tightly enough
for the currency to survive, while other countries stand aside.
This, as we have said before, would be healthy for all
concerned.  The flaw in Cameron’s argument is that he can’t be sure of
delivering any of his promises. His broad commitment to
renegotiating U.K. membership may even prevent him from doing
so, because other EU members may not agree. French Foreign
Minister Laurent Fabius was quick to respond to the speech by
saying that the U.K. can’t pick and choose a la carte from the
EU, and that if it left he would simply “roll out the red
carpet” for businesses to relocate from the U.K. to France.  Cameron is right, of course, that the EU needs to change to
become more competitive, and with the right approach he may get
German support. Many EU rules need to go: The working time
directive, for example, is much hated by U.K. employers because
it restricts the hours that employees work. Yet the odds are
slim that a socialist government in France will agree to let the
U.K. opt out of a rule that it sees as leveling the playing
field -- no matter how absurd it seems in the age of competition
with China.  Good Questions  Peter Mandelson, a former EU trade commissioner and one of
the U.K.’s sharpest political minds, put it well, speaking on
BBC television right after the speech. Cameron, he said, asked
all the right questions, but to get the right answers he’ll need
to make strong alliances and extend U.K. influence within the
EU. Threatening to leave the bloc if the U.K. doesn’t get to
tear up treaties it signed, in what would look to others like a
giant act of buyer’s remorse, is unlikely to make that happen.  Instead, Cameron now has to come across to other European
leaders as someone trying to improve the EU as a whole, not as a
blackmailer trying to squeeze a special deal for the U.K. He
needs to spend the next few years being a model European.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 