-- Canada Dollar Falls to Parity as BOC Says Rate Boost Less Urgent
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-23T22:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/canada-dollar-falls-as-central-bank-says-rate-boost-less-urgent.html
The Canadian dollar fell to parity
against its U.S. counterpart after the  Bank of Canada  said the
need to raise interest rates is less urgent as the economy will
take longer to reach full output.  The currency dropped to a two-month low as the central bank
led by Governor  Mark Carney  pared its forecast for economic
growth this year to 2 percent from an October prediction of 2.3
percent. It weakened against 15 of its 16 most-traded peers
after the bank held its benchmark  interest rate  at one percent,
matching the predictions of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The market was sort of side swiped by the dovish tone of
Governor Carney,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. in Toronto. “There are
Canadian dollar buyers at parity, but I think the market will
start questioning how strong they will be at this current level.
If we do break through parity, then the Canadian dollar
certainly does have room to underperform a wee-bit more.”  The Canadian dollar, known as the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.7 percent to 99.92
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5:02 p.m. in Toronto. It touched the
weakest level since Nov. 19. One loonie buys $1.0008.  The currency weakened beyond its 200-day moving average at
99.83 cents.  Investors have pushed back projected timing of a Bank of
 Canada  rate rise this year, pricing in 2.6 basis points of
easing by the Sept. 4 meeting, compared to 6.8 basis points
yesterday, Bloomberg calculations based on overnight index swaps
show.  Bonds Rally  Canada’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose, pushing the yield
down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.88
percent. The 2.75 percent note maturing in June 2022 added 31
cents to C$107.47.  The Bank of Canada will announce further details tomorrow
for a Jan. 30 10-year note auction.  The nation’s economy will reach full output in the second
half of 2014 instead of the end of 2013, the bank said, as
growth accelerates to 2.7 percent next year.  “While some modest withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus
will likely be required over time, consistent with achieving the
2 percent inflation target, the more-muted inflation outlook and
the beginnings of a more constructive evolution of imbalances in
the household sector suggest that the timing of any such
withdrawal is less imminent than previously anticipated,”
policy makers led by Carney said in a statement from Ottawa.  Economic Pace  The world’s 11th-largest economy will be hobbled this year
by weak exports and record debts that are curbing  consumer
spending , even as the risks of a major international shock have
eased, the Bank of Canada said. It remains the lone central bank
among Group of Seven nations suggesting a rate increase, as its
peers have added stimulus in recent months.  “It’s more dovish than they’ve been in previous
statements,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president at
USForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, by phone from
Toronto. “They’ve always said we’re going to raise sooner
rather than later, and now they’re backing away from that
slightly, so you’re seeing the Canadian dollar weaken on that.”  The  Federal Reserve  has a short-term interest rate target
of zero to 0.25 percent and is expanding its bonds buying in an
effort to reduce U.S. unemployment and boost the economy of
Canada’s largest trading partner.  “I would probably sell U.S. dollars at parity,” said
Audrey Childe-Freeman, head foreign-exchange strategist at Bank
of Montreal by phone from  London . “If you look at the
respective Fed and Bank of Canada meetings, it really feels like
the advantage remains with the Bank of Canada in terms of
monetary policy support, and that’s supportive for the Canadian
dollar.”  Carney’s Exit  The loonie is unlikely to close above parity, and will
develop a new trading range between C$1 and 98 cents per U.S.
dollar, Childe-Freeman said.  Carney is leaving Canada’s central bank June 1 to lead the
 Bank of England  a month later, and will keep his other role as
Chairman of the Financial Stability Board.  Economists predict Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem will
become the next governor, a subject he didn’t address at today’s
press conference. Macklem said declines in housing starts and
resales are signs household imbalances are easing.  The loonie has fallen 2.4 percent during the past six
months versus nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has gained 6.2 percent
while the greenback has dropped 4.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  