-- Carney Says Canada Rate Rise Less Imminent on Inflation
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-01-23T19:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/carney-says-canada-rate-rise-less-imminent-with-slow-inflation.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said the need to raise  interest rates  is less urgent because the
economy will take longer to reach full output, keeping inflation
below target until the second half of next year.  Policy makers kept their  benchmark rate  on overnight loans
between commercial banks at 1 percent today, as forecast by all
27 economists in a Bloomberg survey, and said that while an
increase in the policy rate may still be needed over time, it
probably won’t happen soon.  “The more muted inflation outlook and the beginnings of a
more constructive evolution of imbalances in the household
sector suggest that the timing of any such withdrawal is less
imminent than previously anticipated,” Carney, 47, said at a
press conference in Ottawa today.  The world’s 11th-largest economy will be hobbled this year
by weak exports and record debts that are curbing  consumer
spending , even as the risks of a major international shock have
eased, the Bank of Canada said. It remains the lone central bank
among Group of Seven nations suggesting a rate increase, as its
peers have added stimulus in recent months.  “The next move for the Bank of Canada is still to raise
rates, though it’s going to be a year from now,” said  Michael Gregory , senior economist at Bank of  Montreal  in Toronto.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.7 percent to 99.91 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 1:06 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0007. Government bond yields declined, with the five-year
benchmark falling to 1.40 percent from 1.46 percent, the biggest
decline since Aug. 22.  No Tightening  Trading in overnight index swaps showed 3.1 points of
tightening have been priced in for the bank’s September
announcement, compared with 6.8 basis points yesterday. Carney
told reporters today the direction of interest rates is
“clear.”  “I don’t see a big change in stance from the Bank’s
perspective, I just see them acknowledging that growth is slower
than they had expected and hence the market is reacting to
that,” Ed Devlin, head of the Canadian portfolio management
team at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a Business
News Network interview.  The  Bank of Canada  pared its forecast for economic growth
this year to 2 percent from an October prediction of 2.3
percent. The economy will reach full output in the second half
of 2014 instead of the end of 2013, the bank said, as growth
accelerates to 2.7 percent next year.  Little Inflation  Inflation will average 0.9 percent this quarter and remain
below 2 percent until the third quarter of 2014, according to
the central bank’s  Monetary Policy Report  published today. The
previous report in October forecast 2 percent inflation by the
fourth quarter of this year.  The bank’s main policy goal is keeping inflation in the
middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent band. The  consumer price
index   advanced  0.8 percent from 12 months earlier in November,
the slowest pace in more than three years.  Carney is leaving Canada’s central bank June 1 to lead the
 Bank of England  a month later, and will keep his other role as
Chairman of the Financial Stability Board.  Economists predict Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem will
become the next governor, a subject he didn’t address at today’s
press conference. Macklem did say declines in housing starts and
resales are signs household imbalances are easing.  World Outlier  “It is reasonable to assume that the Bank is stepping away
from leaning against financial imbalances,” in the new wording
on  consumer debt , said  Jimmy Jean , a strategist in the fixed-
income group at Desjardins Capital Markets in Montreal. “The
Bank has chosen to quit being the world outlier.”  Canada’s  economic expansion  slowed to a 0.6 percent
annualized pace in the third quarter, which was “more
pronounced than the Bank had anticipated” in October, policy
makers said. They cut their estimate of fourth-quarter growth to
1 percent from 2.5 percent, and reduced their forecast for the
January-to-March period to 2.3 percent from 2.6 percent.  The exports that make up about a third of gross domestic
product are being restrained by the Canadian dollar’s
“persistent strength,” the bank said. Oil producers in Western
Canada are facing a record price discount because of
“transportation bottlenecks,” cutting into economic growth and
wealth, the central bank said.  Oil Discount  West Canada Select oil traded at a record $42.50 discount
to West Texas Intermediate crude on Dec. 14, and the  gap  is $37
today. The bottlenecks and price discounts pared Canada’s
economic growth by 0.4 percentage points in the second half of
last year, the central bank said. Companies such as Calgary-
based  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  are considering cutting investment
because of reduced profitability, while Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has made accelerating new energy infrastructure a
priority.  Mullen Group Ltd. (MTL) , an Alberta-based trucking and oilfield
services company, said Jan. 15 it would reduce its planned
 capital spending  by C$23 million ($23.2 million) to C$80
million, while also increasing its dividend.  “We expect 2013 to be a challenging year with little
opportunity to grow our business due to economic and industry
conditions,” Chief Executive Officer Murray Mullen said in a
statement.  Speaking to reporters in Cambridge, Ontario today Harper
said Canada has seen “a general slowing of the economy over the
past, really the past half-year.”  “This is obviously going to have some fiscal impact on us,
will have some impact on the pace of  job creation .”  Very Turbulent  The report shows “how the Conservatives are failing to
protect the Canadian economy from global turbulence,” New
Democratic opposition lawmaker Peggy Nash said in a statement.
“The Bank of Canada has made clear that domestic economic
growth didn’t even meet the modest 2012 projections, and
economic conditions in Canada, and around the world, continue to
be very turbulent,” the spokeswoman for finance issues said in
an e-mailed statement.  Consumer spending will “grow moderately” and housing
investment will decline as households stabilize their debts, the
Bank of Canada said. Consumer debt reached a record 165 percent
of disposable income in the third quarter of last year, a
development that policy makers called the biggest domestic risk
to the economy.  Existing-home sales and housing starts have fallen, the
bank said, due in part to Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s moves
to tighten mortgage rules. Still, “valuations in some segments
of the housing market remain stretched,” policy makers said in
the report.  Today is the first time a press conference and monetary
policy report have come on the same day as the rate
announcement. Previously, they took place the day after.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  