-- Carney Says BOE Panels Won’t Be Overshadowed by Governor
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-01-24T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/carney-says-boe-panels-won-t-be-overshadowed-by-governor.html
Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney
said he will make sure the committee structure of the Bank of
England works to its “full effect” when he takes over and that
his new job is not about one individual.  “I would make the distinction between the responsibilities
of the institution and the power of any individual within that
institution,” Carney said at a press conference in Ottawa
yesterday. “Part of my responsibility when I am there is, that
as the Bank of England gets additional responsibilities on the
micro- and macro-prudential side, to ensure that the committee
structure, the new governance structure, the other aspects, work
to their full effect.”  Carney will succeed Bank of England Governor Mervyn King in
July as the central bank adds financial-regulatory powers to its
monetary-policy remit. His comments come a day after former BOE
policy maker Adam Posen said King exerts too much power that
goes unchallenged by officials at the central bank.  Carney said part of his role will be to “ensure that the
institution is discharging its responsibilities in the right
way, it’s not relying on a single individual and it won’t be.”  Posen, who left the U.K. central bank in August, told
lawmakers at a post-Monetary Policy Committee “debrief” that
the central bank’s supervisory court and the Treasury were
unwilling to challenge King on some issues. He also said the
governor should be more of a chairman than an executive and
delegate more responsibility to his deputies.  Carney declined to comment yesterday on Posen’s remarks.  Asked about the Bank of England’s response to the financial
crisis and recession, Carney said policy makers did an
“admirable job under extremely difficult circumstances and I
would stand four-square behind them.”  “I’m not yet the governor of the Bank of England as you
know, and I’m very happy that Mervyn King is going to serve
there through the end of June,” he said. “There’s no issue in
terms of how they’ve conducted themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  