-- Carney Seen Keeping Bank of Canada’s Tightening Bias
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/carney-seen-keeping-bank-of-canada-s-tightening-bias.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
will probably keep his bias to tighten monetary policy today,
driven by concern about  household debt  levels, even as he says
economic growth will be slower than he previously forecast.  All 27 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast no change
in the policy rate due at 10 a.m. in Ottawa, when the central
bank will also release its quarterly monetary policy report that
will probably include cuts to its growth projections.  Canadian bonds posted their worst returns since 2007 last
year, trailing global peers, in part because the Bank of Canada
is an outlier among Group of Seven central banks with its bias
to tighten policy. While Bank of  Canada  Senior Deputy Governor
Tiff Macklem reiterated a warning about record consumer-debt
burdens in a Jan. 10 speech, he said the country’s economy has
lost some momentum.  “The bank is focused on financial stability,” said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at TD Securities in Toronto. The
bias to raise rates will remain “as long as they are focused on
that.”  Carney has repeated at every interest-rate announcement
since April that withdrawal of stimulus may become necessary,
while other central bankers have moved to ease policy.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canada Broad Market Index
of 1,224 bonds with C$1.2 trillion outstanding returned 3.7
percent in 2012, compared with 10 percent in 2011. The Global
Market Index rose 5.7 percent last year.  Household Debt  Carney, who is leaving Canada’s central bank June 1 to lead
the  Bank of England , has warned for more than a year the economy
is at risk from record household debt loads that have reached
165 percent of disposable income.  The central bank’s economic projections, last updated Oct.
24, overestimated the expansion in the second half of last year.
Growth in the world’s 11th largest economy slowed to a 0.6
percent annual pace in the July-September period, short of the
bank’s 1 percent forecast, as exports fell the fastest since the
end of the 2009 recession.  The bank also projected 2.5 percent annualized growth in
the final quarter of last year. The actual rate was probably
about 1.2 percent, according to  Derek Holt  of Bank of  Nova
Scotia .  “We think the Bank of Canada is likely to come across
somewhat more dovishly” even as it retains its rate guidance,
Holt, vice-president of economics at Canada’s second-largest
bank by assets, said in a preview of the monetary policy report.
The main reason for keeping the language about higher rates is
to curb expectations for rate cuts, he said.  ‘Modest Withdrawal’  The last Canadian rate decision on Dec. 4 reiterated that
“over time, some modest withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus
will likely be required.” Trading in overnight index swaps
yesterday signaled investors have priced in only 11 basis points
of tightening by the end of the year.  Tame inflation is also tempering the need for higher
 interest rates . The  consumer price index  advanced 0.8 percent in
November from 12 months earlier, the slowest pace in more than
three years. Carney’s main policy goal is keeping  inflation  in
the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent band.  Carney and Macklem, who economists predict will take over
as Governor later this year, hold a press conference at 11:15
a.m. Today marks the first time the press conference and
forecast have come on the same day as the rate decision.
Previously they came at least one day later than the
announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  