-- McDonald’s Profit Rises as Dollar Menu Drives U.S. Sales
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-01-23T21:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/mcdonald-s-profit-rises-as-dollar-menu-drives-u-s-sales.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain by sales, said fourth-quarter profit
rose 1.4 percent as its dollar menu and McRib sandwich helped
U.S. sales.  Net income increased to $1.4 billion, or $1.38 share, from
$1.38 billion, or $1.33, a year earlier, the Oak Brook,
Illinois-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
 projected  $1.33, the average of 28 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Don Thompson boosted advertising of
the chain’s dollar menu items, such as McDouble burgers and
McChicken sandwiches, to draw Americans as consumer  confidence 
falls. Sales at U.S. stores open at least 13 months rose 0.3
percent in the quarter. Analysts projected a 0.5 percent drop,
the average of 22 estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix.  “There’s a significant push on value with a lot of media
behind it on TV,” Peter Saleh, a New York-based analyst at
Telsey Advisory Group, said in an interview. While that helped
McDonald’s put up “respectable numbers” in the U.S. for the
quarter, January may be weaker because of bad weather and the
Social Security tax increase, he said.  The shares advanced 0.6 percent to $93.48 at the close in
New York. The  stock  lost 12 percent last year, compared with a
2.6 percent drop for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurants
Index.  Comparable Sales  Quarterly comparable-store sales rose 0.1 percent globally,
compared with an estimate for a decline of 0.3 percent,
according to Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New
Jersey-based Kaul Advisory Group.  “For the near-term we expect top and bottom-line growth to
remain pressured, with January’s global comparable sales
expected to be negative,” Thompson said in today’s statement.  In the U.S., McDonald’s has seen more competition from
 Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) , which has recently introduced new
food, and  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Taco Bell chain, which has been
advertising value items such as 99-cent beefy nacho grillers.
Thompson has said McDonald’s will have stronger new menu items
this year than in 2012.  Earlier this month, the fast-food chain, which has more
than 34,000 locations worldwide, began testing chicken wings in
 Chicago  to lure customers and boost revenue. McDonald’s
previously sold the bone-in wings in Atlanta.  McDonald’s also will introduce Fish McBites at U.S. stores
soon, and new beef sandwiches, chicken entrees, breakfast items
and drinks later this year, Thompson said on a conference call
today.  Consumer Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly fell in
January, after also declining last month, as higher payroll
taxes began to take hold. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary consumer sentiment index dropped to 71.3,
the lowest level since December 2011.  Same-store sales fell 0.6 percent in  Europe  and 1.7 percent
in the company’s Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa region.
Analysts estimated decreases of 1.1 percent and 0.8 percent,
respectively.  McDonald’s will spend $3.2 billion this year to open as
many as 1,600 new stores and remodel locations worldwide. The
chain has been revamping eateries in the U.K. and elsewhere in
Europe, where it gets about 40 percent of revenue.  Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of a
retailer’s growth because they include only older locations.  Revenue increased 1.9 percent to $6.95 billion in the
quarter. Analysts estimated $6.9 billion, on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  