-- Cheapest Infrastructure Stock Seen in Bid War: Real M&A
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-01-23T00:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cheapest-infrastructure-stock-seen-in-bid-war-real-m-a.html
Traders are convinced  Michael Baker
Corp. (BKR) , which has the cheapest valuation relative to its cash
generation among U.S. infrastructure construction companies,
will receive a higher takeover offer.  Michael Baker has  closed  above last month’s $24.25-a-share
bid from DC Capital Partners LLC every day since Dec. 27, with
the premium widening to a record 4.7 percent last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The provider of
engineering services ousted its chief executive officer in
December and this month said it would consider strategic
alternatives and named a new chairman.  The company, down 52 percent since peaking in 2007, has a
higher free- cash-flow  yield than any other U.S. infrastructure
construction stock valued greater than $100 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It would be worth more in the
hands of an acquirer, which may end up paying at least $30 a
share, Crescendo Partners and D.A. Davidson & Co. said. Other
potential bidders include  Fluor Corp. (FLR)  and  Jacobs Engineering
Group Inc. (JEC) , according to KeyCorp.  “It’s a company with a great reputation in the industry,
and the company is very undervalued,” Arnaud Ajdler, a New
York-based senior managing director at Crescendo Partners, which
owns shares of Michael Baker and wrote a letter in December to
the company’s board supporting a sale, said in a telephone
interview. “A strategic buyer would likely be willing to pay a
lot more than what the stock is trading at.”  Alaska Pipeline  David Higie, a spokesman for Moon Township, Pennsylvania-
based Michael Baker, declined to comment on the company’s
takeover prospects. Founded in 1940, Michael Baker provides
engineering services to clients including the U.S. government.
Past projects for the company, which has more than 3,000
employees, include the Trans-Alaska Pipeline.  After the shares closed at $19.11 on Dec. 13, down from a
2007 peak of $52.79, the company said its board asked CEO
Bradley L. Mallory to resign. Less than a week later, DC Capital
proposed merging Michael Baker with KS International LLC, a
provider of engineering services to the U.S. government that’s
controlled by the private-equity firm. DC Capital, which is also
a Michael Baker stakeholder, offered $24.25 a share in cash.  Michael Baker’s “long-term growth strategy has resulted,
and I believe will continue to result, in a significant
undervaluation of the stock,” DC Capital’s Thomas J. Campbell
wrote in a Dec. 19 letter to the board. That day, Michael Baker
said it would review the proposal.  Numerous Suitors  On Dec. 26, Crescendo Partners endorsed a takeover, saying
in a letter to the company that “we believe numerous parties
would be interested” and that a strategic buyer would probably
pay a “significant premium.” Crescendo, which estimated
Michael Baker could get more than $30 a share through a sale,
said it would nominate directors if the company didn’t pursue a
deal. The shares have closed above $24.25 every day since Dec.
27, rising 1.6 percent on Jan. 17 after Michael Baker said
Chairman Richard L. Shaw will retire this month.  “People think it’s worth more, just based on the
trading,” Bill Popper, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based managing
director and arbitrage trader at ICAP Plc, said in a phone
interview. “It’s staying above the bid.”  Crescendo’s Ajdler said a deal at more than $30 a share
would be a “terrific price.” D.A. Davidson’s  John Rogers  said
Michael Baker, which closed at $25.38 yesterday, could get that.  Unsatisfied Board  “A change in the management would at least indicate that
the board is not satisfied with where the company is,” Rogers,
a  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based analyst at D.A. Davidson, said in a
phone interview. “Any time you’ve got a vacancy at the CEO
spot, you’ve got potentially shareholders that are activists, if
you add those things together, then the possibility of something
happening is higher.”  Michael Baker’s free-cash-flow yield amounts to 8.2
percent, higher than the nine other U.S. infrastructure
construction companies valued at more than $100 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The group average is 1.8 percent.  “The work it does can directly convert that into free cash
flow with limited losses,” Tahira Afzal, a New York-based
analyst for KeyCorp, said in a phone interview. “That means
it’s got a very good free-cash-flow model.”  Potential bidders for Michael Baker include Fluor, Jacobs
Engineering,  Aecom Technology Corp. (ACM) ,  URS Corp. (URS)  and  Stantec Inc. (STN) ,
the analyst said.  Poison Pill  Keith Stephens, a spokesman for Fluor; Aecom’s Paul Gennaro; and Pamela Blum, a representative of URS at Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on whether their companies
are potential buyers. Jacobs Engineering’s Michelle Jones and
Stantec’s Alison Smith didn’t respond to requests for comment.  This isn’t the first time Michael Baker has faced an
investor’s desire for change. Starboard Value LP sent a letter
to the company in August 2011 pressing for operational changes.
While Michael Baker several months later terminated its poison
pill, making a takeover easier, the company hasn’t yet agreed to
a deal. A transaction may not be imminent, D.A. Davidson’s
Rogers said.  Still, Michael Baker is attractive and may receive takeover
interest.  “It’s a very good business model, and under the right
hands and as part of a larger company, there is more value that
can be extracted,” KeyCorp’s Afzal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  