-- Chilean Peso Holds Within 0.1 Percent of Four-Month High
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-23T17:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/chilean-peso-holds-within-0-1-percent-of-four-month-high.html
Chile’s peso held within 0.1 percent
of a four-month high as strategists split on whether the central
bank might intervene for the first time since 2011 to slow the
rise of  Latin America ’s strongest currency this year.  The peso was little changed at 471.19 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close in Santiago. It reached 470.95 on Jan. 10, the highest
since Sept. 26 on a closing basis. The peso has gained 1.6
percent this year, the most of seven Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The currency’s appreciation has fueled speculation that the
central bank might act, according to BNP Paribas SA. The
government is concerned that the strength of the peso is
squeezing margins for exporters, President Sebastian Pinera said
on Jan. 17.  “In the last few weeks we have seen investors moving out
of the market at these levels and then coming back in at 475 per
dollar,” said  Alejandro Cuadrado , a strategist at  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in  New York . “We’re going to keep
hovering around this level.”  Cuadrado doesn’t expect the central bank to announce an
intervention in the currency until it has appreciated further,
he said. He estimates the peso will strengthen to 465 per
dollar.  The central bank said Jan. 17 that the peso had appreciated
“slightly” against the dollar.  “The fact that they softened the language speaks of a non-
imminent risk,” Cuadrado said.  BNP Paribas strategists Diego Donadio and Thiago Alday
recommend betting that the currency will weaken because of the
likelihood of intervention. The market is being “too
complacent,” they wrote yesterday in a note to clients.
Investors should pull out of the bet to minimize losses if it
strengthens to 469 per dollar, they wrote.  Chile ’s  real exchange rate , a measure of the peso’s
inflation-adjusted strength against its trading partners was
88.2 in December compared to 87.4 in December 2010, according to
central bank data, shortly before the last intervention. The
measure reached 87.53 in October. A lower number indicates a
stronger peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  