-- Chocolate Busts for $750,000 Open Gallery in Roxy Club
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/chocolate-busts-for-750-000-open-gallery-in-roxy-club.html
The rich smell of chocolate
permeates the vast new galleries of  Hauser & Wirth  in Chelsea,
opening to the public today.  When I visited earlier this week, it didn’t take long to
find the source: In the center of the main exhibition space two
men were busy liquefying candy medallions in large pots and
pouring the bubbling, fragrant substance into molds.  When the 16-foot tower of glass and steel is completed --
it was about two-thirds done -- the structure will be filled
with 800 male busts made of chocolate.  The artwork is one of the highlights of “ Dieter Roth .
Bjorn Roth,” a sprawling survey of paintings, sculpture, film,
installations, prints and assemblage, which inaugurates the
Chelsea branch of the powerhouse international gallery.  Already established in  London  and Zurich, Hauser & Wirth is
beefing up its  New York  presence by taking over a cavernous,
24,700-square-foot building that once housed the Roxy roller
disco club.  To enter, visitors walk up a palatial staircase, framed by
colorful stripes on the walls -- a permanent installation by
British artist  Martin Creed .  Hodgepodge Bar  Another permanent artwork is actually a drinks bar,
constructed by the Roth art clan from a hodgepodge of heavy-
metal machinery, television monitors and cabinets containing old
skates and tree logs. A bouquet of white roses adorns one shelf,
a rusty trumpet and an old sewing machine sit on another while a
pile of candles is melting away in the corner.  Often, the bar is the first thing the Roths build when they
are doing an installation. The 20-year collaboration started
with Dieter (1930-1998) and his son Bjorn, 51. Now Bjorn’s two
sons have joined in.  Compulsively prolific, Dieter experimented with a variety
of materials and media. He put a banana through an etching
press, made sculptures from sugar and chocolate, painted on
table cloths and prefab containers.  “He slept a maximum of three hours a day,” said Bjorn,
smoking a cigarette in the bar. “This is why he left behind so
much work.”  When Dieter needed a painting for an exhibition but didn’t
have time to make one, he ripped out the wooden floor of his
studio in Iceland and showed that.  Floor Art  The two vertical panels marked with paint, footprints and
dirt -- each almost 20 feet tall and 40 feet wide -- are part of
the exhibition.  After losing 77 pounds in a health clinic, Dieter made
self-portraits with old clothes, glue and refuse.  “He was killing himself by eating and drinking too much
which is why he went to the clinic,” Bjorn said. “He came out
thin, sober and fresh.”  During the last year of his life, Dieter installed cameras
in his studios in  Germany ,  Switzerland  and Iceland. The
resulting footage -- screened on a wall of 128 monitors -- shows
him, rotund and white-bearded, going through the most mundane,
solitary daily activities: sketching, thinking, watering plants,
reading on the toilet.  It’s a candid portrait of the artist as an old man.  Most works are on loan from the Dieter Roth Foundation and
private collections. Available items range from $450,000 to
$750,000. “Dieter Roth. Bjorn Roth” runs through April 13 at
511 W. 18th St. Information: +1-212-790-3900;
 http://www.hauserwirth.com .  Muse highlights include Laurie Muchnick on  books  and
Patrick Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 