-- Cisco Agrees to Buy Israel’s Intucell for About $475 Million
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-01-23T21:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cisco-agrees-to-acquire-israel-s-intucell-for-about-475-million.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
largest maker of networking equipment, agreed to buy Intucell
Ltd. for about $475 million, gaining technology that helps
wireless carriers manage their networks.  Cisco will pay cash and retention incentives to acquire the
closely held company, which is based in Ra’anana,  Israel ,
according to a statement today. The deal is expected to be
completed in Cisco’s fiscal third quarter, which ends in April.  The acquisition is part of an effort to get more revenue
from wireless carriers, which are stepping up their  capital
spending  to handle more traffic. Smartphones, tablets and other
mobile devices have increased congestion, boosting demand for
services that help fine-tune networks.  “It is logical that Cisco is adding technology via M&A in
this area,” said Kevin Stadtler, president of Stadtler Capital
Management, an investment advisory firm specializing in
technology. “Carriers like AT&T are deploying Intucell’s
technology to manage their network in real time to improve the
quality of customer experiences.”  Intucell’s technology relieves congestion on an overloaded
cell tower by automatically instructing nearby towers to help
out, said Stadtler, whose firm doesn’t own Cisco shares.  Business Shakeup  Cisco is seeking new sources of growth after a failed
effort to expand into consumer products. Over the past two
years, Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  has eliminated
thousands of jobs and closed businesses such as the Flip video-
camera unit amid a slowdown in sales.  Intucell employees will join Cisco’s Service Provider
Mobility Group, which serves wireless carriers.  “The mobile network of the future must be able to scale
intelligently to address growing and often unpredictable traffic
patterns, while also enabling carriers to generate incremental
revenue streams,” Kelly Ahuja, a Cisco  senior vice president 
who runs the division, said in the statement.  Shares of  San Jose , California-based Cisco fell 1.2 percent
to $20.62 at the close in New York. The stock climbed 8.7
percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  