-- Cocoa Swings as Ivory Coast Crop Spared Damage; Coffee Up
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-23T11:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cocoa-swings-as-ivory-coast-crop-spared-damage-coffee-up.html
Cocoa swung between gains and
declines in London as traders weighed a forecast for a slide in
exports from Indonesia, the third-largest grower, with the
prospect for stable output in top producer Ivory Coast.  Bean exports from Indonesia will decline for the fourth
straight year to the lowest in more than a decade on increased
demand from local grinders, a growers’ group said. Exports may
tumble as much as 26 percent to 100,000 metric tons this year,
according to Dakhri Sanusi, secretary-general of the Indonesian
Cocoa Association.  Ivory Coast will harvest 1.42 million tons in 2012-13,
according to the mean in a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts,
brokers and traders. That’s 6.8 percent more than the 1.33
million tons that brokerage Marex Spectron Group estimated on
Nov. 15, and 3.8 percent lower than last year, data from the
London-based  International Cocoa Organization  showed. The
Harmattan winds from the Sahara desert are withdrawing, with
“little consequences for cocoa,” the National Meteorological
Service’s Antoine Kouassi Koffi said.  Ivory Coast’s “continued good weather conditions and lack
of bullish news is leading to investor selling as the mid-crop
prospects are good,” Keith Flury, a senior commodities analyst
at Rabobank International in London, said by e-mail today.
“Everyone is very focused on Ivory Coast, but the Indonesian
news is slightly supportive to the market.”  Cocoa for March delivery gained 0.3 percent to 1,447 pounds
($2,293) a ton by 11:25 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in London, rebounding
from yesterday’s 2.7 percent decline. The price gained as much
as 0.7 percent and lost as much as 0.4 percent earlier today.
Cocoa for March delivery gained 0.5 percent to $2,224 a ton on
ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Ivorian Rains  Ivory Coast’s 2012-13 cocoa crop will still be smaller than
the 1.476 million tons produced last year, the Bloomberg survey
and ICCO data showed.  Rainfall from May to September last year was
“significantly” below average, effecting the development of
the main crop, which runs from October to March, according to
Joe D’Aleo, chief agriculture meteorologist at Weatherbell
Analytics LLC. Above-average precipitation in the February-to-
April period will be favorable to the mid-crop, the smaller of
two annual harvests that usually starts in April, he said.  Robusta coffee for March delivery was up 0.3 percent to
$1,943 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Arabica coffee for March delivery
was 0.6 percent higher at $1.495 a pound on ICE Futures. It fell
as much as 5.2 percent yesterday.  “Yesterday was a crazy day, with origins selling, and
merchants as well,” Edward de Wismes, an agricultural futures
broker at Aurel BGC in Paris, said by e-mail today, commenting
on arabica coffee. “As there are no buyers at this moment the
market can continue to sell, so I would adopt a bearish to
neutral view on that.”  White, or refined, sugar for March delivery fell 0.4
percent to $481.40 a ton in London. Raw sugar for March delivery
was down 0.2 percent at 18.08 cents a pound in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 