-- Cohen Travels to Davos for Lesson in ‘Resilient Dynamism’
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-01-23T15:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cohen-travels-to-davos-for-lesson-in-resilient-dynamism-.html
Steven A. Cohen  didn’t let a
mounting  insider-trading  investigation of his hedge fund SAC
Capital Advisors stop him from attending the World Economic
Forum in Davos.  Cohen, who has come to Davos for the past three years,
attended a discussion entitled  “The Digital Infrastructure
Context,”  where panelists including Drew Houston, chief
executive officer of Dropbox Inc., and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  head  Paul Jacobs , were scheduled to address issues such as data security
and challenges for governments, regulators and consumers.  Cohen, whose firm is based in Stamford, Connecticut,
declined to comment when approached after the panel.  The  fund manager  is joining world leaders, Nobel laureates
and fellow billionaires as they discuss the state of the global
economy under the motto “Resilient Dynamism.” The logic of the
organizers, as spelled out in the program for the Jan. 23 to 27
event, is that hard times require “successful organizations to
master strategic agility and to build risk resilience.”  Late last year the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
told SAC that it is considering pursuing civil fraud claims
related to alleged insider trading in two drugmakers by a former
fund manager at the firm. Prosecutors say Cohen, 56, discussed
the stocks with the trader, the first time government officials
have linked him to a transaction at the center of an insider-
trading case.  At least eight current or former SAC employees have been
tied to allegations of insider trading while working at the
hedge fund. Four have pleaded guilty to federal charges,
including one who is serving a prison sentence.  Cohen, through a spokesman, has said he is confident that
he has acted appropriately and that SAC continues to cooperate
with the government’s inquiry.  After Davos, Cohen plans to go to  Palm Beach , Florida,
where he will attend the Morgan Stanley hedge-fund conference at
the Breakers hotel, according to a person familiar with his
plans. The person asked not to be named because Cohen’s travel
schedule is private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  