-- Cold Air Gripping Northeast May Deflect Snow This Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-23T15:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cold-air-gripping-northeast-may-deflect-snow-this-week.html
Cold, dry air that has sent the U.S.
Northeast into a deep freeze may protect it from any significant
snow later this week, said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist and
founder of Hometown Forecast Services Inc.  Temperatures across upstate New York today included minus
23 Fahrenheit (minus 31 Celsius) in Saranac Lake and minus 13 in
Fort Drum, representative of the cold that is descending onto
the Midwest and Northeast, Carolan said from Nashua, New
Hampshire. Central Park had 11 degrees at 8 a.m., while
 Chicago ’s temperature was 13, the  National Weather Service  said.  It was minus 2 Fahrenheit in Toronto and minus 16 in
 Montreal , according to  Environment Canada .  “The air is so cold and so dense and so dry it is going to
kind of deflect this storm to the south,” Carolan said by
telephone. “It’s looking much less likely that it will be a big
storm.”  Low temperatures in the large cities of the Midwest and
East boost energy consumption as residents seek to heat homes
and businesses.  Temperatures will be about 8 degrees below normal through
the  Ohio  Valley and Northeast and 15 degrees lower than usual in
southern Ontario and  Quebec  through the end of week, said Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
 Maryland . The frigid air represents the coldest weather of the
year in the East, Rogers said.  “In terms of daily national demand, we are approaching
levels not seen since February 2011,” Rogers said in an e-mail
interview today.  2012 Warmth  Last winter was the fourth-warmest on record in the U.S.
and that helped push natural gas prices to a 10-year low. About
50 percent of U.S. households use the fuel for heating,
according to the Energy Information Administration.  The storm expected to develop in the East may mean some
snow in New York City after 3 p.m. on Jan. 25, the weather
service said. Carolan said he expects little accumulation in New
York and elsewhere along the East Coast because of how dry the
cold air is.  There may be a different result in the areas bordering the
Great Lakes, where cold air crossing the open waters kicks off
heavy snowstorms, Carolan said. Lake-effect snow warnings and
advisories are posted in western  Michigan , New York and northern
Ohio, according to the weather service.  By next week, temperatures in the Northeast may return to
more seasonal levels while rising 3 to 5 degrees above normal in
the mid-Atlantic states and across the Ohio Valley, Rogers said.
A second round of frigid air is expected to drop back into the
eastern U.S. from Feb. 2-6, which may push temperatures to 8
degrees below normal throughout eastern  Canada  and the
Northeast, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  