-- Continental AG Signs $6 Billion Syndicated Loan Accord
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-01-23T09:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/continental-ag-signs-6-billion-syndicated-loan-accord.html
Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-
largest auto-parts supplier, signed a new syndicated loan
agreement to refinance debt and extend its maturity.  The company has arranged a loan totaling 4.5 billion euros
($6 billion), “slightly” reduced from the previous figure and
divided into two portions, the Hanover, Germany-based
manufacturer said in a statement today. The debt, replacing a
loan maturing in April 2014, involves about 30 German and
international banks, it said.  “The new loan agreement not only improves our financing
and debt maturity profile but also puts our financing on a
geographically broader footing,” Chief Financial Officer
Wolfgang Schaefer said in the statement.  Continental is preparing for slower revenue growth this
year after achieving record sales of 32.7 billion euros in 2012.
The company, which is also  Europe ’s second-largest tire maker,
expects a 5 percent revenue increase in 2013 compared to growth
exceeding 7 percent last year.  A contraction in the Europe car market may also weigh on
the company’s profitability. Continental forecast on Jan. 14
that adjusted earnings before interests and taxes in 2013 will
amount to at least 10 percent of sales, declining from a margin
of 10.7 percent last year.  Following Customers  A focus on more complex components such as injection
systems and safety sensors has helped Continental counter a
decline in the European car market that’s forecast to extend
into a sixth consecutive year in 2013. The manufacturer followed
German carmakers into the booming market in  China  and to the
U.S. to supply local production.  Continental  fell  as much as 1.1 percent to 83.68 euros and
was trading down 0.2 percent at 10:45 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The
stock has gained 41 percent over the past 12 months, valuing the
company at 16.9 billion euros.  The new agreement with banks includes a three-year  term
loan  amounting to 1.5 billion euros, and 3 billion euros
available in a five-year revolving  credit line , the company
said. Continental is now released from collateral required under
earlier borrowing terms and documentation will be simplified,
the manufacturer said.  The initial loan for Continental’s acquisition of the VDO
car-electronics unit from  Siemens AG (SIE)  in 2007 stood at 13.5
billion euros. Net debt was 6.8 billion euros by the end of the
third quarter and the company has a target of reducing that
number further this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  