-- Containers Buoy Profit at Rails Grappling With Coal Slump
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-01-23T15:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/containers-buoy-profit-at-rails-grappling-with-coal-slump.html
CSX Corp. (CSX)  and  Norfolk Southern
Corp. (NSC) , the two largest U.S. eastern railroads, topped analysts’
fourth-quarter profit estimates as gains in container cargoes
helped counter sliding coal volumes.  Intermodal-container shipments, which can move via highway,
ocean or rail, rose 2.8 percent at CSX and 3.2 percent at
Norfolk Southern in the period, according to Association of
American Railroads data. Coal slumped about 14 percent as
utilities abandoned it for cheaper natural gas.  Yesterday’s earnings reports by CSX, Norfolk Southern and
Kansas City Southern showed how the industry is adapting to
declines in shipments of coal, which remains the biggest single
product carried by the major railroads.  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the
biggest U.S. carrier, is set to report results tomorrow.  CSX and Norfolk Southern “put up good numbers in a very
difficult environment, slightly better than expected,” said
 Peter Nesvold , a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst in New York.
“These companies do a really good job redeploying assets in
other parts of the network when things like coal are soft. It’s
going to be difficult for them to grow earnings meaningfully
until you start to see a rebound in coal.”  While the three companies all beat estimates, each posted
profit declines from a year earlier. Norfolk Southern will face
“continuing headwinds” from coal in 2013, Chief Marketing
Officer Donald Seale said during a conference call.  Electricity Demand  “For utility business to rebound in terms of its volume
and to help us grow that business back, we need electricity
demand to pick back up, we need industrial load demand for
electricity to improve, and we need gas prices to move up into
above the $3.50 to the $4 range,” Seale said. For exports to
increase, “the world economy needs to improve.”  Volumes have also been damped by the European economic
slump, which is curtailing exports of metallurgical and steam
coal.  Norfolk Southern has no plans to purchase new coal cars in
2013 and will instead “re-body” its existing fleet, Chief
Executive Officer Charles “Wick” Moorman said on the call,
using the industry term for rebuilding and refurbishing the
units.  Sales tied to coal shipments dropped 23 percent in the
fourth quarter to $657 million, the Norfolk, Virginia-based
company said. Coal carloads fell 13 percent in the period, the
railroad said.  Tax Rate  Norfolk Southern also benefited from a favorable  tax rate 
in the fourth quarter, Jefferies’ Nesvold said in a telephone
interview.  Coal volumes at CSX slumped about 19 percent in the period
from a year earlier, the Jacksonville, Florida-based company
said yesterday.  CSX rose 3.7 percent to $21.58 at 9:56 a.m. in New York.
Norfolk Southern gained 2.2 percent to $68.40.  Shares of Kansas City Southern, the smallest of the major
North American railroads, rose 0.9 percent to $92.50. The
railroad rose to the highest since at least 1980 yesterday after
reporting fourth-quarter revenue that beat analysts’  estimates 
on a 2 percent increase in carloads.  “Given the drought, the continued pressure on our utility
coal franchise and the uncertainties prompted by fiscal cliff
concerns, we’ll take those numbers any day of the week,” CEO
David Starling said on a conference call.  Auto Shipments  Automotive-shipment revenue climbed 33 percent in the
period, helping make up for a 19 percent plunge in the carrier’s
utility coal business,  Kansas City Southern (KSU)  said. Container
shipments climbed 4.6 percent, according to railroad association
data.  Kansas City Southern, which transports goods from the
Mexican port of  Lazaro Cardenas  to Laredo,  Texas , on a line
purchased from the Mexican government, is benefiting from new
manufacturing plants south of the U.S. border.  “The company’s management is doing a fine job,” John Larkin, a Baltimore-based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp.,
wrote in a note yesterday. “The opportunities in  Mexico , for
the company, are immense over the long-term.”  Net income  at the Kansas City, Missouri-based company of
$92 million, or 83 cents a share, surpassed an average
projection of 82 cents from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  CSX  profit  of $443 million, or 43 cents a share, also
topped the 39-cent average projection from analysts. Norfolk
Southern’s earnings of $413 million, or $1.30 a share, compared
with a $1.19 estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  