-- Copper Trades Near One-Week High Before U.S. Debt Vote
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-01-23T18:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/copper-drops-from-one-week-high-on-record-production-in-china.html
Copper fell in  New York  for the
first time in four sessions on signs of ample supply and a cut
in the International Monetary Fund’s global growth forecasts.  Stockpiles monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange, up 7.8
percent this year, rose 0.7 percent, daily exchange figures
showed. LME copper inventories may double this year, Macquarie
Group Ltd. said in a report. The world economy will expand 3.5
percent this year, less than the 3.6 percent forecast in
October, the IMF said today. The euro area will shrink 0.2
percent, instead of growing 0.2 percent as the IMF had
estimated.  “Inventories rose again on the LME,” Harry Denny, a
broker at Hoboken, New Jersey-based PVM Future Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “Rallies in copper have been capped by the
idea that there’s plenty of supply around.”  Copper futures for delivery in March slid 0.6 percent to
settle $3.6845 a pound at 1:14 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
Through yesterday, the metal gained 1.4 percent this month on
signs of improving growth in the U.S. and  China , the two biggest
consumers of the metal.  Production at  Chile ’s Escondida, the world’s biggest copper
mine, jumped 31 percent in the fourth quarter from the same
period a year earlier, said  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Output of refined
copper in China increased 22 percent from a year earlier in
December to a record, figures from the country’s statistics
bureau showed.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months dropped 0.4
percent to $8,103 a metric ton ($3.68 a pound).  Tin also fell in London, while lead, zinc and nickel
advanced. Aluminum was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  