-- Cornell’s $35,000 Robot Is Step Up From Dane’s Condoms
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cornell-s-35-000-robot-is-step-up-from-dane-s-condoms.html
The dog doesn’t bark, and it doesn’t
chase Robo-Fluffy.  Robo-Jerry II, a four-legged robotic dog mannequin, has a
mechanical heart and pulse and cost about $35,000 to develop.
Robo-Fluffy is his feline counterpart.  They provide simulated ailing animals to let students hone
their diagnostic skills at the Cornell University College of
Veterinary Medicine’s new  $150,000 emergency and critical-care
training facility.  “The goal is to give students a way to practice these
emergency situations without hurting the animal,” said  Daniel
Fletcher , the robots’ developer and the Ithaca, New York,
college’s assistant professor of emergency and critical care,
said. “They can see real results instead of making a mistake on
a real animal.”  Cornell’s new facility and the creation of simulated models
of organs at other veterinary schools for medical training draw
praise from animal welfare groups for sparing dogs, cats and
other animals from harm and even death.  In recent years, animal-welfare activists such as the
 Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine  have asked the
University of Virginia to stop using live cats to teach medical
residents intubation procedures. Repeated intubations can result
in tracheal bruising, bleeding and trauma.  “We’re confident that the time is going to come when there
will be no terminal use of animals in veterinary training,”
said Dr. John Pippin, director of academic affairs for the
Washington-based committee, which monitors animal abuse.  Surgery Deaths  Hundreds of healthy animals at veterinarian schools
routinely died after being used to teach surgical procedures
such as hysterectomy, said Susan Krebsbach, a veterinarian and a
Wisconsin-based veterinary adviser to the  Humane Society
Veterinary Medical Association .  “It’s so encouraging to see the use of these types of
tools,” said Krebsbach, a graduate of Ohio State University
College of Veterinary Medicine. “It’s a better way to teach
students.”  Before Cornell’s robotic dog was developed, other
researchers created low-cost models for student training. In
2007, Rikki Langebaek, a Danish veterinarian, began developing a
toy animal for about $150 with simulated organs and blood
vessels for the  University of Copenhagen ’s veterinary training
program.  “I wanted to make models that weren’t too expensive, so I
used toys with spare parts made of balloons and condoms,”
Langebaek said. “Robo-Jerry II is a very advanced model. You
really can’t compare the two.”  Organ Recital  Dean Hendrickson at Colorado State University College of
Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences co-created an
artificial abdominal wall with synthetic skin and muscle that
can bleed. The college also is developing simulation models of
an animal’s liver, kidney, bladder, stomach and intestines,
Hendrickson said in an e-mail.  The American Veterinary Medical Association, of Schaumburg,
Illinois, still endorses the use of animals at vet schools for
training purposes while encouraging alternatives such as robots
when possible, said Gail Golab, director of the nonprofit’s
animal-welfare division.  “Decisions have to be made when the realistic environment
differs from the model itself,” Golab said. “Models don’t
bleed, but animals do.”  To create Robo-Jerry and Robo-Fluffy, Fletcher said he
purchased dog and cat simulators from  Thales & Co.  of Van Nuys,
California, which makes a line of animal mannequins under the
 RescueCritters!  brand.  He developed and inserted artificial lungs and speakers
that produce heart sounds and pulses. The robot also has sensors
that can detect when a student is putting pressure on its chest.  Heart Heard  “The robot has pulses which you can feel,” Fletcher said.
“You can hear the heart and lungs as you would with a real dog
or cat. It provides students with physiological feedback.”  Students collect data from the dog or cat in 10-minute
simulation exercises to diagnose the problem and choose a
treatment plan, Fletcher said.  “The advantage of using the robot is that you can’t really
anticipate otherwise what it’s going to be like in a critical
situation until it happens,” Sara Buckley, 27, a third-year
Cornell veterinary college student, said.  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on  art , Laurie
Muchnick on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 