-- Cowboys’ Ratliff Is Arrested on Suspected DWI After Crash
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-23T16:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cowboys-ratliff-is-arrested-for-dwi-after-crash-with-18-wheeler.html
Dallas Cowboys defensive lineman Jay Ratliff was released on bond after being arrested on suspicion
of driving while intoxicated, one month after teammate Josh
Brent was charged with intoxication manslaughter in an accident
that killed the Cowboys’  Jerry Brown .  Ratliff, 31, was arrested at 12:30 a.m. local time
yesterday after his pickup hit an 18-wheel truck and then a
highway barrier in Grapevine,  Texas , police spokesman Robert
Eberling said in a telephone interview. There were no serious
injuries.  Ratliff exhibited signs of intoxication and failed a
sobriety test when police and paramedics arrived at the scene,
Eberling said. Police obtained a warrant for a blood sample
after Ratliff refused a breathalyzer test. It will take about
two weeks for the blood test results to come back, at which time
the case will be forwarded to the Tarrant County District
Attorney’s Office, Eberling said.  Ratliff was released from jail yesterday after posting $500
bond, police said. Cowboys spokesman Rich Dalrymple said the
team had no comment on the case at this time.  Brent faces as much as 20 years in prison after being
indicted last month on a charge of intoxication manslaughter in
the Dec. 8 crash that killed Brown, a close friend who was a
member of the Cowboys’ practice squad. Brent had a blood-alcohol
level more than twice the legal limit and was speeding when his
car hit a curb and flipped at least once.  Ratliff plays defensive tackle, the same position as Brent,
and was limited to six games this season due to injury. He
missed the Cowboys’ first four games with a sprained ankle and
then sustained a sports hernia in November that required season-
ending surgery.  Ratliff has spent his entire eight-year National Football
League career with the Cowboys, starting 84 of the 85 games he’s
played in the past six seasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  