-- Credit Agricole Unit Invested $10 Billion in City, Corpor
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-01-23T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/credit-agricole-unit-invested-10-billion-in-city-corpor.html
Credit Agricole Assurances, the
insurance  unit  of France’s largest bank by branches, said it
invested about 10 billion euros ($13.3 billion) in French
corporate and municipal debt last year.  Credit Agricole Assurances in 2012 invested 1.7 billion
euros in private bond placements from unrated mid-size firms
including Bonduelle SCA and dairy company Groupe Lactalis,
Jerome Grivet, chief executive officer of the division, said in
an interview in Paris today. The firm also purchased about 1
billion euros in French municipal bonds and securitized loans
originally funded by  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s regional banks, which
keep about 20 percent of the municipal lending risks, he said.  “Often we are the one investor that makes a deal
possible” for mid-size companies, Grivet said. Credit Agricole
Assurances is France’s second-largest life insurer.  While stricter capital and liquidity rules push French and
European banks to keep fewer loans on their books, insurance
firms are using their balance sheets to invest in debt of
medium-size companies that have limited funding options.  Credit Agricole Assurances, targeting debt from cities with
more than 10,000 inhabitants, may fund as much as 1.9 billion
euros of French municipal debt, Grivet said.  French local governments rushed for funding last year as
most of Dexia SA, previously the country’s largest municipal
lender, is being wound down after receiving a second capital
injection from  France  and  Belgium . To fill French municipal
lending needs left by Dexia’s demise, La Banque Postale, the
banking arm of France’s postal service, and Paris-based Caisse
des Depots et Consignations are setting up a new French
municipal lender.  Credit Agricole’s life-insurance assets were 221.8 billion
euros at the end of September, 2.5 percent higher compared with
a year earlier, according to the bank’s website. About 80
percent of the assets were invested in interest-rate products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  