-- Cuomo Aims to Speed New York Sandy Recovery With Private Funding
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-01-23T21:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/cuomo-aims-to-speed-new-york-sandy-recovery-with-private-funding.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
proposed a bill in his $136.5 billion budget aimed at speeding
recovery from  Hurricane Sandy  by allowing private companies to
finance public infrastructure projects.  If approved, the measure would mark the first time private
entities could play a role in financing construction of state
roadways, buildings and flood-control projects, according to
budget officials. Private companies would pay upfront building
costs, and New York would pay them back using federal funds it
expects to get from Congress, according to a memo attached to
the bill.  Cuomo’s proposal grew out of the state’s experience with
the $3.1 billion replacement for the Tappan Zee Bridge.  After more than a decade of delay among state agencies,
Cuomo used a law passed in December 2011 to have groups of
private companies design and build the 3.1-mile (5-kilometer)
span over the  Hudson River . Under the so-called design-build
method, it took the state one year to execute a contract for
construction.  “Design-build contracts have been very successful in
building things smarter and more innovatively,” Morris Peters,
a spokesman for Cuomo’s budget division, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “To speed the state’s recovery from
superstorm Sandy, we are expanding the program so that a single-
entity contract will provide the project’s design, construction
and financing.”  Expanding Design-Build  Under existing law, design-build can be used only by the
Thruway Authority, which owns the Tappan Zee, and the
transportation, parks and recreation, and environmental
conservation departments. Cuomo’s bill expands it to every state
agency, authority or commission that has at least one board
member appointed by the governor. The budget for the fiscal year
beginning April 1, which Cuomo submitted yesterday, must be
approved by the legislature.  Cuomo is seeking to repair New York’s infrastructure after
the superstorm struck Oct. 29, knocking out power to 2.1 million
customers, destroying or damaging more than 300,000 homes and
causing the worst flooding in the more than 100-year history of
the New York City subway system.  The U.S. House appropriated $60 billion to the states
affected by the storm, half of which will go to New York, Cuomo
said yesterday when he presented his budget. The  U.S. Senate ,
which approved the measure last year, has to vote on it again in
the new term.  The financing proposal falls short of allowing private
companies to take control of state assets. At least 34 states
and  Puerto Rico  have laws that allow private investment in
public projects, said Richard Norment, executive director of the
National Council for Public-Private Partnerships, an Arlington,
Virginia-based group.  “This is at least a step toward allowing the full use of
public-private partnerships and the innovative financing they
often include,” Norment said in an e-mailed statement.
“Hopefully, this precedent will encourage the legislators to
expand this provision to help with many of the Empire State’s
infrastructure needs, and not just recover from Sandy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 