-- Davos Finance Chiefs Urge U.K. to Stay in EU for Economy
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-01-23T16:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/davos-finance-chiefs-urge-u-k-to-stay-in-eu-for-economy-s-sake.html
British finance executives urged the
U.K. to stay inside the European Union for the good of its
economy after Prime Minister  David Cameron  paved the way for a
referendum on continued membership.  As the  World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting got under way
in Davos,  Switzerland , executives from  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  to
 Prudential Plc (PRU)  said remaining in the 27-nation bloc was in the
U.K.’s economic interest. That message was dovetailed with an
acknowledgment that the crisis-stung euro area’s own governance
rethink justified British demands for a review of relations.  “The U.K. needs to remain very much part of the EU, but I
can completely understand why Prime Minister Cameron thought it
necessary to offer the people a referendum,”  Peter Sands , chief
executive officer at  Standard Chartered , told Bloomberg
Television’s Francine Lacqua in Davos. “Europe is changing and
as the biggest country in Europe outside the  euro zone  its
relationship is going to change.”  With about half of U.K. exports heading to EU neighbors and
 London  serving as the region’s financial hub, companies have an
interest in the U.K. sustaining ties with the rest of Europe.
Cameron will have a chance to outline his strategy to the
world’s financial elite when he speaks in Davos tomorrow.  ‘Wafer Thin’  Describing British backing for the status quo as “wafer
thin,” Cameron said today voters will have their say by the end
of 2017, if he’s re-elected in two years and once he has
negotiated a return of some powers to the U.K. He said that he
wants his country to stay in the bloc.  “For the business sector in general, the long-term
interest of Britain is in the EU,” Tidjane Thiam, CEO of
Prudential, Britain’s biggest insurer by market value, said in
an interview. “The EU needs to be reformed, there’s a lot of
frustration around, that debate needs to happen and long-term
it’s good for Britain to be in the EU.”  The case for membership was made in a report last week from
economists at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  They estimated 50 percent of the
U.K.’s goods shipments and 38 percent of services exports went
to EU countries in the first three quarters of last year and
that exports account for 15 percent of U.K. gross domestic
product. By contrast, the EU relies on trade with the U.K. for
just 2.5 percent of GDP.  ‘Lose-Lose’  “An exit would be a bad thing and a lose-lose situation
for the U.K. and EU,” said Michel Petite, a lawyer at  Clifford
Chance  and former head of legal services at the European
Commission. “A U.K. at the fringe of the EU would fare less
well as an optimal investment site.”  Quitting the EU could undermine the U.K.’s status as the
world’s third-largest magnet for foreign direct investment given
a chunk of the $1.2 trillion that entered in 2011 was likely
sent there as EU membership guarantees access to the continent,
Citigroup said. To attract the same amount outside the EU, the
population would likely have to suffer lower wages or a weaker
pound to sustain the same amount of investment.  “The British economy is highly interdependent with the
rest of Europe,”  John Nelson , chairman of Lloyd’s of London,
the world’s oldest insurance market, said in an interview in
Davos. “It’s very important we’re there. My guess and hope is
common sense will break out and we’ll stay.”  U.K. Trade  The U.K. had a 17.6 billion-pound ($28 billion)  trade
surplus  in financial services with EU countries in 2011,
according to research by TheCityUK, a finance industry lobby
group. About $868 billion of euros are traded every day in the
U.K. as of April 2012, or about 40 percent of all euro foreign
exchange trading, according to the group.  Uncertainty caused by the prospect of a referendum on
Europe might be detrimental to the City, said Mark Boleat,
policy chairman at the City of London Corporation, the financial
district’s local government.  “London’s position as  Europe ’s leading international
financial and business center is crucial to sustaining jobs and
growth not just in the U.K. but across the continent,” said
Boleat. “Uncertainty over this relationship with Europe risks
making the U.K. less attractive as an international centre
across many industries.”  ‘Stronger Europe’  Douglas Flint, chairman of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s
largest bank by market value, said “it’s important that the
product of this process is a stronger Europe with Britain at its
heart.”  Still, Alexander Leitch, chairman of British United
Provident Association Ltd., the biggest U.K. private health-
insurance provider, said Cameron was right to call a referendum.
“It confronts the issue,” Leitch said.  The U.K. is also under pressure from the U.S. to stay put.  “A strong Britain in a strong EU is what I think is best
for Britain, Europe and the United States,” U.S. Undersecretary
of State  Robert Hormats  said in Davos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Davos, Switzerland at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  