-- Debt-Limit Vote in House Refocuses Republican Cuts Plan
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-01-23T17:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/debt-limit-vote-in-house-refocuses-republican-cuts-plan.html
The Republican-led U.S. House plans
a vote today to temporarily suspend the nation’s borrowing
limit, removing the debt ceiling for now as a tool for seeking
deeper spending cuts.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said his chamber will
pass the House measure unchanged and send it to President  Barack Obama . “We believe strongly that this is a way forward,” Reid,
a Nevada Democrat, told reporters at a news conference.  Republicans plan to use two other approaching deadlines --
the March 1 start of automatic spending cuts and the need to
pass a bill to fund the government by the end of March -- to
extract spending reductions from Obama and congressional
Democrats.  The revised strategy eliminates the risk that  House
Republicans  would be blamed for a potential default. By focusing
on the other deadlines, Republicans said they aren’t giving up
their fight for cuts to federal programs.  “The problem with the debt ceiling is if we do not agree
on that, then federal checks don’t go out, the military doesn’t
get their pay,” Representative  John Fleming , a Louisiana
Republican, said in an interview. “What we’ve chosen to do is
push that back behind the other two events.”  May 19  The House bill would temporarily suspend the government’s
$16.4 trillion borrowing limit until May 19. At that point, the
measure would allow the nation’s borrowing authority to
automatically be increased to accommodate the amount the  U.S.
Treasury  borrowed during those three months.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said the Senate probably won’t act before next
week on the House measure.  The House debt-ceiling plan is accompanied by a prod to
lawmakers on the budget. It says the House and the Senate each
must adopt a budget resolution for the next fiscal year by April
15. If not, the pay for members of the chamber that doesn’t act
will be withheld and placed in an escrow account until they
adopt one -- or, at the latest, until the end of the 113th
Congress.  Reid said the Senate plans to pass a budget this year.  New York  Senator  Charles Schumer  said that while Democrats
would prefer a longer debt limit increase, House Republicans’
decision “showed that the Republicans are in full-on retreat on
fiscal policy.”  “They blinked,” Schumer said. “Gambling with default was
never a sound plan by Republicans.”  De-Escalation  The Obama administration said it welcomes the House vote on
lifting the nation’s debt ceiling through mid-May as a de-
escalation of the fiscal debate.  The measure “lifts the immediate threat of default and
indicates that congressional Republicans have backed off an
insistence on holding the nation’s economy hostage to extract
drastic cuts in Medicare, education and other programs,” the
Office of Management and Budget said in a statement yesterday.  The debt limit has been raised periodically since its
creation in 1917, with Congress increasing or revising it 79
times, including 49 times under Republican presidents, since
1960.  Enactment of the legislation could allow the Treasury to
continue borrowing for several months and delay the need for a
permanent increase in the debt ceiling until late summer.  Another Increase  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey , told Bloomberg BNA in an e-mail that
“our very tentative estimates suggest” that the Treasury
“might not need another permanent increase until August.”
Analysts at New York-based RBC Capital Markets LLC concurred,
telling clients in a daily research note that “under this deal
the drop-dead date might slide until August.”  The Treasury Department has said that it expects to run out
of emergency measures to prevent a breach of the current debt
limit between mid-February and early March.  Investors in U.S. Treasury bonds, who most directly bear
the risk of a government default, haven’t shown alarm. The 10-
year yield fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
1.81 percent at 10:47 a.m. in New York today, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The last time Congress fought over raising the ceiling,
Obama signed an increase on Aug. 2, 2011, the day the Treasury
Department warned that U.S. borrowing authority would expire.  The vote on the debt ceiling would clear the way for House
Republicans to focus on the debate to replace about $1.2
trillion in automatic spending cuts, half of which would come
from defense. Congress delayed the start date of the automatic
cuts, known as sequestration, to March 1.  ‘Better Place’  Republicans said they would be willing to let the automatic
cuts take effect if Obama doesn’t agree to other spending
reductions to replace them.  “The cuts are going to happen anyway,” Fleming said.
“The president can’t stop the cuts from happening. All he can
do is hopefully work with us to get the cuts in a better place.
So if we have to we’ll let the cuts go into effect.”  Even if Democrats don’t agree to restructure sequestration
to fall less heavily on defense, the cuts may go forward, said
Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican.  “We hope we can negotiate something different, but we
would let them go ahead and happen,” he said in an interview.  When the automatic cuts take effect, discretionary spending
would come down “dramatically,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an
 Ohio Republican , told reporters yesterday. That could prompt
Democrats to “get serious” about agreeing to cuts to
entitlement programs, he said.  Budget Resolution  After dealing with the automatic cuts, the House is
expected to take up its budget resolution and then turn to a
bill to fund the government through Sept. 30, according to
Fleming. The government is being funded through a stopgap
measure that expires March 27.  Republican lawmakers said they wield leverage with the
automatic spending cuts akin to that Obama had with the
expiration at the end of last year of the tax cuts initially
enacted during  George W. Bush ’s presidency.  Like the tax cuts, the automatic spending reductions will
take place without action by Congress, Cole said.  House Republicans were told by their leaders at the party’s
policy retreat near Williamsburg,  Virginia , last week that they
would push for a  balanced budget  in 10 years. By letting the
automatic spending cuts take effect, the cap on discretionary
spending would be set at less than $1 trillion for 2013 and
2014.  Balanced Budget  Keeping spending at that level for two consecutive years
would enable the budget to reach balance after a decade, said
Representative Lynn Westmoreland, a Georgia Republican.  “They used these numbers to calculate it would balance in
10 years,” he told reporters.  Representative Raul Labrador, an Idaho Republican, said he
had no problem postponing the debt-limit fight if party leaders
“make the commitment that we are going to be on a path to
balance in 10 years.”  If leaders “are willing to fight with us on that, I think
we can stand with them,” Labrador said at an event sponsored by
the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington policy center that
advocates for smaller government.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  said
earlier today that Republicans want to force “a big down
payment on the debt crisis” during the debate on spending cuts
and extending the government’s borrowing authority.  “We have to set our expectations accordingly” and “fight
for those things” Republicans stand for “in a realistic way,”
Ryan said today at a breakfast sponsored by the Wall Street
Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  