-- Dell Bondholder Submission Seen in Debt Curve: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-01-23T17:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/dell-bondholder-submission-seen-in-debt-curve-corporate-finance.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  bondholders increasingly
expect they will be subordinated to new lenders in a potential
$24 billion leveraged buyout.  Yields on $1.5 billion of Dell notes maturing in five to 10
years have increased to 4.05 percentage points more than
obligations due in less than three years, from about 2
percentage points less than two weeks ago, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. That’s the widest difference
among the 50 largest U.S. borrowers, which have an average gap
of 2.3 percentage points.  Dell’s existing bonds don’t have terms limiting total
indebtedness at the Round Rock, Texas-based company, leaving
creditors vulnerable to new obligations that may rank senior to
current debt, according to research firm CreditSights Inc. A
buyout, discussions for which were revealed last week, may push
debt to 4.5 times earnings, according to Fitch Ratings, which
would make Dell the world’s most-leveraged computer hardware
maker, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market is showing that it expects the longer-dated
Dell bonds to be subordinated to new LBO debt,” said Alan Shepard, an analyst at Madison Investment Advisors Inc., which
oversees about $16 billion in Madison,  Wisconsin .  Takeover Talks  Dell’s bonds have plummeted since Bloomberg News first
reported its buyout discussions with private-equity firms,
leaving investors with a 10 percent loss in January as U.S.
corporate notes on average rose 0.1 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Its longer-term debt including $600 million of 5.875
percent notes maturing June 2019 and $400 million of 4.625
securities due 2021 have declined 13 percent this year. That
compares with a 1 percent drop on its near-term securities.  Dell’s five-to-10-year bonds yielded an average of 5.6
percent yesterday, higher than average borrowing costs of 5.15
percent for similar-maturity BB rated bonds, the highest junk
tier, and more than three times the yield on Dell debt due in
less than three years, which pay 1.55 percent, index data show.  If a buyout happens, “typically they will try to refinance
the real short-dated stuff just so they have some operating
room,” said Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, which
oversees about $250 million. “When you start reaching over the
horizon to longer-maturity debt, you have the subordination
risk, you have prospective ratings downgrades, and you have
higher operating risk.”  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment on
how a private takeover would affect existing creditors.  Microsoft Contribution  The company is getting closer to clinching a leveraged
buyout with Silver Lake Management LLC, and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is
discussing contributing about $2 billion for the deal, according
to people with knowledge of the matter. Silver Lake and Dell are
negotiating a price in the range of $13.50 to $14.25 a share,
said one of the people, who requested anonymity because the
talks are private. Dell shares traded at $13.08 at 11:56 a.m. in
New York, up  29 percent  for the year.  Gemma Hart, a spokeswoman for Silver Lake, declined to
comment, as did Frank Shaw, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft.  It’s likely that a leveraged buyout would leave room to
refinance Dell’s short-dated debt maturing between 2013 and
2016, Ping Zhao, an analyst at New York-based CreditSights,
wrote in a Jan. 21 report that downgraded Dell to
“underperform.” The plunge in long-dated bonds still doesn’t
reflect potential post-LBO trading levels, she said.  ‘Event Risk’  “Dell can incur significant amounts of debt that is
structurally senior to existing debt,” Zhao said in the report.
With Dell’s existing notes issued at the  holding company  level,
any debt sold or guaranteed by the firm’s units would be
structurally senior, she wrote.  While Dell’s indentures have certain limits on issuing
secured debt, there are “many ways” to pledge assets such as
cash, patents and accounts receivable that may allow the company
“to issue many billions of dollars of secure debt,” according
to the report. “Event risk for bondholders at this time is
substantial,” Zhao said.  Potential Collateral  Dell has about $9 billion to $10 billion of assets that
could be used as collateral in secured debt, according to Mark Pibl, head of credit strategy at Cortview Capital Securities
LLC. “It’s a huge concern. As always with LBOs, there’s always
the potential for deep subordination with the acquisition-
related debt,” Pibl said in a telephone interview.  “Corporate-bonds investors are extremely concerned about
the downside of their positions, which even with the recent
sell-off could be still substantial,” said Pibl, who expects a
deal to be completed.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Dell’s debt, which
typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates, reached a
record 417.5 basis points on Jan. 18, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. That’s up
from 178 points on Jan. 10. A basis point equals $1,000 annually
on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The difference between the one- and five-year contracts
soared to the most on record last week, reaching 362.5 basis
points on Jan. 18 as traders priced in longer-term credit risk,
CMA data show.  The five-year swaps, which pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt, today rose to 409 basis points from 405.5
yesterday.  Investor Downgrade  Dell has already lost its investment-grade status in the
eyes of credit investors, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital
markets research group. The derivative prices are at levels that
imply the debt should be rated B2.  The computer maker is ranked A by Fitch, A2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and A- at S&P.  An LBO may boost Dell’s leverage ratio, or debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, to
between about 3.5 times and 4.5 times, John Witt, a credit
analyst at Fitch in New York, wrote in a Jan. 17 report. That’s
an increase from 2.09 on Nov. 2 and would be the highest among
global competitors with at least $1 billion of long-term
borrowings including Toshiba Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘Excellent Opportunity’  It would also swell Dell’s total  debt  to more than $15
billion, from $9 billion in November, according to Bloomberg
data based on trailing 12-month Ebitda of $4.3 billion. While
Fitch estimates a transaction would push Dell’s credit rating to
the single-B category, private buyers stand to benefit from the
lowest borrowing costs on record. Yields on junk debt fell to an
unprecedented 6.46 percent yesterday, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  “This is an excellent opportunity, if the funds are
available, to do an LBO given the low interest rate
environment,” Madison’s Shepard said.  Dell, which Chief Executive Officer Michael Dell founded in
1984 in his University of Texas dorm room with $1,000, is
struggling to contend with weak computer demand in a market
increasingly pinched by high-end products such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPad and competition from Asian manufacturers for low-cost
machines.  Dell shares, of which its  founder owns  almost 16 percent,
trades at 8 times its latest 12 months earnings, lower than 96
percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index.
The market value of the company’s shares is $22.8 billion,
Bloomberg data show, and under the current negotiations,  Michael
Dell  would roll his stake into the buyout, according to a person
familiar with the talks.  Desktop Sales  Desktop PC’s  accounted for  about 23 percent of Dell’s $13.7
billion of sales in the third quarter, Bloomberg data show. The
company said in a December regulatory filing that its “most
attractive areas for profitable growth” include data-center
management and so-called cloud computing.  “Whether it’s public or private, the issue is the business
model and the life cycle of the PC, and I’m not sure that the
situation that confronts them is going to change, regardless of
the capital structure,” Bonnie Baha, head of global developed
credit at Los Angeles based DoubleLine Capital LP, which
oversees about $53 billion, said last week in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  