-- Dell Buyout Doesn’t Herald Return of Mega-LBOs, Schwarzman Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-01-23T12:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/dell-buyout-doesn-t-herald-return-of-mega-lbos-schwarzman-says.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s move toward a leveraged
buyout doesn’t signal the return of multi-billion dollar private
equity deals,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Schwarzman  said.  “This isn’t your run-of-the-mill situation,” Schwarzman,
65, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland
today. “This is a pretty unique set of circumstances with a
fundamentally unleveraged company with an owner and founder that
can put up a lot of the equity to make the deal happen.”  Dell, the third-biggest maker of personal computers, is
getting closer to clinching a leveraged buyout with Silver Lake
Management LLC and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is planning to provide part
of the funding, people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday.  Michael Dell , the top shareholder in the computer
company that has a market value of $22.8 billion, would roll his
stake into the buyout, a person with knowledge of the matter
said Jan. 21.  Blackstone didn’t look at buying Dell because the PC
business “is a tough road,” Schwarzman said.  “The financial elements of the deal are very clever,” he
said. “The issue is going to be how the business actually
performs.”  The firm invested about $4 billion out of its $16 billion
leveraged-buyout fund last year, Schwarzman said.  Buyout firms such as New York-based Blackstone typically
use loans secured on the targets they acquire to finance more
than half of the purchase price and cash from their own funds
for the rest. The firms seek to improve performance at the
companies they acquire or expand them before selling them within
five years.  “The private equity business has a reasonable level of
activity,” Schwarzman said. “The deals aren’t as big but there
are plenty of interesting opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  