-- Deloitte & Touche Wins Dismissal of Suit Over Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-23T22:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/deloitte-touche-wins-dismissal-of-iowa-pension-fund-suit-1-.html
Deloitte & Touche  LLP won dismissal
of a lawsuit filed by an Iowa pension fund over the auditing of
WG Trading Co., a company that U.S. prosecutors said was used as
a  Ponzi scheme  by two of its former managers.  U.S. District Judge Paul Oetken in  Manhattan  today granted
a request by Deloitte & Touche, one of the so-called Big Four
accounting firms, to throw out the claims by the Iowa Public
Employees’ Retirement System. The pension fund said in a
complaint filed last year that it suffered millions of dollars
in losses as a result of a Ponzi scheme operated by former WG
Trading managers  Paul Greenwood  and  Steven Walsh .  The pension fund, which said it invested almost $500
million in entities controlled and used by both men, sought
about $39 million of an investment and fees made in WG Trading.  Oetken said in his ruling that the pension fund hadn’t
adequately alleged claims that Deloitte & Touche exhibited
“conscious indifference” and disregarded “red flags” that
would have alerted it to the scheme conducted by the two men.  He also ruled that Deloitte & Touche couldn’t be held
accountable for representations in statements of unaudited, non-
client entities and dismissed claims that the auditor had aided
and abetted the fraud.  ‘Willfully Blind’  “The facts as alleged in the complaint fail to support an
inference that D&T was reckless, let alone willfully blind with
respect to the fraud afoot at Westridge,” Oetken said in his
order. “While D&T may indeed have been negligent, the
allegations don’t establish that it was a conscious wrongdoer.”  The plaintiffs had alleged that Deloitte & Touche served as
the auditor of a company controlled by Greenwood and Walsh and
“aided and abetted” it by issuing “unqualified and/or
‘clean’” audit reports that the pension fund relied on while
purchasing securities that were issued as part of the scheme.  Jeffrey Thompson, a deputy attorney general in  Iowa  and a
lawyer for the pension fund, said his office was reviewing the
decision and didn’t have an immediate comment.  Greenwood and Walsh were indicted in July 2009 on charges
that they conspired to defraud investors of $554 million. The
U.S. said the scheme stretched from 1996 until the men were
arrested in February 2009. Greenwood pleaded guilty to six
charges, including conspiracy and securities fraud. Walsh has
pleaded not guilty.  ‘Piggy Bank’  The government alleged that Greenwood and Walsh used the
company as their own “personal piggy bank” to buy homes, cars,
horses and collectible Steiff teddy bears.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also sued the
men, and described WG Trading Investors as an unregistered
investment vehicle.  The two were minority owners of the  New York  Islanders
professional hockey team in the 1990s, the U.S. said. In 1984,
Greenwood bought Old Salem Farm, a 54-acre riding school and
horse farm, from actor  Paul Newman  and his wife, Joanne
Woodward. Greenwood later sold the farm.  Deloitte & Touche, based in New York, is a unit of Deloitte
LLP, the U.S. arm of U.K.-based Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.,
according to its website. Chris Faile, a spokesman for the
company, didn’t return an voice-mail message left at his office
seeking comment about the ruling.  The case is Iowa Public Employees’ Retirement System v.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, 12-cv-2136, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  