-- Delphi Weighs ‘Bolt-On’ Acquisitions Against Dividends
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-01-24T21:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/delphi-weighs-bolt-on-acquisitions-against-dividends.html
Delphi Automotive Plc (DLPH) , the former
parts unit of  General Motors Co. (GM) , said it’s evaluating “bolt-
on” acquisitions as well as a potential dividend, as it weighs
priorities for its cash.  Delphi has accomplished three of its four priorities for
deploying cash: share buybacks, achieving investment-grade
credit metrics and “opportunistic” acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer Rodney O’Neal said yesterday. Delphi had $1.63
billion in unrestricted cash and near-cash as of Sept. 30.  “We’ve done three of the four,” O’Neal said in an
interview at  Bloomberg News ’ headquarters in  New York . “We have
not done the dividend, and it’s one that many investors have
encouraged us to look at. It makes sense.”  Delphi, based in Troy,  Michigan , rose 78 percent last year
after returning to the public markets in November 2011 following
a 2009 exit from bankruptcy. O’Neal, 59, has cut expenses and
reduced the company’s product lines to 33 from 131. The CEO also
has focused on  emerging markets  and emphasized products such as
fuel-injection and active safety systems sought by consumers and
mandated by governments.  Delphi acquired the electrical connectors unit of FCI Group
from  Bain Capital  for 765 million euros ($990 million) on Oct.
26 when Delphi reported the deal’s completion. O’Neal said he
would consider more such acquisitions this year.  “I’m not looking for anything transformational for
Delphi,” he said yesterday. “I’m already transformed. I’m
looking to do a bolt-on where I bolt it on in the morning and I
get the synergies out by nightfall and I’ve moved on.”  ‘We’re a Duck’  The auto-parts maker is returning cash to shareholders
through a $750 million share-repurchase program, announced in
September.  O’Neal is trying to balance Delphi’s use of cash with its
goal of achieving investment-grade ratings. Kevin Clark,
Delphi’s chief financial officer, said last year he expected
Delphi to earn that rating by the end of April 2013.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services on March 16 raised its
corporate  credit rating  on Delphi to BB+, the highest non-
investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service has a corporate
family rating of Ba1, also the highest non-investment grade.
 Fitch Ratings  last year assigned Delphi a rating of BBB-, the
lowest investment-grade rating.  “We’re walking like a duck, talking like a duck and
quacking like a duck,” O’Neal said. “We’re a duck. I don’t
know what else we need to do. But at the end of the day, I can’t
call myself that. I need them to do that.”  Investor Base  Potentially complicating how Delphi uses its cash is the
company’s investor base, 47 percent of which are hedge funds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That may pressure the
board to focus more on buybacks than dividends, said Matthew Stover, an auto analyst with Guggenheim Securities in  Boston .  “Two of their  big shareholders  don’t care as much about
income as they do  capital appreciation ,” Stover said in an
interview this week. “Using the balance sheet to buy back stock
is more important for them. With that shareholder structure,
does Delphi think about dividends and buybacks differently?
That’s a big issue the market is going to wrestle with with this
one.”  The company, registered in Gillingham, U.K., rose 0.6
percent to $38.87 at the close in New York. The shares have
gained 1.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in New York at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  