-- Denmark Mulls New Power Links to Germany, Netherlands and Norway
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-01-23T16:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/denmark-mulls-new-power-links-to-germany-netherlands-and-norway.html
Energinet.dk, the Danish
transmission grid company, is considering boosting the number
and capacity of electricity connections to  Germany , the
Netherlands and Norway to increase market integration.  Power transmission capacity on the Danish-German mainland
border may rise to 3,000 megawatts in each direction in 2021, or
even earlier, Dorthe Vinther, vice president of electricity
system development at Energinet, said yesterday by phone from
Fredericia, Denmark. Before that, the country plans a first 700-
megawatt link to the Netherlands, and later, a fifth cable to
Norway, adding unspecified capacity to the existing 1,700-
megawatt link, she said.  The country plans to strengthen links to other countries as
it prepares for the growing role of intermittent wind power, to
help offset variable demand and supply. Currently, Germany can
ship 1,500 megawatts to  Denmark , while installed capacity is for
1,780 megawatts in the other direction.  “We think power links between Denmark and Germany will
increase quite a lot in the coming years, on a general need to
boost cross-border capacity and also pave the way for a surge in
wind power output” Vinther said.  Last year, Danish government and opposition parties agreed
to cut coal use by 50 percent over the next eight years and
increase the share of wind power from 29 percent of a total 33.4
terawatt-hours production in 2011 to nearly half, increasing the
country’s reliance on imports when winds are low.  Denmark needs to build all the cross-border cables it can
to handle the increasing dependence on imports,  Charlotte 
Soendergren, chief consultant at the Danish Energy Association,
said by e-mail yesterday from Frederiksberg, Denmark.  Business Case  Energinet and its Dutch partner TenneT Holding BV have
delayed by three years to 2018 a project to build a  700-megawatt
cable  to the Netherlands, Vinther said. “We’re re-evaluating
the business case and investment calculations to see if it is
financially viable to build, since Germany’s plans to boost its
grid changes the premise for the cable,” Vinther said.  Norway and Denmark have three power links in operation,
comprising the Skagerrak cables with a joint capacity of 1,000
megawatts, with a fourth 700-megawatt link to come online at the
end of 2014.  The company is also studying a fifth subsea link to  Norway ,
she said.  “We have made initial economic feasibility studies for a
new cable to Norway, perhaps to be built after 2025,” Vinther
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  