-- Deutsche Increases China Oil-Demand Growth Forecast to 4.9%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-23T07:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/deutsche-increases-china-oil-demand-growth-forecast-to-4-9-1-.html
China’s oil demand will rise at a
faster pace this year than previously forecast amid an economic
recovery, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Consumption by the world’s second-largest crude user will
increase by 4.9 percent, or 468,000 barrels a day, Soozhana Choi, Deutsche Bank’s chief oil strategist in  Singapore , said in
a report e-mailed today. The bank predicted in December that
growth would be 3.4 percent this year.  China’s apparent oil demand, or crude processing plus net
imports of refined products, rose for a second month to a record
10.6 million barrels a day in December, up 9.1 percent from a
year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Gross domestic
product expanded 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter compared with
7.4 percent in the previous period, snapping a seven-quarter
slowdown, government figures showed Jan. 18.  “The sharp recovery in demand from September 2012 likely
reflected some level of inventory building,” Choi said in the
report. “However, we believe actual demand was underpinned by
improving economic growth. Our  China  economists believe that key
drivers of this year’s recovery will be corporate and
infrastructure investments, which should prove positive for raw
materials demand.”  The government has accelerated investment-project
approvals, trimmed fees for exporters and increased spending on
infrastructure to boost growth.  China’s consumption of gasoil, or diesel, which accounted
for about a third of the nation’s total oil demand in 2012, may
climb 3.5 percent this year, about 2 percentage points higher
than in 2012, Deutsche said. Fuel oil demand may weaken after an
increase of 4.4 percent last year as new taxes and crude import
licenses make it less attractive as a refinery feedstock, the
bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  