-- Dimon Backs Shadow Banking as Necessary Service Providers
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-01-23T12:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/dimon-backs-shadow-banking-as-necessary-service-providers.html
Money market funds and investors
forming the so-called shadow banking sector should be allowed to
pursue their business as they provide a necessary service, said
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon.  “It’s a free market,” Dimon said in Davos, Switzerland
today in response to a question from a participant at the World
Economic Forum who said he was a shadow banker. “You’re
entitled to build a business and I agree that there are a lot of
needs out there and people should find ways to fill them.”  Global regulators are pushing for tougher rules on a
shadow-banking system that offers complex forms of credit and
that led to billions of dollars in losses during the financial
crisis. Shadow-banking assets in 11 countries including the U.S.
more than doubled since 2002 to $51 trillion, an amount equal to
about half of total bank assets in those nations, according to a
2011 report by the Financial Stability Board, which coordinates
the work of regulators and central bankers.  “As long as you can fund institutionally and as long as
your investments are capital-markets investments, that’s fine,”
Axel Weber, chairman of UBS AG, Switzerland’s largest bank based
in Zurich, said in response to the same question while on the
panel with Dimon. “I don’t think you’ll see a lot more
regulation in any of the entities, it’s more the retail space
and deposit space that will be protected in future.”  ‘Inexpensive Funding’  Shadow-banking entities include money-market funds,
collateralized loan obligations, credit hedge funds and asset-
backed commercial paper conduits, according to a 2010 Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York  staff report. They provide “sources of
inexpensive funding for credit by converting opaque, risky,
long-term assets into money-like and seemingly riskless short-
term liabilities, the authors wrote in an abstract of the
report.  Germany’s financial markets regulator BaFin said yesterday
that shadow banks need to be subject to international oversight
for regulation of other banks to be effective. Elke Koenig,
BaFin’s president, said in a speech in Frankfurt that countries
‘‘would win little security if we pushed evasive actions into
the weakly regulated or unregulated market.”  “As long as you’re not a systemic risk, you should be
allowed to do what you want,” said Dimon, who heads the largest
U.S. bank by assets. “You will have to compete with us though
too one day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  