-- DNA Method May Enable Storage of All World’s Data
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-01-23T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/dna-method-may-enable-storage-of-all-world-s-data.html
U.K. scientists developed a way of
storing data from a million compact discs in a gram of DNA, a
method that could potentially house all the world’s digital
information.  Computer files totaling 739 kilobytes of hard-disk storage
were  encoded  and made into DNA that fit inside a test tube. The
artificial DNA was sequenced using an  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  machine and
later reconstructed into the original files with 100 percent
accuracy, according to Nick Goldman and Ewan Birney at the
 European Molecular Biology Laboratory-European Bioinformatics
Institute  in Hinxton,  England . The research was published today
in the journal Nature.  While a similar experiment at  Harvard University  has shown
that data can be encoded and synthesized in DNA, the new method
also introduces error correction during the process, which makes
it more reliable, the scientists said. This technique could be
scaled to store the 3 zettabytes, or 3,000 billion billion
bytes, of data estimated to exist on Earth, and the only
limitation to wide implementation is the high cost of
synthesizing DNA, they said.  “It scales remarkably well; the coding scheme would work
to a zettabyte level,” Birney told reporters on a conference
call. “As the price comes down, it could work on a big scale
for large corporations, governments, and in the future for
individuals,” Goldman said.  Shakespeare’s Sonnets  The two scientists enlisted the help of  Santa Clara ,
California-based  Agilent Technologies Inc. (A) , which volunteered to
synthesize an MP3 file of  Martin Luther King ’s “I Have a
Dream” speech and a text file of all of Shakespeare’s sonnets,
among other items.  The result was a collection of DNA the size of a piece of
dust, which was mailed back to the institute. The scientists were
then able to sequence the DNA and decode the files without
errors, they said.  “Error correction is a ubiquitous technology” used in
laptops and mobile phones, Goldman said. “In almost every
circumstance, information we would like to store and transmit
gets a little bit corrupted along the way, and the point of
error-correcting code is to be able to not be too upset by
that.”  The cost of information storage in DNA in 10 years may drop
to one-hundredth of the current $12,400 per megabyte it is now,
according to the authors. At that rate, it may be possible to
realize Goldman’s cloud-computing business idea, where
individuals would upload files from their hard drives to the
cloud and the company would send them back as DNA to keep safe
for a hundred or even a thousand years, he said.  “This is something that’s just 10 years away,” Goldman
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  