-- Dow Chemical Faces Trial in Urethane Price-Fixing Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-23T05:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/dow-chemical-faces-trial-in-urethane-price-fixing-case.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the biggest U.S.
chemical maker by revenue, faces a trial over claims it 
conspired with other makers of a chemical product used in the 
automotive, construction, appliance and furniture industries
to fix prices in violation of federal law.  Jury selection in the case is set to start today in federal
court in  Kansas  City, Kansas. Originally sued with  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
 BASF SE (BAS) , Huntsman International LLC and Lyondell Chemical Co.,
Dow is the only company that hasn’t settled with the purchaser
plaintiffs.  U.S. District Judge John W. Lungstrum last month denied a
motion for judgment in Dow’s favor, ruling that the purchasers’
claims of a conspiracy from 1999 to 2003 were sufficient to
allow the a jury to decide the case.  “Each piece of evidence supports the other, such that a
reasonable jury could find that an agreement existed,”
Lungstrum wrote in his ruling, citing testimony from Dow and
Bayer executives.  Dow, BASF, Huntsman and Lyondell were first sued in federal
court in  New Jersey  in 2005. The case was transferred to Kansas
City that year as part of a multidistrict docket involving more
than 60 plaintiffs, some of whom later opted out of the group
litigation.  At the center of the case are polyether polyols, which the
company describes on  its website  as a component in the making of
polyurethane products for the automotive, construction,
appliance and furniture industries.  Class Action  The class-action plaintiffs in the lawsuit seek unspecified
money damages and for that award to be tripled because of the
alleged antitrust violation, according to that 2005 complaint.  Dow, based in Midland,  Michigan , has denied the price-
fixing allegations, according to the court’s Dec. 18 ruling.  The company said executive meetings and communications
during which the alleged scheme was discussed were “justified
by legitimate business reasons,” Lungstrum said. Dow also said
it provided proof that it and the other alleged conspirators
actually engaged in competitive conduct.  The company’s motion papers and those submitted in
opposition, were filed under seal.  The case is In re Urethane Antitrust Litigation, 04-
md-1616, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas ( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  