-- Want Better Roads? Kill the Gas Tax
-- B y   R o h i t   T .   A g g a r w a l a
-- 2013-01-23T23:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/drop-the-federal-gas-tax-and-build-better-roads.html
Any transportation official knows
how to deal with a broken-down car blocking rush-hour traffic:
Move it to the side of the road and let everyone else get where
they’re going.  This comes to mind as Congress starts work on yet another
transportation bill -- only a few months after passing the last
one, which was just another in a long series of temporary
extensions.  The problem is the gas tax. Set in nominal terms, it has
declined in value drastically since it was last increased in
1993 -- even as the price of gas itself has tripled. As a
result, both the main Highway Trust Fund and its transit account
(often called the transit trust fund) are bankrupt.  Every bipartisan commission that has studied the situation
has advocated raising the tax, but a polarized Congress has been
unable to do it. Last year’s funding law known as the Moving
Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act, or MAP-21, even
required a $21 billion transfer from general revenue, increasing
the deficit but avoiding a tax hike.  A strong, smart, well-funded federal program would be
great. But if Congress can’t pass one now, it should just get
itself out of the way, by eliminating the federal gas tax
entirely and cutting  Washington ’s role in surface
transportation. It would be a big change, but it would
streamline government. And it would probably lead to more
investment in infrastructure and greener transportation
policies.  No Consensus  The basic reason the present system isn’t working is that
there is no longer a consensus in Congress on what a national
transportation program should be. From 1956 to 1991, the
objective was to build the interstate highway system. Then, the
focus shifted to highway maintenance and transit. At this point,
local interests became more important and the national mission
faded. Absent a grand policy, earmarks kept every congressman
invested in a big transportation bill; but these are no more.  As a result, “getting back our share” has become the key
objective, so that every state now gets as much (or more) money
in transportation grants as it pays in federal gas taxes. Along
with the money, the federal government issues various rules for
spending it, many of which require the states to put in some of
their own money, too. It’s common to hear state transportation
officials say that the feds provide 25 percent of the money and
75 percent of the hassle.  Eliminating the federal role would enhance state autonomy
and streamline decision making. What’s more exciting is that it
would also lead to more and better spending on transportation.  In poll after poll, Americans say they are willing to
invest in roads and bridges, as long as it brings about
improvements they will use. This isn’t just talk; state and
local referendums on raising taxes or issuing debt to pay for
transportation projects usually pass.  However, people don’t generally support raising the gas
tax, for the simple reason that they think their current gas
taxes, which are mostly federal, are wasted.  Thus, the federal gas tax has become both a ceiling and a
floor. It makes raising state gas taxes unpalatable. And since
states get back at least what they contribute, the tax
encourages them to keep spending even if they don’t really need
more roads.  Getting rid of the tax would force a serious discussion in
each state about how, and how much, to fund roads and transit.
States could choose to reimpose the same tax, or they could set
a different rate based on their desired level of transportation
spending. They could choose to raise other kinds of revenue to
pay for roads and transit -- such as sales taxes, property
taxes, local taxes or tolls. Or they could simply reduce their
transportation spending.  Greener Policies  Because the biggest states have the biggest needs, this
would probably increase investment nationally.  It would also lead to greener transportation policies.
Traditionally, environmentalists have supported higher federal
gas taxes as a way to discourage driving and fund federal
programs for transit and to mitigate congestion. But the current
tax -- roughly 6 percent at current prices -- is too low to
change consumer habits. And funding formulas that can gain
congressional support usually benefit those states with the most
automobile-dependent policies.  In fact, the most car-centric states tend to be the ones
most opposed to raising the gas tax. Without federal
transportation money, they would be the most likely to reduce
spending on new roads. Conversely, those states most willing to
raise funds for transportation are already the ones most likely
to invest in transit, walkable streets or bike lanes.  Ending the federal program would be relatively
straightforward. The gas tax and all programs it funds would
sunset, perhaps after a few years to allow states time to
adjust. This would amount to a $29 billion annual federal tax
cut, plus a reduction in the federal deficit of roughly $10
billion per year, because the trust funds would stop
overspending. Some 4,000 federal jobs could be trimmed.  Washington’s ability to set national standards for
maintenance and highway design could even continue, because of
commitments that the states made to the federal government years
ago to obtain interstate highway dollars.  Barack Obama ’s administration might find good politics in a
proposal like this. Evoking Ronald Reagan’s “new federalism,’’
it would position the president as being in favor of tax cuts,
deficit reductions and smaller government -- when these things
make sense. It would force 30 Republican governors to wrestle
with the question of how to fund their own highway spending. And
it would be good policy, consistent with Obama’s support for the
environment and for rebuilding U.S. infrastructure.  Ending the federal surface-transportation program would be
a radical move. But if Congress can’t get in gear, moving its
stalled car out of the way of American transportation policy
might help us all get where we need to go.  (Rohit T. Aggarwala leads the environmental program at
 Bloomberg Philanthropies  and is a visiting scholar at Stanford
University. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Rohit T. Aggarwala at  rit@c40.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  