-- The Real Reason for the Decline of American Unions
-- B y   K r i s   W a r n e r
-- 2013-01-23T16:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/the-real-reason-for-the-decline-of-american-unions.html
Today, the Bureau of Labor Statistics
released its annual summary of unionization in the U.S. It
reports that in 2012, the union-membership rate of wage and
salary workers was 11.3 percent, compared with 11.8 percent in
2011. The trend has been downward for some time: Fifty years
ago, the figure was almost 30 percent.  It’s conventional wisdom that the post-industrial workforce
doesn’t want to be unionized. But  survey data  show that workers’
desire to join unions has been growing since the 1980s, and a
majority of nonunion workers would now vote for union
representation if given the opportunity. So if workers want
unions, why is unionization falling?  Commentators have also blamed the decline on everything from
globalization to technological advances to the hollowing-out of
American manufacturing. But those factors are only part of the
story.  Canada ’s experience offers another answer. Canada has gone
through many of the same economic and social changes as the U.S.
since the middle of the 20th century, yet it hasn’t seen the
same precipitous decline in unionization. The unionization rate
in the U.S. and Canada followed fairly similar paths from 1920
to the mid-1960s, at which point they began to diverge
drastically.  Differences in labor law and public policy are at the root
of this disparity.  Union-Friendly  First, Canadian law is simply far more hospitable to unions.
Several provinces have bans on temporary or permanent striker
replacement, which don’t exist in the U.S. And there is no
Canadian equivalent of the “right-to-work” laws that have been
enacted in  24 U.S. states , which prohibit unions and employers
from requiring employees covered by union contracts to pay for
representation.  A second distinction is the manner in which Canada enables
unions to be formed. In the U.S., most private-sector workers
who wish to unionize must sign authorization cards, petition the
 National Labor Relations Board  and then vote in an election. The
time between the petition and the election often stretches to
months, and sometimes for longer than a year. In Canada, the
process is relatively quick. Card-check authorization, which is
used in almost half of Canadian provinces, allows a majority of
employees to form a union at their workplace simply by signing
cards stating that they would like to do so. The other provinces
have a system similar to the U.S.’s, where cards are signed, a
petition is submitted to the labor board and then an election is
held. In Canada, however, the election is typically required to
occur within five to 10 days after the petition, which allows
for far less anti-union campaigning by employers.  Similarly, there is an important difference in how the two
countries deal with charges of illegal obstruction of union
drives. In general, Canada handles such charges much more
quickly than the U.S., where they often aren’t resolved until
long after a union drive is over. This helps to ensure an
atmosphere free of coercion and intimidation.  Finally, Canada has a process called first-contract
arbitration. This provides a means to resolve a bargaining
impasse between unions and employers during initial contract
negotiations after a union has been formed. The first step after
either the employer or union applies to the process is mediation
and conciliation. If this fails to result in a voluntarily
agreed-upon contract, an arbitrator or panel will impose one.
Although this process is rarely sought (and a contract even more
rarely imposed), its primary benefit is to encourage the
negotiation process.  In the U.S., card-check authorization, quicker handling of
illegal-obstruction charges and first-contract arbitration were 
all incorporated into the Employee Free Choice Act, which 
organized labor and its advocates hoped would be passed after 
President  Barack Obama  was elected in 2008. Although Obama 
supported this act while campaigning, his administration has so 
far shown little interest in promoting it, making it all the more 
likely that American unions will continue their long, slow 
decline.  But as Canadian unions make abundantly clear, there is
nothing inevitable -- nor irreversible -- about this process.  (Kris Warner is a research assistant at the Center for
Economic and Policy Research in  Washington . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Kris Warner at
 warner@cepr.net   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 