-- East Coast Rails Drive S&P Gains as Profits Top Estimates
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-01-23T21:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/east-coast-rails-drive-s-p-gains-as-profits-top-estimates.html
CSX Corp. (CSX)  and  Norfolk Southern
Corp. (NSC) , the two largest U.S. eastern railroads, placed among the
20 top gainers on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index today after
their fourth-quarter profits beat estimates.  CSX stock advanced 4.2 percent to $21.68 at the close in
New York, the largest gain since March 15. Norfolk Southern
gained 2.2 percent to $68.41, the highest in four months.  Gains in container cargos at CSX, Norfolk Southern and
Kansas City Southern helped counter sliding coal volumes in the
fourth quarter, signaling that the industry is adapting to
declines in shipments of the fuel.  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the
biggest U.S. carrier, will report results tomorrow.  CSX and Norfolk Southern “put up good numbers in a very
difficult environment, slightly better than expected,” said
 Peter Nesvold , a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst in New York.
“These companies do a really good job redeploying assets in
other parts of the network when things like coal are soft. It’s
going to be difficult for them to grow earnings meaningfully
until you start to see a rebound in coal.”  Intermodal-container shipments, which can move via highway,
ocean or rail, rose 2.8 percent at CSX, 3.2 percent at Norfolk
Southern and 4.6 percent at Kansas City Southern, according to
Association of American Railroads data. Coal, which remains the
biggest single product carried by the major railroads, fell
about 14 percent at the largest North American carriers as
utilities abandoned it for cheaper natural gas.  Electricity Demand  While the three companies all beat estimates, each posted
profit declines from a year earlier. Norfolk Southern will face
“continuing headwinds” from coal in 2013, Chief Marketing
Officer Donald Seale said during a conference call yesterday.  “For utility business to rebound in terms of its volume
and to help us grow that business back, we need electricity
demand to pick back up, we need industrial load demand for
electricity to improve, and we need gas prices to move up into
above the $3.50 to the $4 range,” Seale said. For exports to
increase, “the world economy needs to improve.”  Volumes have also been damped by the European economic
slump, which is curtailing exports of metallurgical and steam
coal.  Norfolk Southern has no plans to purchase new coal cars in
2013 and will instead “re-body” its existing fleet, Chief
Executive Officer Charles “Wick” Moorman said on the call,
using the industry term for rebuilding and refurbishing the
units.  Tax Rate  Sales tied to coal shipments dropped 23 percent in the
fourth quarter to $657 million, the Norfolk, Virginia-based
company said. Coal carloads fell 13 percent in the period, the
railroad said.  Norfolk Southern also benefited from a favorable  tax rate 
in the fourth quarter, Jefferies’ Nesvold said in a telephone
interview. CSX had a 3-cent per share benefit from the sale of a
non-operating property, CEO  Michael Ward  said during a
conference call today.  Coal volumes at CSX slumped about 19 percent in the period
from a year earlier, the Jacksonville, Florida-based company
said yesterday.  CSX Chief Commercial Officer Clarence Gooden said today
that pressures on coal volume will moderate in 2013. The carrier
forecast a 5 percent to 10 percent decline in full-year domestic
coal volumes and a slip in exports to about 40 million tons.  U.S. Policy  CSX can still boost earnings even without a rebound in coal
volumes, Ward said in a telephone interview.  “It’s my belief that if we see some resolution of the
issues in Washington D.C. around the fiscal policy of the nation
that we could see actually a stronger recovery in the second
half of the year,” he said. “Were that to occur, I think we
could do well even with the coal continuing to be down. Would I
rather have the coal? Of course.”  Growth will come from further gains in intermodal cargo and
expansion into crude-by-rail and other new markets, Ward said.  Container shipments are “a key growth engine for CSX and
for the industry,” he said.  Auto Shipments  Shares of  Kansas City Southern (KSU) , the smallest of the major
North American railroads, climbed 0.8 percent to $92.42, adding
to gains yesterday that boosted the shares to the highest since
at least 1980. The railroad yesterday reported fourth-quarter
revenue that beat analysts’  estimates  on a 2 percent increase in
carloads.  “Given the drought, the continued pressure on our utility
coal franchise and the uncertainties prompted by fiscal cliff
concerns, we’ll take those numbers any day of the week,” CEO
David Starling said on a conference call.  Automotive-shipment revenue climbed 33 percent in the
period, helping make up for a 19 percent plunge in the carrier’s
utility coal business, Kansas City Southern said.  Kansas City Southern, which transports goods from the
Mexican port of  Lazaro Cardenas  to Laredo,  Texas , on a line
purchased from the Mexican government, is benefiting from new
manufacturing plants south of the U.S. border.  “The company’s management is doing a fine job,” John Larkin, a Baltimore-based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp.,
wrote in a note yesterday. “The opportunities in  Mexico , for
the company, are immense over the long-term.”  Net income  at the Kansas City, Missouri-based company of
$92 million, or 83 cents a share, surpassed an average
projection of 82 cents from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  CSX  profit  of $443 million, or 43 cents a share, also
topped the 39-cent mean projection. Norfolk Southern’s earnings
of $413 million, or $1.30 a share, compared with a $1.19
estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  