-- Education Holdings Wins Interim-Financing Court Approval
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-01-23T18:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/education-holdings-wins-interim-financing-court-approval.html
Education Holdings (REVU)  1 Inc. the test-
preparation company formerly known as Princeton Review, won
bankruptcy court approval to borrow as much as $4 million while
it reorganizes.  “I will approve and authorize the relief requested,” U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Shannon said at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  The interim financing may be increased to $5.6 million at
the lenders’ discretion. Education Holdings is to return to
court Feb. 7 to seek approval of the rest of the $7 million loan
arranged by GE Capital Corp. as administrative agent.  Education Holdings filed for bankruptcy protection Jan. 21,
a month after settling a fraud lawsuit with the U.S. government.
The company listed  liabilities  of $100 million to $500 million,
and assets of $100 million to $500 million in Chapter 11 court
filings. The company filed a so-called prepackaged plan of
reorganization that it said has been approved by some creditors.  It had 100 percent approval of its proposed bankruptcy plan
from holders of senior secured claims, second-lien facility
claims and senior and junior note claims as of Jan. 17, the
Framingham, Massachusetts-based company said in its filing. A
March 7 hearing is scheduled for court approval of the plan.  Lawsuit Accord  The U.S. Justice Department on Dec. 20 announced the
settlement of a suit filed against the company in May in
Manhattan federal court.  The U.S. claimed Princeton Review received tens of millions
of dollars in federal funds for tutoring services to  New York 
City school children that it didn’t provide. The settlement
amount is as much as $10 million, the government said.  Falcon Investment Advisors LLC and Sankaty Advisors LLC are
the biggest unsecured creditors, according to the filing, which
says each is owed $56.3 million. Liabilities to the Justice
Department are “undetermined,” according to the filing.  The case is In Re Education Holdings 1 Inc., 13-10101, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 