-- Medvedev Rules Out Competing Against Putin for Presidency
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-01-23T13:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/medvedev-rules-out-competing-against-putin-for-presidency-1-.html
Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said he won’t run against President  Vladimir Putin  in
the next presidential election, two months after describing how
he struggled to relinquish the Kremlin.  “I believe this wouldn’t be correct, I think this would be
impossible,” Medvedev  said  today in an  interview  with Ryan
Chilcote on Bloomberg Television at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland . “We are part of one political force, why
would we compete against each other?”  Medvedev, 47, stepped aside last year as president to allow
the return of Putin, 60, who held power as prime minister for
four years after completing the maximum two consecutive terms
allowed by the constitution. Putin is eligible for a second six-
year term at the next presidential election in 2018.  Medvedev, who said in November that he’d struggled to give
up the Kremlin, has shown signs of conflict with his mentor,
including a disagreement over the state’s role in the economy.  His aim now is to reassure Putin about his loyalty because
he’s concerned he may be fired, according to  Sergei Markov , a
former lawmaker from the ruling United Russia party and vice-
rector of Moscow’s Plekhanov Russian University of Economics.  ‘Precarious Position’  “Medvedev is in a very precarious position,” Markov said
in a phone interview. “On the one hand he has a promise from
Putin about his role as prime minister, but there are some very
powerful forces that see him as a threat.”  Medvedev has repeatedly said he may run for the presidency
in the future, again declining to rule it out in today’s
interview. Some allies of the prime minister favor him
challenging Putin in 2018, Markov said.  Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich , a close associate
of Medvedev, is at loggerheads with former Deputy Premier  Igor Sechin , a one-time Soviet spy and longtime ally of Putin, over
the planned $55 billion takeover of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Russian venture by
state-owned  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , which Sechin heads.  In a September interview with the Vedomosti newspaper,
Dvorkovich said he opposed the Rosneft acquisition because it
served “no useful purpose” to expand any state company’s role
in the economy. Putin, who said in 2011 that Russia must avoid
liberal “experiments” to ensure sustainable growth, personally
blessed the deal, which would create the world’s largest
publicly traded oil company by crude production and take the
government’s share of the economy to more than half.  Government Role  Russia will reduce its Rosneft holding to less than 50
percent when the market situation is favorable, according to
Medvedev, who said a blocking stake of 25 percent plus one share
is sufficient “for the state to control key sectors.”  Sechin has opposed the sale of Rosneft shares for the sake
of cutting the state’s stake and urged any decision to be based
on price. He described the oil producer as “our teddy bear,”
inspiring possessive feelings like a child’s for a favorite toy,
the Financial Times reported after an Oct. 5 meeting with
investors in London.  Medvedev also said that an end to state-run  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s
monopoly on natural gas exports was “potentially possible” as
long as Russia maintained its revenue from sales of the fuel.
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas exporter, controls a quarter of
the European market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan Chilcote  in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  