-- EFG-Hermes Says QInvest Takeover Delayed by Regulators
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-01-24T15:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/efg-hermes-says-qinvest-takeover-delayed-by-regulatory-process.html
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , Egypt’s
biggest investment bank, said its sale to Qatar’s QInvest LLC
has been delayed as regulators in the Middle East scrutinize the
takeover.  “It is mainly because of regulatory approvals that the
conclusion of the deal is taking longer than expected,” Hanzada
Nessim, investor-relations manager at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes,
said by phone yesterday. The deal, announced in March, was
expected to be concluded in November.  QInvest, a unit of  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK) , and EFG-Hermes plan
to create an investment bank with operations in the Middle East,
Africa and Turkey, as well as southern and southeastern Asia.  “We require approval in some jurisdictions where EFG has
physical presence,” Nessim said.  EFG operates in  Jordan ,  Kuwait , Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia, Syria and the United Arab Emirates in addition to its
home market, according to its website.  Ashraf El Sharkawy, chairman of the Egyptian Financial
Supervisory Authority, said two days ago that it hasn’t yet
approved the transfer of EFG-Hermes’ Egyptian assets to the new,
Qatari-based entity. Qatar’s regulator has given the necessary
approvals, Mona Zulficar, EFG-Hermes’ non-executive chairwoman,
said by phone.  Doha-based QInvest will invest $250 million in the venture
and take a majority stake in the new company, which will include
EFG’s main investment-banking, asset-management and brokerage
businesses. It will exclude EFG-Hermes’s private-equity business
and Credit Libanais SAL unit. The Qatari company also has an
option to buy total ownership of the venture.  EFG’s  shares  rose 10 percent in 2012, trailing the EGX30
Benchmark Index’s 50 percent gain. The bank’s shares were up 1
percent at the close in Cairo today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  