-- Egan-Jones, Deutsche Bank-FERC, Insurer Group: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/egan-jones-deutsche-bank-ferc-insurer-group-compliance.html
Egan-Jones Ratings Co. was barred
from grading government debt and asset-backed securities for 18
months after settling charges it made material misstatements to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Egan-Jones misled the regulator by asserting it had been
ranking the two asset classes since 1995 when registering for
so-called Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization
status, the SEC said yesterday in a statement. In fact, the
Haverford, Pennsylvania-based company started rating the debt in
2008, the year it applied for the designation.  The SEC evaluates and decides which companies can issue
NRSRO grades, which allows investors to meet regulatory
requirements. The financial watchdog began using ratings in its
rules in 1975, specifying that the only companies whose rankings
could be used were  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings. Ten companies now carry the designation.  “Egan Jones is very pleased to announce that the firm has
settled its issues with the SEC on mutually agreeable terms,”
Bill Hassiepen, co-head of the ratings desk, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Egan Jones remains an NRSRO for all of its
Corporate, Bank/Finance, and Insurance Ratings and will re-apply
for NRSRO designation in relatively short order.”  Egan-Jones, which was first accused of making the
misrepresentations last April, must conduct a self-review and
implement policies that correct issues identified in the order,
according to the statement. In its July 2008 application, Egan-
Jones said it had 150 outstanding ABS issuer ratings and 50
government grades.  Compliance Action  Deutsche Bank Pays $1.6 Million to End U.S. Energy-Market Probe  Deutsche Bank AG agreed to pay $1.6 million to end a
dispute with the U.S., backing away from a showdown with the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  that said a unit of the
bank manipulated California’s power markets.  The bank within 10 days will pay the U.S. a civil penalty
of $1.5 million and surrender $172,645 plus interest to
California’s grid operator, the agency said yesterday in a
statement. The penalties are similar to FERC’s proposed remedy
last year after accusing the bank of trading violations in 2010.  “We are pleased to have reached a settlement and put this
matter behind us,”  Renee Calabro , a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman
in  New York , said in a phone interview.  The settlement ends a dispute that Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank had said would test the FERC’s enforcement powers, enhanced
by Congress in 2005 following trading violations by other
companies.  Deutsche Bank was prepared to challenge the accusations in
court, even though “the cost of defending the case is likely to
exceed the amount” sought by the FERC, the trading unit’s
lawyers said in a Nov. 5 filing with the regulator.  Germany’s BaFin to Investigate False Weidmann Resignation Rumor  German financial regulator BaFin said it will investigate
whether a false rumor about Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
resigning, posted on the social media platform Twitter, was
spread to manipulate the market.  BaFin spokeswoman Dominika Kula said by telephone from Bonn
yesterday that it will be a “routine investigation.” Earlier,
the Bundesbank said it couldn’t rule out that the rumor was used
to manipulate the market.  The euro, which had dropped, recovered after the Bundesbank
said there was no foundation to the speculation.  Swiss Banks Vie for Declared American Assets Amid U.S. Tax Probe  Swiss wealth managers are resuming the fight for American
clients four years after the U.S. sued  UBS AG (UBSN)  in a case that
undermined banking secrecy and triggered the withdrawal of
billions of dollars from Zurich and Geneva.  UBS expects to report assets at its Securities and Exchange
Commission-registered business rose 20 percent to $4.6 billion
last year, even as more recent market entrants, including Syz &
Co. Group and  Reyl Group , vie with  Switzerland ’s biggest bank
for Americans who can prove their funds are declared.  SEC-registered banks are competing for $40 billion of
American assets in the Alpine country as a U.S. Department of
Justice tax-evasion probe embroils at least 11 Swiss firms.  While profit margins on SEC-regulated assets are smaller
than on traditional offshore funds, the U.S. retains its
importance as the largest asset management market in the world,
Eric Syz, a managing partner of Syz & Co. Group, said in an
interview.  North American offshore assets in Switzerland have slumped
70 percent since 2009 and only a third of the remaining assets
may be managed by SEC-registered advisers, according to Boston
Consulting.  For more, click here.  Courts  Gupta Says in His Appeal Trial Judge Hampered Defense Case  Ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director  Rajat Gupta  asked a
federal appeals court for a new insider-trading trial, arguing
that evidence in his favor was kept from the jury and evidence
against him was wrongly allowed.  Gupta, 64, who sat on the board of New York-based  Goldman
Sachs (GS)  and Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , was sentenced
to two years in prison after being convicted of passing
information he gathered at board meetings to Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan erred when he
allowed the government to present wiretaps of conversations not
involving Gupta and limited Gupta’s defense case by barring
evidence that Rajaratnam had alternative sources of nonpublic
information about Goldman Sachs, defense lawyers  Gary Naftalis 
and  Seth Waxman  said Jan. 18 in court papers.  The defense lawyers wrote that the trial court’s
application of the evidence rules “left the jury with a
distorted picture, in which Gupta was accused by the self-
serving hearsay of a known fabulist beyond Gupta’s power to
cross-examine.”  In a rare move, a federal appeals court in Manhattan in
December granted Gupta’s request to remain free while he fights
his conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 12-4448,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Allen Stanford’s CFO James Davis Gets Five-Year Prison Term  Former Stanford Financial Group Co. finance chief James M.
Davis was sentenced to five years in federal prison for his role
in a 20-year, $7-billion international fraud scheme.  U.S. District Judge David Hittner in Houston also sentenced
Davis, who faced as long as 30 years in prison, to three years
of post-release probation. The court also imposed a $1 billion
money judgment against Davis.  Prosecutors had sought a 10-year term for Davis, 64, who
pleaded guilty to felony charges in 2009 and testified against
financier R. Allen Stanford, who is serving a 110-year sentence
in a federal prison in Florida. Davis’s attorney asked the judge
to cap the sentence at four years, citing his client’s
cooperation and remorse.  Stanford’s business empire included the Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. which offered certificates of
deposit and the Houston-based Stanford Group Co. brokerage that
sold them. In a trial before Hittner last year, Stanford was
found guilty of lying to investors about what the bank was doing
with their money. He is appealing his conviction.  Davis was the second-highest ranking member of the Stanford
organization.  The case is U.S. v. Davis, 09-cr-335, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Deutsche Bank’s Jain Sickened by Libor Manipulation Scandal  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain said
he was sickened by the manipulation of interbank lending rates.  “The Libor affair sickens us all,” Jain told clients and
investors during a panel discussion in Koenigstein, a town near
Germany’s financial capital Frankfurt, late in the day on Jan.
21. “I don’t think any CEO thought this was a possibility. It
sickens me the most of all the scandals.”  Regulators from Canada to Switzerland are investigating
whether more than a dozen banks, including Deutsche Bank, were
colluding to rig the rate. Deutsche Bank says it has set aside
reserves for possible financial damages related to Libor,
without specifying their value.  Jain, 50, declined to comment in detail about the alleged
rigging of Libor, the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of
securities, citing ongoing probes and litigation. It is clear
that the level of wrongdoing varied across banks, he said.  Deutsche Bank said in July that an internal investigation
found misconduct by individual employees, though no wrongdoing
by any current or former members of the board.  Comings and Goings  Levitt Says White Would Be ‘Tough, Smart’ SEC Chair  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said former U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White
would be a tough and smart SEC chair.  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee 
on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  For the audio, click here.  Nelson to Run Insurer Watchdog Group After Supporting Obama Plan  The  National Association of Insurance Commissioners  named
ex-Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson  to be its chief executive
officer as the regulators’ group tackles U.S. President  Barack
Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  Nelson’s duties will include working with U.S. and
international agencies as overseers increase their scrutiny on
financial firms, the NAIC said yesterday in a statement. A
former industry executive, Nebraska governor and state
regulator, he was one of the more conservative Democrats in the
Senate.  Nelson provided the 60th vote needed to help push the
health legislation through the Senate. He secured a provision
exempting Nebraska from paying for expanded Medicaid coverage,
derided by Republicans as the “Cornhusker Kickback.” Nelson,
71, later asked the provision be dropped and that all states get
equal treatment.  State commissioners are shaping their health-insurance
markets to comply with the 2010 Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act. NAIC committees have considered standards
for the online insurance exchanges mandated by the law.  Enrollment in the exchanges must begin by Oct. 1 for plans
that will take effect next year.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 