-- Tenaga Posts Fourth Straight Profit on Forex Gain, Coal Costs
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-01-23T10:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/tenaga-posts-fourth-straight-profit-on-forex-gain-coal-costs.html
Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB) , Malaysia’s
biggest power producer, posted a fourth straight quarterly
profit, helped by lower coal costs and foreign currency gains.  The Kuala Lumpur-based utility reported  net income  of 1.42
billion ringgit ($467 million), or 25.7 sen per share, for its
fiscal first quarter ended Nov. 30, compared with a restated net
loss a year earlier of 74.1 million ringgit, or 1.4 sen per
share. Revenue climbed 5 percent to 9.1 billion ringgit on
higher electricity sales, Tenaga said in a statement today.  Tenaga has been getting compensation from the government
and state-owned energy group Petroliam Nasional Bhd. after
disruptions in gas supply forced it to buy costlier alternative
fuels to power its plants. While it didn’t book any compensation
for this latest quarter, it does expect another 1 billion
ringgit for the period April-July last year, Chief Executive
Officer Azman Mohd told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today.  “Although Tenaga enjoyed the benefits of lower coal
price which contributed in the costs of generation, the company
has to be vigilant on the impact of continued use of alternative
fuels on its operating expenses,” Leo Moggie, Tenaga’s chairman,
told reporters at the same event. “Our plants will run on a
shorter maintenance cycle which in the long run, will
adversely impact our operating expenses as well as the
performance of the power plants.”  First-quarter earnings were boosted by lower coal costs and
a foreign currency translation gain of 397.4 million ringgit
after the local currency strengthened against the dollar and yen.
This compared with a forex loss of 419.1 million ringgit a year
earlier, the stock exchange filing showed.  Import Terminal  Tenaga’s  shares  rose 0.6 percent to close at 6.96 ringgit
in Kuala Lumpur today before the earnings release. They have
climbed 14 percent over the past year, outpacing a 7.4 percent
gain in the benchmark FTSE Bursa  Malaysia  KLCI Index.  Currently Tenaga, the government and Petroliam Nasional, or
Petronas, have each been contributing one third to the power
producer’s additional fuel costs. Petronas plans to address
Malaysia’s gas shortage with a new liquefied natural gas import
terminal in Malacca.  “The Malacca regasification terminal has been delayed to
the second quarter,” Jeremy Goh, an analyst at Alliance
Financial Group Bhd., said in a report before today’s results.
“If it commences in June, Tenaga will remain exposed to one
third of the additional cost of alternative fuels for most of
its 2013 financial year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers in Singapore at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  