-- Leon Black Follows Denham in Buyout Firm Mine Push: Commodities
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-01-23T21:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/leon-black-follows-denham-in-buyout-firm-mine-push-commodities.html
Billionaire  Leon Black ’s  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  is among the private-equity firms gearing
up to invest in mining after valuations fell and a decline in
financing left some companies short of cash.  Apollo, which is setting up its first natural-resources
fund, is assessing at least four potential mining deals, said
Gareth Turner, a senior partner in  London . Commodity trader
Trafigura Beeher BV is planning its first metals and mining
private-equity deals and firms Denham Capital Management LP and
Waterton Global Resource Management say they have billions of
dollars to deploy in the industry.  “There are very few places mining companies can go to
today to raise $100 million to $500 million of long-term equity
capital with one phone call,” Turner said in an interview.
“This dislocation of equity prices relative to fundamentals
should persist for a good portion of 2013, which creates the
perfect backdrop for private-equity capital.”  Buyout firms are helping to fill a funding gap after
 mining-industry  equity sales dropped for a third straight year
in 2012 and bank lending slumped. Producers of metals and other
mined commodities such as coal and diamonds still face the
challenge of completing tens of billions of dollars of capital
projects to meet a forecast increase in global demand.  ‘Serious Problems’  “Mining ventures in the public space at the moment have
serious problems funding themselves, no matter if they are in
 Canada , Johannesburg or  Australia ,” said Bert Koth, a director
at Boston-based Denham Capital, which raised $3 billion last
year for resources deals.  Examples of mining companies burning through their cash
include U.S. coal producers  James River  Coal Co. and Consol
Energy Inc. Their cash and near-cash holdings fell 27 percent
and 51 percent respectively in the year through Sept. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after coal demand and
prices slumped. U.S. gold company Jaguar Mining Inc. has seen an
80 percent decline.  No one was immediately available for comment at James River
and Consol. Jaguar declined to comment.  Private-equity acquisitions of mining companies are still
rare, accounting for $1.03 billion of the $109.7 billion of
industry transactions announced last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Activity in 2012 included the A$830 million ($876 million)
bid for Australian copper miner  Discovery Metals Ltd. (DML)  led by
Cathay Fortune Corp., a Chinese buyout firm founded by
billionaire Yu Yong. If completed, the Discovery deal would be
the largest mining takeover by private equity, the data show.  Understanding Investor  Despite a boom in commodities demand, mining stocks have
trailed the broader equity markets in the past 12 months. The
Bloomberg World Mining Index is down 7.8 percent, while the
Bloomberg World Index has  gained  11 percent. With no improvement
in the market, more miners will seek out private capital,
according to Waterton, a Toronto-based firm that has $1 billion
to invest in precious-metals projects and companies.  “The outlook for the equity market is not good” for gold
companies, said Isser Elishis, chief investment officer at
Waterton. “We have our catcher’s mitt there ready to go.”  For mining companies trying to bring their first project
into production, private-equity backing can be ideal, said Tim Crossley, chief executive officer of Trans- Tasman Resources
Ltd. (TAS) , a New Zealand iron-ore mine developer partly owned by
Denham.  “You need an investor who has a good understanding of
investments at this early stage and is skilled in weighing up
the risk-reward elements,” Crossley said in an e-mail.  Counter-Cyclical  Mining projects sometimes run late and over budget, or are
derailed by political upheaval. It takes 12 years on average for
a  copper mine  to enter commercial production, according to  Peter Richardson , chief metals economist at Morgan Stanley Australia
Ltd.  “You need to get comfortable with quite risky
jurisdictions,” Koth said in an interview. “If you get it
right, you can get five, six times your money back.”  The cyclical nature of commodity prices can run counter to
the private-equity industry’s typical three- to five-year
investment horizon. To solve that problem, the companies can fix
future cash flows by hedging commodities production, according
to Apollo’s Turner, something publicly traded mining companies
typically avoid.  Private-equity may also hold on to mining assets longer
than other kinds of investments, said Michael Elliott, sector
leader for global mining at Ernst & Young in Sydney.  ‘Cumbersome’ Loans  “If the fund rules do allow for an exit period that would
be longer than that five-year period, then we see more and more
of a role for that private capital,” Elliott said.  The leading mining companies have the widest choice of
funding options. Australia’s  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and London-based
Rio Tinto Group, the two largest, raised a combined $22.1
billion selling bonds in 2012. Smaller competitors, including
the so-called junior companies that explore and develop mines,
must instead rely on share sales and bank loans.  Lending to metals and mining companies fell 21 percent last
year to $111.8 billion, a three-year low, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Project finance facilities are expensive and
time-consuming for smaller companies because of “cumbersome and
onerous” documentation, said Egizio Bianchini, vice-chairman at
BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  The decline in equity financing has been even more
precipitous. The mining industry last year raised $17.4 billion
via equity sales, down 49 percent from 2011, according to the
data.  Gold Deals?  At the same time, miners of certain commodities have become
steadily cheaper, particularly in gold. The S&P/TSX Global Gold
Sector  Index (BWMING)  of 54 producers trades at about 17 times earnings,
compared with a five-year average of 31, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The price of gold, meanwhile, posted its
12th straight annual gain in 2012.  “The difference between the price of the metal and the
valuations of these companies has just gone to such an
extreme,” said Ken Hoffman, a metals and mining analyst at
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey . “The best deal
for private equity would probably be a single-mine asset,
hopefully gold, because that’s the easiest to hedge.”  The undervaluation of mining companies relative to
commodities’ “fundamentals” is probably at its greatest since
the height of the global credit crisis, Apollo’s Turner said. He
sees the cycle continuing for six to nine months.  Diamonds, Coal  Turner sees three types of mining deals where private
capital is likely to be deployed: buying so-called second- and
third-tier assets that the largest miners no longer want;
funding development companies; and buying stakes in established
miners in order to fund acquisitions or a new project.  Marc Spilker, Apollo’s president, said in November the firm
expected to complete raising funds for its natural resource fund
in the fourth quarter. The fund had just under $1 billion in
commitments, he said. Turner declined to comment on how much
money has been raised and if the fund has been completed.  Apollo has looked at several mining assets in the past
year. It was among prospective buyers in talks for BHP’s
controlling stake in the Ekati diamond mine in Canada, people
with knowledge of the matter said in March.  Market Performance  In November, Apollo announced a $100 million investment in
Denver-based potash exploration company  Prospect Global
Resources Inc. (PGRX)  The firm also said Jan. 14 it will provide $300
million to a partnership with NRI Management Group LLC of the
U.S. to buy coal-mining assets.  Unlike mining companies, U.S. private equity stocks have
outperformed general indexes. The 21-member Yorkville PTP
Financials index of LBO firms, real estate partnerships and
asset managers has gained about 28 percent during the past year,
with Apollo up 41 percent.  Trafigura’s Galena Asset Management Ltd. investment arm
raised $275 million for its Private Equity Resource Fund and may
do three to four deals this year, Galena CEO Jeremy Weir said
Jan. 9. It will target stakes of 25 percent to 60 percent in
companies involved in coal mining, industrial, ferrous and
precious metals, he said in an interview from Geneva.  “The pitch that the private-equity firms are giving is
that they’re open for business and can be a lot more flexible
than the traditional syndicated loan or project finance,” said
Dan Barnholden, a managing director at Cormark Securities Inc.
in Toronto. “A lot of companies are really happy to have an
alternative.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  