-- EON, RWE May Have to Close Down Unprofitable Gas Power Plants
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-01-23T16:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/eon-rwe-may-have-to-close-down-unprofitable-gas-power-plants.html
Natural gas-fired power plants in
Germany can no longer operate profitably, according to EON SE,
while  RWE AG (RWE)  hasn’t ruled out mothballing some of them.  “The situation of gas-fired power stations is dramatic,”
Johannes Teyssen, chief executive officer of EON, Germany’s
largest utility, said today at an energy conference in Berlin.
“Politicians have to see clearly what risks for the security of
supply arise.”  It’s not possible to keep plants running that
don’t cover their costs, he said.  German power generators are being challenged by German
 energy policy , designed to cut  carbon emissions  while phasing
out nuclear power. German year-ahead power prices, a European
benchmark, dropped 14 percent last year, according to broker
data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference between fuel prices
means generators lose about 15 euros ($20) for each megawatt-
hour they produce from gas, while making 7.50 euros from coal.  RWE,  Germany ’s second-largest utility, hasn’t ruled out
mothballing gas-fired power plants in Germany. Some of the
company’s gas-fired power plants are operating 1,500 hours a
year instead of the planned 3,000 to 3,500 hours a year,
Matthias Hartung, chief executive officer of RWE Generation SE,
said yesterday. No request has yet been submitted to idle power
plants, he said.  Germany “needs” flexible gas plants to underpin a greater
share of renewable sources if the nation’s nuclear exit is to
succeed, Environment Minister Peter Altmaier said today in
Berlin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  