-- Merscorp Failed to Record Loan Sales, Kentucky Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-23T22:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/merscorp-failed-to-record-loan-sales-kentucky-says.html
Merscorp Holdings Inc. was sued by
 Kentucky  Attorney General Jack Conway over loan assignments that
the state says weren’t properly recorded with counties when home
loans were sold or transferred.  Conway, in a lawsuit filed today in Franklin Circuit Court
in Frankfort, alleges that hundreds of thousands of Kentucky
loans are registered with the company’s Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems Inc. unit. Because the mortgage assignments
weren’t recorded, homeowners having trouble paying their
mortgages struggled to find out who owned their loans, making it
difficult for them to request a loan modification or avoid
foreclosure, Conway said in a statement on his website.  Massachusetts, Delaware and  New York  have filed similar
lawsuits against Merscorp, Conway said. MERS, as the unit is
called, created the system to unjustly enrich and pad its bottom
line at the expense of consumers and the state, he said.  “There is no merit to the allegations leveled at MERS by
Kentucky Attorney General Jack Conway,” Reston, Virginia-based
Merscorp said in an e-mailed statement. “All MERS mortgages are
registered in the local land records and all recording fees are
properly paid.”  MERS data isn’t used by servicers to make loan-
modification, refinance or foreclosure decisions, the company
said.  Conway seeks court orders to block MERS from assigning
mortgages after the start of a foreclosure proceeding, record
documents to correct the chain of title for MERS mortgages, pay
recording fees and $2,000 in civil penalties for each violation
of Kentucky recording law, and provide restitution to affected
borrowers.  The Massachusetts case against MERS was dismissed last
year, Jason Lobo, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The case is Kentucky v. Merscorp, 13-CI-00060, Franklin
Circuit Court, Frankfort, Kentucky.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  