-- Etisalat CEO Weighs Financing for $6 Billion Vivendi Maroc Stake
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-23T14:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/etisalat-ceo-weighs-financing-for-6-billion-vivendi-maroc-stake.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ,
the Middle East’s second-biggest phone company by market value,
said it’s weighing finance options for the potential acquisition
of  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s $6 billion stake in  Maroc Telecom. (IAM)   “We are very much underleveraged and we have the cash;
that leaves us with all options open,” Group Chief Executive
Officer Ahmad Julfar said in an interview in Davos today. “We
can fund with all the cash we have, partly with the cash we
have, or completely through debt financing,” he said.  The Abu Dhabi-based company, known as Etisalat, said this
month it submitted a preliminary expression of interest for
Vivendi’s 53 percent stake in Maroc Telecom. Etisalat had about
 12.2 billion dirhams  ($3.3 billion) in cash at the end of the
third quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An investment in Morocco, home to about 32 million, would
expand Etisalat’s presence in the  Middle East  and North  Africa 
as mobile phone penetration in its home market, the United Arab
Emirates, after climbing to about 200 percent. Etisalat operates
in 18 countries across the Middle East, Africa and Asia with
more than 140 million subscribers,  according to its website.   There are two other bidders who have expressed interest in
the shares and the deal is expected to close this year, Julfar
said today. KT Corp., South Korea’s second-largest mobile-phone
company, has indicated interest in the Moroccan operator. Qatar
Telecom QSC Chief Strategy Officer Jeremy Sell said in October
the company was looking “very closely” at Morocco.  Maroc Telecom, based in Rabat, is 30 percent owned by the
Moroccan government, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Vivendi hired Lazard Ltd. and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  to explore a
sale of Maroc Telecom, people familiar with the matter have
said. The company has a market value of about $11.2 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Davos, Switzerland at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  