-- Metropoulos Plans to Bid for Hostess Cakes With Apollo
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-01-23T18:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/metropoulos-plans-to-bid-for-hostess-cakes-with-apollo.html
C. Dean Metropoulos & Co. said it
plans to bid for the cakes business of bankrupt Twinkies maker
Hostess Brands Inc. with  Apollo Global Management. (APO)   “We continue to be very engaged in the bidding process,”
Daren Metropoulos, a principal at the private-equity firm that
owns Pabst Brewing Co., said in an e-mail. “We are working
diligently to get a deal done.”  The cake brands of the 82-year-old maker of Ding Dongs, Ho
Hos and Drake’s Devil Dogs drew multiple bidders, Hostess
lawyers said at a December court hearing. Potential buyers
separately were interested in other Hostess products or
manufacturing plants, said Heather Lennox, an attorney for the
Irving, Texas-based baker.  Hostess began to wind down operations in November after
failing to reach an agreement with its striking bakers’ union on
concessions to help it emerge from its second bankruptcy.
Changes in American diets led to years of declining sales while
ingredient costs and labor expenses climbed.  “It would be a tremendous opportunity to resurrect these
legendary brands and bring them back to the consumer,”
Metropoulos said.  Tom Becker, a Hostess spokesman, declined to comment on a
possible bid from Metropoulos and Apollo. The Wall Street
Journal earlier reported the planned bid by the two private-
equity firms.  Union Standoff  A standoff with striking union workers triggered
 liquidation  auctions of Hostess’s brands, recipes, plants and
other assets.  The Bakery Confectionery Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers
International Union went on strike Nov. 9 after U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Robert Drain in  White Plains ,  New York , imposed contract
concessions opposed by more than 90 percent of the union’s
members. The union represents more than 5,000 Hostess workers.  The maker of Wonder bread and Hostess CupCakes emerged from
an earlier bankruptcy in 2009 under the control of the buyout
firm Ripplewood Holdings LLC and lenders. The company,
previously known as Interstate Bakeries Corp., changed its name
to Hostess Brands in October of that year. Hostess entered
bankruptcy again in January 2012.  Hostess announced in a Jan. 11 statement that  Flowers Foods
Inc. (FLO)  is the lead bidder for most of the assets of its bread-
baking operations. Under the accord, Flowers will receive a
break-up fee of $12.6 million for the bread brands and
$1.05 million for the Beefsteak brand if it’s outbid at auction.  Fee Objection  A committee representing unsecured creditors objected to
the break-up fee saying it was “excessive and should be
reduced” in court papers filed yesterday in New York.  The committee suggested a $10 million fee for the bread
brands and $810,000 fee for Beefsteak, saying it would result in
“$2.84 million in savings to the estates, while still more than
adequately compensating Flowers, and should also result in a
more competitive bidding process.”  Flowers Foods, based in Thomasville,  Georgia , also agreed
to serve as the lead, or stalking-horse, bidder for the
company’s Beefsteak bread brand for $30 million. The accord
doesn’t include facilities or additional assets, according to
the statement.  Flowers Foods, established in 1919, produces and markets
packaged bakery foods for its retail and food-service customers.
The company’s top brands are Nature’s Own and Tastykake.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp., 04-
45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  Missouri 
( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta
at   dstanford2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 