-- EU Carbon Has Record Drop as U.K. Sets Conditions for Glut Fix
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-01-23T18:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/eu-carbon-drops-as-u-k-sets-conditions-for-support-of-glut-fix.html
European Union emission permits had
their biggest one-day decline after the U.K. set conditions for
approving a plan to fix a supply glut and Prime Minister David
Cameron pledged a referendum on leaving the bloc by 2017.  European carbon allowances for December dropped 15 percent
after a Department of Energy and Climate Change official in
 London  said the EU commission in Brussels needs to increase the
number of allowances for removal from the market through 2015 to
1.2 billion metric tons. That’s 33 percent more than the bloc’s
regulatory arm proposed Nov. 12, to make the glut fix work.  Permits for December dropped 80 cents to close at a record
4.65 euros ($6.18) a ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The fall was the biggest since the contract was first
offered in April 2008. Allowances advanced 10 percent yesterday,
the biggest increase in more than a year. Certified Emission
Reduction credits for December fell 8.1 percent today to 34 euro
cents a ton.  The commission may need to detail a timetable for permanent
changes to the market’s rules that would mend the oversupply,
the U.K. official said in an e-mail responding to questions. The
person declined to be named because of government policy.
Britain is working on an alternative proposal to return the 900
million delayed allowances back to the market after 2020 rather
than in the previous two years, the official said.  The so-called carbon backloading strategy needs support
from national governments in a ballot system that favors larger
countries. Should the U.K. decide to abstain, its votes will be
counted against the proposal, putting the country in one group
with  Poland  and other opponents.  German Support  “I still think the success of any proposal sits with
German support and maybe this is posturing to try and convince
 Germany  to compromise in the middle and accept the backloading
plan as is,”  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst in London for Barclays
Plc, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Carbon allowances have plunged 30 percent this month as the
EU emissions trading system, or the ETS, began auctioning a
greater proportion of allowances and most nations remain
undecided whether to back the rescue plan designed by the
commission.  “We are pleased to have so explicit confirmation that the
U.K. is not only in favor of ambitious backloading but also
strongly supports swift progress on structural measures as the
second, necessary step in our efforts to address the problems of
the emissions trading system,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate
spokesman for the commission, said today by text message.  EU Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard yesterday called
on countries that “want a strong ETS but haven’t made up their
minds” whether to back the current proposal, to vote in favor
of it. It’s an “exceptional” emergency measure that needs to
be adopted urgently, she told a seminar in Brussels.  Deeper Changes  Britain “would have preferred a much more ambitious
proposal,” the department, known as DECC, said in the e-mail.  The EU is preparing to start a discussion on long-term
scenarios for its emissions program after the commission
outlined six potential options to strengthen it in a policy
paper last year. Any deeper changes to the design of the market
would require a change of existing EU legislation or a new law
approved by national governments and the European Parliament.  Britain is seeking more reassurance on the links between
the temporary fix and more permanent reform, according to DECC.
The easiest way to make that link may be for the commission to
“provide a comprehensive timetable setting out their next steps
following publication” of the policy paper, it said.  “We’ve always wanted more ambitious proposals,”  Ed Davey ,
secretary of state for energy and climate, said today in an
interview in London. “We’ve got to look with our colleagues who
share that very ambitious approach.”  The U.K.’s alternative to its proposal to withhold 1.2
billion permits would require the EU to return 900 million tons
of allowances to the market later than 2020.  “It would also allow all concerned parties much more time
to discuss and implement structural reform before the threat of
a further price crash materializes,” DECC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  