-- Eurasia Drilling Sees 2013 Revenue Up 12.5% on Horizontal Wells
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-01-23T09:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/eurasia-drilling-sees-2013-revenue-up-12-5-on-horizontal-wells.html
Eurasia Drilling Co. (EDCL)  expects sales
to grow 12.5 percent to $3.6 billion this year as the largest
Russian oil driller boosts lucrative “horizontal” projects.  “The main reason is horizontal drilling, which should be
up substantially,” Chief Financial Officer  Richard Anderson 
said today by phone from Moscow. “The wells cost more.” Total
meters drilled, including conventional operations, will be flat.  Drillers are able to charge  oil companies  higher rates for
developing horizontal wells that can boost flows from deposits,
allowing them to profitably exploit unconventional resources.  OAO Rosneft and OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s largest oil producers
accounting for more than 80 percent of Eurasia Drilling orders,
have expanded investment in the past two years as Ural prices
hold above $100 a barrel. Russia has also cut tax, while work on
hard-to-recover resources that need premium drilling have begun.  Eurasia Drilling sees 50 percent more horizontal operations
this year, pushing overall sales up from $3.2 billion in 2012.  The margin on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization will climb to 24.8 percent from 24.3 percent,
the Moscow-based company said today in a statement. Horizontal
drilling will keep growing as companies start pilot projects on
unconventional oil reserves this year and next, Anderson said.  The Neptune rig for offshore drilling will begin operating
in the  Caspian Sea  in the third quarter, increasing to three the
company’s rigs in the region, it said. Neptune should expand
annual revenue by $45 million, Anderson said. The Mercury rig is
expected to be ready for Caspian contracts in 2015, he said.  Eurasian has bought two more rigs in  Iraq , giving it four
operating in the country this year, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  