-- Euro-Area Consumer Confidence Rose for a Second Month
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-01-23T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/euro-area-consumer-confidence-rose-for-a-second-month.html
Euro-area  consumer confidence  rose
for a second month in January, adding to signs that the 17-
nation economy may be emerging from a recession.  An index of household confidence in the currency bloc
increased to minus 23.9 from a revised minus 26.3 in December,
the European Commission in Brussels said in an initial estimate
today. That’s the second increase after sentiment reached a 3
1/2-year low in November as record unemployment and the
recession weighed on confidence. Economists had forecast an
increase to minus 26, according to the median of 30 estimates in
a  Bloomberg News survey .  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that the “darkest clouds over the euro” had lifted and
“significant progress” was made last year. While the ECB
expects the euro-area economy to shrink 0.3 percent in 2013, it
predicts a “gradual recovery” to begin later in the year will
help it emerge from its second recession in four years.  The euro-area economy probably stagnated in the first
quarter after a 0.4 percent contraction in the previous three
months, according to the median of 26 economists’ forecasts in a
separate Bloomberg News survey.  At the same time, with governments cutting spending to rein
in excessive debt and a  jobless rate  at a record 11.8 percent,
the euro-area economy is still suffering from its sovereign debt
crisis.  Spain ’s recession deepened in the last quarter of 2012
and in  France , the region’s second largest economy,  business
confidence  unexpectedly dropped in January, the national
statistics office said yesterday.  The commission is scheduled to publish the final numbers
for  consumer confidence  and the wider indicator of euro-area
economic confidence on Jan. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  