-- Russia Says First Bond Sale on Euroclear May Be This Month
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-01-23T17:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/euroclear-possible-for-january-ruble-bond-sale-storchak-says.html
Russia  said it may hold its first
domestic bond auction with direct settlement through Euroclear
Bank SA this month, opening the Treasury market to foreign
investors.  “Everyone is pro-actively” working to overcome the last
hurdles, Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said in an
interview today in Davos, Switzerland. “One auction in January
is quite possible” through Euroclear, he said.  Foreign investors can only trade in Russia’s about 3
trillion-ruble ($99 billion) Treasury market through local
brokerage accounts under current rules. Opening the market to
systems including Euroclear may bring in between $20 billion and
$30 billion this year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The Finance Ministry plans to sell 20 billion rubles of 
10-year debt and 7.27 billion rubles of seven-year bonds at 
auction on Jan. 30, according to its preliminary timetable.  Finance Ministry officials had targeted opening the bond
market to investors through Euroclear during the second half of
2012.  “Everything is already prepared, but the signals to the
market are such that the market is a little bit nervous and
would like to see more coordinated action by the authorities,”
Storchak said.  Translating  Stephan Pouyat, Euroclear’s head of product management
global reach in Brussels, said Jan. 9 that his company was
seeking confirmation on how Russian law ensures asset protection
and settlement finality.  Euroclear is currently in the process of translating a
letter from Russia’s Federal Financial Markets Service in
response to its inquiries, Martin Gregson, a spokesman for
Euroclear in Brussels, said by phone today, without being more
specific. He declined to comment on a starting date.  “We view this as a positive signal that things are moving
in the right direction,” Esther Law, director of emerging-
market strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London , said by e-
mail.  The ruble gained as much as 0.2 percent against the dollar
to 30.16 after Storchak’s comments during evening trading, and
was at 30.1800 as of 8:00 p.m. in Moscow. The so-called OFZ
market closed at 7 p.m.  “Any kind of uncertainty in the bond market is perceived
negatively by investors, but for now, we’re talking about a
technical delay of the Euroclear launch rather than about a
strategy change,” Vladimir Potapov, who manages about 145
billion rubles as head of portfolio management at VTB Capital
Investment Management, said in a phone interview from Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Davos, Switzerland at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  