-- Dollar Falls From One-Week High on Debt-Ceiling Vote; Rand Drops
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-01-23T22:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/euro-weakens-amid-speculation-investor-sale-triggers-losses.html
The dollar fell from a one-week high
against the euro as the U.S. House voted to temporarily suspend
the federal-debt ceiling, increasing investor appetite for
higher-yielding assets.  Norway’s krone and  Brazil ’s real gained versus the
greenback.  Canada ’s dollar slid versus most major peers after
its central bank said the need to raise interest rates is less
urgent. South  Africa ’s rand fell to the weakest level since
2009. The debt-limit bill now goes to the Senate, where Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  vowed to pass it unchanged.  “This is a positive for risk appetite and negative for the
dollar on top of that,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“There’s a bit of a rosier outlook for risk-oriented assets,
but the debt ceiling is uncomfortable for markets, and they’ll
eventually have to deal with this again.”  The dollar traded little changed at $1.3318 per euro at 5
p.m. in  New York  after touching $1.3265 earlier, the strongest
level since Jan. 16. The yen gained 0.1 percent to 88.61 per
dollar after earlier touching 88.06, the strongest since Jan.
16. It reached 90.25 on Jan. 21, the weakest level since June
2010. The Japanese currency rose 0.1 percent to 118.03 per euro.  Technical Levels  The euro fell earlier versus the dollar, dropping through
 price levels  where automatic sell orders were placed, amid
speculation a large investor was selling the shared currency.  “Hearing that a large corporate from Eastern Europe was
selling into this move,” Michael LaVina, head of trading in
Stamford, Connecticut, at Faros Trading LLC, said in a telephone
interview. The currency “definitely hit some stops below
$1.3320” after failing to sustain a rise above $1.3330, LaVina
said, referring to previously set orders to sell a currency to
limit losses.  The measure passed today in  Washington  removes the debt
ceiling for now as a tool for seeking deeper U.S. spending cuts.
It lifts the government’s $16.4 trillion borrowing limit until
May 19.  The Canadian dollar fell versus the greenback after Bank of
Canada policy makers kept their benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent, as forecast in a Bloomberg survey. They said that while
an increase may still be needed over time, it probably won’t
happen soon. The economy will take longer to reach full output,
keeping inflation below the bank’s 2 percent target until the
second half of next year, Governor  Mark Carney  said.  The currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 99.92 cents per
 U.S. dollar  and touched C$1.0005, trading weaker than parity for
the first time since Nov. 19.  Yen Bets  The yen gained amid speculation that measures announced by
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  won’t be enough to weaken the currency and
spur growth. Consumer-price data this week forecast to show the
BOJ’s policies have failed to stoke inflation.  The central bank increased its inflation target to 2
percent yesterday and said it will buy 13 trillion yen ($146.6
billion) in assets a month starting in January 2014.  “Adopting the 2 percent target was a relatively bold move,
but they need to implement more credible policy to convince the
market,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “What will be important
for yen direction will be how the market assesses the
effectiveness of their policy to meet that target.”  Japan Inflation  Japan ’s consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.2
percent in December from a year earlier, following a 0.1 percent
drop the previous month, according to the median of 23 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey before the data due on Jan. 25. That
would be the biggest decline since August.  The BOJ forecast inflation will accelerate to 0.9 percent
in the fiscal year starting April 2014.  The yen fell 4.6 percent in the past month, the biggest
loser among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 1.2 percent and
the dollar was little changed.  South Africa ’s rand dropped to the lowest in more than
three years as rising inflation added to concern that growth in
Africa’s biggest economy is slowing amid labor protests and
civil unrest.  The nation’s consumer price  index  accelerated to 5.7
percent in December, compared with 5.6 percent in November,
Statistics South Africa said.  The rand tumbled 2.3 percent to 9.0625 per dollar and
touched 9.0648, the weakest level since April 2009.  Brazil’s real gained versus most major counterparts,
strengthening 0.3 percent to 2.0360 per dollar. Norway’s krone
appreciated 0.4 percent to 5.5584 to the greenback.  Lower Volatility  A gauge of currency  volatility  dropped to the lowest in
more than a week after climbing on Jan. 18 to the highest since
August. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G7  Volatility Index , based on
three-month options on Group of Seven nations’ currencies,
touched 8.15 percent, the least since Jan. 11. It rose last week
to 9.19 percent.  Lower volatility makes investments in currencies with
higher benchmark interest rates more attractive as the risk in
such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  