-- European Stocks Advance as U.S. House Meets on Debt Vote
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-01-23T16:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/european-stock-index-futures-climb-before-u-s-debt-vote.html
European stocks  advanced, after
remaining little changed for most of the day, as the U.S. House
of Representatives gathered to vote on suspending the country’s
debt limit and as results from Novartis to  Unilever (ULVR)  beat analyst
estimates.  Novartis gained 4.1 percent after naming a new chairman and
posting fourth-quarter earnings that beat estimates. Unilever
rallied to the highest price in at least 24 years as it reported
sales growth above forecasts. TUI Travel Plc dropped 4.8 percent
after TUI AG abandoned a plan to merge the two companies. Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA tumbled 8.4 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.2 percent to 288.22 in
 London , as the number of shares rising and those falling were
roughly even. The gauge this month surged to the highest level
since February 2011 as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise
budget and American companies reported better-than-projected
earnings.  “The earnings season in  Europe  is not in full swing yet,
so this is a cautionary pause in the markets,” said  Manish Singh , who helps manage $2 billion as head of investment at
Crossbridge Capital in London. “With the debt ceiling on the
verge of extension for three months, markets ought to be more
positive. An extension can only be good news and will ease the
volatility expectations of investors.”  Nine companies listed on the Stoxx 600 will report earnings
later this week and 41 will do so next week. The measure is
trading at a  price-earnings multiple  of 19.3 times reported
earnings, the highest since March 2010.  Debt Ceiling  In the U.S., representatives in the Republican-led House
are voting to pass legislation suspending the government’s $16.4
trillion debt limit until May 19. By postponing a decision on
raising the debt ceiling, Republicans plan to focus on other
deadlines to seek deeper spending cuts from President  Barack
Obama  and congressional Democrats.  Global investors said the state of the U.S. government’s
finances is the greatest risk to the world economy, a Bloomberg
poll showed. About half said they are curbing their investments
in response to continuing budget negotiations, according to the
quarterly poll on Jan. 17 of investors, analysts and traders who
subscribe to Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes rose in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 advanced 0.3 percent,
while  France ’s CAC 40 retreated 0.4 percent.  Germany ’s DAX added
0.2 percent.  Spanish Economy  In Europe,  Spain ’s recession deepened in the last quarter
of 2012, a report showed. Gross domestic product shrank for a
sixth quarter, contracting 0.6 percent from the previous three
months, the Bank of Spain said in an estimate.  Novartis advanced 4.1 percent to 62.55 Swiss francs, the
highest price since August 2008, after saying Chairman  Daniel
Vasella  will step down from the board after 17 years, and Bayer
AG’s Joerg Reinhardt will take over as non-executive chairman.
Fourth-quarter earnings came in at $1.27 per share, beating
projections for $1.25.  Unilever gained 3.1 percent to 2,526 pence in London, the
highest price since at least September 1988. The world’s second-
biggest consumer-goods company posted fourth-quarter underlying
sales growth of 7.8 percent, exceeding the average analyst
estimate calling for an increase of 6.2 percent.  Logitech International SA jumped 6.7 percent to 7.20 francs
after the maker of computer mice and keyboards said late
yesterday it will include a $211 million writedown relating to
its video-conferencing business in its third-quarter results, to
be announced tomorrow. Logitech may make an exit from its
unprofitable LifeSize unit, Vontobel Holding AG said.  Cloud Business  SAP AG (SAP)  rose 2.4 percent to 59.20 euros after the biggest
maker of business-management software forecast full-year profit
will increase at least 12 percent. The company’s cloud, mobile
and Hana database businesses are “growing fantastically,” Co-
Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said in an interview.  Aixtron SE, a German maker of lighting-production
equipment, surged 8.5 percent to 11 euros. U.S. peer Cree Inc.
posted quarterly earnings that exceeded projections. Cree also
said it expects sales of $325 million to $345 million in the
current quarter, higher than the $322.6 million estimated by
analysts.  TUI Travel slid 4.8 percent to 278 pence as majority
shareholder TUI AG ended a plan to combine the two companies, a
week after saying they were holding preliminary talks to discuss
an all-share merger. TUI AG fell 5.4 percent, the biggest loss
in more than seven months, to 7.51 euros.  Monte Paschi tumbled 8.4 percent to 25.4 euro cents. Monte
Paschi has declined 15 percent since  Bloomberg News  reported
Jan. 17 that a transaction in December 2008 with  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  at the height of the financial crisis masked losses before it
sought a government bailout.  France Telecom SA retreated 2.7 percent to 8.47 euros after
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. lowered its recommendation for the
shares to underperform, a rating similar to sell, from market
perform. Bernstein said the company’s earnings downgrades,
negative re-ratings and dividend uncertainty will continue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  