-- Lew Meets With Republican Senators Before Confirmation Hearing
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-01-23T21:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/lew-meets-with-republican-senators-before-confirmation-hearing.html
U.S.  Treasury Secretary  nominee Jack Lew took questions on Social Security and Medicare as he met
with some Republican members of the Senate Finance Committee
today, seeking their support for his confirmation vote.  “We had a good, thorough discussion,” Senator John Isakson, a Republican from Georgia, told reporters in Washington
after the meeting. “Trying to find common ground between
spending and revenues and actually solve the problem, we talked
about Medicare specifically, and Social Security.”  The Senate Finance Committee has the sole jurisdiction over
Treasury Secretary nominees. Lew yesterday met the panel
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Democrat from Montana, as well as  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New York and  Bill Nelson , a Democrat
from Florida, who also sit on the panel.  Lew told reporters yesterday he was “having good
conversations,” with the Democratic senators. He didn’t comment
after the meetings today with Isakson and  Orrin Hatch  of Utah,
the top Republican on the committee.  “We had a constructive conversation that focused on the
economic challenges facing our nation and the critical steps
that need be taken to get our fiscal house in order,” Hatch
said in an e-mailed statement after his meeting. “But as I
always say, the devil’s in the details and there’s a lot more of
Mr. Lew’s record and qualifications that need to be fully
examined.”  Both Hatch and Isakson said they haven’t decided yet
whether they will support Lew’s nomination, while Democrats
expressed their support.  “Jack Lew has all the qualifications to be an outstanding
Treasury Secretary,” Schumer said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “He’s very smart, facile with the numbers and
listens carefully to all sides. If you ask me, he should be a
shoo-in for confirmation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  