-- Ex-NFL Player Junior Seau’s Family Sues League Over Death
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-01-23T21:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/ex-nfl-player-junior-seau-s-family-sues-league-over-suicide.html
The family of Junior Seau, the all-
pro linebacker who committed suicide in May, sued the National
Football League, claiming his death resulted from repeated head
injuries he suffered on the field.  Seau experienced innumerable blows to the head during his
career and wasn’t given critical information by the league
necessary for his safety, the family said in a complaint filed
today in state court in San Diego.  “We know this lawsuit will not bring back Junior,” Seau’s
family said today in a statement. “But it will send a message
that the NFL needs to care for its former players, acknowledge
its decades of deception on the issue of head injuries and
player safety, and make the game safer for future generations.”  More than 3,000 former players have sued the NFL seeking
damages for head injuries. The complaints, which are
consolidated in federal court in Philadelphia, accuse the league
of negligence and failing to inform players of the link between
repeated traumatic head impacts and long-term brain injuries.  Seau, a 12-time Pro Bowl selection who played the last of
his 20 NFL seasons in 2009, was 43 when he shot himself in the
chest at his home in Oceanside,  California . The National
Institutes of Health said Jan. 10 that brain-tissue samples
showed Seau had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a progressive
brain disease diagnosed after death.  Player Suicides  Seau’s suicide followed that of former Chicago Bears player
Dave Duerson, an 11-year veteran who shot himself in February
2011 at age 50; and Ray Easterling, an eight-year player with
the Atlanta Falcons who killed himself two weeks before Seau at
age 62. An autopsy on Duerson found similar traumatic brain
injury.  Attorneys for the league will review the complaint “and
respond to the claims appropriately through the court,” Greg Aiello, a spokesman for the NFL, said in an e-mail.  A so-called master complaint filed in Philadelphia in June
claims the NFL knew as early as the 1970s about the increased
risk of repetitive head injuries. The league allegedly took no
substantial steps to address the issue until 1994, when it
created a Mild Traumatic Brain Injury committee, and later
sought to suppress medical literature showing a link between
head injuries and post-career brain damage, according to the
master complaint.  Brain Tissue  Seau’s family sent his brain tissue to researchers in July
2012, two months after he shot himself. Results of the study on
Seau’s brain showed the disease as well as evidence of scarring
consistent with a small, old traumatic brain injury, the NIH
said in its statement this month. In the analysis, a team of
neuropathologists each examined tissue samples from three
different unidentified brains.  People who died with the disease have been described as
having displayed personality changes, depression, increased
irritability and trouble with attention, researchers said. CTE,
which causes abnormal small tangles of a protein in the brain,
was first described in studies of boxers who developed dementia
and symptoms resembling Parkinson’s disease.  Seau’s behavior became erratic during the mid-1990s,
according to the complaint filed by Seau’s four children and his
ex-wife Gina. He developed severe insomnia that plagued him
until his death. He also became forgetful and unable to
concentrate and focus, according to the complaint. Seau, who
spent most of his career with the San Diego Chargers, eventually
became self-destructive and violent, and would sink into long
periods of depression, according to the complaint.  ‘Irrational’ Father  “His children had to adapt to a new version of their
father,” the family said in the complaint. “When he was lost
in periods of depression he became irrational and unreachable.
They would look into his eyes and not recognize the person with
whom they were now dealing.”  Seau, taken fifth overall by the San Diego Chargers in the
1990 NFL draft, was chosen as the league’s defensive player of
the year in 1992 and was named to the Pro Football Hall of
Fame’s All-Decade Team for the 1990s. He played three seasons
with the Miami Dolphins after leaving the Chargers in 2002 and
spent his last four years in the NFL with the New England
Patriots before retiring after the 2009 season.  The case is Seau v. National Football League, Superior
Court of California, County of San Diego. The consolidated
Philadelphia case is In re National Football Players’ Concussion
Injury Litigation, 12-md-02323, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  