-- Ex-UBS Trader Hayes Said to Seek NatWest 3 Man’s Advice
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-01-23T15:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/ex-ubs-trader-hayes-said-to-seek-natwest-3-man-s-advice.html
Tom Hayes, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
derivatives trader charged with trying to manipulate interest
rates, sought advice from one of the so-called NatWest 3
bankers extradited to the U.S. in 2006 on Enron Corp.-related
fraud charges, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The U.K. national, who is a suspect in both U.S. and
British criminal investigations into Libor-rigging, has reached
out to David Bermingham, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the case is still under investigation.
Bermingham was extradited to the U.S. from Britain after a
three-year court battle and spent nearly two years in prison.  Bermingham runs a consulting firm advising on extradition,
negotiating plea deals with U.S. authorities, and how to survive
in prison. He said he hadn’t been hired by Hayes and declined to
comment on his interactions with the former trader.  “If I were a trader or someone caught in the investigation
and was faced with the choice of making a deal with the U.S.
government or the U.K. authorities, I would not do any deal that
did not meet with the overt approval of the U.S.,” Bermingham
said. “The threat of extradition to the U.S. is real, and once
there, it’s game over for any defendant.”  Hayes was arrested in a U.K. criminal investigation on Dec.
11 and charged by the U.S. Department of Justice the following
day. The charge was made public on Dec. 19, the same day UBS was
fined a record $1.5 billion by U.S., British and Swiss
regulators for trying to rig the London-interbank offered rate
and similar benchmarks.  Tokyo Banking  In three years at the Swiss bank’s  Tokyo  office, Hayes
produced more than a quarter of a billion dollars in revenue for
the lender. He doesn’t want to be extradited and would rather
face charges in England, according to two people familiar with
the case. The U.K. hasn’t charged Hayes.  U.S. prosecutors have portrayed Hayes as the kingpin of a
three-year campaign that succeeded in manipulating global
interest rates through collusion with brokers, counterparts at
other firms and his colleagues in order to benefit his own
trades. He was charged along with Roger Darin, a former short-
term interest-rates trader at Zurich-based UBS, whose
responsibilities included the firm’s yen-Libor quotes.  The Libor case “bears uncanny similarities with what
happened to us all those years ago,” Bermingham said. “The
modus operandi of the U.S. authorities is to start with the
minnows and use them to work their way up the corporate ladder.
The first guy in the door gets the best deal.”  Global Investigations  Bermingham wrote a book about his experience and now runs
DB Strategic Consulting. Along with the two other men who worked
for Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s Greenwich NatWest unit,
they had argued that as British citizens accused of defrauding
the London-based bank, any prosecution against them should have
been in  England .  Banks’ manipulation of interest rates has spawned probes by
half-a-dozen agencies on three continents in what has become the
industry’s biggest and longest-running scandal. More than $300
trillion of loans, financial products and contracts are linked
to Libor. Regulators are looking at how derivative traders and
bankers who submitted interest-rate data colluded to ensure
benchmarks benefited their own trades, and whether lenders low-
balled submissions in 2008 to hide their true cost of borrowing.  Hayes hired the law firm Fulcrum Chambers in London to
advise him. Fulcrum Chambers confirmed they represent Hayes and
declined to comment further.  David Williams , a senior trial
lawyer at the firm, and another attorney, Ivan Pearce, have both
advised on investigations by the Serious Fraud Office. The SFO
is the U.K. agency probing Hayes.  SFO Director  David Green, the director of the SFO, said in an interview
in November the agency was considering conspiracy-to-defraud
charges against individuals, whom he didn’t identify. Green said
the agency is focusing on the most egregious attempts to
manipulate Libor and other related rates. The agency, while
working closely with the DOJ, is also competing to bring charges
first in order to handle the prosecution of any British citizens
in the U.K., he said.  Bermingham said that any suspect in the Libor investigation
in the U.K. “who believes that the U.S. does not have
jurisdiction over all of these cases is a fool.”  Hayes, whose alleged wrongdoing was done outside of the
U.S., was charged there with wire fraud and antitrust
violations.  ‘Dominant Trader’  One of the highest-earning traders at UBS, Hayes generated
about $40 million in revenue for the bank in 2007, $80 million
in 2008 and $116 million in 2009 before he left to join
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, which didn’t identify Hayes by name.  The “volume of unlawful requests submitted by one
particular senior yen derivatives trader in Tokyo dwarfed them
all,” the agency said. Hayes was “widely considered the
dominant trader in the Tokyo yen swaps market because he traded
in enormous volumes and accepted large trading risks.”  Between 2006 and 2009, he made at least 800 requests for
specific rate submissions to the firm’s yen-Libor rate-setters,
about 100 to traders at other banks, and 1,200 to interdealer
brokers, according to the CFTC. Yen Libor reflects how much
banks charge each other for loans in the Japanese currency.  Hayes  joined Citigroup in December 2009 and was dismissed
after he was reported for inappropriate conduct by a rate setter
in June. He also previously worked for RBS between 2001 and
2003, according to an FSA database.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  