-- Ex-Xinhua Finance CEO Bush Signs Plea Deal With U.S.
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-23T16:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/ex-xinhua-finance-ceo-bush-signs-plea-deal-with-prosecutors-1-.html
Xinhua Finance Ltd.’s former chief
executive officer, accused of joining a $50 million insider-
trading scheme, signed a plea agreement with U.S. prosecutors
resulting in a single charge of conspiring to obstruct the
Internal Revenue Service.  Loretta Fredy Bush and two other former Xinhua Finance
board members, Shelly Singhal and Dennis Pelino, also agreed to
enter pleas next month, according to a filing by prosecutors in
federal court in  Washington . In 2011, the three pleaded not
guilty to charges of conspiracy, mail fraud and making false
statements.  “Consistent with those plea agreements, the government is
filing concurrently a one-count superseding information charging
each defendant with conspiracy to impede the lawful functions of
the Internal Revenue Service,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael
Atkinson said in papers notifying the court of the deal.  The insider-trading scheme isn’t mentioned in yesterday’s
criminal information. The document instead alleges that Bush,
Singhal and Pelino conspired to hide from the IRS $3.5 million
in loans from a company created at the direction of a co-
conspirator. The loans were later “abandoned,” according to
the filing.  Chinese Breakthrough  The maximum penalty for obstructing the IRS is five years
in prison.  Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed on the
Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products focused on
Chinese and international financial markets.  The three defendants were indicted on May 10, 2011, for
allegedly using various entities to disguise the sale of shares
in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the Securities and
Exchange Commission and investors, and to engage in insider
trading. They were also accused of manipulating the company’s
balance sheet to avoid taking so-called impairment charges.  The filing of a criminal information in a pending case
signals the defendants have reached a resolution with the
government and that remaining counts of an indictment will be
dismissed, said Bernie Grimm, a criminal defense lawyer in
Washington who isn’t involved in the case.  “Given the core of this case was insider-trading, it
sounds like they’re walking away with much less,” Grimm said in
a phone interview.  Under the indictment all three defendants faced four
charges of mail fraud, each of which carried a maximum penalty
of 20 years in prison.  William Miller, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen, and Charles Leeper, Bush’s lawyer, declined to comment
on the filings.  Barbara Van Gelder, a lawyer for Singhal, said she couldn’t
comment until the matter is resolved. Charles De Monaco, a
lawyer for Pelino, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
message seeking comment on the filings.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 