-- America Movil Has Opening for Telmex TV With Mexico Phone Pact
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2013-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/mexico-telecom-regulator-approves-interconnection-pact.html
America Movil  SAB’s landline unit
has a new opportunity to offer pay-television services after
Mexico’s telecommunications regulator approved an industrywide
interconnection agreement.  Commissioners at the agency known as Cofetel voted in favor
of the pact yesterday, according to a  statement . The proposal
will be published in early February following approval by
Mexico’s Regulatory Improvement Commission, Cofetel said.  America Movil’s Telmex unit could get a license for video
service if it agrees to the terms of the pact, known as the
Interconnection Framework Accord, the government has said.
Telmex has been seeking a TV license to combine with its
landline phone and video services to keep customers from
switching to cable carriers owned by  Grupo Televisa SAB. (TLEVICPO)   A Telmex official who asked not to be named under company
policy declined to comment on whether the Mexico City-based
phone carrier would support the document. The company said last
year it was seeking modifications to the draft of the agreement.  Cofetel’s board meeting yesterday approving the document
was “important (and I would say historic),” said Mony de Swaan, president of the agency, in a  post  on his Twitter account
yesterday. The document was drafted with the participation of 21
companies and eight experts, Cofetel said.  In addition to signing the framework accord, Telmex would
need to pay a fee determined by the  Finance Ministry  and to seek
approval from the Communications and Transportation Ministry,
the latter agency said in July.  Yesterday, an appeals court rejected a bid by Telmex to
overturn an earlier communications ministry ruling denying the
company a TV license, de Swaan said on his Twitter account.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  Mexico  City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  