-- Expat Pilots Pruned as SpiceJet Seeks Profit: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-23T10:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/expat-pilots-pruned-as-spicejet-seeks-profit-corporate-india.html
SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) , India’s only listed
budget airline, plans to cut costs by keeping fewer expatriate
pilots on its payroll and changing flight crew schedules to help
end two years of losses.  Starting this month, the New Delhi-based company is
operating all of its Boeing Co. 737 aircraft using local pilots,
Chief Executive Officer Neil Mills said in an interview.
Overseas nationals typically get paid 40 percent more than their
local peers in India’s aviation industry, including tax
liabilities. A weaker rupee added to the expenses, Mills said.
The airline will retain foreign pilots needed to operate its 15
Bombardier Inc. Q400 turbo-propeller planes, he said.  “They supported us very well and they really helped us
grow, but their cost has become very huge, particularly with the
exchange rate having gone up adversely,” Mills, a South
African, said on the telephone from his office.  SpiceJet, controlled by billionaire Kalanithi Maran, is
joining rivals including  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  and state-
owned Air India Ltd. in trimming expenditure as competition,
fuel prices and government levies weigh on earnings. SpiceJet
shares more than doubled last year, the best performance since
2009, amid speculation Maran will sell a stake to an overseas
partner after the government relaxed foreign investment rules.  Employee Costs  Spending on workers at SpiceJet, which had hired 60
expatriate pilots for its Boeing fleet, rose 66 percent to 4
billion rupees ($74 million) in the year ended March 31 after
the carrier added the Bombardier turboprops. Jet Airways, the
nation’s largest publicly traded carrier, spent 18 percent more
on salaries during the period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Indian currency weakened 12.4 percent against the
dollar in the same period, making it more expensive for
employers paying salaries denominated in greenback.  New duty rosters for attendants will also ensure they
return to their home base by the end of the day, eliminating
hotel expenses, SpiceJet’s Chief Financial Officer R. Neelakantan said in an interview separately.  “Irrespective of the volume of savings, a good
organization won’t pass up an opportunity to save even a single
rupee,” said Harsh Vardhan, chairman of Starair Consulting, a
New Delhi-based company that advises airlines. “Pilot costs are
a major expense for airlines.”  Saving Money  Air India too is switching to a new flight duty assignment
system by March to ensure crew return to their home base,
according to a statement from the Ministry of Civil Aviation.
Mumbai-based Jet Airways, which has planes worth $2 billion
available for sale and leaseback transactions, will be able to
unlock $500 million after discounting aircraft loans of about
$1.5 billion, K.G. Vishwanath, vice president of commercial
strategy, said in a Nov. 5 conference call.  SpiceJet, which operates 36 Boeing aircraft and plans to
add seven more this year, forecasts it will end the financial
year without losses after reporting  profit  in the first and
third fiscal quarters, CEO Mills said. A net income of 1.02
billion rupees in the three months to Dec. 31 exceeded the
median 212 million rupees predicted by six analysts in a
Bloomberg  survey , compared with a loss of 392.6 million rupees a
year earlier.  Net loss at SpiceJet may narrow to 610 million rupees in
the 12 months through March 31, from 6 billion rupees a year
ago, according to the median  estimate  of 11 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. It may report a profit of 1.05 billion
rupees next year, the estimates show.  Fuel Prices  Shares of SpiceJet have risen 4.9 percent this year,
lagging behind a 7.1 percent rally in Jet Airways stock. The
shares fell 1 percent to 46.15 rupees in Mumbai today. Seven of
11 analysts  recommend  buying SpiceJet shares.  Still, airline finances are strained because of high jet
fuel prices and airport charges.  “The biggest challenge we continue to have is jet-fuel
pricing in India, particularly around the taxes and the
mechanism,” SpiceJet’s Mills said. “It continues to be so for
the entire industry.”  India last year ended a ban on airlines directly importing
jet fuel to help them save on local taxes that average about 25
percent. The petroleum ministry agreed to allow airlines to use
refiners’ infrastructure at airports when they import the fuel,
Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said in a Dec. 4 interview.  Kingfisher Troubles  SpiceJet has reached as many as nine agreements with
suppliers and vendors to import the fuel, Mills said. The
airline will receive its first consignment of imported jet fuel
by March 31.  The nation’s carriers have also benefited from capacity
cuts after cash-strapped  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  reduced
services through last year and eventually halted flights in
October. Kingfisher’s operating permit lapsed Jan. 1 after
Chairman Vijay Mallya failed to show authorities the funds to
restart and maintain operations.  “Airlines are gaining from improved yields due to
Kingfisher,” said Sharan Lillaney, a Mumbai-based analyst at
Angel Broking Ltd., who rates SpiceJet stock a buy. “This
profit is going to be sustainable over a long period of time
now,” he said, referring to SpiceJet.  SpiceJet isn’t desperate to raise cash from a stake sale
unless the deal is attractive, Mills said. Owner Maran’s
holdings in the airline and  Sun TV Network Ltd. (SUNTV)  are worth about
$2.4 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The carrier was in talks with AirAsia Bhd., an Indian
government official said on Nov. 26, a claim denied the same day
in an e-mail statement by the Sepang Selangor, Malaysia-based
airline’s group chief executive officer Tony Fernandes.  “Where we’re going is really dependent on what deal is
available, but we are not desperate,” Mills said. “I am the
only CEO in  India  today that has any issue with fixed deposit
rates because I have money in the bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  