-- Exports to Recover in U.S. as Global Growth Firms: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-01-23T21:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/exports-set-for-recovery-in-u-s-as-global-growth-firms-economy.html
Exports from the U.S. are set to
pick up in 2013 after slumping last quarter as global growth
strengthens from Asia to  Latin America , giving American
manufacturers a boost.  Industries in which U.S. companies have a competitive
advantage, including agriculture, medical supplies and aviation,
will probably benefit the most from improving global demand,
said  Gary Hufbauer , a senior fellow at the Washington-based
Peterson Institute for International Economics. That would
brighten the outlook for corporations from  General Electric Co. (GE) 
to  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   China  reported economic  growth  accelerated in the fourth
quarter for the first time in two years, raising prospects that
a regional lift will fuel demand for U.S. goods. Developing
nations are projected to grow 5.5 percent in 2013, more than
last year, while Europe stabilizes, according to projections
from the World Bank.  “The rest of the world is still growing, which means you
should have higher exports,” said  Maury Harris , chief economist
at UBS Securities LLC in  New York . “If China is improving,
those neighbors are going to have better growth. And if their
neighbors have better growth, then they’ll buy more stuff from
us.”  Harris forecasts sales to overseas customers will be 6.7
percent higher in this year’s fourth quarter compared with the
same period in 2012. The comparable gain in 2012 was an
estimated 1.6 percent, reflecting a projected 5 percent slump at
an annual rate from October through December.  Gaining Momentum  Foreign demand will grow throughout the year, advancing at
a 6 percent rate from January through March and at a 7 percent
pace in the subsequent three quarters, according to UBS.  Forecasts from the  International Monetary Fund  issued today
were in line with those from the  World Bank . The Washington-
based fund projected developing economies will grow 5.5 percent
this year, up from 5.1 percent in 2012. It cut its world growth
estimate to 3.5 percent, less than the 3.6 percent forecast in
October, as Europe is projected to shrink for a second year.  Stocks rose to a five-year high as lawmakers voted to
temporarily suspend the federal debt limit until May 19 and
technology shares rallied amid better-than-forecast earnings.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2 percent to 1,494.78
at the close in New York.  U.K. Jobless  Elsewhere today, U.K. jobless claims unexpectedly fell in
December and a quarterly measure of unemployment also dropped,
underlining the resilience of the labor market in the face of a
weak economic recovery.  Last year’s fourth-quarter drop in U.S. exports contributed
to a widening of the  trade gap , which, combined with a smaller
increase in inventories, caused the world’s largest economy to
slow even as  consumer spending  and business investment probably
accelerated. Gross domestic product expanded at a 0.7 percent
annual rate, the worst performance in almost two years,
according to a UBS forecast.  The Commerce Department’s GDP estimate for last quarter
comes out on Jan. 30. The economy grew at a 3.1 percent rate in
the previous three months.  Nonetheless, the fourth quarter ended on a positive note,
according to data from the  Institute for Supply Management . The
Tempe, Arizona-based purchasers group’s export  measure  exceeded
the break-even 50 level in December for the first time since
May. The index’s three-month average leads similar changes in
actual exports by a few months, according to UBS research.  China Accelerates  China’s GDP rose 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier compared with a 7.4 percent gain in the previous
period, the National Bureau of Statistics said last week. It
marked the first pickup since the end of 2010. Industrial output
in December climbed a more-than-projected 10.3 percent and
fixed-asset investment for the year gained 20.6 percent.  The World Bank’s forecast for growth in  developing
countries  this year compared with a 5.1 percent estimate for
2012. Latin America will grow 3.5 percent, up from 3 percent in
2012 and led by a rebound in  Brazil , the bank said.  “As global trade picks up, we’ll gain market share in a
growing market,” said  Joseph Carson , director of global
economic research at AllianceBernstein LP in New York. “The
direction of trade continues to favor  emerging markets , where
about 57 percent of our exports now are directed,” which
represents about a 20 percentage-point gain over the past
decade, he said.  Plane Orders  South and Central America pushed up purchases of U.S.
planes in 2012. The value of orders for U.S. aircraft and parts
from the region rose 31.6 percent year-to-date in November to
$9.47 billion compared with the same period in 2011, according
to Census Bureau data. Demand for U.S.-made automobiles and car
parts advanced 16.8 percent to $6.91 billion.  Of the 601 airplanes delivered by Boeing in 2012, 416, or
69 percent, went to foreign buyers, according to data from the
Chicago-based company. That is up from 348 sold to customers
abroad in 2011.  The company is now dealing with a more immediate challenge
as its 787 Dreamliner aircraft is being investigated for
mechanical problems.  “International growth is a good offset to that budget
pressure that we see in the U.S. and Europe, in particular in
the Middle East, Brazil and Asia-Pacific region,” Dennis
Muilenburg, president of the Boeing’s defense unit, said Nov. 29
at a Credit Suisse investor conference. “We’re seeing strong
growth throughout those three regions.”  More Profit  General Electric reported higher fourth-quarter profit than
analysts estimated as emerging-market gains fueled the aviation
and health-care businesses, which drove industrial performance
and helped build a record $210 billion order backlog, the
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company reported last week.  “We ended the year with a strong quarter despite the mixed
global economic environment,” Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey
Immelt  said in a statement. “The outlook for developed markets
remains uncertain, but we are seeing growth in China and the
resource-rich countries.”  At New Brunswick, New Jersey-based Johnson & Johnson, the
world’s biggest maker of health-care products, sales to
international buyers at its DePuy Synthes subsidiary account for
almost 50 percent of total revenue.  “We are well-positioned to grab the opportunities offered
by international markets and especially by Asia Pacific,”
Michel Orsinger, chief executive officer at the unit, which
manufactures and sells products used in orthopedic trauma
surgery, said in a meeting with analysts yesterday.  Canada Cooling  One near-term cloud on the horizon is that  Canada , the
U.S.’s biggest customer, is cooling, said Neil Dutta, head of
U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro Research LLC in New York.  Dutta projects U.S. exports will expand 2.3 percent this
year after 3.3 percent gain in 2012. Nonetheless, global demand
will firm in the second half of the year, he said.  Canada’s “housing market’s cooling, people are bringing up
their savings rate a bit,” Dutta said. In addition, fiscal
tightening in Europe and an Asian rebound that has had little
impact outside the region are working against an acceleration in
demand for U.S. goods, he said.  Diane Swonk  remains optimistic even as she agrees that
overseas demand is more likely to pick up in the second half of
the year. The chief economist for Chicago-based Mesirow
Financial Inc. forecasts U.S. exports will grow 5.1 percent this
year as China recovers and Europe stabilizes. Sales overseas
will accelerate by 8.7 percent in 2014, she estimates.  Import First  As developing nations grow, demand for goods such as
automobiles that require time to produce domestically will
initially be bought from American companies, Swonk said. “The
first wave is importing,” she said.  More exports also may have indirect benefits for the
broader recovery, said the Peterson Institute’s Hufbauer.  “Exports are a very high-paying sector of the  U.S.
economy ,” he said. “Jobs are more steady in export-oriented
companies, they pay better” and the companies do more research
and development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  