-- Flybe to Cut 300 Jobs in Reorganization to Restore Profit
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-23T11:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/flybe-to-cut-300-jobs-in-reorganization-to-restore-profit.html
Flybe Group Plc (FLYB) ,  Europe ’s biggest
regional airline, will eliminate about 300 jobs and reduce its
divisions to two in an effort to produce savings of 35 million
pounds ($56 million) in two years and restore profit.  The carrier plans to cut 20 percent of its management
workforce and 10 percent of operational positions, partly
through contracting out some work. There will be no significant
changes in the U.K. route network, Exeter, England-based Flybe
said today in a statement.  Flybe began examining its cost base last year in the face
of higher oil prices and air passenger duties, and a “very
tough macroeconomic backdrop,” Chief Financial Officer Andrew Knuckey said in a phone interview. The carrier is targeting a
return to profit in fiscal year 2014 after analysts in a
Bloomberg survey  estimated  a loss of 17 million pounds in the
year ending March 31, 2013.  “It is very important for the future of the business that
we return it to profitability immediately in 2013-2014 and
that’s what this action will achieve,” Knuckey said. “The vast
majority of the cost savings and efficiencies” will be in the
U.K., the executive said.  Flybe shares  dropped as much 7.1 percent and traded down
5 percent at 47 pence at 10:19 a.m. in London. The stock has
retreated 22 percent in the past 12 months, valuing the company
at 35.3 million pounds.  ’Persistent Losses’  “Persistent losses were unsustainable and needed
tackling,” Edward Stanford, an analyst at Oriel Securities,
said in a note to investors today. “Much will depend on the
delivery of these targets and it is obviously still early
days.”  Flybe will spend 10 million pounds to 12 million pounds on
the reorganization, most of which will be booked in the current
fiscal year, it said. The number of divisions will be reduced to
Flybe UK, focused on scheduled commercial services, and Flybe
Outsourcing Solutions targeting contract flying, training,
maintenance, repair and operations work.  Flybe UK, which controls more than one-quarter of the U.K.
domestic market, intends to break even on profit per seat in the
next fiscal year and targets profit of three pounds a seat
within five years. The carrier’s costs per operated seat,
excluding fuel, rose by 0.8 percent in the fiscal third quarter
compared with a year earlier. The outcome of a route network and
base review will be announced in June when the company releases
full-year results.  Aer Lingus (AERL)   Established as Britain’s biggest domestic carrier and the
No. 1 in Europe on so-called regional routes after the 521
million-pound purchase of a  British Airways (IAG)  unit in 2006, Flybe
had been seeking fresh takeovers to expand beyond its home
market, adding Finnish Commuter Airlines Oy in 2011.  Knuckey declined to comment on whether Flybe would consider
taking over some of Aer Lingus Group Plc’s short-haul routes if
the Irish airline is purchased by  Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA)   Ryanair is petitioning European Union authorities to
approve its offer for Aer Lingus. Its latest concessions include
surrendering half of Aer Lingus’s short-haul business, and were
sent to competitors and customers for comments two days ago,
according to two people familiar with the negotiations.  In its contract flying business, Flybe provides planes,
flight crew and engineering support to European carriers
including Brussels Airlines, Olympic Air and Finnair. The
company said today that it is targeting a profit per contracted
aircraft of 400,000 euros within five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  