-- Fujifilm Enters Japan Power Market to Sell Excess Output
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-01-24T06:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/fujifilm-enters-japan-power-market-to-sell-surplus-electricity.html
Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) , a maker of
cameras, optical devices and medical equipment, will begin
trading in wholesale electricity, aiming to profit from
government plans to ease power-industry regulations.  Fujifilm won a license to begin trading from the  Japan 
Electric Power Exchange in October, spokesman Takahiro Taguchi
said in an interview. The Tokyo-based company plans to sell
excess electricity from power generators in its plants in
Kanagawa and Shizuoka prefectures on the Pacific coast southwest
of Tokyo, and a plant on the southern island of Kyushu, he said,
without giving a timeline.  Japan plans to boost trade and competition on the wholesale
market as power prices, already twice those in the U.S., are set
to rise due to closure of nuclear reactors after the Fukushima
disaster. Transactions on the wholesale market accounted for  0.6
percent  of electricity supplied by the nation’s 10 regional
power utilities in the year ended March 2011, according to the
trade and industry ministry.  The lack of trading reflects that utilities run regional
monopolies and have little interest in selling surplus, cheap
electricity to competitors.  Nippon Paper Group (3893)  also won a power trading license in June
last year and is selling surplus electricity to regional
utilities to avoid power shortages, spokeswoman Miho Fujita said
by phone. The company also plans to sell surplus electricity to
the wholesale exchange and companies, she said.  Nippon Paper, among Japan’s major non-utility power
producers, has about 1,740 megawatts of generation capacity,
Fujita said. The capacity can provide electricity to 580,000
typical Japanese homes, according to data provided by Tokyo
Electric Power Co.  The Japan Electric Power Exchange, which was established in
2003, has 59 trading members including electricity and gas
utilities, trading companies and refiners, according to its
membership list.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  