-- General Dynamics Forecasts 2013 Profit Short of Estimates
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-01-23T21:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/general-dynamics-forecasts-2013-profit-short-of-estimates.html
General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  forecast a
2013 profit short of analysts’ estimates and reported a $2.1
billion fourth-quarter loss that the company attributed to ill-
advised acquisitions and to declining defense spending.  For 2013, profit will be $6.60 to $6.70 a share, the
company said. The average estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a profit of $7.32 a share on sales of $32.1
billion.  The fourth-quarter loss for General Dynamics, the maker of
Abrams tanks and Gulfstream business jets, compared with a
profit of $603 million or $1.68 a share, a year earlier. After
adjusting for certain items, profit in the quarter was $1.39 a
share, the company said today in a statement. Analysts forecast
a profit of $1.89 a share, the average of 20 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales declined 12 percent to $8.1 billion.  The results and “charges that we have recorded in the
fourth quarter reflect the fact that some of our markets are
contracting as government budgets shrink at home and abroad,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Phebe Novakovic said in the
statement.  General Dynamics gained 1 percent to $71.45 at the close in
 New York  trading and have fallen less than 1 percent in the past
12 months.  European Sales  Declining sales for the  Falls Church , Virginia-based
company’s European land systems unit was the single largest
cause of falling revenue, Novakovic said on a conference call
with investors today.  The company cut the goodwill value of its Information
Systems and Technology unit by $2 billion because its revenue is
down 14 percent from a high point in 2010, Chief Financial
Officer Hugh Redd said on the call.  The unit’s margins declined 2.7 percent in that period, he
said. It had made 38 acquisitions since being created in 1997,
he said.  Novakovic, who took the top job on Jan. 1, said on the call
that she was “not a particular fan” of some of the company’s
previous acquisitions.  ‘Clearing Decks’  The goodwill writedowns and charges “included some
anticipated clearing of the decks, though the scale of the write
downs are pretty eye-watering,” Robert Stallard, a London-based
analyst at RBC Capital Markets LLC, wrote in a note to investors
today. The company “has arguably over-paid for certain
acquisitions leading to the non-cash goodwill impairment as the
defense environment turns down.” He rates the stock as neutral.  While all U.S. defense contractors face tightening budgets,
General Dynamics will be “under more pressure than the other
large defense primes because of its exposure to Army and IT
services,”  Douglas Harned , an analyst at New York-based Sanford
C. Bernstein wrote in a Jan. 22 note to clients.  The company and its peers in the industry must also deal
with the uncertainty of operating without a budget approved by
Congress this year as well as the prospect for across-the-board
cuts of $45 billion if Congress and President  Barack Obama  can’t
reach agreement on alternative spending cuts.  Even with declining orders for technology services in the
U.S., the company anticipates margins improving at the
Information Systems and Technology unit, Novakovic said.  The unit’s sales fell 12 percent to $2.6 billion in the
fourth quarter compared with the previous year and declared a
loss.  Abrams Tank  The U.S. business of the company’s Combat Systems unit is
“extremely stable on its vehicle orders and backlog,”
Novakovic said. The unit makes the Abrams tanks as well as
Stryker vehicles for the Army. It’s bidding for the Army’s new
Ground-Combat Vehicle program.  General Dynamics had “no acquisition candidates in the
current pipeline,” according to Novakovic, who said that she
was focusing on cutting costs, increasing margins and generating
cash. “I’m not looking at reshaping our portfolio at the
moment.”  The company’s Aerospace unit, the maker of Gulfstream
 business jets , posted the only revenue increase in the quarter,
a gain of less than 1 percent to $1.9 billion, while profit
fell. The unit’s margins suffered because the company had to
retrofit its new G650 jet, which is in production, with changes
mandated by the  Federal Aviation Administration .  The G650 received its initial certification in September
after a delay because of a crash in April 2011 during a test
flight that killed all four crew members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  