-- General Allen Inquiry Finds No Evidence of Wrongdoing
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-23T18:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/general-allen-inquiry-finds-no-evidence-of-wrongdoing.html
A Defense Department investigation
found no evidence of wrongdoing by Marine General John Allen,
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to be NATO’s top commander, in
e-mails the military leader exchanged with a Florida woman.  Defense Secretary Leon Panetta requested a probe into the
propriety of the e-mail communications between Allen, the
commander of U.S. and allied forces in Afghanistan, and Jill Kelley of Tampa. The inquiry concluded that Allen didn’t engage
in professional misconduct, Pentagon press secretary George Little said yesterday.  “The secretary has complete confidence in the continued
leadership of General Allen, who is serving with distinction in
Afghanistan,” Little said in an e-mailed statement.  The findings of the Pentagon’s inspector general clears a
path for Allen’s nomination as Supreme Allied Commander of North
Atlantic Treaty Organization forces. The Pentagon had asked the
Senate Armed Services Committee in November to postpone
confirmation hearings while the probe was under way. White House
press secretary Jay Carney told reporters today that the
administration is urging the Senate to proceed with Allen’s
nomination.  “From the outset, the general placed his faith in -- and
fully supported -- the investigative process,” Allen’s
spokesman, Marine Corp Major David Nevers, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “He’s obviously pleased by the outcome.”  General’s Friend  Allen, 59, exchanged a series of e-mails with Kelley, who
has described herself as a friend of the general and his family.
Their relationship surfaced because of a complaint she filed
about harassing e-mails from an anonymous sender that led to the
Nov. 9 resignation of CIA Director David H. Petraeus.  Kelley’s complaint to an acquaintance who is an FBI agent
triggered an investigation that uncovered an affair between
Petraeus, a retired Army general, and his biographer Paula Broadwell, U.S. officials have said.  The harassing e-mails to Kelley were traced to Broadwell,
according to three people briefed on the FBI probe. The Justice
Department last month decided against pursuing cyber-stalking
charges against Broadwell, according to the Associated Press.  Kelley and her husband, Scott, an oncology surgeon, wrote
in a Washington Post  article  published online yesterday how
their lives were disrupted by a flood of media coverage of their
role in the Petraeus scandal.  Paparazzi Horde  “After our names were linked to the Petraeus story, a
horde of paparazzi stormed our front lawn,” the couple wrote.
“We didn’t want our silence to validate false headlines, but we
did what most people unaccustomed to such a blitzkrieg would do:
walled it off in the hopes the storm would fade or pass.”  The Kelleys, parents of three young daughters, criticized
media reports that incorrectly said Jill Kelley and Allen
exchanged 30,000 e-mails and that insinuated she and the general
were involved in an extramarital relationship.  “This small sample of junk reporting was emotionally
exhausting and damaging -- as it would be to the strongest of
families,” they wrote.  Jill Kelley became acquainted with Allen and Petraeus
through social events she hosted at her Tampa home for military
officers from nearby MacDill Air Force Base, headquarters for
U.S. Central Command.  Allen, a 1976 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy in
Annapolis, Maryland, served as deputy commander of Central
Command under Petraeus before taking over coalition forces in
Afghanistan in July 2011.  Obama said on Jan. 11 that Afghan forces would take the
lead security role for their country within a few months, sooner
than planned, as the U.S. seeks to extricate itself from the 11-
year war.  Allen has cited progress in handing more responsibility to
Afghan forces in the fight against the Taliban as the U.S. winds
down its combat operations there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  