-- French-German Rejection Points to Cameron Isolation on EU
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-01-23T17:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/germany-france-reject-cameron-cherry-picking-better-eu-deal.html
Germany  and France rebuffed U.K.
Prime Minister David Cameron’s attempt to customize the terms of
membership in the European Union and vowed not to let Britain
stand in the way of the overhaul of the euro currency.  Cameron’s call today for a new EU deal drew rebukes from
government leaders in Berlin and Paris that demonstrated how the
debt crisis is driving the 17 euro countries closer together, no
matter whether the U.K. stays in the broader 27-country bloc.  “A policy of cherry-picking is not an option,” German
Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle told reporters in Berlin
today. Bernard Cazeneuve, France’s European affairs minister,
rejected Britain’s vision of a “Europe a la carte.”  Cameron’s plan for a U.K. vote by the end of 2017 on
whether to stay or go forced leaders across  Europe  to take
sides, underscoring Britain’s isolation and showing how most
European countries see their future as part of a revamped euro
area built around Germany and France.  “Germany wants an ambitious reform of the economic and
monetary union in such decisive issues as the future of our
common currency,” Westerwelle said. “We do not need less, but
more integration.”  Cameron’s address at Bloomberg LP’s European headquarters
in  London  entered the annals of the island nation’s soul-
searching over its place in Europe, a tradition dating to
Winston Churchill’s plea for a  United States of Europe  in 1946.  The underside of Churchill’s appeal was that as Europe felt
its way to unity after two world wars, Britain would stand
aside. It stayed out of European integration in the 1950s and
was twice blocked by  France  in the 1960s. It didn’t join until
1973.  Election Hurdle  Cameron offered the next twist in that saga by proposing an
in-or-out referendum as long as his Conservative Party returns
to power after the 2015 election. Both his coalition partner,
Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, and
opposition Labour Party leader Ed Miliband rejected the plans.  By making the EU a two-year campaign issue, Cameron risks
being overwhelmed by an anti-European groundswell that is
impossible to control, European Parliament President Martin Schulz said.  Cameron “is playing a dangerous game for tactical,
domestic reasons,” said Schulz, a German Social Democrat. He
“resembles the sorcerer’s apprentice, who cannot tame the
forces that he has conjured -- forces that want to leave the EU
for ideological reasons.”  ‘Pandora’s Box’  The rest of the bloc “can hardly accept an opt-in and opt-
out policy, which would open a Pandora’s box for other
countries,” Michel Petite, a lawyer at Clifford Chance and
former head of legal services at the European Commission, said
in a speech at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in
Davos, Switzerland.  Cameron experienced the risks of grandstanding to so-called
euroskeptics at home in his handling of a European deficit-
limitation agreement, one of the measures to combat the debt
crisis. He went into a December 2011 summit determined to lead
the opposition to the accord, only to find the Czech Republic as
his sole ally.  There were echoes of that betrayal across Europe today.
Cameron’s initiative found little backing in  Denmark , which
joined the European bloc at the same time as the U.K. and shares
with Britain the legal right to stay out of the euro.  ‘Walk Alone’  “If Great Britain should decide to scale down its
membership or leave the EU, the U.K. must walk this path
alone,” Danish European Affairs Minister Nicolai Wammen said in
a phone interview in Copenhagen. “It’s in Denmark’s interest to
be as close as possible to the core of Europe.”  Cameron’s call for the repatriation of powers met the
sharpest resistance in the EU Parliament, which has a voice over
most business legislation including the financial-market
regulations that are key to Britain, Europe’s banking center.  First directly elected in 1979, the parliament’s power to
co-decide EU legislation with national governments was
strengthened in treaties, ratified by Britain, that took effect
in 1993 and 2009. It routinely claims to be the sole voice of
the European people in EU-level lawmaking.  Cameron challenged that assertion, saying there is no
“single European demos” and national parliaments will remain
the representatives of the 27 different popular wills. The debt
crisis has borne that out, with parliaments from Berlin to
 Athens  determining the fate of the euro.  Cameron appealed for a “new settlement” that would give
Britain some things it already has -- an exemption from paying
into euro-zone rescues, which he mentioned twice -- plus other
things he said won’t be identified until the U.K. government
conducts a review of EU powers.  Common Regulations  Critics responded that the single market, Britain’s
foothold in the EU’s $17 trillion economy, only works because it
is made up of common regulations -- on drug approvals or cross-
border bank transfers, for example.  “The British economy is highly interdependent with the
rest of Europe,” John Nelson, chairman of Lloyd’s of London,
the world’s oldest insurance market, said in an interview in
Davos. “It’s very important we’re there. My guess and hope is
common sense will break out and we’ll stay.”  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti agreed, telling
delegates at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos,
Switzerland that he expects U.K. voters to throw in their lot
with the EU.  “If there is to be referendum one day, I think the British
citizens will choose to remain within the EU and continue to
contribute to shape their future,” he said. “I think the EU
does not need unwilling Europeans. We desperately need willing
Europeans.”  Some, like French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, sought
to take advantage of Britain’s polemics, telling businesses to
relocate in order to maintain a berth in the European market.  “If Great Britain decides to leave Europe, we will roll
out the red carpet for you,” Fabius told a U.K. business group
recently, he recounted on France Info radio today.  For Related News and Information: Top U.K. stories: TOPB Stories
on U.K. politics: TNI POL UK  Stories on the U.K. and the EU:
TNI EU UK  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  