-- German Stocks Advance Before U.S. Debt Ceiling Vote
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-01-23T16:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/german-stocks-advance-before-u-s-debt-ceiling-vote.html
German stocks  advanced as euro-area
consumer sentiment rose in January, and before the U.S. House of
Representatives votes to suspend the country’s borrowing limit.  SAP AG (SAP)  added 2.4 percent after saying full-year 2013
operating profit will rise at least 12 percent. Commerzbank AG
and Deutsche Bank AG each fell 1.5 percent after the president
of the country’s financial regulator said that splitting banks
doesn’t eliminate all risks.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 0.2 percent to 7,707.54 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt . The benchmark measure has gained 1.3
percent so far this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget and American companies reported better-than-
expected earnings. The broader HDAX Index also rose 0.2 percent.  “It’s in all interests to find a solution for the U.S.
debt ceiling, so I don’t worry too much about that, I can’t see
that this will be a big issue for the market right now as
investor sentiment is getting more and more bullish,” Michael Kapler, an equities portfolio manager at Mittelbrandenburgische
Sparkasse in Potsdam,  Germany , said. “First impressions for
European earnings are quite constructive. SAP has done a good
job over the last years in terms of positioning itself in the
market, and the forecasts for this year are quite good.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the equity benchmark was 6.3 percent greater than the average of
the last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer Confidence  Euro-area  consumer confidence  rose for a second month in
January. An index of household confidence in the currency bloc
increased to minus 23.9 from a revised minus 26.3 in December,
the European Commission in Brussels said in an initial estimate
today.  That’s the second increase after sentiment reached a 3 1/2-
year low in November as record unemployment and the recession
weighed on confidence. Economists had forecast an increase to
minus 26, according to the median of 30 estimates in a  Bloomberg
News survey .  In the U.S., the Republican-led House will vote today to
pass legislation suspending the government’s $16.4 trillion debt
limit until May 19. The bill will enable the federal
government’s borrowing authority to increase to accommodate the
amount the Treasury borrows during those three months.  By postponing a decision on raising the debt ceiling,
Republicans plan to focus on other deadlines to seek deeper
spending cuts from President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Democrats. Lawmakers have until March 1 before automatic
spending reductions start and until the end of that month to
pass a bill to fund the government.  SAP Advances  SAP added 2.4 percent to 59.20 euros as it forecast
operating profit adjusted for some items to be in a range of
5.85 billion euros ($7.79 billion) to 5.95 billion euros, up
from 5.21 billion euros in 2012. Cloud subscription and support
sales will more than double this year to about 750 million
euros, the biggest maker of business-management software said
today.  The shares dropped 5.3 percent last week as the Walldorf,
Germany-based company reported fourth-quarter earnings that
trailed estimates on Jan. 15.  Draegerwerk AG & Co. surged 9.2 percent to 88.98 euros, its
highest price since July 2011, after the medical and aerospace
supplier said 2012 profit beat its own forecast. Earnings before
interest and tax were as much as 9.7 percent of revenue last
year, Luebeck, Germany-based Draegerwerk said in a statement
late yesterday. That compares with a previous forecast in the
range of 8 percent to 9.5 percent.  Aixtron Jumps  Aixtron SE added 8.5 percent to 11 euros, the highest price
in almost four months. U.S. peer Cree Inc reported late
yesterday that quarterly profit jumped 69 percent as demand for
its light-emitting diodes surged.  Commerzbank, the country’s second-largest lender, lost 1.5
percent to 1.63 euros. Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender,
dropped 1.5 percent to 35.40 euros.  A European Union-commissioned group’s proposal for a
structural division of banks is not enough “to rid the world of
systemic risks,” Bafin President Elke Koenig said in a speech
in Frankfurt late yesterday.  TUI AG tumbled 5.4 percent to 7.51 euros after abandoning a
potential merger with  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) , saying it wouldn’t be in
its shareholders’ interests. The two travel companies last week
said they were in preliminary talks to combine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  