-- Goldman Sells 1 Billion Euros of Madrid Debt Amid Rally
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   L e v e n t   K u c u k r e i s o g l u
-- 2013-01-23T14:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/goldman-sells-1-billion-euros-of-madrid-debt-amid-rally.html
Goldman (GS)  Sachs International sold 1
billion euros ($1.33 billion) of a Sept. 15, 2026, Madrid region
note today as the second-biggest contributor to Spain’s economy
seeks to benefit from a rally in the nation’s securities.  Goldman placed the notes privately while five banks took
part in the syndicated sale of a 2018 note, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The five-year notes were sold at a spread of 190
basis points over the reference 2018 Treasury bond, according to
people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named
because they’re not authorized to speak about it.  The region tapped the markets after the Treasury yesterday
saw record demand for a 10-year bond. Spain’s Cabinet last week
 gave   Madrid , Galicia, Navarra and Aragon a green light to issue
4.4 billion euros of bonds amid a surge in investor interest for
Spanish shares as well as government and corporate debt.  Madrid’s economy department said it has sold the 2.3
billion euros of debt it was authorized to issue on Jan. 18 and
that details will be given today at 5 p.m. in Madrid. The amount
represents about 60 percent of the region’s 2013 funding needs.  Analistas Financieros Internacionales, a Madrid-based
consultancy, estimates gross debt sales from the regions of
about 30 billion euros this year, excluding short-term debt.  The Treasury plans to raise 23 billion euros for the
nation’s regional rescue fund known as  FLA , created last year to
prevent any regional default, and that was tapped by nine of 17
semi-autonomous regions.  The Budget Ministry has imposed a debt ceiling of 172
billion euros on the regions this year, or 16 percent of gross
domestic product. That compares with outstanding debt of 167
billion euros in the third quarter and includes 102 billion
euros of bank loans, with the remainder mostly in bonds,
according to the Bank of  Spain .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is the bank that generates the
most revenue from equity trading worldwide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Levent Kucukreisoglu in London at 
 lkucukreisog@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  