-- Gonzalez Says Costa Rica’s History Helps Qualify Her to Lead WTO
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-01-23T12:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/gonzalez-says-costa-rica-s-history-helps-qualify-her-to-lead-wto.html
Costa Rica  is well-suited to lead
the  World Trade Organization  because it’s a small nation that
opted for integration into the global economy to boost domestic
growth, said Trade Minister Anabel Gonzalez, the Latin American
country’s candidate for WTO director-general.  “My country has gone through a very strong structural-
transformation process,” Gonzalez said by phone. “The story of
Costa Rica shows that trade is a very powerful instrument for
growth and development, that the multilateral system has a
strong role to play in leveling the playing field for all
countries. I would bring in a strong sense of neutrality.”  The Geneva-based WTO has suffered from its inability to
agree on a global trade deal after more than a decade of
negotiations. Gonzalez said one of the key challenges it faces
is keeping itself relevant and that she’s “cautiously
optimistic” the trade arbiter will be able to produce “some
deliverables” at its ministerial meeting in December.  “The most important challenge for the WTO is to continue
to support the growth in trade,” she said in the Jan. 21
interview. “Half of aggregate trade flows originate in
 developing countries . We need to integrate more countries into
the world economy.”  Gonzalez said her professional career in both the private
and public sectors and experience in the  Uruguay Round  of trade
talks qualify her for the WTO’s top job. She is up against
candidates from Brazil, Ghana, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, South
Korea, Mexico and  New Zealand  to succeed  Pascal Lamy  when his
term ends on Aug. 31.  The WTO has had only one head from a developing country
since it was created in 1995 and no women have ever competed for
the four-year job. Gonzalez, 49, is one of three female
candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  