-- Goodwin Procter, Latham, Paul Weiss: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-23T12:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/goodwin-procter-latham-jones-day-paul-weiss-business-of-law.html
Goodwin Procter LLP advised Cole
Credit Property Trust II Inc. on its agreement to merge with
 Spirit Realty Capital Inc. (SRC)  in a stock transaction that would
create a company with 2,012 properties in 48 U.S. states. Ropes
& Gray LLP represented the Special Committee of CCPT II. Latham
& Watkins LLP advised Spirit.  CCPT II will exchange 1.9 shares for each share of Spirit
common stock, the Arizona-based companies said in a statement
today. Spirit shareholders will own about 44 percent of the
combined real estate investment trust with the remainder held by
CCPT II shareholders. Shares of the joint company will be listed
on the New York Stock Exchange under Spirit’s stock symbol.  The pro-forma enterprise value of the new company is about
$7.1 billion, and the acquisition will create the second-largest
publicly traded triple-net lease REIT in the U.S., according to
the statement. The combined company will be led by Spirit’s
management. Seven of the nine board members will be from Spirit,
it said.  The Goodwin Procter deal team was led by Gil Menna and
included partners Suzanne Lecaroz, John Haggerty, Andrew Sucoff,
Mark Opper and Samuel Richardson.  Ropes & Gray partners on the deal are John Loder,
 investment management ; Amanda Morrison, corporate; and Peter
Welsh, business and securities litigation.  Latham & Watkins LLP’s corporate deal team consists of Los
Angeles partners Julian Kleindorfer and Bradley Helms and Orange
County partner Charles Ruck.  Advice was also provided by New
York finance partner David Teh; Chicago real estate partner
Robert Buday; Los Angeles tax partners Michael Brody and Ana
O’Brien; and Los Angeles benefits and compensation partner David Taub.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the third
quarter, according to the statement. Triple-net lease structures
mean the tenant is responsible for paying all the property’s
costs including maintenance, property taxes, utilities and
insurance, minimizing expenses for the REIT.  News  Prudential Loses U.K. Top Court Ruling on Privileged Tax Advice  The U.K. Supreme Court said tax advice given to  Prudential
Plc (PRU)  by accountants wasn’t protected by legal privilege and
should be disclosed to the British government.  The U.K.’s highest court said only advice from lawyers was
protected by the privilege, according to a press  summary  of the
judgment today. When tax authorities asked Prudential for
information about a tax avoidance scheme created by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the company argued it didn’t have to
hand over any documents containing advice from accountants.  “Accountants will be crying into their soup tonight, and
tax lawyers will be dancing in the streets,” said Peter Clough,
a partner at U.K. law firm  Osborne Clarke . “The case presents a
clear cut choice for clients: if you want confidential tax
advice, you’re better off going to a law firm.”  Companies including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have
been criticized by lawmakers for trying to reduce their U.K. tax
liabilities with complex accounting methods.  Prudential spokesman Robin Tozer and PwC spokeswoman
Laetitia Lynn declined to comment.  Firm News  Jones Day Appoints New Office Heads in Tokyo, San Francisco  Jones Day  announced that Masatomo Suzuki has been named
partner-in-charge of the firm’s Tokyo office. He succeeds Nobu
Yamanouchi, who has been partner-in-charge in Tokyo since 2008.
Yamanouchi will continue to advise clients, particularly in the
automotive, electronic, and pharmaceutical industries, in cross-
border mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and other
corporate matters.  Aaron Agenbroad, a partner in Jones Day’s labor and
employment practice, has been named to succeed Bob Mittelstaedt
as partner-in-charge of the  San Francisco  office. The firm also
announced that David Kiernan, a partner in the U.S. business and
tort litigation practice, will become the administrative partner
of the San Francisco office, responsible for the day to day
operation of the office. Kiernan replaces Louise Rankin, who
left Jones Day to become general counsel of ABHOW, a housing and
health care provider for senior citizens.  As head of the real estate practice in Tokyo, Suzuki has
experience representing major Japanese real estate companies as
well as foreign companies and funds involved in real estate
transactions in Japan.  As partner-in-charge, Agenbroad will be responsible for the
overall leadership, strategic vision, and management of Jones
Day’s San Francisco office. His labor and employment practice
has a focus on representing corporate clients in complex labor
and employment disputes. Mittelstaedt, who has served as
partner-in-charge since 2006, has been asked to assume new
responsibilities coordinating and expanding the firm’s
litigation practices in California. He has more than 30 years of
experience as a trial lawyer.  Moves  Department of Defense GC Johnson Returns to Paul Weiss  Jeh  Charles Johnson , the former general counsel of the
 Department of Defense , has returned to private practice as a
partner in Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP’s
litigation department in Washington.  “We are so proud of Jeh’s public service and of his
contributions to our nation,” Paul, Weiss chairman Brad S. Karp
said in a statement. “We are thrilled to welcome a lawyer of
his distinction back to our partnership.”  Johnson was appointed to his post by President  Barack Obama 
in February 2009. As chief legal officer at the Defense
Department, he oversaw the work of more than 10,000 lawyers. His
accomplishments during four years in the post included handling
reforms to the military commissions system adopted by Congress
in 2009, co-authoring the report that paved the way for the
repeal of the military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy by
Congress in 2010, and overseeing the military’s counterterrorism
policies, the firm said.  The move marks the third time Johnson has returned to the
firm after leaving for government posts. In 1998, he was
appointed by President  Bill Clinton  to be general counsel of the
 Air Force . He held that position for 27 months and returned to
Paul, Weiss in January 2001. In 1989, Johnson left Paul, Weiss
to become an assistant U.S. attorney in Manhattan, where he
prosecuted public corruption cases.  “It’s a privilege and a pleasure to return to my
professional home, Paul, Weiss, and I look forward to rejoining
my partners and serving the firm’s clients,” Johnson said in
the statement.  Paul, Weiss has more than 700 lawyers at eight offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  WilmerHale Hires Ex-Federal Circuit Judge Gajarsa in Boston  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP hired Arthur J.
Gajarsa, formerly a judge of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit, in its Boston office. Gajarsa joins the firm as
senior counsel in the intellectual property litigation practice
and will provide counsel to the firm’s clients on IP-related
issues.  Gajarsa was nominated to the Federal Circuit in 1996 by
President Clinton and confirmed by the  U.S. Senate  in 1997. He
retired in June 2012. Prior to his appointment, Gajarsa was a
litigator who also practiced corporate law. His worked at the
Commerce Department, the Interior Department and Defense
Department, the firm said.  WilmerHale’s IP litigation practice has more than 140
lawyers and technology specialists with scientific or technical
degrees. The firm has more than 1,000 lawyers at offices in 12
cities in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Linklaters Appoints Banking and Restructuring Partner in Spain  Spanish banking lawyer Juan Barona joined Linklaters LLP’s
Madrid office from Allen & Overy LLP where he was a partner.  “Our banking practice, and the Madrid office as a whole,
has enjoyed significant success over the last few years. The
addition of Juan to our team is the result of such success and
is an appropriate and timely response to our commitment to best
serve our clients’ demands,” Sebastián Albella, Linklaters
senior partner for Spain, said in a statement.  Linklaters finance practice in Spain covers restructuring
work, leveraged financing, corporate financing, equity and debt
capital markets and other matters.  Linklaters opened an office in Spain in 2000. The firm has
a team of about 100 lawyers in its Spanish office. The firm has
lawyers at 28 offices worldwide.  Edwards Wildman Hires Hogan Lovells Public Finance Partner  Alethia N. Nancoo joined Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP as a
partner in the Public Finance Department, in the firm’s
Washington office. She was previously with of Hogan Lovells LLP,
where she was a partner in the infrastructure, project and
public finance practice group, the firm said.  Nancoo’s background is in public and project-debt
financings, with a clientele comprised of municipalities, public
issuers and authorities, nonprofit corporations, and investment
banks, the firm said. She has advised clients in the U.S. and
Caribbean in infrastructure construction; airport, toll road and
surface transportation; mixed-use multifamily housing; and water
and sewer matters.  Edwards Wildman has 625 lawyers at 15 offices in the U.S,
Europe and Asia.  Litigation  Glaxo Plaintiff Lawyers Settle Dispute Over $143 Million in Fees  Lawyers who won what may be a $2.3 billion settlement with
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  over its Avandia diabetes drug resolved
their own fight over the allocation of almost $144 million in
legal fees.  Eight lawyers on a court-appointed fee committee agreed to
take a smaller portion of the fee fund after nine objectors
challenged their payouts, a special master assigned to review
the recommendations said in court papers made public Jan. 18 in
federal court in Philadelphia. The fee committee had asked for
71 percent of the fund set aside by U.S. District Judge Cynthia Rufe for the Avandia cases before her.  “Allocating a limited pot of common benefit fees among
numerous counsel, all of whom are talented and capable attorneys
and many of whom have made a significant contribution to the
ultimate success of (a) case, is an unenviable task that is sure
to lead to hurt feelings and bruised egos,” Bruce Merenstein,
the special master, wrote in the filing. “Yet, all of the
parties involved handled this difficult task with care and
equanimity.”  The fee fund is 6.25 percent of the total  settlement ,
according to court records. That means the total accord may be
worth $2.3 billion and the average payout for the 40,000 users
of Avandia involved in the litigation would be about $57,500 --
before legal fees. People familiar with the settlement, who
didn’t want to be named because the terms weren’t public, have
said the fee fund was 7 percent of the total.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s  biggest drugmaker , has said it paid more
than $3 billion to settle federal and state government claims
that it illegally marketed Avandia, once the world’s best-
selling diabetes pill, and other medications. Company officials
haven’t said what the drugmaker spent to settle the Avandia
lawsuits before Rufe, and in state courts, alleging executives
failed to properly warn consumers about the drug’s risks.  The fee-advisory group, led by Philadelphia attorney Dianne Nast, agreed to a lower payout as part of the accord. Nast
agreed to take $6.3 million, down from $6.7 million, according
to court papers. Joseph Zonies, a Denver-based attorney who was
slated to get the highest recommended fee, will see his firm’s
payout reduced to $22.5 million from $24.4 million for 18,232
hours of work. Vance Andrus, another Denver-based lawyer, saw
the biggest reduction, a cut of about $3 million that left him
with a payout of $14.6 million, according to the filing.  Other lawyers in the group, including Thomas Cartmell,
Bryan Aylstock, Stephen Corr, Paul Kiesel and Bill Robins III
all agreed to reductions from about $700,000 to $1.3 million
each, according to court papers.  Fifty-eight law firms are seeking payment from the fund for
common benefit work. The proposed payout for 41 firms that did
not object will remain unchanged, Merenstein said in the filing.
The allocation is subject to final approval from Rufe.  The consolidated case is In re Avandia Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Audio  Levitt Says White Would Be ‘Tough, Smart’ SEC Chairwoman  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, says former U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White,
now a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, would be a tough and
smart SEC chairwoman. Levitt, a member of Bloomberg LP’s board
of directors, talks with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee 
on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 