-- Google Vision Opposes AT&T as U.S. Looks to Sell Spectrum
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-01-23T17:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/google-vision-opposes-at-t-as-u-s-looks-to-sell-spectrum.html
U.S. regulators preparing to auction
airwaves craved by wireless providers to meet demand from data-
hungry smartphones are facing a divisive choice: how much to
devote instead to mobile service that can be free.  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat who has pushed for broader access to
high-speed Internet, backs a vision shared by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  of setting aside spectrum for mobile services
not yet invented. He’s accused opponents of waging a “nascent
war on Wi-Fi,” the aerial Internet connection found globally in
coffee shops and offices.  Airwaves withheld from the auction and allocated to new
uses would mean fewer frequencies for established carriers such
as  AT&T Inc. (T) , whose largest effort to add spectrum was quashed
in 2011 when the FCC objected to its proposed acquisition of T-
Mobile USA Inc.  “The largest holders of spectrum have no interest in
seeing new competition,” Cathy Sloan, vice president of
government relations with the Computer & Communications Industry
Association, said in an interview. Members of the Washington-
based trade group include Google, Microsoft, biggest social
network operator  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Internet radio provider  Pandora
Inc. (P) , and  Sprint (S)  Nextel Corp., a wireless telephone competitor
to AT&T and  Verizon Wireless .  Carriers straining to meet growing demand from smartphones
and tablets want as many airwaves as possible, Jot Carpenter,
vice president of government affairs for CTIA-The Wireless
Association, said in an interview.  Television Frequencies  “Let’s find a way to maximize the amount of reclaimed
spectrum that’s devoted to licensed operations,” or carriers
operating under FCC imprimatur, Carpenter said. Members of the
Washington-based trade group include AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile and
Sprint, which together serve almost nine in 10 U.S. wireless
subscribers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The debate is part of a broader discussion at the FCC about
rules for divvying airwaves during the auction next year of
frequencies now used by television stations. Station owners that
opt to participate will be assigned new frequencies.  The FCC in September voted unanimously to begin crafting
auction rules, and Genachowski’s proposal for unlicensed or Wi-
Fi use was part of that package.  Wresting Spectrum  “This is about the wireless companies trying to wrest
spectrum from the broadcasters,”  Gigi Sohn , president of the
Washington-based advocacy group  Public Knowledge , said in an
interview. The FCC is trying to set rules so broadcasters offer
enough airwaves for mobile carriers, and so “that at the end,
some of that spectrum is being preserved for other uses,” Sohn
said.  Bigger arguments are in store as the FCC decides how to
conduct the auction, which may  generate  $15.2 billion and is to
provide $7 billion to help build a nationwide wireless network
for public-safety officials.  The FCC would be allowed to bar particular companies from
bidding on some blocks of airwaves, Representative  Henry Waxman ,
of  California , the senior Democrat on the Energy and Commerce
Committee, told the House last year, according to the
Congressional Record. The agency can set a limit on airwaves
acquisitions by any company, Waxman said.  Waxman spoke in opposition to remarks four days earlier by
Representative  Fred Upton , the Michigan Republican who chairs
the committee.  “The FCC should not be picking winners and losers,” Upton
said, according to the Congressional Record. The agency can’t
exclude qualified bidders, Upton said.  T-Mobile Rejection  The FCC under Genachowski has signaled a willingness to
take on AT&T and Verizon, the two largest carriers with a
combined 62 percent of U.S. wireless subscribers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Genachowski broke with Republican predecessors and declined
to call the wireless market competitive, and he has said
regulators’ quashing of No. 2 mobile company AT&T’s bid for
fourth-largest carrier T-Mobile eased a market that was “on the
 doorstep of duopoly .”  Michael Balmoris, a Washington-based AT&T spokesman, didn’t
return a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment. Ed McFadden,
a Verizon spokesman in  Washington , declined to comment.  In an October speech, Genachowski cast those who oppose his
push for more airwaves outside carriers’ control as being
against “balanced spectrum policy.”  The FCC’s proposal for swaths devoted to Wi-Fi could cost
the government as much as $19 billion in revenue if those
airwaves bands aren’t offered at the auction, Representative
Greg Walden, an Oregon Republican, said at a hearing last month.  Campaign Money  “This is a very valuable taxpayer-owned commodity,”
Walden, chairman of the House communications and technology
subcommittee, said in a press briefing today. “I would take a
dim view of just making it available at no charge.”  The clash pits a Democratic-leaning high-technology
industry against telecommunications companies whose employees
trend Republican in campaign donations.  About 60 percent of computer- and Internet-industry
employees’ political contributions went to Democrats during the
2012 elections, according to the Center for Responsive Politics,
a Washington-based research group that tracks campaign
donations. That category is by led Microsoft, Google,
InterSystems Corp.,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Intel Corp .  Telecommunications industry employees, on the other hand,
gave 61 percent of their contributions to Republicans.  Largest search-engine owner Google, based in  Mountain View ,
California, and biggest software-maker Microsoft joined more
than 300 companies and organizations in calling for more Wi-Fi.
The request came in a Dec. 10 letter to Walden and to
Representative  Anna Eshoo  of California, the top Democrat on the
communications subcommittee, who represents Silicon Valley.  “If the commission does not designate more unlicensed
spectrum, the fuel for this growth engine will be lost,” the
companies said in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 