-- Gordhan Says No Plans on Mining Taxes in South Africa
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2013-01-23T15:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/gordhan-says-no-plans-on-mining-taxes-in-south-africa.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said he has no immediate plans to raise mining
taxes after the ruling party directed the government to ensure
the industry contributes an “equitable” amount of revenue.  “There is no question of any taxes at this time,” Gordhan
said in an interview on Bloomberg TV at the  World Economic Forum 
in Davos,  Switzerland . “We will keep the matter under review
and when we think it’s appropriate we’ll see how the regime
needs to change.”  At its national conference in December, the ruling  African
National Congress  rejected proposals to nationalize mines in
favor of a tax review in the world’s largest producer of
platinum and chrome. The party is considering a “resource-
rent” tax or higher royalties, details of which must be worked
out by the government, Enoch Godongwana, head of the ANC’s
economic transformation committee, said at the time.  Higher taxes are “part of a policy dialogue process,”
Gordhan said. “Many countries, including  South Africa , are
asking the question whether the mining royalties are at the
right levels, whether the owners of minerals, which are the
people of South  Africa , are getting the right levels of
return.”  Producers in Africa’s largest economy are battling to
contain production costs after a series of strikes led to above-
inflation wage increases. Nine platinum-mine shafts were shut in
the second half of last year, according to the Department of
Mineral Resources, while on Jan. 15  Anglo Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the
world’s largest producer of the metal, announced plans to idle
four shafts.  Revenue Cost  Mining makes up about 9 percent of  gross domestic product 
and accounts for two-thirds of exports.  Anglo Platinum’s decision may “cost us a bit on the
revenue side, probably 4 or 5 billion rand ($557 million), but
that’s still open to adjustments,” Gordhan said. “We must be
careful not to take a dispute in one or two mines in the
platinum sector and generalize it to mining, because coal is
working fairly well, oil is working fairly well, gold is working
fairly well.”  The  mining industry  has been wracked by violent labor
unrest since August when thousands of workers at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s
Marikana platinum mine went on an unprotected strike. At least
44 people died at the mine in 10 days of clashes between
mineworkers and police, including 34 protesters killed when
police opened fire on them.  Policy Uncertainty  “We’ve seen the worst” of the mining labor unrest,
President  Jacob Zuma  said in a panel discussion in Davos today.
“We’re dealing with the matters, all of us, organized labor,
business, the government. We’re dealing with it to correct it
because we can’t go back to a situation which creates an
impression that there’s no governance of this matter.”  Gordhan said the ANC conference helped to ease any
uncertainty about policy in the mining industry by pronouncing
that wholesale nationalization was “completely off the
agenda.”  “There is absolute clarity on the policies within which
the mining sector must work,” he said. “There would be an
interest that government might express from time to time, as
governments in Chile or  Norway  or anywhere else express, in
mineral resources that their countries have control over. We
have a very good record of fiscal management which we intend to
continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  