-- Gorman Path to High Returns Gets Mixed Review as Stock Leaps
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-23T16:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/gorman-path-to-higher-returns-draws-mixed-reviews-as-stock-leaps.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive
Officer James Gorman’s plan to boost returns has split analysts
as they debate whether his strategy will satisfy investors. The
market says it can.  The stock surged 11 percent in the two trading days since
the New York-based bank reported fourth-quarter results and
Gorman laid out his plan for higher returns. David Hilder, a
Drexel Hamilton LLC analyst, cited the strategy in raising his
share-price estimate, while others including Atlantic Equities
LLP’s Richard Staite expressed doubt the firm could attain
Gorman’s goals over the next few years.  Gorman called the  fourth quarter  a “pivot point” as he
moves from managing the aftermath of the financial crisis to
focusing on improving profit. With investors pressing for better
results, Gorman laid out a plan to double return on equity to 10
percent even if markets don’t rise.  “Just the fact that we’re having a call where they’re
talking about long-term strategy and profitability is
refreshing,” said Shannon Stemm, an analyst at Edward Jones &
Co. in St. Louis. “This is something that you hope you’re able
to think and talk about every single quarter, but that has not
been the case with Morgan Stanley because they’ve been very
bogged down in some of these legacy issues.”  Book Value  Whether Morgan Stanley can meet its cost of equity,
estimated at about 10 percent, has become a matter of debate
among investors as new capital requirements force the firm to
fund itself with a lower proportion of  debt . The bank has traded
below book value for more than 2 1/2 years.  Gorman pledged to buy out the rest of the firm’s brokerage
joint venture with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  this year, improve margins in
that business and increase lending to wealth-management clients.
He also laid out a plan to cut $1.6 billion in costs across the
firm and reduce capital devoted to the fixed-income trading unit
at a faster pace than previously planned.  Those efforts should improve return on equity to 9 percent,
Gorman said during a Jan. 18 conference call. Returning capital
to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends should
boost the figure to 10 percent, equivalent to a 12 percent
return on tangible equity, or ROTE.  ‘Winding Road’  The bank didn’t put a date on its return goals. Roger Freeman, a Barclays Plc analyst, wrote yesterday that he still
expects return on equity to remain below 9 percent for the next
two years. Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP’s  Jeff Harte , in a note
titled “The Long and Winding Road to a Double-Digit ROE,” said
he couldn’t see a 10 percent return without “significant
operating environment improvement.”  “If you’re not going to put a time horizon on it, 12
percent is not a heroic target,” said  David Trone , a JMP
Securities LLC analyst, referring to the ROTE target.  The bank said it plans to reach the $1.6 billion target for
cost reductions during the next two years, with some savings
coming from 1,700 job cuts this month. The fixed-income
shrinkage is set to occur over the next four years.  Some analysts, including Staite, questioned whether the
firm could cut jobs and fixed-income assets without sacrificing
revenue. Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said the $40 billion
of reduction in risk-weighted assets the firm made in the second
half of 2012 had “minimal” revenue impact.  Stock Gains  The stock  posted its biggest two-day gain in seven months,
rising 8 percent to a 17-month high, after Gorman disclosed his
plan on Jan. 18. Keith Horowitz, a Citigroup analyst, said the
strategy excited investors more than Morgan Stanley beating
profit estimates as the cuts in assets and expenses exceeded
expectations.  Doug Sipkin, a Susquehanna Financial Group analyst, lowered
his rating on Morgan Stanley to neutral from positive in the
wake of the shares’ rally. The shares fell 1.4 percent to $22.67
at 10:05 a.m. in  New York  trading.  “The ‘story’ aspect of MS is now appropriately discounted
in the stock,” Sipkin wrote in a note to investors yesterday,
referring to the company’s ticker symbol. “As a result, the
burden of proof will now shift to earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  