-- Gross Says New Currency ETF to Seek Emerging Market Gains
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-23T17:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/gross-says-new-currency-etf-to-seek-emerging-market-gains.html
Bill Gross , co-chief investment
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said the firm will
seek to capture gains in emerging market currencies through a
new actively-managed exchange-traded fund.  Economic growth in emerging markets “can be reflected in
the currency space, which means you not only can earn a carry,
or higher interest rate, but also hopefully the currency will
appreciate,” Gross said today at the  ETF Virtual Summit , an
online conference for financial advisers hosted by ETF Trends,
which provides industry research and analysis. Gross said he
expects currencies in countries such as Mexico and Brazil to
appreciate.  Pimco first disclosed in a regulatory  filing  in June 2011
that it plans to open the Foreign Currency Strategy ETF, which
would invest at least 80 percent of assets in currencies or
locally-denominated bonds issued outside the U.S. The fund,
which will be managed by  Scott Mather , could invest up to half
its assets in securities economically tied to emerging market
countries.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco, declined to comment on when the new ETF
would be available to investors.  Mather runs the $9 billion Dublin-registered  Pimco Global
Bond Fund. (PIMGBII)  The fund has beaten 74 percent of competing funds
over the past three years, returning an annual average of 8.3
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross manages the  Pimco Total Return Exchange-Traded Fund (BOND) ,
the world’s largest actively-managed ETF, which opened March 1
and holds $3.9 billion. Foreign Currency Strategy would be the
firm’s seventh actively-managed ETF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  