-- Iceland Success Story Shows Joining EU Not Needed, Grimsson Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-01-23T11:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/iceland-success-story-shows-joining-eu-not-needed-grimsson-says.html
Iceland’s revival from its financial
collapse and the prosperity of nations outside the European
Union show that membership in the bloc isn’t needed to achieve
economic success, President Olafur R. Grimsson said.  “There are a few countries in the world which have
succeeded the way  Switzerland  has,” he said today in an
interview in Davos, Switzerland. “And then look at  Norway  and
my country, Iceland, which has recovered from a financial crisis
more effectively than Europe. So it’s difficult to argue the
case that you have to be in the EU to be successful.”  The debate on the cohesion of the 27-nation bloc is
intensifying as U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron today pledged
a referendum by the end of 2017 on whether to leave the EU.
Iceland earlier this month announced it would freeze talks
underway since 2010 to join the bloc amid voter skepticism.  As the EU battles to rescue the 17-nation euro region from
the debt crisis, Iceland has recovered from its financial
collapse in 2008, leading the country’s 320,000 citizens to
question the logic of joining.  Iceland was plunged into its worst recession in six decades
in 2008 when the failure of its three biggest banks caused its
currency to decline as much as 80 percent against the euro
offshore.  Cameron today said U.K. backing for the status quo in
 Europe  was “wafer thin” and said he would put the question to
a popular vote, if re-elected in two years, after also
negotiating a return of some powers to the U.K. He said he wants
the U.K. to remain in the EU.  “There is widespread euro-skepticism in the U.K. about the
EU,” Grimsson said. “The speech is simply reflecting a deep
and profound political reality within the U.K.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 