-- ICL Gains to 16-Month High on Potash Sale Bets: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-23T15:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/icl-gains-to-16-month-high-on-potash-sale-bets-tel-aviv-mover.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  advanced to
the highest level in more than a year amid speculation Benjamin Netanyahu will form a new governing coalition and approve the
company’s sale to  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.   The shares gained 4.2 percent to 50.52 shekels, the highest
level since September 2011, at the close in Tel Aviv. That
values the company that extracts minerals from the Dead Sea to
make potash and fertilizers at 64 billion shekels ($17.2
billion). The benchmark TA-25 Index rose 1 percent while Israel
Corp., which holds a 52.3 percent stake in Israel Chemicals,
advanced 4 percent to 2,659 shekels.  Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said this month the
proposed acquisition of  Israel  Chemicals was on hold until after
yesterday’s election, in which voters gave Netanyahu the chance
to serve a third term as prime minister. A takeover of the
country’s second-largest company by market value would be at
least three times bigger than the largest deal completed in
Israel and would give Potash control of one of the few natural
resources held by the Middle Eastern nation.  With Netanyahu staying in office “there is some chance
that he may approve a sale of ICL to Potash Corp.,” Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Excellence Nessuah said by phone.
“The Labor party said very clearly it is against the sale.”  Canada’s Potash Corp. held talks in October with the
Israeli government about increasing its stake from 13.84
percent. In December 2011, Israel Chemicals agreed to a doubling
of royalties it pays on the natural resources it harvests.  Israel Chemicals trading volume was 1.7 times the three-
month daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company said this month it will supply 660,000 metric tons
of potash to  China  in the first half of this year as part of a
3.3 million ton multi year contract.  Nine analysts recommend investors buy Israel Chemicals
shares, eight say hold and one advises selling them, according
to data  compiled by Bloomberg.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  