-- Mideast-North Africa Adviser Leaving White House Team
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-01-23T22:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/mideast-north-africa-adviser-leaving-white-house-team.html
President  Barack Obama ’s National
Security Council adviser overseeing the  Middle East  and North
Africa is leaving the administration, adding to the turnover of
officials who handle foreign policy and security.  Steven Simon’s departure follows Obama’s nomination of  John Brennan , his counterterrorism adviser, to lead the Central
Intelligence Agency. Deputy National Security Adviser  Denis McDonough  is in line to become White House chief of staff to
replace Jack Lew, Obama’s choice as the next Treasury secretary.  Simon is returning to the International Institute for
Strategic Studies, the London-based policy institute announced
today. The White House hasn’t named a replacement.  While administration changes at the start of a president’s
second term are typical, the national security staff openings
come as the U.S. is managing the consequences of France’s
intervention in Mali to block a jihadist takeover and the
Algerian hostage-taking. Other challenges include the situation
in Syria, Arab Spring uprisings across North Africa and the
Middle East, and Israeli elections that returned Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  to office with a weaker mandate.  Obama also will have new secretaries of state and defense.
He has nominated Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat,
to lead the State Department and former Republican Senator Chuck Hagel of  Nebraska  to run the Pentagon.  Staff Change  Colin Kahl, a senior fellow at the Center for a New
American Security, a Washington policy institute, and a former
Obama deputy assistant secretary of defense for the Middle East,
said such turnover is “not at all unusual” between a first and
second term. New challenges in the Middle East and North Africa
won’t affect the pace of change, he said.  “While there’s a lot going on in the region there’s always
a lot going on in the region,” he said.  Kahl said it’s too soon to say whether foreign policy
decision-making might shift to the state and defense departments
from the National Security Council with the nominations of Kerry
and Hagel.  “In this administration, history suggests that foreign
policy is very much directed out of the White House,” he said.  Simon has held the NSC post since 2011, replacing Dan Shapiro, who became U.S. ambassador to  Israel .  The institute said Simon will serve as director of the
group’s U.S. operations and corresponding director of Middle
East operations, beginning Jan. 28. He previously worked for the
State Department,  Council on Foreign Relations  and RAND
Corporation and taught at Princeton and Georgetown universities.  While Simon’s post has been “very important” because of
the geography it encompasses, Kahl said, McDonough also played a
strong role in shaping administration responses to challenges in
the region. Assuming McDonough leaves his job to become become
chief of staff, Kahl said, “Having a smooth transition at the
deputy national security adviser position is particularly
important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  