-- Hillary Clinton's Finest Hour and a Half
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-01-23T19:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/hillary-clinton-s-finest-hour-and-a-half.html
Today's long-awaited  congressional hearings  on the attack of the U.S. mission
in Benghazi,  Libya , were the second time in my many years covering  Hillary
Clinton  that I saw her cry. The first time, at a coffee shop in  New Hampshire  in
January 2008, she wept for herself, worn down to a nub by a losing presidential
campaign. This time her tears were for others as she talked about standing beside the
president at Andrews Air Force Base when the flag-draped coffins of the
Americans killed in Libya were returned. “I put my arms around the mothers and fathers, the sisters and brothers, the
sons and daughters, and the wives left alone to raise their children,” she told
the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee . She quickly recovered. Throughout the two hours, which veered between a
testimonial dinner and murder boards, Clinton consistently beat back the
accusation that the administration moved too slowly in the hours after the Sept.
11, 2012, attack. She didn’t lip-synch her replies. There were “no delays” and
“no denials of support.” She wasn't involved in United Nations Ambassador  Susan
Rice 's much-criticized appearance on the Sunday talk shows. As secretary, she
wouldn't be part of that decision. When Clinton got the report of the  Accountability Review Board , she acted.
Security failings were placed at the assistant secretary’s doorstep. She
accepted his resignation within 24 hours and three other officials are on
administrative leave. She is moving on every one of the ARB’s
recommendations. There were moments of great theater. Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky
Republican, was the most blatant ham, saying that if he were president, he would
have fired Clinton. For many reasons, and with a lot of company, I am grateful
that the former eye doctor isn't president. Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  took his best shot, all but calling Clinton a
liar, and he continued his crusade to convince the world that the president and
Rice tried to hide the nature of the attack until after the election. His lack
of temperament contrasted poorly with her composure and command of the facts.
She flicked him away with the comment that they had a “disagreement.” Throughout, she returned to her points: You cannot practice diplomacy from a
bunker; that she’d asked for more security for the new hot spots in the infant
democracies around the world, but Congress has refused the funds. There was
accountability. Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , the new ranking Republican on Senate Foreign
Affairs, acquitted himself with grace. He’s civil even when those 
all around him aren't.  The sharpest exchange was with Senator  Ron Johnson  of  Wisconsin , who said
that Clinton was just making excuses when she said that it took time to pin down
information about the circumstances of the attack. By the time he made his
charge, her frustration over the line of attack making what was said on a talk
show more important to certain senators than what actually happened bubbled
over. “The fact is, we had four dead Americans," she said. "Was it because of a
protest, or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who decided they'd
go kill some Americans?  What difference, at this point, does it make?"  What a satisfying flash of Chris Christie-like anger. It’s hard to imagine
Clinton swimming in a warmer bath of American approval than she already is. She
walked into the hearing with a 91 percent approval rating among Democrats -- 67
percent for all Americans -- according to the latest  Washington Post/ABC News
poll . That must have ticked up a few points while she was being grilled. It is
on to the House this afternoon. Maybe she can reach 99 percent.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .