-- Indian Stocks Rise; Hindustan Unilever Falls on Downgrade
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-01-23T10:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/india-nifty-futures-advance-signaling-benchmark-indexes-to-gain.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks rose, led by telecom
companies and banks, after the finance minister pledged to cut
the fiscal deficit and boost growth.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) 
tumbled after brokerages downgrades the stock.  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or Sensex, added 0.3 percent
to 20,048.10, according to preliminary closing prices in  Mumbai .
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest cell-phone operator, led its
peers higher after raising call rates.     ICICI Bank Ltd., the
country’s second-biggest lender, rose 1.8 percent. Hindustan
Unilever fell the most in two years after brokerages including
Credit Suisse Group AG, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets and Nomura
Holdings Inc. cut their recommendations on the nation’s biggest
home-products maker.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told investors in
 Singapore  today the nation’s budget gap won’t breach his target
of 5.3 percent of gross domestic product this fiscal year. The
Sensex is up 2.9 percent this year, after jumping 26 percent in
2012, as government measures to lift growth prompted foreigners
to plow a net $2.67 billion into local shares, a record for the
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The pace of reforms has been a real positive surprise,”
K. Ramanathan, chief investment officer at ING Investment
Management, told Bloomberg TV India today. “We are positive on
the markets but realize that valuations are no longer cheap.
Market movement will be in line with earnings growth.”  The Sensex is valued at 15.9 times estimated earnings, the
highest level since February 2012 and the most expensive among
the BRIC countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa Index trades at 11.7 times estimated profit,  Russia ’s
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  at 5.6 times and  China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  at
10 times. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index trades at 11 times,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  