-- Hindustan Unilever Slumps After CLSA Recommends Sell
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-01-23T13:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/hindustan-unilever-cut-at-credit-suisse-emkay-on-royalty.html
Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian
unit of the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company, fell
the most in two years in Mumbai after it was downgraded by at
least 11 brokerages.  Shares declined 4.3 percent to close at 460.05 rupees, the
most since January 2011. It was the worst performer on the
benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index.  CLSA Asia Pacific Markets slashed its  recommendation  to
sell from outperform. Credit Suisse Group AG, Nomura Holdings
Inc. and Morgan Stanley lowered their ratings on the Mumbai -
based company after it said royalty payments to parent Unilever
will increase.  The ratings have been lowered after third-quarter sales
volume growth were a “big disappointment” and on higher
royalty pay-out, Vivek Maheshwari and Bhavesh Pravin Shah,
analysts at CLSA, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  The royalty Hindustan Unilever pays will increase to 3.15
percent of revenue in phases through the year ending March 2018,
the company said in a  statement  yesterday. The company reported
third-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  The company’s announcement on higher royalty payments is a
“big negative” because it would reduce profit margins without
leading to any significant gains for the company, said Nitin Mathur, an analyst with Espirito Santo Securities Ltd. Hindustan
Unilever’s sales of shampoo and skincare products are slowing
and the increased payment will make things worse, he said.  ‘Bad Timing’  “This is absolute bad timing,” Mathur, who has a sell
rating on the stock, said in an interview. “When your domestic
business is suffering you are actually increasing royalty.”  The  consensus rating , or the average of recommendations,
updated by analysts, dropped to 2.54 today, from 2.9 at the
start of the year. Five denotes a buy and one a sell, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The new agreement on royalty payment will take effect Feb.
1 and the increase in the period through March 2014 is estimated
to be 0.5 percent of revenue, it said.  “The royalty agreement is designed to help us grow
competitively,” Chief Financial Officer Sridhar Ramamurthy said
on a conference call. “Given the increased intensity of
competition, particularly from global players, it is absolutely
critical that we have access to world class innovations and
superior best practices.”  Unilever controls about 52 percent of the Indian company,
according to its  website .  Brokerages including Jefferies India Pvt., Fortune Equity
Brokers India Ltd., and Religare Capital Markets Ltd. maintained
their ratings and reduced their estimates for the company’s
earnings in the year ending March 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  