-- Iran’s Bahmani Rejects Court Ruling, Says Actions Legal
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-01-23T09:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/iran-s-bahmani-rejects-court-ruling-says-actions-legal.html
Iran ’s Central Bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani rejected claims of illegal movements of money by a
Tehran court, which ruled that he should be dismissed,  state-
media reported.  The withdrawals were legal and had the government’s
backing, Bahmani said. “The matter of withdrawing from bank
accounts by the Central Bank was fully in line with the
government’s approval and all documents are available,” he was
quoted as saying yesterday by the state-run  Mehr  news agency.  Members of parliament have criticized the Central Bank for
failing to stabilize the national currency, which has plunged
about 60 percent against the dollar in the past six months.
Inflation has quickened and the economy is under strain amid
tighter U.S. and European Union sanctions aimed at curbing
 Iran’s nuclear program .  Some 30 trillion rials ($2.4 billion) were withdrawn from
bank accounts to prevent fraudulent actions at certain local
lenders and more may follow if needed and upon government
approval, Bahmani said. In comments published in today’s edition
of  Donya-e-Eqtesad , he called his actions “entirely legal.”  “Some banks received foreign currency from the Central
Bank at the official rate and sold them on the open market at a
higher rate, but the Central Bank withdrew this cash and
diverted it to its treasury,” Bahmani was cited as saying.  Rial Slides  Uncertainty about Bahmani’s fate has caused the rial to
drop against the dollar in street trading in recent days. Mehr
reported late yesterday that a dollar was worth 36,000 rials
compared with 34,000 on Jan. 16.  The government of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , whom
deputies have accused of mismanaging the economy, stood by
Bahmani in a  statement  released late yesterday. The Central
Bank’s actions were authorized and intended to prevent
“fraudulent foreign-currency transactions,” according to the
statement published on the government’s website.  “The Central Bank is under the most intense and
unprecedented pressure from international bullies and will
hopefully, with the support of other powers in the government,
overcome these difficulties,” the government said.  The  Supreme Court of Audit , which is accountable to the
parliament, blamed Bahmani for “illegal overnight withdrawal of
money from bank accounts,” the official  Islamic Republic News
Agency  reported on Jan. 21. The ruling isn’t final and Bahmani
has 20 days to appeal, while the government may oppose it and
force a review of the verdict, said Rahmatollah Sharifi, the
head of public relations at the court, IRNA and Tehran-based
 Donya-e-Eqtesad  newspaper reported.  The ruling was issued after Bahmani failed to turn up for a
hearing, the Tehran-based Etemaad newspaper said yesterday. It
also came as members of the parliament decided on Jan. 20 to
start an investigation into the  Central Bank ’s reaction to the
country’s currency complications, according to a separate Mehr  
report yesterday .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  