-- Netanyahu-Lapid Alliance May Force More Haredim Into Workforce
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-01-23T22:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/israel-election-surprise-may-force-more-haredim-into-workforce.html
An Israeli government anchored by
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and newcomer Yair Lapid may
force more ultra-Orthodox men to take jobs, which central bank
Governor Stanley Fischer says is key to a stronger economy.  Lapid, whose Yesh Atid party came second in  Israel ’s
national election, made it almost certain yesterday that
Netanyahu will serve a third term and address the employment
issue. The popular 49-year-old television host pledged not to
join the prime minister’s opponents who seek to block him from
assembling a 61-seat majority in Israel’s 120-member Knesset.  “I want to get rid of this idea,” Lapid told reporters
outside his Tel Aviv home, in remarks broadcast by Channel 2. He
said he was pleased Netanyahu spoke about the need for all
citizens to “share the burden” of army service and discussed
the plight of Israel’s middle class, Lapid’s banner issues.  The low employment rate of ultra-Orthodox men -- known as
haredim in Hebrew -- has prompted Fischer to warn repeatedly
that the current arrangement is “not sustainable.” Under a
system that dates back to the early days after Israel’s founding
in 1948, haredi men are permitted to defer military service as
long as they study full-time in religious seminaries, known as
yeshivas. The majority remain in yeshiva until they are married
and have several children, allowing them a permanent deferment
from the armed forces.  Military Deferments  Lapid’s plan to eliminate military draft deferments for the
haredim and boost their labor participation could be foiled if
Netanyahu decides to bring the ultra-Orthodox parties into  the
new coalition he wants to assemble, said Itzhak Galnoor, a
political scientist at Hebrew University of  Jerusalem .  “The dramatic change would be if they would be left out,”
he said. “If Mr. Lapid will be part of the coalition, the
question is if it will be possible at all to have them as
coalition partners.”  Lapid campaigned on domestic issues he says are crucial to
Israel’s middle class. These include “sharing national
responsibilities” and “equal service for all,” a reference to
the draft deferments for ultra-religious men and their low
employment rate.  While the Ashkenazi ultra-Orthodox United Torah Judaism
party, which won seven seats, has remained in the opposition to
some governments, the Sephardi Shas party, which won 11 seats,
has been included in every coalition except one in the past 30
years, Galnoor said. If Shas is in the coalition, a compromise
will probably be reached, and changes to the draft arrangements
for the ultra-Orthodox will be less dramatic, he said.  Netanyahu Coalition  Yesh Atid, Hebrew for “there is a future,” won 19
parliament seats, more than any opinion poll predicted and
second only to Netanyahu’s Likud-Beitenu. The prime minister’s
party won 31 seats and will need other parties to build a
majority coalition in the Knesset.  Lapid says he entered politics in part to carry on the
legacy of his late father. Tommy Lapid, who died in 2008, was
also a journalist and broadcaster whose now-defunct Shinui party
won 15 seats in the 2003 election. Before imploding amid
internal conflicts, Shinui supported the government of Prime
Minister Ariel Sharon in reducing child allowances for large
ultra-Orthodox families.  Lapid’s platform calls for a five-year interim period
during which ultra-Orthodox men would be allowed to work with no
requirement of army service. During this period, the government
would develop programs to facilitate the service of much larger
numbers of ultra-Orthodox in the army and in civilian national
service. After five years, all would be drafted.  “We have the opportunity to do very big things for the
State of Israel,” Netanyahu told Lapid after the vote,
according to comments posted on the prime minister’s Facebook
page.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  