-- Israel Stocks, Bonds Gain on Bets Coalition to Tackle Economy
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-23T16:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/israel-stocks-bonds-gain-on-bets-coalition-to-tackle-economy.html
Israeli stocks advanced the most in
two weeks and bonds rose as investors bet  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s
new coalition would weaken ultra-Orthodox factions as the nation
seeks to narrow its  budget deficit .  The benchmark  Tel Aviv 25 Index (TA-25)  of equities advanced 1
percent, the most since Jan. 10, to 1,204.65 at the close in  Tel
Aviv , as  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) ,  Israel  Corp. and the country’s
three largest banks led gains. The yield on the 4.25 percent
benchmark government bonds due March 2023 dropped 5 basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4 percent. The shekel
gained for a second day versus the dollar. The  Bloomberg Israel-
US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest U.S.-traded Israeli companies
added 0.1 percent to 86.08 at 10:23 a.m. in  New York .  Israeli voters gave Netanyahu the chance to serve a third
term as prime minister with a weaker mandate than four years
ago, leading him to seek an alliance with centrist Yair Lapid’s
Yesh Atid party, which took the second-most seats. The party
campaigned on the need to trim housing costs and draft ultra-
Orthodox Jews into the army.  “The market likes the fact that a new government could be
formed in which the power of the ultra-orthodox is weakened,
making Netanyahu less subject to sectoral party demands,” Shuki Arditi, head of trading at Leader Capital Markets in Tel Aviv,
said today by phone. “There is an option to form a liberal
government that supports a shared burden and fiscal
responsibility.”  The shekel strengthened 0.2 percent to 3.7253 per dollar at
4:39 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  Three Priorities  Netanyahu said today he will work quickly to form a new
coalition. The new government will have three priorities,
cutting home costs, limiting draft deferments and implementing
structural reforms, Netanyahu said in comments broadcast on  Army
Radio .  One-year  interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, fell two basis points to
1.71 percent. The Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index, which measures
inflation-linked and fixed-rate corporate bonds, was little
changed at 281.81.  Netanyahu’s combined ticket with the Yisrael Beitenu party
won 31 seats in the 120-member Knesset, according to the Haaretz
website, down from 42 in the current parliament. The prime
minister said the deficit should be reduced to 3 percent of
economic output this year from 4.2 percent in 2012, requiring 14
billion shekels ($3.8 billion) in spending cuts. He called the
election a year ahead of schedule after failing to get coalition
partners to agree on the measures.  “The market likes the fact that Netanyahu will be the
presumed prime minister,” Zach Herzog, head of international
sales at Psagot Investment House Ltd., said today by phone.
“Investors know he will be working on decreasing the deficit
and maintaining Israel’s fiscal credibility.”  Enacting a budget for 2013 remains the key near-term
challenge for any new Israeli government that emerges after the
elections,  Fitch Ratings  said today.  Yesh Atid’s Lapid, 49, told supporters at his own rally in
Tel Aviv that he hoped to “unite the moderate forces from the
right and the left so that we can bring about a real change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  