-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Crop Spared Damage From Sahara Winds
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-01-23T13:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/ivory-coast-cocoa-crop-spared-damage-from-sahara-winds.html
Cocoa output in  Ivory Coast , the
world’s largest producer of the beans, will be close to last
year’s level as the Harmattan winds that blow from the  Sahara
Desert  are ending this year without having damaged the crop.  Growers in Ivory Coast will harvest 1.42 million metric
tons of cocoa in the 2012-13 season started Oct. 1, according to
the mean in a survey of 13 analysts, brokers and traders. That
is 6.8 percent more than the 1.33 million tons that brokerage
Marex Spectron estimated on Nov. 15, and 3.8 percent lower than
last year, data from the London-based International Cocoa
Organization showed.  “Since last week, the Harmattan is withdrawing, pushed
away by the clouds,” Antoine Kouassi Koffi, an Abidjan, Ivory
Coast-based agro-meteorology engineer at the National
Meteorological Service, said by phone yesterday from the central
town of Bouake. “The Harmattan has been short and moderate with
little consequences for cocoa.”  The dry and dusty winds from the desert, which are typical
in West Africa from December through January and can damage the
cocoa crop, arrived late this year, helping soil to retain
moisture from rains. Precipitation in most areas in West Africa
has been above-average since Oct. 24, according to Joe D’Aleo,
chief agriculture meteorologist at Weatherbell Analytics LLC.  “Last year the Harmattan in West Africa was stronger than
normal, the rain ended earlier, in October,” D’Aleo said by
phone from Hudson,  New Hampshire . “This year it’s weaker and
they are getting coastal showers, which is a little bit unusual
for the dry season. It should be wetter than normal and more
moist than normal in the next two or three months.”  Mid-Crop  Ivory Coast’s 2012-13 cocoa crop will still be smaller than
the 1.476 million tons produced last year, the Bloomberg survey
and  ICCO  data showed. Rainfall from May to September last year
was “significantly” below average, impacting the development
of the main crop, which runs from October to March, D’Aleo said.
Above-average precipitation in the February-to-April period will
be favorable to the mid-crop, the smaller of two annual harvests
that usually starts in April, he said.  Cocoa for March delivery rose 0.4 percent to 1,449 pounds
($2,299) a ton on NYSE Liffe in  London  today, after declining
2.7 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net 
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 