-- J&J Study Predicted 37% Hip-Failure Rate
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-01-23T20:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/j-j-study-showed-37-percent-hip-failure-rate-records-found.html
One year after  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
pulled 93,000 metal hip implants from the market, the company
internally estimated that 37 percent of the devices would fail
within 4.6 years, according to newly unsealed court records.  J&J faces 10,000 lawsuits over its ASR hips, which it
pulled in August 2010 after citing U.K. joint registry data
showing that more than 12 percent failed within five years. The
estimate of triple the failure rate publicly cited by J&J came
in documents unsealed Jan. 18 in the lawsuit of Loren Kransky in
state court in Los Angeles.  Jurors are scheduled to hear opening statements on Jan. 25
in Kransky’s case, the first to go to trial against J&J, the
world’s biggest seller of health-care products. J&J offered to
pay more than $200,000 a case to settle most of the 10,000
lawsuits, according to five people familiar with the matter. The
deal’s cost could exceed $2 billion if most plaintiffs accept
the terms. Lawyers for hip recipients have so far rejected the
offer, the people said.  The failure-rate estimate came in pretrial testimony of
Paul Voorhorst, a biostatistician for J&J’s DePuy unit, which
made the hips. A plaintiff’s lawyer, Brian J. Devine, asked
Voorhorst about a graph showing the company’s review of 554
implanted hips through September 2011, and how many would fail,
requiring follow-up replacement surgery known as revisions.  “That means that 37 percent are expected to fail at 4.57
years, correct?” Devine asked Voorhorst.  “The estimated revision rate at that time would be 37
percent,” Voorhorst said. “That’s correct.”  ‘Patient Interests’  Lorie Gawreluk, a DePuy spokeswoman, said that the company
was “looking out for patient interests by analyzing data” on
the ASR hip system.  She said the analysis cited by Voorhorst “was based on a
small, limited set of data that could not be used to generalize
the revision rate for ASR, unlike published data from national
joint registries that include large numbers of patients and
detailed revision information.”  The J&J hips were made from a cobalt and chromium alloy
used in two related models -- the ASR XL Acetabular System, and
the ASR Hip Resurfacing System. In announcing its recall, J&J
cited unpublished data from the U.K. showing that within five
years, 13 percent of ASR XL hips failed and needed revision, and
12 percent of the ASR Hip Resurfacing Systems failed.  In March 2011, the British Orthopaedic Association and the
British Hip Society said preliminary data put the ASR XL’s
failure rate in the U.K. as high as 49 percent after six years.  Metal Debris  Lawyers for patients claim that debris from the metal ball
sliding against the metal cup causes tissue death around the
joint and may increase the amount of metal ions in the
bloodstream to harmful levels. Patients who sued typically cite
pain and say they are immobilized by joint dislocations,
infections and  bone fractures .  Claims by Kransky include failure to warn, negligent recall
and manufacturing defect.  At the Kransky trial, “DePuy will vigorously defend itself
and believes the evidence to be presented will show the company
acted appropriately and responsibly,” Gawreluk said.  Kransky, 65, is a retired prison guard who got a hip
implant in 2007 and had it replaced in 2012. J&J’s lawyers asked
Judge Stephen Czuleger to bar Kransky’s doctors from testifying
their patient was “poisoned by the chromium and cobalt”
released by the artificial hip, according to publicly filed
court documents.  ‘Poisoning’  Thomas Trotsky, Kransky’s primary care doctor, said in a
deposition that his observations of Kransky over the years led
him to conclude that “something was poisoning Mr. Kransky, and,
of course, we thought it was the hip,” according to a Jan. 7
court filing.  Trotsky said he and his medical colleagues suspected
Kransky was suffering from exposure to “heavy metal poisoning”
and they were “unable to identify any other factor besides the
prosthetic hip” that could be causing it, according to the
documents.  While J&J opposed the motion, the judge ruled Jan. 18 that
the doctors can testify. J&J’s lawyers argued that Kransky’s
attorneys are seeking to “inflame the jury or appeal to their
emotions” by having the doctors testify the former prison guard
had been poisoned by the hip’s components.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , said in a November
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that it
increased reserves “due to anticipated product liability
litigation and costs associated with” the ASR hips. The company
didn’t specify the amount of the increase.  $800 Million  The company said in January 2012 that it had spent about
$800 million on hip recalls during the prior two years. J&J
didn’t provide an estimate of its product-liability costs.  J&J faced 10,100 suits over the hips through September,
according to the November filing. Most pretrial collection of
evidence has been consolidated in federal court in Toledo,  Ohio ,
where 7,240 cases are pending, and California state court in  San
Francisco , where more than 2,000 cases are filed. Other cases
have been filed in state courts around the U.S.  In a Jan. 4 court filing, J&J said Kransky has smoked since
he was 12, broke his back when he was 15, and was exposed to
 Agent Orange  when he served as a U.S. Air Force mechanic in
 Vietnam . He suffers from diabetes, coronary artery disease, high
 blood pressure , and  kidney disease . He had two strokes and
suffers from kidney cancer, according to the company.  Kransky’s case was chosen from those pending in the
California Judicial Council Coordinated Proceeding before Judge
Richard Kramer in San Francisco.  ‘Rationalization’  Kransky’s lawyers said in a Jan. 7 court filing that DePuy
decided in September 2009 through a process called
“rationalization” to stop selling ASR hips for business
reasons. They quoted a November 2009 memo from Paul Berman,
DePuy’s U.S. director of hip marketing, to the sales force.  “This global rationalization is consistent with DePuy’s
strategy to streamline its portfolio, reduce cost and reallocate
resources to high growth brands and technologies that best meet
the current and future needs of surgeons and patients,” Berman
wrote, according to the filing.  DePuy “has consistently claimed it recalled the ASR for
purely ‘financial reasons,’” Kransky’s lawyers wrote. DePuy
then “attempted to pivot off that position, claiming the real
reason it recalled the ASR was for a ‘remedial or precautionary
measure,’” the lawyers wrote.  Kransky’s lawyers argued that DePuy sought to deem the
recall a “remedial measure” so that it could exclude certain
evidence from the trial.  The Kransky case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California
Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County (Los Angeles). The
consolidated federal case is In re DePuy Orthopedics Inc., ASR
Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Ohio (Toledo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  