-- Jaguar Land Rover Profit Stalls on Cheaper Evoque Model
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-01-24T11:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/jaguar-land-rover-profit-stalls-on-cheaper-evoque-model.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  fell the most since
May in Mumbai trading after its Jaguar  Land Rover  Plc unit said
profit growth probably stalled on currency shifts and cheaper
models attracted a higher share of buyers.  Tata Motors, which derived three quarters of its operating
income from Jaguar Land Rover in the last financial year,
 slumped  6.3 percent. The stock was the  biggest drag  on the
benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index, which declined 0.5 percent.  BNP Paribas SA cut its rating on Tata Motors, citing
negative outlook on Jaguar Land Rover’s profitability. Margins
in the three months through December may have declined due to
the pound weakening against other currencies and higher sales of
its cheaper models, the Gaydon, England-based division said
yesterday in a U.S. filing.  “We had indicated at the beginning of the year that
product mix would be poorer because of higher sales of the XF,
Freelander and Evoque,” Vijay Somaiya, the head of treasury and
investor relations at Tata Motors, said on a conference call
today. “Incentives in the current year are also slightly higher
than previous years.”  The average selling price of models such as the Jaguar XF,
Land Rover Freelander and the best-selling Evoque is about
30,000 pounds ($47,500), compared with the 42,000-pound average
on other models, Somaiya said.  Tata Motors fell the most since May 30 to 293.45 rupees.  Pound Drops  The pound dropped after a 0.1 percent decline in retail
sales last month added to signs the U.K.’s economy is struggling
to recover. The euro has gained more than 3 percent against the
pound this month.  “The company saying that margins will be lower is a big
concern,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst with BRICS Securities
Ltd. in Mumbai. “The indication that capital expenditure will
be higher as well as about negative  cash flow  is a concern, as
we factored positive cash flows into the share price.”  Jaguar Land Rover’s margins had declined in the two earlier
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lower-
priced Evoque sport-utility vehicle accounted for almost 30
percent of Land Rover’s wholesale deliveries in the six months
ended Sept. 30.  The Evoque, which began deliveries in September 2011, sells
for just under 29,200 pounds, versus the 38,825-pound starting
price for Land Rover’s Discovery 4, a larger SUV, according to
the brand’s  website .  Negative Flows  Jaguar Land Rover may have negative free cash flow in the
year beginning April 1 as the unit raises annual  capital
spending  to 2.75 billion pounds from 2 billion pounds to develop
models and build a factory in  China . Free cash flow was probably
also negative in the third quarter, it said.  The luxury division, which has 2.18 billion pounds in cash,
may raise additional funds for investments from  capital markets 
and through bank loans, it said. The carmaker will introduce a
model to compete against Daimler AG’s Mercedes Benz C class and
the BMW 3 series by the end of 2014, Somaiya said.  Detailed fiscal third-quarter figures  will be released  with
Mumbai-based Tata Motors’ earnings statement in February, the
division said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  