-- Jaguar Land Rover Earnings Growth Stalls on Cheaper SUV
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-01-23T16:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/jaguar-land-rover-earnings-growth-stalls-on-cheaper-suv.html
Jaguar  Land Rover  Plc, the luxury-
vehicle unit of  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTM) , said fiscal third-quarter
profit growth probably stalled because of currency shifts and
its cheaper Evoque model attracting a higher share of buyers.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the three months through December probably about
matched figures for the previous two quarters, and the margin on
sales was probably “slightly lower,” the Gaydon, England-based
division said today in a U.S. filing.  Jaguar Land Rover’s margins declined in the two earlier
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lower-
priced Evoque sport-utility vehicle accounted for almost 30
percent of Land Rover’s wholesale deliveries in the six months
ended Sept. 30. The Ebitda performance reflects “less favorable
exchange rates” and “the ongoing effect of a higher mix” of
sales of the SUV, the manufacturer said.  “The company saying that margins will be lower is a big
concern,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst with BRICS Securities
Ltd. in  Mumbai . “The indication that capital expenditure will
be higher as well as about negative  cash flow  is a concern, as
we factored positive cash flows into the share price.”  The Evoque sells for just under 29,200 pounds ($46,300),
versus the 38,825-pound starting price for Land Rover’s
Discovery 4, a larger SUV, according to the brand’s  website .  Stock Drops  Tata Motors’ American depositary receipts  fell  as much as
8.5 percent to $27.42, the sharpest intraday decline since May
30, and were trading down 8.3 percent at 11 a.m. in  New York .
The stock in Mumbai, where the company has its main listing,
fell 1.7 percent to 313.05 rupees. The Indian market closed
before Jaguar Land Rover released its estimate.  Jaguar Land Rover may have negative free cash flow in the
year beginning April 1 as the unit raises annual  capital
spending  to 2.75 billion pounds ($4.4 billion) from 2 billion
pounds to develop models and build a factory in  China . Free cash
flow was probably also negative in the third quarter, it said.  The luxury division, which has 2.18 billion pounds in cash,
may raise additional funds for investments from  capital markets 
and through bank loans, it said.  Detailed fiscal third-quarter figures will be released with
Mumbai-based Tata Motors’ earnings statement in February, the
division said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  