-- Japan Raises Economic View for First Time in 8 Months
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-01-23T08:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/japan-raises-economic-view-for-first-time-in-eight-months-1-.html
(Corrects time period in headline.)  Japan ’s government raised its
assessment of the economy for the first time in eight months as
it sees stimulus spending and improved conditions for exporters
driving a recovery from recession.  “The recovery is expected to resume while supported by the
improvement of export conditions,” the Cabinet Office said in a
monthly report released in Tokyo today, after it downgraded its
assessment in four of the last seven months.  The government announced 10.3 trillion yen ($117 billion)
in stimulus earlier this month to boost growth and end
deflation. Stocks fell and the yen rose for a third day today
after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  yesterday set a 2 percent inflation
target with no deadline and delayed extra easing for a year.  “The economy is recovering because production has been
strong,” said  Hiroaki Muto , senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui
Asset Management in Tokyo. “We may see a slowdown from 2014
when the effects of Abe’s policies begin to wear off.”  Goldman Sachs raised its real gross domestic product growth
forecast for the year starting April 2013 to 2 percent from 1.2
percent, it said in an e-mailed note to clients today. “Public
works in the stimulus package, yen depreciation that has
factored in anticipated monetary policy changes, and the
attendant improvement in corporate and household sentiment”
were reasons cited for the increase.  The yen was 0.6 percent higher at 88.16 per dollar at 4:15
p.m. in Tokyo after strengthening yesterday by the most since
May. The currency has fallen almost 7 percent in the last two
months, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed 2.1 percent lower,
falling for a third day after climbing for 10 weeks in
anticipation of the BOJ joining Abe’s administration in
strengthening measures to lift the economy.  Loan Demand  In another sign of the challenges facing Abe, companies’
demand for credit declined in December from three months
earlier, according to a survey of senior loan officers released
by the BOJ today.  Japan’s economy contracted for a third quarter in the
October-to-December period, shrinking by 0.6 percent, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
Goldman Sachs predicts that public works will power GDP growth
to 3.2 percent in the three months from April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  