-- Jobs Threatened Suit If Palm Didn’t Agree to Hiring Terms
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/jobs-threatened-suit-if-palm-didn-t-agree-to-hiring-terms.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  founder  Steve Jobs 
suggested the computer maker collude with Palm Inc. to prevent
the companies from hiring employees away from each other,
according to a court filing in an antitrust lawsuit.  In 2007 Jobs called Edward T. Colligan, who was then Palm’s
chief executive officer, to propose the arrangement and during
that call suggested that if Palm didn’t agree, Apple might file
patent-infringement claims against it, according to the filing
yesterday in federal court in San Jose, California.  The declaration by Colligan was filed in a lawsuit claiming
the iPhone maker and other technology companies violated
antitrust laws by entering into agreements to not recruit each
other’s employees. The other defendants in the case include
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
Pixar animation unit,  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  and Lucasfilm Ltd.  Colligan rejected Jobs’s proposal in an Aug. 24, 2007 e-
mail saying his idea is “not only wrong, it is likely
illegal,” and the threat of patent litigation is “just out of
line,” according to the filing.  Jobs, who died in October 2011, responded by saying
Colligan’s response wasn’t “satisfactory” to Apple because
Palm was actively recruiting Apple employees.  Asymmetrical Resources  “I’m sure you realize the asymmetry in the financial
resources of our respective companies when you say: ‘We will
both just end up paying a lot of lawyers a lot of money.’” Jobs
wrote in an e-mail, a copy of which was attached to yesterday’s
filing. “My advice is to take a look at our patent portfolio
before you make a final decision here.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail yesterday
after regular business hours seeking comment on the filing.  Last week,  Tim Cook , Apple Inc.’s chief executive officer,
was ordered to give a deposition in the private lawsuit brought
on behalf of employees. The case mirrors claims the companies
settled with the U.S. Justice Department in 2010 following a
probe, arguing the companies agreed to refrain from placing
“cold calls” to lure workers from competitors.  Robert Mittelstaedt , a lawyer representing the companies,
argued at a hearing last week that the employees’ lawyers
haven’t demonstrated that everyone in the proposed class was
hurt by any such agreements, as is required for the group to be
certified as a class.  Engineers, Sous Chefs  The proposed class of employees includes engineers, sous
chefs, administrative assistants and others, because all of the
employees were harmed by the companies’ conduct and will rely on
the same evidence to prove their damages, lawyers for the
workers said in a court filing.  In the 2010 settlement, the Justice Department said the
companies kept do-not-call lists to avoid competitive
recruiting, and that such agreements restrained competition,
which hurt employees.  Palm was acquired by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in 2010. Michael Thacker, a spokesman for for the company, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail yesterday after regular business hours
seeking comment on the filing.  The San Jose case is In Re High-Tech Employee Antitrust
Litigation, 11-2509, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose). The previous case is U.S. v. Adobe
Systems, 10-cv-1629, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  