-- Kings Sale, Move May Be Formality Without Counter Offer, Arena
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-23T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/kings-sale-move-may-be-formality-without-counter-offer-arena.html
The approvals needed by the group
seeking to buy the Sacramento Kings and move the franchise to
Seattle may be a formality without a concrete counter offer and
arena deal in  California ’s capital city.  The National Basketball Association’s board of governors
first has to approve the sale agreement reached two days ago
between the Maloof family, which has owned the Kings since 1999,
and a group that’s headed by Valiant Capital Management founder
Chris Hansen and includes Microsoft Corp. Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer .  While Hansen has said he won’t discuss plans for the
franchise, the new ownership group needs to apply to the league
for relocation by March 3 to play in Seattle for the 2013-14
season. That request also would have to be approved by the board
of governors, which is made up of league owners.  “In Seattle you’ve got a legitimate offer at a very
significant number with a legitimate arena deal in place and the
land in place,” said Steve Patterson, former president of the
NBA’s Portland Trail Blazers and founder of Lake Oswego, Oregon-
based Pro Sports Consulting LLC. “Given that they’ve been
trying to get an arena deal done in  Sacramento  for most of a
decade, it would be awful hard to vote against a transfer.”  Seattle has been without an NBA team since 2008, when the
SuperSonics ended their 41-year stay by moving to Oklahoma City
and becoming the Thunder. That move followed a lack of public
support for a new venue in Seattle to replace KeyArena, where
the Sonics had played since their inception in 1967.  Arena Deal  Seattle and King County officials have tentatively backed a
new $490 million arena in the city, the Sacramento Bee reported.
Hansen’s group plans to move the Kings to Seattle after the NBA
season ends in April and have the team play at KeyArena while a
new facility is built, the paper said.  Sacramento mayor Kevin Johnson, a former NBA All-Star with
the Phoenix Suns, said he’s still confident of keeping the Kings
from moving. Johnson yesterday assembled 19 local business
owners and developers who each committed $1 million toward
buying the Kings and keeping them in Sacramento. That group
would join an extremely wealthy investor or investors, whom
Johnson called “whales,” to make a counter-offer for the Kings.  “These folks realize that the Kings are a civic asset for
our community,” Johnson said at a news conference.  The Maloofs and the Seattle group will probably make their
pitch to league owners at the NBA board of governors’ meeting in
New York in mid-April, the Sacramento Bee said. Johnson has been
given permission to bring a counter offer to the meeting, the
 paper said .  Prior Moves  NBA owners in 1994 blocked the Minnesota Timberwolves from
moving to New Orleans. Since then, the NBA’s  Charlotte  Hornets
moved to New Orleans in 2002, the SuperSonics went to Oklahoma
City in 2008 and the New Jersey Nets this year relocated to
 Brooklyn , New York.  “No commissioner or league in general wants to see teams
move,” Patterson said in a telephone interview. “It connotes a
lack of permanence or a lack of success in a particular market.
But for the most part, the owners as a group will look at
whatever the relocation committee’s recommendation on a
franchise is. Those are the owners that have spent the most
amount of time involved in the situation and examined the
details most closely. You put a pretty fair amount of faith in
the committee.”  Deal Fails  A preliminary deal reached in February to build a new arena
in Sacramento and keep the Kings from relocating fell through.
Johnson said yesterday he plans to present a new arena financing
plan to NBA owners along with the counter offer in an effort to
have the team’s move to  Seattle  rejected.  “Unless the community in Sacramento comes up with a great
arena option, I’d guess the owners for the most part would vote
to accept the offer and move the franchise,” Patterson said.
“They don’t seem to get the question answered in Sacramento. A
market that size has a hard time doing battle with the other
markets unless they’ve got a favorable arena deal.”  The purchase agreement between the Maloofs and Hansen’s
group puts the Kings’ value at $525 million, according to a
person with first-hand knowledge of the deal who requested
anonymity because financial details remained confidential. It
would be the highest sale price for an NBA team, surpassing the
$450 million paid for the Golden State Warriors in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  