-- KKR Agrees to Buy 25% Stake in Hedge Fund Nephila Capital
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-01-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/kkr-agrees-to-buy-25-stake-in-hedge-fund-nephila-capital.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  agreed to buy a 24.9
percent stake in hedge fund Nephila Capital Ltd. as it expands
beyond its main private-equity business. Financial terms weren’t
disclosed.  Nephila, a Bermuda-based firm with $8 billion in assets
that makes reinsurance-related investments, will continue to
operate under its own name, New York-based KKR said yesterday in
a statement. KKR will acquire its shares from Nephila’s
management as well as a portion of the stake owned by  Man Group
Plc (EMG) , the biggest publicly traded hedge-fund manager, according
to the statement.  KKR, which is making the purchase through the firm and not
its investment funds, has been expanding into hedge funds as a
way to broaden its business beyond corporate buyouts. Last year,
it bought Prisma Capital Partners LP, a hedge fund of funds, and
in 2011 it hired  Bob Howard  from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to run
an in-house long-short stock fund. Together those two funds
manage about $8.5 billion.  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , two
cousins who started KKR in 1976 with Jerome Kohlberg, also have
branched into stock and bond underwriting, infrastructure
investing and real estate.  “In backing Nephila, we are partnering with a team we have
known for more than 15 years,” Kravis and Roberts, KKR co-
chairmen and co-chief executive officers, said in the statement.
“As the first dedicated manager of catastrophe-risk investment
strategies, they share the entrepreneurial spirit that pervades
KKR’s culture.”  Nephila was founded in 1998 by Frank Majors and Greg Hagood
as part of Willis Ltd., a reinsurance broker that was then owned
by KKR. Nephila, which spun out of Willis in 2003, invests
mostly in insurance-linked securities, catastrophe bonds and
weather derivatives.  Man Group  Man Group, which bought a 25 percent stake in Nephila in
2008, will retain 18.75 percent of the firm following the
transaction. Nephila management will invest the proceeds of the
sale back in its own funds.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the firm created in 1985 by  Stephen
Schwarzman  and  Peter G. Peterson , has expanded its similar unit,
known as Blackstone Alternative Asset Management, which managed
$46 billion as of September.  Nephila also said in the statement that it is closing its
Juniper Catastrophe Fund and Triton Catastrophe Fund to new
investments as a way to help ensure the funds reach their target
returns of 10 percent to 15 percent. Its other strategies remain
open.  The hedge fund is named after a species of spider, Nephila
Clavipes, which according to Bermuda folklore is known for its
ability to predict the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  