-- Nabors' Largest Shareholder Says in Talks on Performance
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-01-23T22:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/nabors-largest-shareholder-says-in-talks-on-performance.html
Pamplona Capital Partners III LP,
the largest shareholder in  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR) , is holding
talks with the world’s largest land-rig contractor after raising
concerns about the company’s strategic plans and stock price.  Pamplona has become “increasingly concerned about the
underperformance” of the stock compared to peers, according to
a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission today.
Pamplona is also unhappy with “various aspects of its strategic
plan and its declining market share.”  The fund and its U.K.-based Pamplona Capital Management LLP
Chief Executive Officer Alexander Knaster hold a combined 9.3
percent stake in Nabors, according to the filing. Pamplona,
which announced its stake in an August filing, is the largest
investor in the Hamilton, Bermuda-based driller, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nabors has climbed 22 percent since Pamplona’s Aug. 2
filing. For the past month through yesterday, its performance
ranks eighth of 15 companies in the Philadelphia Oil Service
Sector Index.  The stock, which has 12 buy, 16 hold and one sell rating
from analysts, rose 3 percent to $16.30 at the close in New
York, the highest price since Sept. 14.  Dennis Smith, a spokesman for Nabors, didn’t imemdiately
return a phone message seeking comment.  The company announced in March plans to sell as much as
$800 million in “non-core” assets, including stakes in oil
fields and logistics units, to focus on drilling and production
services.  Chief Executive Officer Tony Petrello said in October the
plan to sell assets was going slower than he’d hoped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  