-- Nakao Defends Policy Weakening Yen as Trade Tensions Mount
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-01-24T04:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/nakao-defends-policy-weakening-yen-as-trade-tensions-mount-1-.html
Japan ’s top currency official pushed
back against international criticism of the nation’s monetary
policy, saying that the central bank isn’t engaged in a
competitive devaluation of the yen.  Bank of Japan (8301)  actions are “aimed at ending persistent
deflation, so criticism that it’s a form of competitive
devaluation is misplaced,” Vice Finance Minister Takehiko Nakao
said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “Recent developments
toward a weaker yen reflect the yen’s correction phase from one-
sided and excessive gains until last year.”  The yen’s 7 percent fall against the dollar in the last two
months, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
has caused friction with trading partners and highlighted the
risk of retaliatory action as the Group of 20 prepares to meet
next month. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has pushed the central
bank to end deflation and lift the economy out of its  third
recession in five years , prompting its pledge this week to make
open-ended asset purchases.  “Authorities abroad are shocked because Abe has been so
successful in influencing the currency,” said  Masafumi Yamamoto , Tokyo-based chief foreign-exchange strategist at
Barclays Plc. “Japan is finally doing what other countries have
been doing -- taking decisive monetary steps to weaken a
currency.”  Yen’s Level  The yen weakened 0.6 percent to 89.18 per dollar as of 1:09
p.m. in Tokyo after a three-day, 1.7 percent climb. The currency
climbed this week after the central bank set a 2 percent
inflation target with no deadline and delayed additional easing
until 2014.  Nakao declined to comment on specific yen levels, saying
that Japan will “continue to monitor foreign-exchange
developments carefully and take appropriate action if needed.”  Abe’s campaign to drive down the yen is fueling
international tensions. South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in  Seoul  yesterday that his nation’s exporters may be
“at risk,” while a commentary from  China ’s Xinhua News Agency
this week said Japan may be pushing the world closer to currency
wars.  Former Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , now chairman of UBS
AG, warned of the dangers of easy money yesterday at the  World
Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos. “Central banks can
buy time, but they cannot fix issues long-term,” he said.  European Central Bank  governing council member Jens Weidmann warned this week against “politicizing” the yen
exchange rate. Michael Meister, the parliamentary finance
spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party, said that
Japan risks retaliatory action by G-20 nations.  Exports Slide  Japanese exports fell more than expected in December and
the annual trade deficit swelled to a record, underscoring the
nation’s worsening trade position.  In the interview, Nakao said it shouldn’t be regarded as a
problem if monetary policy aimed at ensuring domestic economic
growth and  price stability  has a “certain impact on the
exchange rate.” “It’s positive for the global economy for a
nation to gain growth and achieve price stability by its
monetary policy,” he said.  Nakao said he maintains close contact with other countries,
including those in the G-20.  “We’re explaining Japan’s position to officials in other
countries, and will continue to do so,” he said. “G-20 leaders
have agreed to prevent competitive devaluation and to resist
trade protectionism. We have a strong commitment to adhere to
this agreement.”  U.S. Automakers  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President
 James Bullard  said Jan. 10 that he’s “a little disturbed’’ by
Japan’s stance and the risk of “beggar-thy-neighbor” policies.
U.S. automakers have said an undervalued yen distorts trade and
stunts job growth for American manufacturers.  The BOJ said this week that it will shift to Federal
Reserve-style open-ended asset purchases from January 2014 and
targeted the achievement of 2 percent inflation “at the
earliest possible time.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Societe Generale SA are
predicting that Japan’s currency will resume declines as Abe
presses for more easing. Goldman sees the yen at 100 per dollar
by the end of 2015, it said in an e-mailed report.  Japan’s Economy Minister Akira Amari, who is scheduled to
attend the WEF meeting in Davos, said this week that Japan is
not trying to politically influence the yen  exchange rate .  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers meet next month
in Moscow. In 2009, they pledged to “refrain from competitive
devaluation of currencies.”  Stimulus Spending  Abe’s government this month unveiled 10.3 trillion yen
($117 billion) in fiscal stimulus in a bid to boost growth. The
extra spending may add to the risk that a public debt more than
twice the size of the economy could trigger a surge in bond
yields.  “The government is strongly aware of the need for fiscal
consolidation in the mid- to long-term, as the  International
Monetary Fund  and others have been saying,” Nakao said.  Japan’s government debt probably climbed to 237 percent of
annual economic output last year,  according to IMF estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoko Shimodoi in  Tokyo  at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  