-- NBA’s Best Players ‘Irresponsibly Apathetic’ to Union, Falk Says
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-01-23T20:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/nba-s-best-players-irresponsibly-apathetic-to-union-falk-says.html
David Falk, one of the most powerful
men in basketball as  Michael Jordan ’s agent, said superstar
players and their representatives have been “irresponsibly
apathetic” and deserve blame for their union’s current
troubles.  “The players have allowed this situation to occur,” said
Falk, whose clients include Basketball Hall of Fame members
Jordan and former  National Basketball Players Association 
President  Patrick Ewing . “That apathy has allowed whatever
inappropriate behavior that occurred to happen.”  An independent review of players’ association business
practices found that Executive Director  Billy Hunter  put his
personal interests ahead of the organization, failed to manage
conflicts of interest and hid the fact that his contract wasn’t
properly approved.  Hunter, 70, didn’t do anything illegal, according to the
nine-month investigation conducted by the New York law firm
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.  “I never expected they’d find a smoking gun,” said Falk,
who clashed with Hunter over strategy and agent input during
work stoppages. “Billy is too smart for that. He has totally
exploited the players’ lack of involvement.”  The players should consider replacing Hunter, a former U.S.
attorney, as their union boss, according to the law firm’s 229-
page  report  released on Jan. 18.  Falk declined to say whether Hunter should be ousted.
Brooklyn Nets point guard  Deron Williams  told  CBSSports.com  that
change is needed at the top of the union.  Star Participation  More important than who is leading the union, Falk said, is
engagement and participation from the players, especially stars
like reigning Most Valuable Player LeBron James.  Falk said he encouraged his clients to take an active role
in the association and wonders why so many of today’s agents
haven’t done the same.  Falk, who still represents players, criticized some of the
more powerful agents for not getting their clients involved,
particularly at the executive committee level. He mentioned Bill Duffy, whose clients include Boston’s Rajon Rondo and the Los
Angeles Lakers’  Steve Nash ; Jeff Schwartz, who represents
Williams and Boston’s  Paul Pierce ; Leon Rose, whose clients
include New York’s Carmelo Anthony and the Los Angeles Clippers’
 Chris Paul ; and Rob Pelinka, who represents the Lakers’  Kobe Bryant  and Oklahoma City’s  Kevin Durant .  “Those guys need to get off their asses and get their
players involved,” Falk said. “Where are the stars? Where are
the leaders? Where are the people managing them? If you’re
LeBron, if you’re Kobe, look at your agents and say, ‘How did
you let this happen?’”  Falk’s Clients  None of the agents returned telephone messages seeking
comment on the players association or Falk’s remarks. None of
Falk’s current clients hold board-level positions in the union,
while two serve as team player representatives -- Toney Douglas
of the Houston Rockets and  Evan Turner  of the Philadelphia
76ers.  The players must ask themselves what they need from their
union, which has taken an adversarial role with the league for
far too long,’’ according to Falk.  “The time for fighting is over,” he said. Players should
consider what  DeMaurice Smith  has done as head of the National
Football League Players Association. Both leagues locked out
players in 2011. The NFL reached a contract deal without losing
any regular-season games, while the NBA played a season
shortened by about 25 percent after a settlement.  “So how do the players help the NBA get from $5 billion in
revenue to $10 billion?” Falk asked. “It should be a tight
community between agents, players and the union.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  