-- Kashkari Departure Adds to Pimco’s Equity Unit Hurdles
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-01-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/neel-kashkari-says-he-s-leaving-pimco-for-public-service.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
loss of Neel Kashkari as head of global equities adds to the
difficulties the bond manager faces in its push into stocks, a
business with less than 1 percent of the firm’s assets.  Kashkari, who joined the firm in 2009 after acting as
senior adviser to former U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson,
said in an e-mail yesterday he’s leaving Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco to consider returning to public service.  Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest fixed-income fund,
has been seeking to reduce its dependence on that market and
adding stock funds as it anticipates an end to the three-decade
bond rally that fueled its growth. Pimco, which oversees $1.9
trillion in assets, has attracted about $10 billion to the
equity unit since the first fund was opened in April 2010. Three
of the firm’s four main stock funds trailed a majority of rivals
in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is certainly a loss for Pimco,” Russel Kinnel,
director of mutual-fund research at Chicago-based  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN) , said in a telephone interview. “He was an important
leader who did a good job in bringing in some talented people.”  Dan Tarman, a spokesman for Pimco, declined to comment on
Kashkari’s departure. Under Kashkari, who was hired in December
2009 to help oversee the expansion into equities, managers such
as Masha Gordon from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Geoffrey Johnson from Catamount Capital Management LLC joined Pimco. The
firm has added smart stock pickers who benefit from Pimco’s
resources and are compatible with its view of a larger global
role for developing nations, Kashkari said in July.  Pathfinder Fund  Pimco’s first equity fund was the $2.2 billion  EqS
Pathfinder Fund (PATHX) , followed by the $600 million EqS  Emerging
Markets  Fund in March 2011. Pathfinder, the firm’s largest stock
fund, returned 9.5 percent last year, trailing 91 percent of
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The emerging-
markets fund, the second-biggest, returned 13 percent,  behind  88
percent of peers. Pimco wants to deliver strong equity
performance over three to five years, Kashkari said in the July
interview.  U.S. stock mutual funds attracted money for two consecutive
weeks at the start of 2013, hinting at a turnaround after six
years of redemptions. Investors put $5 billion into domestic
stock funds and $4.3 billion into funds that invest in
international equities in the week ended Jan. 16, the
Washington-based Investment Company Institute said yesterday.
Domestic and international stock mutual funds combined received
$14.3 billion in deposits in the previous week, the most since
at least 2007.  California Leaders  “It is a blow to Pimco,”  Geoff Bobroff , a mutual-fund
consultant based in East Greenwich, Rhode Island, said in a
telephone interview of Kashkari’s departure. “Bonds aren’t
going to return what they have over the past 10 years. To the
extent you are going to attract investors it is going to be more
difficult unless you have an equity capability.”  Kashkari, 39, directed recipients of yesterday’s e-mail to
his personal website, which said he’s reaching out to leaders in
communities across California to hear their ideas, share his own
and explore how to best bring positive change in the state.  California Governor Jerry Brown, 74, hasn’t said whether he
plans to seek re-election in 2014. State Treasurer Bill Lockyer
must leave office at that time because of term limits.
 California  sells more debt than any other state. The California
controller’s office, held by John Chiang, is also open in the
2014 election cycle because of term limits. All three office
holders are Democrats.  Kashkari, a former investment banker at Goldman Sachs, was
picked by then-Treasury Secretary Paulson in 2008 to oversee the
$700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, created to help
financial institutions emerge from crisis in the wake of the
subprime mortgage collapse. He resigned from that role in 2009.  “Leaving is not an easy decision because our equity
business is off to a great start,” Kashkari said in his e-mail
sent to friends yesterday. “Nonetheless, my passion lies in
public service.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  