-- Netanyahu Weakened in Israeli Election as Lapid Surprises
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r ,   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-01-23T13:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/netanyahu-weakened-in-israeli-election-as-lapid-surprises.html
Israeli voters gave  Benjamin Netanyahu  the chance to serve a third term as prime minister
with a weaker mandate than four years ago, leading him to seek
an alliance with rising star Yair Lapid.  Netanyahu’s Likud-Beitenu list won 31 seats in the 120-
member Knesset, down from 42 at present, according to
projections by Haaretz newspaper based on a near-complete count.
Lapid’s Yesh Atid party took 19 seats by stressing the need to
cut housing costs and bureaucracy, and draft ultra-Orthodox Jews
into the army. Netanyahu’s coalition partner Jewish Home, led by
Naftali Bennett, more than doubled its seats to 11 on a platform
of opposing a Palestinian state.  “The results are an opportunity to make changes that the
citizens of  Israel  seek,” Netanyahu told supporters in  Tel Aviv 
after posting a message on Facebook that he had already invited
Lapid, a popular television news host, to join him. “I intend
to lead these changes and for that we will have to form as wide
a coalition as possible.”  The new government’s makeup may determine the outcome of
issues from cutting the  budget deficit  to whether Israel bombs
 Iran  to peacemaking with the Palestinians. With his own bloc
holding fewer seats, Netanyahu may be more dependent on partners
who don’t agree with all his economic and diplomatic policies.  ‘Poor Campaign’  “Netanyahu ran a poor campaign,” said  Gerald Steinberg , a
political science professor at Bar Ilan University outside Tel
Aviv. “His weaker position may force him to form a more
centrist and broader government with the Yesh Atid party as his
main partner.”  Israeli stocks gained the most since Jan. 1 after
Netanyahu’s pledge to form a wide alliance. The  benchmark index 
was up 1.6 percent at 2:48 p.m. Yields on the shekel bond
maturing in 2023 fell 5 basis points to 3.99 percent, and the
currency strengthened 0.2 percent against the dollar.  The process of coalition-forming typically takes weeks. It
starts with President  Shimon Peres  formally asking the head of
the winning party to open negotiations with smaller parties. If
he or she can’t form an alliance commanding a Knesset majority
within six weeks, the second-place party gets a chance.  Lapid, a 49-year-old television interviewer, focused his
campaign on issues he said were important for Israel’s middle
class, which joined protests in recent years against high living
costs. He told a rally in Tel Aviv that he hoped to “unite the
moderate forces from the right and the left so that we can bring
about a real change.” Netanyahu said he told Lapid “we have
the opportunity to do very big things” for Israel.  Settlement Plans  Within Netanyahu’s current coalition, Bennett’s Jewish Home
gained seats while the premier’s list declined. Bennett, the son
of American immigrants from  San Francisco , is a former Netanyahu
aide who founded a software company and then sold it for $145
million. He has campaigned against talks aimed at creating a
Palestinian state, and backed the construction of more Jewish
settlements.  Those views resonate with supporters of Netanyahu’s Likud,
even though the premier’s official position is to support a two-
state solution, the outcome favored by the U.S., Israel’s main
financial supporter. Netanyahu has also supported the extension
of Jewish settlements, sometimes leading to tensions with
President  Barack Obama .  “The new Israeli elected leadership must make the first
step to make peace, which is halting settlement, mainly in
 Jerusalem ,” said Ahmed Assaf, a spokesman for the Palestinian
Fatah group which governs the  West Bank . “If Israel does so,
the Palestinians will be ready to get back to negotiations to
achieve real peace.”  ‘Sister Parties’  With Jewish Home and Netanyahu’s Likud close on many
issues, the premier will want to keep the party in his coalition
to avoid further divisions, said Asher Cohen, a professor of
political science at Israel’s Bar Ilan University.  “They are really sister parties,” he said. “There were a
lot of attacks and rifts, and I’m not sure that the Likud will
want to leave the Jewish Home in the opposition, and make this
situation worse.”  A new party headed by former Foreign Minister  Tzipi Livni ,
the only major candidate to stress renewing peace talks with the
Palestinians, gained six seats. Lapid also expressed support for
a two-state solution while mostly refraining from criticizing
Netanyahu on diplomatic affairs.  Since the start of Netanyahu’s second term in March 2009,
Israel’s benchmark stock index has climbed 64 percent and the
shekel has surged 13 percent versus the dollar.  Budget Cuts  The likelihood that Netanyahu will remain prime minister is
good news for Israeli energy companies, which are mining a
bounty of offshore gas deposits, and  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , an
acquisition target by  Canada ’s Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc., said Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Excellence Nessuah
Investment House Ltd. With the prospect of higher taxes, he
said, “the banking sector is likely to suffer modestly.”  To maintain the long-term prospects for the economy, which
has rebounded from the global crisis faster than most developed
peers, Netanyahu says Israel needs to trim the budget deficit.
The gap widened to 4.2 percent of economic output last year as
the economy slowed. Netanyahu is seeking 14 billion shekels
($3.8 billion) of cuts this year to bring it down to 3 percent.
He called the election a year ahead of schedule after failing to
get coalition partners to agree on the measures.  ‘Very Dependent’  The main opposition  Labor party , set to finish third with
15 seats according to Haaretz, campaigned largely on social
welfare issues, and may oppose cuts in social spending.  Labor leader Shelly Yachimovich said after results came in
that Lapid should join her party to topple Netanyahu’s
“extremist government.” The ultra-Orthodox Shas party, another
Netanyahu ally which won 11 seats, has also opposed parts of his
economic program.  Whatever permutation he ends up choosing for a new
coalition, Cohen said, the election results mean that “Benjamin
Netanyahu is very, very dependent on partners.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  