-- Nextant’s Restored Business Aircraft May Get European Boost
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-23T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/nextant-s-restored-business-aircraft-may-get-european-boost.html
Nextant Aerospace, an Ohio firm that
replaces the innards of old business jets to offer a cheaper
alternative to new planes, aims to deliver more aircraft in 2013
after it received full approval from European regulators.  Nextant has recently delivered planes to customers in
 Germany  and the Czech Republic, and aims to deliver 24 to 30
jets globally this year, compared with 25 since late 2011,
President Sean McGeough said in a telephone interview. The
European Aviation Safety Agency acted last year to allow the
company’s Nextant 400XTs to fly throughout the continent.  Nextant remanufactures jets by adding new engines and
instruments to the used airframes of Hawker Beechjet 400A/XPs.
The plane sells for about $4.5 million, roughly half the price
of a comparable new jet, according to McGeough, who joined the
Cleveland-based company this month after leading international
operations at Hawker Beechcraft Corp.  “It allows customers that may not have been able to buy a
new aircraft to buy one that has already taken the residual-
value hit,” McGeough said. “Every time you buy anything new,
it will depreciate significantly the day you fly away, and this
airframe has already taken that hit.”  The company is looking to expand sales in  Europe , where it
says delivery of entry-level business jets grew by 14 percent in
the four years to 2011 compared with the previous comparable
period. About 20 percent of the European fleet is for sale,
affording Nextant an opportunity to meet demand for more fuel-
efficient planes, McGeough said.  Nextant’s order backlog is worth $175 million and the
number of entry-level business jets in Europe stands at 1,542
planes worth about $5 billion, according to the company.  The manufacturer is owned by Directional Aviation Capital,
and the principal shareholder is Kenneth Ricci, who is also
Nextant’s chief executive officer. Nextant has no plans to offer
shares to the public, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  