-- Nippon Steel to Consider More Valemax Shipments to Lower Costs
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-01-23T10:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/nippon-steel-to-consider-more-valemax-shipments-to-lower-costs.html
Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) ,
Japan’s top steelmaker, will consider using more Valemax
carriers to receive ore shipments to lower expenses and mitigate
the impact of rising raw material prices.  “Our mission is to minimize costs and we have been
thinking of ways to do so after a surge in raw material
prices,” Shinichi Fujiwara, executive officer at the Japanese
steelmaker, told reporters at an event to mark receiving one of
the ships at a mill near  Tokyo . Use of more Valemaxes “is one
option.”  The arrival of Vale Brasil at the steelmaker’s Kimitsu
works extends the number of ports that can accept Valemaxes
built by  Vale SA (VALE3)  to seven globally, Tokyo-based Nippon Steel
said today in a statement. The ship, 362 meters (1,188 feet)
long and with a capacity to carry 402,000 metric tons of cargo,
is twice as big as capesize carriers.  Nippon Steel buys about 70 million tons of  iron ore  a year,
of which 25 percent comes from Vale, the company’s second-
biggest iron ore supplier after Rio Tinto Group, Fujiwara said.
The steelmaker is considering receiving iron ore carried by
Valemaxes at other domestic mills, he said.  Vale Brasil first docked at the steelmaker’s Oita
steelworks last week to unload half of its cargo before
proceeding to Kimitsu, Nippon Steel said today. The first
Valemax carrier to Japan arrived at the Oita mill in June.  JFE Steel Corp., Nippon Steel’s closest domestic rival,
received one of the carriers to take delivery of iron ore at a
port in the  Philippines , the company  said  Oct. 18.  Vale, the world’s biggest iron ore supplier, is building a
fleet of 35 Valemax carriers to lower its freight costs and
compete with Australian miners, which have the advantage of
proximity to  China , the biggest customer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  