-- Nortel Wins Approval for Settlement of Retiree Benefits
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-01-23T21:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/nortel-approved-to-seek-settlement-of-retiree-medical-benefits.html
Nortel Networks Inc., the defunct
telecommunications company, won court approval of a process that
would settle a legal dispute with retirees in April by paying
$66.9 million for medical and other benefits.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
approved Nortel’s request to send former workers details on the
proposed accord, negotiated with a retirees committee. The
company will return in April to ask for final approval of the
settlement after individual retirees have a chance to object.  “I will note it is an extremely carefully negotiated”
deal, Gross said. The proposal “appears to be a very, very
remarkable settlement.”  The accord would apply to Nortel’s U.S. employees. It comes
a day after a mediator in Toronto extended talks between the
company’s U.S. and Canadian units and court-appointed
administrators for European units, including those representing
retirees in the U.K.  The talks pit Nortel bondholders against U.K. bankruptcy
administrators who claim Nortel’s U.S. units should pay
$2.67 billion to cover as many as 38,000 retirees. The talks
center on how units that filed bankruptcy in Europe, the U.S.
and Canada should split $9 billion in cash raised by liquidation
sales in the U.S.  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, filed for bankruptcy
in the U.K.,  France  and Toronto, Delaware, in 2009 with various
units under the control of separate teams of lawyers and under
the jurisdiction of different courts.  The company’s 10.75 percent bonds that mature in 2016 lost
about 1 percent today, falling to 116.69 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 