-- Notre Dame’s Te’o Tells Couric He Briefly Lied About Girlfriend
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-23T14:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/notre-dame-s-te-o-tells-couric-he-briefly-lied-about-girlfriend.html
University of Notre Dame linebacker
Manti Te’o said in an interview with  Katie Couric  that he
briefly lied to the media after learning he was caught in a hoax
involving a fake online girlfriend.  Te’o, 21, had previously told ESPN that he wasn’t a part of
fabricating the story. In excerpts of the taped interview that
aired on ABC’s “Good Morning America” show, Te’o said he was
fooled into believing his fake girlfriend had died of leukemia
in September and didn’t lie about the situation until December,
when he became aware she didn’t actually exist.  “Put yourself in my situation,” Te’o said in an excerpt
from the interview with Couric today. “My whole world told me
that she died on Sept. 12. Everybody knew that. This girl, who I
committed myself to, died Sept. 12.”  Te’o said he received a phone call on Dec. 6 from a woman
claiming to be his girlfriend, Lennay Kekua, even though she had
supposedly died three months earlier. Two days later, Te’o
finished second to Texas A&M University quarterback Johnny Manziel in voting for the Heisman Trophy, presented annually to
college football’s best player.  “Now I get a phone call on Dec. 6, saying she’s alive and
then I’m going to be put on national TV two days later,” he
said. “And to ask me about the same question. You know, what
would you do?”  School Support  Notre Dame , which lost to the  University of Alabama  in
college football’s championship game this month, said on Jan. 16
that Te’o had been the victim of a hoax in which someone
purporting to be Kekua ingratiated themself with him and then
conspired with others to lead him to believe she died. Te’o said
in a statement at the time that he was the victim of “someone’s
sick joke” and last week told ESPN in an off-camera interview
that he wasn’t involved in the hoax to bolster his image and
candidacy for postseason awards.  Te’o also told ESPN that he received a Twitter message from
a former friend, Ronaiah Tuiasosopo, who apologized for
orchestrating the hoax.  ABC and ESPN both are units of the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  Couric
and Te’o share a public relations representative,  Matthew Hiltzik .  Te’o received the Nagurski Award as college football’s best
defensive player and the Butkus Award as the nation’s top
linebacker last season. Having graduated, he’s preparing for the
National Football League draft.  Te’o was joined by his parents, Brian and Ottilia, for the
taped interview, which will air on the syndicated daytime talk
show “Katie” tomorrow.  “People can speculate about what they think he is,” Brian
Te’o told Couric as he wiped away tears. “I’ve known him 21
years of his life. He’s not a liar. He’s a kid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  