-- NYC Judge Told Big-Soda Ban Is Unfair to Small Business
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-01-23T21:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/nyc-judge-told-big-soda-ban-is-unfair-to-small-business.html
Industry groups including the
American Beverage Association asked a judge to strike down  New
York ’s proposed ban on the sale of large servings of soda,
calling it an unfair burden on small businesses.  To fight obesity, the city’s Board of Health in September
approved Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s plan to limit the size of
sugary soft drinks sold in restaurants, movie theaters, stadiums
and arenas to no more than 16 ounces (473 milliliters) a cup.
The following month, the beverage, restaurant and theater groups
filed a petition in state court to block enforcement of the law.  The measure doesn’t apply to  convenience stores  and
groceries that don’t act primarily as purveyors of prepared
foods, which are regulated by New York State. The rules, which
the city defends as a public-health matter, allow people to buy
as many of the smaller drinks as they want and to get refills.  The ban is “grossly unfair” to small businesses such as
pizzerias and hot-dog vendors because it lets larger chains sell
the otherwise-prohibited soda sizes, James Brandt of Latham &
Watkins LLP, an attorney representing the industry groups, told
Justice Milton Tingling today at a hearing in New York State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  No Effect  “It’s not going to stop anybody from drinking soda, your
honor,” Brandt said. “It’s going to push people from the
Sabrett guy to the  Duane Reade  or the 7-11.”  Other groups that challenged the ban include the National
Restaurant Association, the  National Association of Theatre
Owners  of New York State, the New York Statewide Coalition of
Hispanic Chambers of Commerce and the Korean-American Grocers
Association of New York.  Attorneys for the city argued the rule is meant to help
stem an epidemic of obesity being driven by sugary beverages.
Consumption of those drinks is rising because food
establishments sell ever-larger portions, they said.  The city charter gives the Board of Health the power to
respond to public health matters such as obesity, said Thomas
Merrill, general counsel for the New York City Department of
Health and Mental Hygiene.  “The rule is rational, the rule is reasonable,” Merrill
said.  The plaintiffs plan to ask Tingling for a stay of
enforcement of the law, which is scheduled to begin in March,
Brandt said. The judge didn’t indicate when he will rule on the
industry associations’ request to strike down the ban.  The mayor is the majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent
of  Bloomberg News .  The case is New York Statewide Coalition of Hispanic
Chambers of Commerce v. New York City Department of Health and
Mental Hygiene, 653584-2012, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  