-- Obama’s Gay-Rights Words Raise Advocate Hopes in Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-01-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/obama-s-gay-rights-words-raise-advocate-hopes-in-court.html
President  Barack Obama ’s inaugural
address has raised hopes among civil rights advocates that his
administration will urge the U.S. Supreme Court to allow gay
marriage, at least in California and perhaps nationwide.  Issuing his strongest call yet for same-sex rights, Obama
said gays should be “treated like anyone else under the law”
and likened the cause to the struggles of blacks and women. It
was the first time a president had mentioned gay rights in an
inaugural speech.  Obama spoke only a few feet from the nine justices who in
March will take up gay marriage for the first time, considering
two cases including a challenge to a California ballot
initiative barring same-sex nuptials. The administration must
decide by the end of February whether it will argue against the
ballot measure or stay out of the fray.  “I’m encouraged by what the president said,” said
Theodore Olson, the former Republican U.S. solicitor general who
is leading the challenge to Proposition 8, as the initiative is
known. “I can’t see the president sitting this one out.”  Olson and his colleagues met last week with Solicitor
General Donald Verrilli, Obama’s Supreme Court lawyer, to seek
the administration’s support. Backers of the ballot initiative,
represented by Washington lawyer Charles Cooper, will sit down
with Verrilli tomorrow. The solicitor general traditionally
gives an audience to litigants before taking a position.  Olson’s team of lawyers includes David Boies, his opponent
from Bush v. Gore, the Supreme Court case that resolved the 2000
presidential election deadlock.  Delicate Balance  Gay voters helped propel Obama to re-election, favoring the
incumbent over Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  76 percent to 22
percent, exit polls showed.  The decision on Proposition 8 in some ways is a delicate
one for Obama: He has previously coupled his personal support
for gay weddings with a call for states to continue taking the
lead role on defining marriage.  “This is an issue that is going to be worked out at the
local level because, historically, this has not been a federal
issue,” Obama told ABC News in May when he announced his
support for same-sex marriage.  His press secretary, Jay Carney, reiterated that position
yesterday, saying “the president believes that it’s an issue
that should be addressed by the states.”  Defenders of Proposition 8 say two lower courts ignored
states’ rights when they said the measure violated the
Constitution’s equal protection clause.  Redefining Marriage  Those rulings are “the antithesis of saying this is a
state decision,” said Brian Brown, president of the Washington-
based National Organization for Marriage. “Now all of these
millions of American votes have been thrown in the trash because
we just found this new right to redefine marriage in the
Constitution.”  Proposition 8, approved by voters in 2008, reversed a five-
month-old decision by the  California  Supreme Court. That ruling
had said the state constitution guaranteed the right to gay
marriage.  In their challenge, Olson and Boies set out to win a
Supreme Court ruling establishing same-sex marriage as a
constitutional right. At the appeals court level, they instead
won a narrower ruling with limited applicability beyond
California’s borders.  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
said Proposition 8 violated the constitutional guarantee of
equal protection by stripping same-sex couples of a right they
once had -- and that heterosexual couples would continue to
possess.  Obama’s Options  The administration has several options short of asking that
same-sex marriage be declared a constitutional right nationwide.  Verrilli could urge the Supreme Court to adopt the appeals
court’s reasoning, limiting the impact to California.  He could also argue that the backers of Proposition 8 lack
the legal right to defend the measure on appeal. When the
Supreme Court agreed to hear the case, it told the parties to
file briefs on that issue.  Verrilli could defend Proposition 8 on states-rights
grounds, although lawyers on both sides say that’s highly
unlikely after the inauguration comments. “I’d be stunned,”
Olson said.  A more plausible scenario would be for the administration
to say nothing -- an approach the solicitor general sometimes
adopts when the court is reviewing a state law and no federal
statute is involved.  Lyndon Johnson  When the Supreme Court considered interracial marriage in
1967, President Lyndon Johnson’s administration took no
position. The court ruled unanimously that interracial marriage
was a constitutionally protected right.  Peter Ferrara, general counsel of the American Civil Rights
Union, said he expects the administration to get involved -- and
argue against Proposition 8. The group, which opposes gay
marriage, is based in Arlington, Virginia.  Cooper, the lawyer defending Proposition 8, declined to
comment on the position the administration might take. Briefs
backing Proposition 8 must be filed by Jan. 29. Filings opposing
the measure are due Feb. 28.  Although solicitors general often take legal positions
without consulting the White House, the president generally
makes the decision in high-profile cases.  Obama is already backing gay rights in a second Supreme
Court case that doesn’t directly involve access to marriage. The
administration is urging the court to strike down a 1996 federal
law that defines marriage solely as an opposite-sex union. That
law, the Defense of Marriage Act, blocks gays from claiming the
same federal tax breaks and other benefits that opposite-sex
spouses receive.  ‘Heightened Scrutiny’  In that case, the administration is making an argument that
could bolster the case against Proposition 8. Verrilli argues
that courts should give “heightened scrutiny” to laws
discriminating against gays, just as judges already do in cases
involving race or gender.  In his inauguration comments, Obama hinted he might be
prepared to go further and directly endorse gay marriage in
court.  “Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and
sisters are treated like anyone else under the law,” he said.
“For if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we
commit to one another must be equal, as well.”  Ferrara, a gay marriage opponent, said Obama “may want to
do like he did on the health-care decision and basically try to
intimidate” the justices. Ferrara was referring to Obama’s
signature health-care law, which the court upheld last year.  Paul Smith, a Washington lawyer who backs gay rights,
questioned how much impact the president’s position ultimately
would have on the outcome of the case.  Obama’s position “matters to a lot of people,” said
Smith, “but I don’t know that it matters at all to the Supreme
Court.”  The cases the court will review are United States v.
Windsor, 12-307, and Hollingsworth v. Perry, 12-144.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  