-- Obama-Netanyahu Odd Couple Testing U.S.-Israel Ties
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-01-24T08:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/obama-netanyahu-odd-couple-tests-u-s-israel-alliance-resilience.html
President  Barack Obama  and Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  emerge from their re-election
campaigns confronting the same disputes that divided them last
year: peace talks with the Palestinians, settlements and, above
all,  Iran ’s suspected nuclear weapons program.  Those differences will fade as the challenge of stopping
Iran’s nuclear efforts forces them to pull together this year,
said  Zalman Shoval , Netanyahu’s ambassador to the U.S. from
1998-2000 and an adviser to the premier on diplomatic affairs.  “Obama and Netanyahu know they have to work together over
the next few years on urgent regional issues, especially Iran,”
Shoval said. “Even if there are all sorts of personal and
political reasons preventing complete harmony, the cooperation
will have to be close.”  Results of this week’s Israeli election may ease the
leaders’ sometimes fractious relationship. Pre-election polls
predicted that Jewish Home, a party that supports settlement-
building and opposes any Palestinian state, would emerge second
in size to Netanyahu’s Likud-Beitenu. Instead it was the Yesh
Atid party, a more moderate faction led by television presenter
Yair Lapid, that won the most votes after Likud-Beitenu.  “Yesh Atid will provide Netanyahu’s coalition with the
image of a more moderate government,” assuming the party
decides to pursue an alliance, said Eytan Gilboa, a professor of
political science at Bar Ilan University outside Tel Aviv, who
specializes in U.S.-Israeli relations. “Lapid has said he wants
more effort made to negotiate with the Palestinians, and careful
consideration given to any action against Iran.”  Iran Discord  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said the election results
would not affect “our unshakable commitment to  Israel ’s
security.” He called for “direct negotiations” between Israel
and the Palestinians toward a two-state solution.  Tensions between the U.S. and Israel flared in September
when Obama and Netanyahu disagreed about when Iran would have
enough enriched uranium to reach “breakout capacity,” the
point at which a nuclear weapon could be assembled quickly.  Netanyahu, 63, called for “red lines” to be set for
military action if Iran continues to enrich uranium. U.S.
officials said such a move would limit their options, adding
that they prefer to focus on economic sanctions with European
partners.  The friction eased when the Israeli premier told the  United
Nations  on Sept. 27 that he would extend his horizon for a
strike against Iran from October to early this year. The next
day, Obama said in a statement that the two leaders were in
“full agreement.”  Strategic Relations  “On Iran, the differences have decreased considerably,”
said  Gerald Steinberg , professor of political science at Bar
Ilan University in  Ramat Gan , Israel. “These disagreements are
more about ideology and personality, not about security or
strategic relations.”  U.S. ties with Israel are underpinned by American-Jewish
political influence, strong evangelical Christian support and a
security relationship in which Israel has been a stable and
reliable ally since the  Cold War . In the past two months, the
U.S. stood behind its ally during the conflict in Gaza in which
more than 150 Palestinians and five Israelis died, and the
Palestinian bid for statehood at the UN.  The U.S. also is Israel’s single biggest trading partner,
with $17.6 billion in exports and $9.4 billion in imports in
2012, according to Israel’s Central Bureau of Statistics. Israel
has 54 companies traded on  New York ’s Nasdaq Stock Market, the
most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .  Palestinian Issue  Obama, 51, has aired his unhappiness about the construction
of Jewish settlements in the  West Bank , which Israel captured
from Jordan in the 1967 Mideast War. According to Peace Now, an
Israeli group that favors negotiations with the Palestinians,
Netanyahu’s previous coalition government issued a record number
of tenders for West Bank housing during the past 47 months.  Increased settlement construction makes the resumption of
the  peace process  and the possibility of negotiating a two-state
solution more remote, said Philip Wilcox, a former State
Department Mideast expert who’s now president of the Foundation
for Middle East Peace, a  Washington  policy group.  The issue poses a “huge dilemma” for the U.S., which has
built its relationship with Israel on the basis of shared values
and interests, Wilcox said. If Israel moves toward a situation
where Jews are a ruling minority in a unitary state, the country
will be neither Jewish nor democratic, and that “removes the
moral underpinnings of the U.S.-Israeli relationship,” he said.  The tension over confronting Iran may worsen if there’s a
serious divide on the Palestinian issue, said Yehuda Ben-Meir, a
fellow at the Institute of National Security Studies at Tel Aviv
University. “It could have a spillover effect on the Iranian
issue,” he said.  Hagel Nomination  Obama’s nomination of former Nebraska Republican senator
Chuck Hagel to head the Defense Department has deepened concerns
about Iran. The speaker of Israel’s parliament, Reuven Rivlin,
said Jan. 8 that he was “worried” about how Hagel’s “cautious
isolationism” would affect American foreign policy.  Some fellow Republicans, including  Arizona  Senator  John McCain  and South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham, have attacked
Hagel for not being supportive enough of Israel or hard enough
on Iran. Hagel will be asked about that at his Jan. 31
confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Jeremy Ben-Ami, president of J-Street, a Washington-based
lobby group for pro-Israel Americans that supports negotiations
to create a Palestinian state in the West Bank, said he has
noticed a shift in American attitudes toward Israel.  American Shift  Just 33 percent of Democrats in the U.S. House of
Representatives signed a letter in December asking the White
House to punish Palestinians for seeking recognition at the UN,
Ben-Ami said. Such letters get usually unanimous backing, he
said.  “To the extent that the new direction of Israeli politics
takes that country in a direction that runs counter to American
values and interests, that will be very tough for the
relationship between the two countries,” Ben-Ami said.  Obama’s Jan. 21 inaugural address suggested his focus in
the second term will be on domestic issues rather than foreign
policy. His only brief reference to foreign policy indicated he
believes there’s more time for diplomacy to resolve the Iran
issue.  “We will show the courage to try and resolve our
differences with other nations peacefully, not because we are
naive about the dangers we face, but because engagement can more
durably lift suspicion and fear,” he said.  Diplomatic Process  The nomination of  John Kerry  for Secretary of State caused
less concern among Israel’s supporters. In February 2009, Kerry
was the highest-level U.S. official to visit the  Gaza Strip 
since Hamas seized control of the territory in June 2007. He
didn’t meet with Hamas, which has been designated a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Shoval said Netanyahu is aware of the need to present a
government that will make it possible for him to engage in
“some sort of diplomatic process” with the Palestinians, and
noted that there are always points of disagreement over which
Israel and the U.S. agree to disagree.  They won’t be able to do that on Iran, said  David Makovsky ,
research director at the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy.  “Obama and Netanyahu understand one thing very well,” he
said. “The Iran issue in 2013 is going to test their
relationship like nothing else has.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at  cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  