-- OCI Drops on Concern Regulator to Stall Relocation: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-01-23T13:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/oci-drops-on-concern-regulator-to-stall-relocation-cairo-mover.html
Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) ,
 Egypt ’s biggest publicly traded company, fell the most in almost
two weeks on concern the stock market regulator may stall the
builder’s planned move to Amsterdam.  Shares of Orascom, also known as OCI, fell 1.1 percent, the
largest decrease since Jan. 10, to 265.94 Egyptian pounds at the
close in Cairo, bringing its retreat over the last three days to
2.3 percent. Volume on the stock was almost 25 times the three-
month daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OCI said Jan. 19 it had secured $2 billion from investors
led by  Bill Gates ’ Cascade Investment LLC to help transfer its
listing from to NYSE Euronext Amsterdam. The Egyptian Financial
Supervisory Authority said two days later the Cairo-based
company must obtain shareholder approval for the move and
explain the fate of its “commitments toward sovereign entities
and creditors.” OCI’s stock was the biggest decliner today on
the benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) , which rose 0.2 percent.  “There’s concern EFSA’s approval of delisting OCI from the
market might take some time,” Heba Foda, an equities trader at
Cairo-based HC Brokerage, said by phone. “Talks with the tax
authority also remain as an overhang on the stock.”  OCI said today negotiations with the authority were in
progress over an allegation that it owes back-taxes. The
company, which also makes fertilizers, aims complete the share
transfer to Amsterdam-based OCI NV within four weeks, Omar Darwazah, OCI’s investor relations manager, said Jan. 20.  Under the transaction, shareholders of the company, which
comprises almost  a quarter  of market capitalization on the EGX
30 Index, have the option of exchanging their stakes for either
stock in OCI NV or 280 pounds cash per share. The company is
still committed to an “active” listing in Egypt, either
directly or through Egyptian depository receipts,’’ Chief
Executive Officer  Nassef Sawiris  said by phone Jan. 18.  Nine analysts  recommend  investors buy OCI’s stock, while
four say to hold it and two advise on selling it, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. OCI shares have gained 19 percent
over the past year, compared with a 42 percent surge for the EGX
30 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  