-- Ohio Supreme Court Accepts Appeal in Jobs Funding Case
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-24T00:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/ohio-supreme-court-accepts-appeal-in-jobs-funding-case.html
The  Ohio  Supreme Court will consider
whether a nonprofit group is eligible to challenge the use of
state liquor profits to fund a private economic-development
program backed by Governor John Kasich.  The high court today agreed to hear an appeal by the
nonprofit, ProgressOhio.org Inc., without further comment,
according to a posting on the court website. Two lower courts
have held the group lacks a sufficient stake to pursue the case.  JobsOhio, the private entity created by Kasich, a
Republican, to spur job growth, plans to sell $1.5 billion in
taxable and tax-exempt bonds backed by profit from the state-
owned liquor business.  “For those who are worried about public accountability and
the spending of public dollars, this is potentially quite
significant,”  Daniel P. Tokaji , a professor at Ohio State
University’s Moritz College of Law, said today in a phone
interview.  ProgressOhio, which described itself as “providing a
progressive voice for Ohio citizens” in its 2011 state court
complaint filed in the Columbus, contends the program violates
the state constitution by funneling public dollars to a private
entity and isn’t transparent or accountable to the public.  Joining the group in the litigation were two Democratic
state legislators.  ‘Legislated Mission’  “We are confident in our legislated mission to help
businesses grow and create jobs for Ohioans,” Laura Jones, a
JobsOhio spokeswoman, said today via e-mail.  Asked about the status of the bond issuance, Jones replied
that “there are a number of steps in a bond sale that must take
place before the transaction occurs and we continue to work on
those steps.”  The group doesn’t comment on pending litigation, she said.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are lead
underwriters on the deal. Elizabeth Seymour, a JPMorgan
spokeswoman, and Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup, both
declined to comment on the bond issuance.  The enabling legislation requires transfer of the state’s
wholesale liquor distribution to JobsOhio for 25 years,
providing it with a stream of income.  In Ohio, the state buys and distributes alcohol to
retailers. Liquor profits rose to an all-time high of about
$251 million in fiscal 2012, according to the Ohio Office of
Budget and Management.  Bond Delay  Kasich, 60, sought the creation of JobsOhio when he took
office in 2011. The legislature approved the plan and the entity
was set up the same year. The bond sale to fund it has been
delayed by legal challenges.  Brian Rothenberg, executive director of ProgressOhio, said
it’s “reckless” for JobsOhio to move forward with the bond
sale until the courts resolve legal questions about the entity.
Until then, “it’s buyer beware” with the debt, he said.  “It’s irresponsible both of the state and the bond market
not to respect the constitutional issues swirling around this
program,” Rothenberg said today in a phone interview. “I’m all
for jobs, but I’m also for doing things constitutionally.”  Kasich’s office doesn’t comment on pending litigation,
though the administration is confident that the state Supreme
Court will eventually uphold the lower-court rulings that the
plaintiffs have no standing, the governor’s spokeswoman, Connie
Wehrkamp, said.  “It continues to be beyond our understanding why anyone
would fight against job creation when it’s so important to Ohio
and our continued economic recovery,” she said in an e-mail.  Ohio Advantage  The program’s goal is to complete deals more quickly and
creatively to give Ohio an advantage over states such as
Michigan and  Indiana  in competing for jobs. Kasich’s
administration said it expects about $100 million will be
available yearly, more than development entities such as the
Michigan Economic Development Corp. have to spend.  JobsOhio has agreed to pay the state $500 million from the
proceeds of the bond sale for the transfer of profits, while
using about $850 million to retire debt backed by the liquor
money and $225 million for uses including previously committed
economic revitalization projects and working capital, John
Minor, the group’s president in Columbus, has said.  The trial court rejected ProgressOhio’s lawsuit in December
2011, ruling that the challengers lacked standing to pursue the
case.  A Columbus-based appellate court in June affirmed that
decision, concluding that while the JobsOhio plan “makes
significant changes to the organizational structure of state
government,” that was not enough to give the plaintiffs a
sufficient interest in the outcome.  Poorly Reasoned  Tokaji, the Moritz law professor, said the appellate ruling
wasn’t well reasoned.  “Significant changes? What could be more important than
that?” he asked. “The court is making a very subjective and
contestable judgment about what is important and what’s not.”  The legal issues touch on the basic structure of state
government, he said. “This is something that’s important for
the judiciary to weigh in on.”  While liquor profit provides a strong backing for the
bonds, investors may be wary about the new debt without a court
resolution, said Howard Cure, director of muni research in New
York for Evercore Wealth Management, which oversees about $3.8
billion.  Having the Ohio Supreme Court take the appeal “just
highlights the legal concerns more,” Cure said in a phone
interview.  The lingering legal challenge is crimping the debt’s credit
standing. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services assigned an AA
rating, its third-highest, while Moody’s Investors Service
issued an A2 grade, only its sixth-highest.  The debt would have been rated more along the lines of
other Ohio bonds backed by liquor profits, two or three levels
higher, without the legal risk,  Ted Hampton , a New York-based
analyst at Moody’s, has said.  The case is ProgressOhio.org Inc. v. JobsOhio, 12-1272,
 Supreme Court of Ohio  (Columbus).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  