-- Oil Trades Near Four-Month High Before Vote on U.S. Debt
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-23T13:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/oil-trades-near-four-month-high-as-german-confidence-increases.html
Oil traded near the highest price in
four months in New York on speculation that the U.S. will lift
its debt limit, offsetting forecasts that fuel inventories
increased in the world’s largest crude consumer.  West Texas Intermediate was little changed after gaining
0.7 percent yesterday as President  Barack Obama ’s administration
said it welcomes a move by House Republicans to vote today on
raising the debt ceiling through mid-May. U.S. crude stockpiles
probably rose last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before a government report tomorrow. Deutsche Bank AG boosted
its growth forecast for oil demand in China.  “We expect some jitters in oil prices leading up to
discussion of the debt ceiling,” said Michael Poulsen, an
analyst at Global Risk Management Ltd. in Middelfart,  Denmark ,
“U.S. politicians will probably reach a deal that kicks the
much-dented can down the road. A real structural reform looks a
bit unlikely.”  WTI crude for March delivery gained 7 cents to $96.75 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1:12 p.m. London time. The average volume of all futures
traded was 17 percent below the 100-day average. The February
contract expired yesterday at $96.24, the highest close since
Sept. 17, 2012.  Brent for March settlement was at $112.56 a barrel, up 14
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
volume of futures exchanged was 21 percent more than the 100-day
average. The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$15.82 to WTI. The gap was $15.16 on Jan. 17, the narrowest in
almost six months.  U.S. Pipeline Capacity  Brent’s premium to WTI will be in a range of $15 to $19 a
barrel in the first quarter before falling to about $6 to $12 in
the fourth quarter as new pipeline capacity begins to affect
supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma ,  Hussein Allidina , an analyst at
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , said today in a report.  The increase in WTI is stalling as a technical indicator
shows futures have climbed too quickly for further gains to be
sustainable. The 14-day relative strength index is higher than
70 for a fourth day today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A reading above that level signals a market is
overbought and will probably decline.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably rose by  2.5 million barrels 
to 362.8 million in the seven days ended Jan. 18, according to
the median of seven analyst estimates before a report from the
Energy Department. All respondents forecast a gain.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably rose by  1.5 million
barrels , and distillate supplies, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, increased by 500,000 barrels, according
to the survey.  Chinese Demand  The government data is being released a day later than
usual because of the Martin Luther King Jr. Day holiday on Jan.
21 in the U.S. The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute
is scheduled to release separate inventory figures today.  In  China , fuel demand will increase by 4.9 percent this
year, equivalent to about 468,000 barrels a day, amid planned
investments in new infrastructure, Soozhana Choi, Deutsche
Bank’s chief oil strategist in  Singapore , wrote in a report.  Oil prices increased yesterday after  Germany ’s ZEW Center
said its index, which tries to predict economic developments six
months in advance, jumped to 31.5 from 6.9 in December.
Economists forecast an increase to 12, the median of 39
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  