-- Holmen Seeks Expansion in Emerging Markets as Europe Stagnates
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-01-23T08:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/holmen-seeks-expansion-in-emerging-markets-as-europe-stagnates.html
Holmen AB (HOLMB) , the maker of publication
paper and consumer packaging that generates 90 percent of its
sales in Europe, will seek to boost profits by shipping value-
added products in countries such as India and China.  “We are studying pretty intensely what other export
potential there is to grow in other markets,” Chief Executive
Officer Magnus Hall said yesterday in an interview in Stockholm.
“China is slightly more interesting but India is also
attractive” and  North America  is another option, he said.  Holmen would seek a competitive edge based on high quality
and specialization and won’t compete on base products, Hall
said. While the Stockholm-based company would subsequently
consider investing in local production facilities, this won’t
happen within the next five years, he said.  Competitors such as  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V)  and  Stora Enso Oyj (STERV) ,
both based in Helsinki, have added plantations and mills in
faster-growing markets such as South America and China as
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has reduced local demand. The
euro-area economy declined 0.4 percent last year and won’t
return to growth until the second quarter, when it will add 0.1
percent, according to median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  China’s economy  grew 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter.  The economic situation in Europe has been so bad that it’s
more likely to get better than worse, though this will take a
while, Hall said.  The crisis in the euro region has changed his mind about
recommending Sweden adopt the currency, Hall said.  The harm caused by the strong Swedish krona is something
Holmen can handle, he said. It is better for the business to
have a stable currency, even if the currency remains strong,
than for it to have a currency that fluctuates, Hall said,
adding that a stable, weaker krona would be preferable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  