-- Tom Clausen, Bank of America CEO, World Bank Chief, Dies at 89
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-01-24T00:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/tom-clausen-bank-of-america-ceo-world-bank-chief-dies-at-89.html
A.W. “Tom” Clausen, who led San
Francisco-based  Bank of America  before and after serving as
president of the  World Bank , has died. He was 89.  He died on Jan. 21 at Mills-Peninsula Medical Center in
Burlingame,  California , his wife, Helen, said yesterday in an
interview. The cause was complications from pneumonia. Clausen
was a resident of Hillsborough, California.  From his start as a part-time cash counter in a branch
office in Los Angeles, Clausen rose through the ranks of Bank
of America and its holding company, BankAmerica Corp.,
becoming president and chief executive officer in 1970. He was
credited with reviving the bank during his second tenure there,
from 1986 to 1990.  Even while presiding over Bank of America in the 1970s,
when it was the nation’s largest bank, Clausen regularly spoke
publicly about the needs of  developing countries , according to
a 1980  New York  Times profile.  That focus paid dividends when President  Jimmy Carter 
nominated him in 1980 to succeed Robert McNamara as president
of the World Bank.  During Clausen’s five-year term, from July 1981 to June
1986, the World Bank struggled to help developing nations
endure one of the worst recessions since World War II. It also
had to respond to a shift in U.S. political attitudes under
President  Ronald Reagan  -- “a new conservatism in economic
policies which emphasized the role of the private sector and
unobstructed markets,” in the words of a World Bank  biography 
of Clausen.  Debt Crisis  In response to a global oil crisis, Clausen announced a
25 percent increase in lending for energy, including
substantial sums for hydroelectric power projects, according
to the biography. Clausen also oversaw the World Bank’s
initial efforts to deal with a debt crisis that struck nations
in  Latin America , Eastern Europe and  Africa  in the 1980s. The
crisis continued to simmer until 1989 and the creation of the
Brady Plan for debt relief under President  George H.W. Bush .  A 1984 New York Times article said the World Bank under
Clausen “has taken little more than a bit part in the hair-
raising financial dramas that have marked this decade. As a
result, critics say, the institution is in danger of becoming
irrelevant.”  Clausen defended his tenure, saying he accomplished what
he could, considering that the bank had 147 different
governments as members.  “There is nothing you can do that will please, or will
benefit, all,” he said, according to the Times.  ‘A Champion’  In a statement yesterday, World Bank President Jim Yong
Kim praised Clausen as “very much a champion of developing
countries.”  “His leadership made a significant difference in the
lives of the poorest in the world by helping lower  interest
rates  on World Bank loans to developing countries as well as
speeding loan disbursements,” Kim said.  Alden Winship Clausen was born on Feb. 17, 1923, in
Hamilton,  Illinois , the son of Morton Clausen, publisher of
the town’s weekly newspaper, and the former Elsie Kroll.  He graduated from  Carthage College  in Kenosha,  Wisconsin ,
in 1944 and joined the U.S. Army Air Corps, serving as a
meteorological officer. After the war he obtained his law
degree from the  University of Minnesota .  He took a part-time job at a Bank of America branch in
Los Angeles while waiting for his future wife, Mary Margaret
Crassweller, to agree to marry him. They were married until
her death in 2001.  Hooked by finance, he earned a spot in the bank’s
management training program. He was a senior vice president at
42.  Return Engagement  His return to lead  Bank of America  as chairman and CEO in
1986, following his World Bank tenure, was a coda to his
banking career. During his five-year absence, the bank had
suffered loan and other losses that fanned speculation it
would be taken over by the U.S. government. It had, among
other problems, $8 billion worth of troubled loans to “Third
World” countries, according to a 1989  Los Angeles  Times
article.  The former Helen Higgins, his wife since 2002, worked as
his secretary starting in 1970 at Bank of America and the
World Bank. She recalled in the interview how Clausen was
called back to save Bank of America.  “He was out of the World Bank less than a week when he
received a phone call from a member of the board asking him if
he would please come back and, in essence, rescue the bank,”
she said. “They needed him.”  Among other painful steps, Clausen presided over the
elimination of 20,000 jobs and the sale of revenue-generating
operations, according to the Los Angeles Times.  Reinstated Dividends  Clausen retired in May 1990, after Bank of America posted
1989 net income of $1.1 billion and had reinstated  dividend 
payments, one of his goals. He became chairman of the bank’s
executive committee.  In 1998, NationsBank Corp. merged with BankAmerica Corp.
to create  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, now
the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets.  Clausen’s survivors include two sons, Eric and Mark, and
five grandchildren.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  