-- Monsanto Offers Brazilian Farmers Royalty-Free Soybeans
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-01-23T21:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/monsanto-offers-brazilian-farmers-royalty-free-soybeans.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest
seed company, agreed to waive two years of royalties on its
Roundup Ready soybean seeds for Brazilian farmers who agree to
forgo claims in a patent dispute.  Growers who sign the agreement won’t pay the technology fee
on soybean seeds that are genetically modified to tolerate
glyphosate herbicide, marketed by Monsanto as Roundup, in the
current and subsequent growing seasons, St. Louis-based Monsanto
said today in a statement. Growers would waive the right to try
to recoup royalties previously paid.  The agreement would resolve claims by growers who claim the
patent on the original Roundup Ready soybeans expired in 2010,
ending their obligation to pay Monsanto royalties on the seeds.
Monsanto argues that Brazilian law extends the patent to late
2014, when it expires in the U.S.  “This agreement reflects the support of key grower
associations and provides a mechanism to allow all parties to
focus on the long-term solutions that will support the Brazilian
agriculture industry and its growing demands,” Rodrigo Santos,
Monsanto  Brazil  president, said in the statement.  The agreement resolves uncertainty about Monsanto’s ability
to collect fees on its new Intacta soybean, which is scheduled
to begin sales in Brazil during the next growing season. Intacta
is engineered to produce an insecticide as well as to tolerate
Roundup.  Profit Forecast  Monsanto rose 0.7 percent to $103.08 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 8.9 percent this year.  Monsanto has already told investors not to count on any
revenue from Brazil soybeans this year. The company is excluding
from its profit forecast an estimated 20 to 25 cents a share of
earnings from soybean sales in Brazil, it said on Jan. 8.  The agreement is supported by the Agriculture and Livestock
Confederation of Brazil and 10 state agriculture federations in
soybean producing regions of the country, Monsanto said.  The company suspended royalty collections in Brazil for a
couple of months late last year after a court ordered them
stopped in the state of Mato Grosso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  