-- Monte Paschi Hid Documents on Deals, Bank of Italy Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-01-24T15:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/monte-paschi-hid-documents-on-deals-bank-of-italy-says.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
the Italian bank seeking a second state bailout in four years,
hid documents from regulators on financial transactions that may
prompt the lender to restate profit.  “The nature of some transactions involving Monte dei
Paschi di Siena reported by the press has been disclosed only
recently after hidden documents were found by new  executives (BMPS) ,”
the Bank of  Italy  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The
transactions are now being reviewed by the central bank’s
oversight division as well as judicial authorities.”  Monte Paschi said on Jan. 17 it will review its accounts
after Bloomberg News reported the lender engaged in a derivative
with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2008, dubbed “Project Santorini,”
that obscured losses before it sought a government bailout the
next year. The Siena-based bank said in a statement yesterday
it’s reviewing three money-losing derivative deals, dubbed
Santorini, Alexandria and Nota Italia, which led to losses for
the bank.  “This does not clarify if there are other deals that may
have allowed Monte Paschi to delay recognition of losses and/or
lower artificially their risk-weighted assets,” Alberto Cordara
a London-based analyst at Bank of America Corp., with an
underperform recommendation on the stock, wrote in a note today.
The  Bank of Italy  statement “may entail a high risk of
litigation,” he said.  Stock, Bonds  Monte Paschi  fell as much as  7.6 percent in Milan today,
the biggest drop on the 46-member Stoxx 600 Banks Index and
extending a five-day decline to 20 percent. The company lost 6.8
percent to 23.69 cents by 4:15 p.m. The bank’s 4.875 percent
bonds due 2014 dropped as much as 1.65 percent to 99.31 cents on
the euro, the biggest decline since they were sold on Sept. 11,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. That pushed the yield up to
472 basis points more than the benchmark midswap rate, compared
with a low of 314 on Jan. 18, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Executives at Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, are
under pressure from investors to fully disclose losses from
derivative transactions after saying in November it needed an
additional 500 million euros ($666 million) of government money
to bolster capital because of the contracts. Shareholders meet
this week to approve two capital increases required by the
Treasury for the lender to get that aid.  Full Transparency  Monte Paschi’s losses from the transactions under review
were about 720 million euros, Il Messaggero newspaper reported
today, citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola. Former managers signed a derivative with  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  three years ago that cut earnings by 220 million euros in
2012, Il Fatto Quotidiano reported two days ago.  “The transparency must be full,” the Associazione di
Piccoli Azionisti Azione Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, an
association of the lender’s individual investors, said in a
statement yesterday. “The biggest shareholders must take the
responsibility and burden of financial strategies put in place
to hide losses.”  Monte Paschi, which may decide to renegotiate the deals,
said aid already requested from the government will cover the
impact of the transactions on its accounts.  Shareholders will vote tomorrow on two capital raisings
allowing Monte Paschi to qualify for the additional funds that
will bring the cost of its bailout to 3.9 billion euros. The
lender is expected to report a 1.78 billion-euro loss for 2012,
based on the average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Regaining Confidence  “The ongoing clean-up of the balance sheet by the new
management is a pre-requisite to regain investors’ confidence,”
Anna Maria Benassi, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who
advises clients hold the share, wrote in a report today.  Italy’s Treasury said in a statement today that conditions
for Monte Paschi’s rescue have not been met. Shareholders must
first approve the capital increase, and the Bank of Italy must
give its opinion on Monte Paschi’s current and expected
financial strength, the Treasury said.  The bank’s former chairman,  Giuseppe Mussari , resigned two
days ago as head of the Italian Banking Association lobby group.  The lender discovered in October that former managers
signed an agreement with Nomura to cover losses on a mortgage-
backed derivative entitled Alexandria with new, riskier
derivatives, Il Fatto Quotidiano reported, citing an internal
report by Viola.  Reviewed Trade  Nomura said on Jan. 22 that Mussari “fully reviewed and
approved” the trade. Monte Paschi’s former chairman, in his
letter of resignation from the lobby group, said he always acted
lawfully. He didn’t respond to e-mails sent to his personal
account or calls to the association’s Rome office.  Monte Paschi said in a statement two days ago that the
Alexandria deal was part of “restructured transactions” whose
effect is subject to a review that will be completed in the
first half of February. It added in a later statement that the
Nomura transaction was never submitted to the board for
approval. KPMG, the bank’s auditor until April 2012, said it
never received documents on the trade.  The Italian lender also entered into a similar transaction
with Deutsche Bank in December 2008 under which it received a
1.5 billion-euro loan that helped it to mitigate a 367 million-
euro loss from an older derivative with the Frankfurt-based
bank,  Bloomberg News  reported on Jan. 17.  Similar Deal  Deutsche Bank reaped about 60 million euros in profit in
the first two weeks of December 2008 through the loan, dubbed
Santorini, according to more than 70 pages of documents obtained
by Bloomberg News detailing the deal. As part of that trade, the
Italian lender made a losing bet on the value of the country’s
government bonds, according to six derivatives specialists who
reviewed the files. Monte Paschi never disclosed the effect of
the 2008 trade in its annual reports.  Monte Paschi’s woes can be traced to Mussari’s decision in
2007 to spend more than Monte Paschi’s market value at the time
to acquire Banca Antonveneta SpA, just as bank stocks hit their
peak. The lender paid  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  36 percent more than
what the Spanish lender paid for Padua, Italy-based Antonveneta
two months previously. Monte Paschi was forced to write down the
acquisition by 4.5 billion euros last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Davos, Switzerland at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  