-- Monti’s Hold on Italy Challenged by Sicily Anti-Mafia Prosecutor
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-01-23T08:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/monti-s-hold-on-italy-challenged-by-sicily-anti-mafia-prosecutor.html
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti,
campaigning to retain influence after elections next month, is
facing a challenge from an ex-anti-mafia prosecutor who wants to
break the premier’s hold on the  recession -scarred country.  Antonio Ingroia, leader of the nation’s fifth-biggest
political force, said in an interview that  lower-income  Italians
need tax relief and blamed Monti’s austerity for exacerbating
the downturn. Ingroia’s electoral strategy is to supplant Monti,
currently running fourth in opinion polls, as the post-vote
partner of choice for frontrunner Pier Luigi Bersani, head of
the Democratic Party.  Ingroia is seeking to drive Bersani and Monti apart by
setting the two men on opposite sides of the left-right divide
that has traditionally defined Italian politics. Bersani, a
former communist, draws support from labor unions and leads a
self-described center-left coalition. Monti, an ex-Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. adviser, is running his campaign with Chamber of
Deputies Speaker Gianfranco Fini, a former neo-fascist.  “Monti is right-wing,” Ingroia said yesterday at
Bloomberg’s offices in  Rome . “I wonder about how Bersani could
explain to his electorate that he is preparing to form a
government where one of the representatives is a post fascist.”  Bipartisan Alliance  Monti has served his 14-month term as a representative of
the major parties on both the left and the right of Italian
politics. His premiership was the result of a temporary alliance
between Bersani on the left and former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi on the right. Since that partnership unravelled last
month, Monti has been seeking his own constituency and refusing
to classify himself along the traditional political spectrum.  Ingroia, who investigated ties between politics and
organized crime as a Palermo-based prosecutor, entered the
electoral race last month at the head of a movement called Civil
Revolution. He described himself as a left-wing politician and
said he would refuse to govern with Monti. Talks for an alliance
between Civil Revolution and Bersani’s Democratic Party, or PD,
have been unsuccessful, Ingroia said.  “We are available to govern with the PD provided the PD
doesn’t govern with a moderate and right-wing force like
Monti’s,” Ingroia said. “All this very much depends on voters,
because if they really want a center-left government they must
vote for Civil Revolution.”  Bersani’s Support  Bersani’s chances of securing a majority alone have fallen
in the last month, according to polls from SWG Institute. Public
support for his coalition fell to 33 percent on Jan. 16 from
34.9 percent on Jan. 9 and 35.5 percent in December, according
to SWG. Monti’s group slipped to 13.7 percent on Jan. 16 from
13.8 percent a week prior, while Ingroia rose to 5.4 percent
from 4.5 percent over the same period, the polls showed.  Even if the polls prove accurate and Bersani wins the
election, he may fall short of a majority in the Senate, where
seats are doled out based on regional rather than national
support. Such an outcome would force Bersani to seek allies to
be able to govern. Ingroia said that Bersani collaborators had
asked him to not field candidates in key regions to avoid
drawing votes away from the Democrats, but wouldn’t renounce a
possible alliance with Monti, which contributed to scuttling a
deal.  Bersani is keeping his options open until after the Feb.
24-25 vote, which is shaping up to be a referendum on Monti’s
strategy in office.  Italy ’s borrowing costs have plummeted as
the 69-year-old premier, with the support of Bersani and
Berlusconi, raised taxes and pushed European allies to adopt
collective action against the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Spread Narrows  The  yield premium  investors demand to buy Italy’s 10-year
bonds over comparable German bonds is at 264 basis points, less
than half the level when Monti came to power in November 2011.  Still, the austerity has deepened Italy’s recession and
each of the major candidates is proposing tax cuts to stimulate
growth. Monti has suggested easing the fiscal burden without
giving full details, while Berlusconi, running second in opinion
polls, is pushing for the abolition of the tax on primary
residences. Bersani has proposed cutting taxes on low and middle
incomes and raising rates on high earners.  Ingroia agreed with Bersani’s focus on more progressive
taxation and said he will also push for a wealth tax on
financial holdings.  “There’s a concentration of wealth in the hands of the
few,” Ingroia said. “These few with the riches must pay taxes
in a relevant way.”  Berlusconi’s coalition rose to 27.2 percent on Jan. 16 from
25.3 percent the previous week, according to SWG. Comic-turned-
politician Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, polling third,
advanced to 16.8 percent from 15.9 percent in the same period.
Grillo has said he won’t ally his party with any other.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Milan at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 