-- Montmartre Show Evokes Belle Epoque of Can-Can Girls
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-01-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/montmartre-show-evokes-belle-epoque-of-can-can-girls.html
In many cultures, black cats are
viewed as evil omens, especially if they cross your path from
right to left. For the Pilgrim Fathers, they were incarnations
of the Devil.  That was obviously not the opinion of the writers and
artists who, in 1881, founded Paris’s most famous cabaret, the
Chat Noir.  “Autour du Chat Noir,” the show at the charming Musee de
Montmartre, evokes the Belle Epoque when the neighborhood around
La Butte, the highest point in Paris, was the headquarters of
the avant-garde and nightlife not known for its innocence.  The suburb of Montmartre had been incorporated into the
capital only in 1860 -- much to the chagrin of its inhabitants.
It’s no accident that the Paris Commune, the 1871 rebellion
against the government, started there.  A room in the museum recalls the two bloody months that
ended with more than 20,000 dead.  The rebellion of the performers at the Chat Noir was less
lethal. They were happy to provoke the bourgeoisie with a mix of
satirical, nonsensical and bawdy songs -- and the bourgeois
loved it.  In 1885, the Chat Noir moved into a bigger, elaborately
furnished townhouse and added shadow plays to its program. Its
old place was renamed the Mirliton and taken over by the singer
Aristide Bruant, well known from Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec’s
posters.  Sentimental Journey  For Phillip Dennis Cate, former director of the Zimmerli
Art Museum at  Rutgers University  and the show’s curator, the
Chat Noir is just the starting point for a sentimental journey
through Montmartre’s golden age before the muses crossed the
Seine and moved to Montparnasse.  The Chat Noir is long gone. Other venues are still going
strong, such as the Moulin Rouge or Le Lapin Agile, Picasso’s
favorite hangout.  It was at the Lapin Agile that the funniest joke of the
Belle Epoque was cooked up: At the 1910 Salon des Independants,
an abstract painting titled “Sunset on the  Adriatic Sea ” was
hailed as a masterpiece. As it turned out, it was the work of a
donkey to whose tail pranksters had tied a paint brush.  In 1912, Frede Gerard, the owner of the cabaret and the
donkey, sold “Au Lapin Agile,” a canvas Picasso had given him as
a thank you for many drinks, for 20 dollars. In 1989, it was
auctioned at  Sotheby’s (BID)  for 41 million dollars.  Inside Cabaret  Don’t try to find it among the 300 or so paintings,
watercolors, drawings, prints and posters in the exhibition.
What you get instead is an interior of the cabaret -- quite
good, actually -- painted by another habitue named Georges
Villa.  Toulouse-Lautrec, by contrast, who immortalized the can-can
dancers at the Moulin Rouge, is well represented. So are Jules
Cheret and Theophile Steinlen, the masters of the Belle Epoque
poster.  The show also covers the Theatre Libre and the Theatre de
l’Oeuvre, the leading avant-garde stages of the time. Strictly
speaking, neither of them was located in the Montmartre
neighborhood. Spiritually speaking, however, they were family.  “Ubu Roi,” Alfred Jarry’s scatological king, who greeted
the spectators at the Theatre de l’Oeuvre with the opening line
“Merdre!” was a not-too-distant relative to the hookers and
lushes the great diseuse Yvette Guilbert impersonated at the
Chat Noir.  “Autour du Chat Noir: Arts & Plaisirs a Montmartre 1880-
1910” runs through June 2.  Information:  http://www.museedemontmartre.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater,
 Richard Vines  on food and  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  restaurants..  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 