-- Thoresen Thai to Expand Fleet on Decade’s Cheapest Vessels
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-01-24T06:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/thoresen-thai-to-expand-fleet-on-decade-s-cheapest-vessel-prices.html
Thoresen Thai Agencies Pcl (TTA) ,
 Thailand ’s second-largest shipping company, said it will buy
vessels to take advantage of the cheapest prices since 2003 even
as commodity rates slump.  Thoresen Thai aims to raise as much as 6.37 billion baht
($214 million) from shareholders next week to fund the
expansion, Chief Executive Officer Chandchutha Chandratat said
in a phone interview yesterday. The company plans to almost
double its dry-bulk shipping fleet to as many as 30 from 16 by
2015, he said.  “We think there are good opportunities this year,”
Chandchutha said. “The majority of our planned investment could
happen this year” as prices are cheaper, he said.  The average price of a five-year-old 56,000-ton ship was
$19.5 million this month, the cheapest since November 2003,
according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker. The
Baltic Dry Index, a key measure of global commodity-shipping
rates, slumped to a 25-year low last year, prompting  Korea Line
Corp. (005880)  and Sanko Steamship Co. of  Japan  to seek court protection.  Demand to ship dry-bulk commodities will exceed fleet
growth in the year’s second half as the freight market begins to
recover, Pareto Securities AS said in a report earlier this
week. Demand will advance 7.7 percent this year as the fleet
expands 6.7 percent, according to the Oslo-based investment
bank.  Baltic Index  “The purchase of ships at the cheap prices will help cut
Thoresen Thai’s operating costs and improve earnings when the
shipping rates and demand starts to rebound,” Siam Tiyanont, an
analyst at Phillip Securities Pcl in Bangkok, said by phone.
“Demand for commodity transportation will reach its bottom
later this year and show steady growth in 2014.”  Thoresen Thai jumped 2.3 percent, the most since Jan. 18,
to 17.90 baht as of the 12:30 p.m. trading break in Bangkok,
extending its gain this year to 7.8 percent. The benchmark SET
Index rose 0.6 percent.  China’s 8 percent economic expansion will surpass the
government’s target as the country’s share of dry-bulk imports
rises to 40 percent from 20 percent in 2003, analysts Jonas Kraft and Erik Haavaldsen at Pareto said in their report.  The Baltic Dry Index averaged 920 last year, the lowest
since 1986, according to figures from the Baltic Exchange, the
London-based publisher of freight rates. The index fell 1
percent yesterday to 817.  Thoresen Thai seeks to buy new and used vessels that are
about five to eight years old, Chandchutha said.  “People who have money are trying to push the price down
on the distressed sellers as much as possible,” he said. “But
in the last two to three weeks, what I’ve seen is the sellers
themselves are pulling deals from the market because they didn’t
like the price.”  Shareholders Meeting  Thoresen Thai shareholders will meet Jan. 30 to vote on a
revised fund-raising plan after an earlier proposal to raise 9.9
billion baht through a  rights offering  was rejected in December.
Existing stockholders will get two new ones for every five they
own at 14 baht each, besides the warrant, Chandchutha said.  The company is also considering adding more rigs to its
Singapore-traded offshore service unit,  Mermaid Maritime Pcl (MMT) , he
said. Thoresen Thai plans to order two tender drilling rigs
during the current fiscal year to replace ageing ones.  “We are in the early or middle stage of a multi-year
cyclical upturn,” Chandchutha said. “Most of the growth will
be Asia and the Middle East.” Almost $650 billion is expected
to be spent on exploration and production this year, he said.  Thoresen Thai expects to post a  net income  in the fiscal
year ending in September, helped by contributions from its
offshore and infrastructure businesses, Chandchutha said,
without providing an estimate. The bulk shipping business is
expected to post a loss in the quarter ended December as rates
fell more than expected, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  