-- Tories 99% Satisfied With Cameron EU Plan, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-23T13:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/tories-99-satisfied-with-cameron-eu-plan-lawmaker-says.html
U.K. Conservative Party lawmakers,
racked by infighting for decades over the European Union,
welcomed Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plan to renegotiate
ties, with one saying nearly all of them would be happy.  “We now have a position that 99 percent of the party would
be happy to endorse,” Malcolm Rifkind, who served as foreign
secretary in John Major’s government in the 1990s and describes
himself as a “moderate euroskeptic,” said in a telephone
interview. “It was a breath of fresh air.”  Cameron pledged a referendum today in a speech at Bloomberg
LP’s European headquarters in London on whether Britain should
leave the European Union or stay in, allowing U.K. voters to
decide on breaking up the 27-nation bloc.  Describing British backing for the status quo in  Europe  as
“wafer thin,” the premier said he would put the question to a
popular vote by the end of 2017 if re-elected in two years and
once he has negotiated a return of some powers to the U.K. He
said that he wants the U.K. to remain in the EU.  Tory lawmakers said Cameron’s plan gives them something
concrete to offer voters in the run-up to the election in 2015.  “It was a game-changer, it’s fantastic news,” Mark Reckless, who led a Conservative rebellion over the EU budget
last year, said in an interview. “If you believe in an
independent Britain, a democratic Britain, vote for a
Conservative government that will give you a choice.”  Others, though, expressed concern about the reaction from
other European leaders.  ‘Being Awkward’  “I hope there is not a knee-jerk reaction across Europe
that Britain is being awkward,” Sarah Wollaston, a lawmaker who
argues Britain should stay inside a reconfigured EU, said in an
interview. “I agreed with the point about it being heretical to
question Britain’s relationship with Europe. I want to be part
of Europe but just not on the current terms.”  Asked if the speech could end infighting among the Tories,
she replied, “I think it will be a unifying speech and struck
just the right note.”  Tory lawmaker Bernard Jenkin said in an interview the
question is “whether our European partners will allow us to
pick and choose within the existing treaties or say whether they
will say ’no actually what you want is a new treaty relationship
but not as signatory of the exiting EU treaties.’ And that
raises the question of whether we can stay in the single market
or whether we are going to have a free-trade relationship.”  ‘Outrage and Contempt’  He said there would be a “mixture of outrage and contempt
for the British position” across other EU nations.  Cameron was responding to pressure from Tory lawmakers for
looser ties with the EU or an outright departure from the union.
Divisions on Europe racked Cameron’s Tory predecessors, Major
and  Margaret Thatcher , and contributed to the end of both their
political careers.  Tory lawmakers cheered and waved paper agendas as Cameron
came into the House of Commons for his weekly question-and-
answer session today.  “The reason people behind him are cheering is not because
they want to vote yes in a referendum, they want to vote no,”
opposition  Labour Party  Ed Miliband told lawmakers. “He’s been
driven to it not by the national interest but dragged to it by
his party.” He said Labour doesn’t want an “in-out”
referendum.  “The question isn’t whether this satisfies Tory
euroskeptics, it’s whether it will satisfy enough of them to get
him through this Parliament and then whatever negotiation
process he can persuade other European leaders into,” Tim Bale,
professor of politics at Queen Mary University  London , said in
an interview. “I suspect that it will.”  ‘Pretty Good’  Tories “who want to leave the EU will of course worry that
he’s playing a trick on them by holding a referendum on a
supposedly renegotiated basis for Britain’s membership,” Bale
said. “But he’s given them a once-in-a-generation opportunity
to do what they desperately want to do: give the electorate a
chance to decide whether they want in or out. It’s not perfect,
but it’s pretty good -- enough of them will go for it.”  Cameron’s Conservative lawmakers are under pressure from
the United Kingdom Independence Party, which campaigns for
Britain’s withdrawal from the EU. A poll by  YouGov Plc (YOU)  in
today’s Sun newspaper showed UKIP with 10 percent support, just
behind the Liberal Democrats, Cameron’s coalition partners at 12
percent.  The Tories had 31 percent support in the YouGov poll, 10
points behind Labour. YouGov interviewed 2,119 adults Jan. 21-22
and didn’t specify a margin of error.  Just Beginning  “Whilst UKIP regards today’s speech as its greatest
achievement to date, the real work for our party has only just
begun,” leader Nigel Farage said in an e-mail.  “The bulk of Tories who are euroskeptic but not obsessed
with the issue will be satisfied: the referendum will, they
think, spike UKIP’s guns, and will put the Labour Party and the
Liberal Democrats in a difficult position,” Bale said.  “It will also put the issue on the backburner until after
the election, leaving the government free to focus on the things
that will most matter to winning that election,” he said.
“Getting the economy right, hitting the government’s targets on
immigration and making sure that  deficit reduction  doesn’t
impact too seriously on cherished public services, most
obviously the  National Health Service .”  Cameron set out a moderate, statesmanlike approach to the
Europe question,” Tory lawmaker Dominic Raab said in an
interview. “It rightly focused on strategy over tactics. The
ball is now in the EU’s court. If we only get crumbs from
renegotiation, it would be for the British people to decide in
2017 whether we stay in.”  ‘That’s Politics’  Even so, one leading Tory euroskeptic said he’s not sure
Cameron can achieve enough in renegotiations to satisfy him.  “If we’re talking about the current deal with a couple of
repatriations, basically staying where we are now with an opt-
out from the working week, I would be on the other side,”
Daniel Hannan, a member of the European Parliament, said in an
interview after attending Cameron’s speech.  Tory lawmaker Stewart Jackson took to Twitter Inc.’s social
networking site to say he was fired as a ministerial aide “for
advocating an in/out EU referendum in 2011 but it’s now official
party policy. That’s politics folks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  