-- Emerging Stocks Slip on IMF Growth Outlook, China Economy
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-23T22:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/most-emerging-stocks-fall-as-volatility-drops-to-seven-year-low.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped, led
by industrial companies, as the  International Monetary Fund  cut
its global growth forecasts and a leading index for  China ’s
economy rose at a slower pace in December.  LG Household & Health Care Ltd. (051900) , a South Korean maker of
cleaning and personal care products, tumbled the most since 2008
after its profit forecast missed estimates.  Hindustan Unilever
Ltd. (HUVR)  plunged in Mumbai after Credit Suisse Group AG, CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets and Nomura Holdings Inc. cut their
recommendations.  China Merchants Holdings International Co. (144)  sank
the most in 11 weeks in Hong Kong. Brazilian paper maker  Klabin
SA (KLBN4)  surged to a record high.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of developing-nation stocks
retreated 0.2 percent to 1,076.53 in  New York , while its 100-day
volatility dropped to the lowest level since October 2005. The
world’s economy will expand 3.5 percent this year, less than the
3.6 percent forecast in October, the IMF said today as it also
reduced outlooks for Brazil and India. A gauge for  China’s
economy  gained 0.4 percent in December, compared with a 1.1
percent increase in the previous month.  “What the IMF is obviously saying is they’re not
anticipating that things are picking up,” Mark Luschini, the
chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
which manages about $54 billion, said by phone today from
Philadelphia. “The  euro zone  is in recession, the question now
is whether it’s going to worsen.”  Debt Vote  The Washington-based IMF said in an update of its World
Economic Outlook report today that it expects the 17-country
euro area to shrink 0.2 percent in 2013, instead of growing 0.2
percent as forecast in October, as  Spain  leads the contraction
and  Germany  slows.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.5
percent to 44.47, the lowest level in a week. The  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, declined 3.4 percent to15.69.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose 0.4 percent, boosted by Klabin,
which advanced 4.5 percent to the highest level on record. OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil producer controlled by
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , snapped a four-day losing
streak to gain 4.2 percent after saying that fields it operates
with MPX Energia SA are commercially viable.  Brazilian consumer prices rose more in the month through
Jan. 15 than forecast by any economist surveyed by Bloomberg,
bolstering speculation the central bank will increase borrowing
costs from record lows and reduce support for the economy.  Budget Battles  The U.S. House voted today to temporarily suspend the
nation’s borrowing limit, removing the debt ceiling for now as a
tool for seeking deeper spending cuts. Global investors say the
state of the U.S. government’s finances is the greatest risk to
global growth and almost half are curbing their investments in
response to continuing budget battles, a Bloomberg poll shows.  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S. and 26 percent to
the European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show.  South Africa’s rand tumbled as much as 2.4 percent,
surpassing 9 per dollar for the first time since November, to
trade at the weakest level since April 2009 as a report showed
inflation accelerated to a seven-month high in December. The
South Korean won weakened 0.4 percent after Finance Minister
Bahk Jae Wan vowed to curb the currency’s volatility.  ‘Currencies’ strength’  “Some investors are also cautious about some governments’
measures in dealing with their currencies’ strength,” Jitra
Amornthum, the head of research of Finansia Syrus Securities
Pcl, said by phone in Bangkok.  Brazil’s real gained 0.3 percent versus the dollar, the
best performance among Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as foreign direct investment rose to $5.4 billion in
December from $4.6 billion in the prior month and higher than
the median forecast of $4.1 billion in a survey of 16 economists
by Bloomberg.  Russian retailers lifted the Micex Index to its first gain
in three days during the day. Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index
climbed 0.8 percent, rising for a ninth day, the longest winning
streak in three months.  A  gauge  of developing nations industrial companies sank 0.8
percent, the most among the 10 industry groups in the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , while energy companies rose. The
developing-nations measure has added 2 percent this year,
trailing a 4.1 percent increase by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The
emerging-markets index trades at 11 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.5, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Lower Target  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 0.8 percent as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut its 2013 gross domestic product growth forecast
to 3.1 percent from 3.4 percent, citing weaker-than-expected
fourth quarter activities.  LG Household tumbled 7.5 percent, the largest decline in
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The company is targeting about
535 billion won ($502 million) in operating profit this year,
the company said in a filing yesterday. That’s lower than the
568.4 billion won average of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) , Turkey’s biggest airport
operator, rose 1.4 percent toward a record after saying it will
be compensated for potential losses should the government open a
third Istanbul airport before 2021.  Hindustan Unilever tumbled 4.3 percent in Mumbai, after
Credit Suisse, CLSA and Nomura cut their recommendations on
India’s biggest home-products maker.  China Manufacturing  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. declined 0.5 percent to 101.24, the
lowest level in a week. Bona Film Group Ltd. was the worst
performer on the gauge.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong dropped 0.2 percent. The FTSE Bursa Malaysia
KLCI Index gained 0.4 percent, snapping a five-day slump, after
speculation elections will be held soon dragged the benchmark
index’s valuations to the lowest in seven months.  China Merchants, a port operator, dropped 4.2 percent in
 Hong Kong , the most since Nov. 6. HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics are due to release a preliminary manufacturing index
for January tomorrow. The gauge may rise to 51.7 from 51.5 last
year, according to the  median estimate  of 17 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  A leading index for China’s economy rose at a slower pace
in December. A month-on-month gain in the Conference Board’s
gauge slowed on sluggish real estate and export markets,
according to a statement from the New York-based research group,
citing a preliminary reading.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 263 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  