-- Total Raises Forties Crude Bid; Novorossiysk Resumes Loadings
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-01-23T17:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/total-raises-forties-crude-bid-novorossiysk-resumes-loadings.html
Total SA failed to buy two  North Sea 
Forties crude cargoes for loading in February even after raising
its bid to the highest level in a week. There were no bids or
offers for Urals grade.  Novorossiysk,  Russia ’s largest commercial port, resumed
crude loadings last night after storms subsided, with both
tanker berths in operation, according to OAO Transneft.  North Sea  Total bid unsuccessfully at 75 cents a barrel above Dated
Brent for Forties loading Feb. 5 to Feb. 7 and at plus 70 cents
for a Feb. 9 to Feb. 11 cargo, a Bloomberg survey of traders and
brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window showed. That’s the
highest since Jan. 16 and compares with purchases it made
yesterday at premiums of 35 cents and 40 cents.  The Paris-based company canceled the booking of a
supertanker to haul the grade in February from Hound Point,
according to a report from Norwegian shipbroker PF Bassoe AS.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days rose 2 cents to 54 cents a barrel more than Dated
Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brent for March settlement traded at $112.63 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $112.04 in the previous session. The April
contract was at $111.56, a discount of $1.07 to March.  A Suezmax, the Kaveri Spirit, was scheduled to load 130,000
tons of crude from Hound Point today, an e-mailed report from
Athens-based Optima Shipbrokers Ltd. on Jan. 16 showed.  Mediterranean/Urals  There were no bids or offers for Urals, according to the
Platts survey. There was an unsuccessful bid at 5 cents more
than benchmark in the Mediterranean yesterday.  The Urals differential to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
narrowed by 18 cents a barrel to minus 9 cents, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the least since Aug. 20. In
northwest  Europe , the  discount  shrank to 76 cents a barrel from
81 cents yesterday, the data showed. That’s the smallest spread
since Nov. 6.  Novorossiysk has had loadings delayed since Jan. 15 due to
winter storms, Transneft spokesman Igor Dyomin said by telephone
from Moscow. Six tankers were waiting to load as of last night,
he said. The Black Sea port will fulfill its January loading
program if the weather doesn’t deteriorate, Dyomin said.  PKN Orlen SA reduced the amount of crude it buys via long-
term contracts to rely on more favorable spot transactions, the
company’s Chief Financial Officer said.  Supplies from such agreements were cut to 500,000 metric
tons per month from 1 million tons after one accord expired,
Slawomir Jedrzejczyk said today on a conference call. The change
means that Orlen will now seek about 80 percent of its annual
requirement from the  spot market .  OAO Surgutneftegas sold via a tender to Repsol SA a cargo
of Urals for loading in February, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The company sold 100,000 tons of the blend for loading from
the Baltic port of Ust-Luga for Feb. 8 to Feb. 9, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. bought Libyan El Sharara crude from
Total via a tender, according to three traders who participate
in the market. The refiner bought 1 million barrels to load in
the first half of March, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell 2 cents to $2.11 a
barrel more than Dated Brent, Bloomberg data show. That’s the
least since Dec. 4.  Equatorial Guinea  plans to export two cargoes of Aseng in
March, the same amount as scheduled for next month, according to
a preliminary loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The two March consignments will be 950,000 barrels each,
compared with one 950,000-barrel lot and another of 600,000
barrels in February, the program shows.  The African nation will also ship three Zafiro cargoes and
two of Ceiba in March, according to earlier schedules. Daily
crude exports from the country are set to be 217,742 barrels
compared with 264,286 barrels next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  