-- Motorola Solutions Developing Windows 8 Handheld Device
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-01-23T21:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/motorola-solutions-plans-windows-8-tablet-for-industrial-use.html
Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  plans to
introduce a rugged handheld computer based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows 8 software, providing an alternative to laptops for
police, factory employees and other blue-collar workers.  Motorola Solutions is developing a number of devices with
the so-called embedded version of the new Windows 8 operating
system, Chief Executive Officer  Greg Brown  said today in an
interview. The planned tablet-style device, which has a keypad
and resembles gadgets used in inventory management, will be
available in the second half of 2013 or early 2014, he said.  Motorola Solutions, which split from Motorola’s phone
business in January 2011, already sells a rugged tablet running
on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. The new Microsoft-based
handheld computer will make it easier for customers to exchange
with a Windows laptop and could challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s efforts
to push the consumer-friendly iPad deeper into the workplace.  Microsoft’s “applications being ported to embedded Windows
8 is a big deal for this niche market,” Brown said. “We’re as
well-positioned as anybody, given the scale of the devices we
have and the relationship we have with Microsoft.”  Microsoft, drawing on its three decades of supplying
personal-computer software to companies, is positioning Windows
8 gear as a workplace alternative to the iPad and Android
products. Buyers of rugged devices, which include police and
other first responders, are eager to use Windows 8, Brown said.
Government customers account for about  two-thirds of revenue  for
Motorola Solutions, which makes two-way radios, bar-code
scanners and other equipment.  Lower Forecast  The Schaumburg, Illinois-based company is seeking new
sources of growth after delivering a forecast today that missed
analysts’ estimates. Motorola Solutions expects revenue to rise
4 percent to 5 percent in the first quarter. That compared with
the 6 percent projected on average, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Profit from continuing operations will be between 62 and 67
cents a share in the period, the company said. Analysts had
 estimated  67 cents.  Motorola Solutions shares rose 0.4 percent to $58.54 at the
close in  New York . The stock rose 20 percent in 2012.  The company doesn’t disclose sales of its existing rugged
tablets and has no plans to enter the broader tablet market and
compete with consumer devices, Brown said. It’s a very
competitive field that doesn’t play to the company’s strengths
as a maker of niche industrial equipment, he said.  Motorola Solutions leads the market for rugged tablet-style
computers, with its biggest competition coming from  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , Brown said.  “We’re the clear No. 1, with reasonable distance between
us and the No. 2 player,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  