-- How Fed Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Zero
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-01-23T23:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/how-fed-learned-to-stop-worrying-and-love-zero.html
For anyone whose financial memory
dates back to a time when the overnight  interbank rate  was in
double digits, the  Federal Reserve ’s  announcement  last month
that zero was here to stay was nothing short of stunning.  To wit, the funds rate isn’t going to budge at least until
the  unemployment rate  drops to 6.5 percent. (There are other
contingencies that I’ll get to later.) Minneapolis Fed President
 Narayana Kocherlakota  wants a 5.5 percent unemployment
threshold. Anyone for 5 percent? Do I hear 4.5?  This is a new world. In the old days, economists thought it
would require a 4 percent to 4.5 percent funds rate to keep the
economy growing at its noninflationary potential. The idea that
the funds rate would be at zero with the economy close to full
employment -- 5 percent to 6 percent, according to the Fed’s
long-term  economic projections  -- would have been almost
heretical. Who in his right mind would buy a 10-year Treasury
note yielding 1.8 percent if he thought the funds rate was on
its way to 4 percent?  The Fed is convinced it can prevent any adverse market
reaction by adopting an upper limit of 2.5 percent for inflation
in addition to its unemployment threshold.  One group of economists was pleased with the Fed’s decision
to provide explicit goals for monetary policy last month. These
so-called market monetarists would have preferred a nominal
gross-domestic-product target, encompassing real growth and
inflation. But the new thresholds are an improvement over the
central bank’s traditional dual mandate of stable prices and
maximum employment.  Churchill’s ’Enigma’  Color me skeptical. When I read the 82-word sentence
outlining conditions to be met before the Fed would start
raising rates, all I could think of was  Winston Churchill ’s
description of the  Soviet Union : “a riddle, wrapped in a
mystery, inside an enigma.” I doubt the Fed will unwrap it when
it meets next week.  Here’s my issue. The new thresholds are a combination of an
official government statistic (the  unemployment rate ) that is
affected by both cyclical and structural forces, with different
implications; a forecast (the Fed’s) of inflation one to two
years out; and a market-based indicator of  inflation
expectations . For an institution that is focused on
communication as a policy tool, the Fed should be able to state
its target in a dozen words or less. Otherwise, how is the
public supposed to understand and alter its behavior accordingly
to help the Fed achieve the desired goals?  I called Scott Sumner, professor of economics at  Bentley
University  in Waltham,  Massachusetts , and an  advocate  of nominal
GDP targeting, for enlightenment. He says he views the Fed’s
willingness to keep interest rates at zero for such an extended
period as “a backdoor way of nominal GDP level targeting. The
Fed would like a catch-up in growth before it starts
tightening.”  With a nominal GDP target, the Fed would set an appropriate
rate of growth for nominal income. Under a level-targeting
regime, the central bank would encourage above-target growth to
offset any periods of weakness. Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen ,
considered a likely successor to Chairman  Ben Bernanke  when his
term ends in a year, has talked about an “ optimal control
path ” for monetary policy in recent speeches. It’s “equivalent
to a nominal GDP level target,” Goldman Sachs economists said
in a Jan. 20 research report. And it’s something “market
participants have so far failed to grasp.”  New Era  While I was trying to do just that, to see the new
thresholds as an intermediate step en route to a simpler,
clearer target, Sumner gave me more to think about. He believes
that slow nominal and real growth accompanied by ultra-low
interest rates are less a temporary phenomenon than the norm in
developed nations with aging populations. Think  Japan  in the
last two decades. The  Bank of Japan  tried to move its  benchmark
rate  away from zero in 2000 and again in 2006, only to find its
actions premature.  Like Japan and  Europe , the U.S. is experiencing a “long-
term secular decline in real  interest rates , from 7 percent to
negative 1 percent now, at the same time inflation has been
trending down,” he said.  What that means is 3 percent 30-year Treasury bonds are the
“new normal,” a phrase I try to avoid. Normal implies that low
yields are less a function of the Fed’s long-term asset
purchases than investors’ expectations of low nominal GDP,
Sumner said.  Sumner’s framework has implications for fiscal policy, as
well. A permanent state of slow growth makes it harder for the
U.S. to fulfill its promises to the elderly, not to mention
invest in education and other priorities. The unemployed and
 underemployed  will become even more reliant on the federal
government. Savers will be denied the benefit of compounding
interest.  If Sumner’s world view is correct, and this is a new era,
all the old premises will have to be tossed. A funds rate at
zero with the economy at full employment? If the Fed has learned
to stop worrying and love zero, I guess we can, too.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  