-- Lloyd’s of London, Standard Chartered Favor U.K. Vote on EU
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-01-23T10:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/lloyd-s-of-london-standard-chartered-favor-u-k-vote-on-eu.html
Lloyd’s of London’s Chairman  John Nelson  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands  said Britain should hold a referendum on its membership in
the European Union and opt to stay.  “A referendum creates some uncertainty, but we have to be
realistic,” Nelson, who heads the world’s oldest insurance
market, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television at the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos today. “We live in a democratic
world. Underlying all this is the importance of the single
market to the U.K. economy.”  Prime Minister David Cameron today pledged an in-out
referendum on whether Britain should leave the EU, allowing U.K.
voters to decide on breaking up the 27-nation bloc.  Cameron, describing British backing for the status quo in
 Europe  as “wafer thin,” said he would put the question to a
popular vote by the end of 2017, if re-elected in two years and
once he has negotiated a return of some powers to the U.K. He
said that he wants the U.K. to remain in the EU.  “The U.K. needs to remain very much part of the EU, but I
can completely understand why Prime Minister Cameron thought it
necessary to offer the people a referendum,” Sands said in a
separate interview with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua.
“Europe is changing and as the biggest country in Europe
outside the euro zone its relationship is going to change.”  The EU has done “not enough talking to the people about
how it should evolve,” making the vote “the right call,” said
Sands, whose London-based bank earns most of its profit from
Asia.  Cameron is responding to pressure from lawmakers in his
 Conservative Party  for looser ties with the EU or an outright
departure from the union. European leaders have rejected his
calls to renegotiate membership terms. Cameron’s Liberal
Democrat coalition partners and the opposition  Labour Party  also
reject the plans and the U.S. has expressed concern about the
implications of a U.K. outside the EU.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  