-- Petronas Plans Chemicals Venture With Evonik After BASF Pullout
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-01-23T07:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/petronas-plans-chemicals-venture-with-evonik-after-basf-pullout.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state energy company, plans to start a specialty chemicals
manufacturing venture with Germany’s Evonik Industries AG after
ending a similar partnership with BASF SE.  Petronas, as the company is known, signed a letter of
intent with Germany’s biggest closely held chemicals group,
according to a joint e-mailed statement by both firms in Kuala
Lumpur today. The partners plan to build manufacturing
facilities within a $20 billion refining and petrochemicals
complex in Malaysia’s southern Johor state, bordering Singapore.  “We’re seeking a strong long-term strategic partner like
Petronas” as part of the company’s Asia growth strategy, Dahai
Yu, an Evonik board member, said in the statement, without
giving any financial details.  Petronas had intended to jointly invest a total of 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) with  BASF (BAS)  on new specialty
chemicals facilities in Johor and expand an existing joint
venture. The companies decided to terminate plans for the new
plants after failing to agree on terms, according to a Jan. 21
joint statement. They’ll still expand their existing factory in
Pahang state.  Evonik is one of the world’s largest producers of hydrogen
peroxide and C4-based products with facilities in  Europe ,  North
America ,  South America , Africa and the Asia-Pacific.  Its joint venture plants in Johor are targeted for
completion in 2016. They will produce 250,000 metric tons per
year of hydrogen peroxide, used as a bleaching agent in the
paper and textile industries, the companies said.  Petronas and Evonik will also manufacture 220,000 metric
tons of isononanol, used in soft PVC production, and 110,000
tons of 1-butane, a co-monomer used for plastic polyethylene,
according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers in Singapore at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  