-- Pfizer, Bristol Drug Wins NICE Nod for Irregular Heartbeats
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-01-23T10:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/pfizer-s-eliquis-wins-nice-nod-for-irregular-heartbeat-patients.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ’s Eliquis won the backing of the U.K.’s health-cost
regulator for people with an irregular heartbeat, putting the
drug in line to be the third new treatment recommended for such
patients in the past year.  The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence
issued draft guidance recommending the blood thinner to prevent
strokes in patients with atrial fibrillation, the agency said
today in an e-mailed statement. NICE asked patients and doctors
to talk before using Eliquis about whether to choose one of the
other two new drugs or the older medicine warfarin instead.  Eliquis will compete with  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Xarelto and Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Pradaxa to replace
warfarin, a decades-old medicine that had previously been the
standard of care for people with an erratic heartbeat. Both of
the other drugs won a recommendation from NICE last year.  “The appraisal committee heard from patient experts that
warfarin can have a greater impact on a person’s quality of life
than atrial fibrillation itself,” Carole Longson, director of
NICE’s Health Technology Evaluation Centre, said in the
statement, citing the older drug’s interactions with food,
alcohol and other medicines, and the regular monitoring it
requires.  NICE, which advises the state-run  National Health Service 
on getting medical value for its money, said it will probably
issue final guidance on Eliquis, also known as apixaban, in
February. The agency recommended the pill in January 2012 for
people who have undergone hip or knee replacement surgery.  The recommendation “confirms the value of apixaban as a
cost-effective oral anticoagulant,” Amadou Diarra, vice
president of the U.K. and Ireland for Bristol-Myers, said in an
e-mailed statement.  More than  46,000  new cases of atrial fibrillation are
diagnosed in the U.K. each year, according to the NHS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  