-- Phil Mickelson Says Tax Comments Like His 2006 U.S. Open Blunder
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-24T05:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/phil-mickelson-likens-tax-comments-to-his-2006-u-s-open-blunder.html
Phil Mickelson said his public
complaints about income taxes were insensitive and amounted to a
“dumb mistake” similar to his final-hole play at the 2006 U.S.
Open, where he lost the tournament with a double-bogey.  Mickelson, the winner of four major golf titles, received
public criticism after saying at a U.S. PGA Tour event last
weekend that he’d have to make “drastic changes” due to new
U.S. and  California  tax laws. He apologized in a statement two
days ago, saying finances and taxes are a personal matter.  Mickelson, 42, was ranked as the seventh highest-paid
athlete in 2012 with $47.8 million in earnings, according to
Forbes, including $43 million in endorsements from sponsors.
He’s won $67.7 million in PGA Tour prize money over his career
and apologized again for his comments at a news conference
yesterday ahead of the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines
Golf Club in La Jolla, California.  “It was insensitive to talk about it publicly to those
people who are not able to find a job, who are struggling
paycheck to paycheck,” Mickelson said.  Mickelson, a San Diego native, said he shouldn’t have taken
advantage of his forum as a professional golfer to try to ignite
change over financial issues. He never publicly disclosed what
his changes might entail.  He said it was a mistake similar to the one he made on the
18th tee at the Open at Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, New
York. Needing a par to win, Mickelson tried to carve a 3-iron
around a tree, but had it ricochet 50 yards wide of the fairway.
He made a double-bogey on the hole to tie for second place and
afterward called himself “an idiot.”  ‘Dumb, Dumb’  “I’ve made some dumb, dumb mistakes and obviously talking
about this stuff is one of them. Like Winged Foot,” Mickelson
said. “I’m going to learn my lesson, take a wedge and get it
back in play. I made a big mistake talking about this publicly
and I shouldn’t have done that.”  Mickelson begins his first round at the $6.1 million
Farmers Insurance Open today, playing in a group with defending
champion Brandt Snedeker and reigning Masters Tournament winner
Bubba Watson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  