-- Pierre Fabre Drug Fails to Win NICE Backing for Bladder Cancer
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-01-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/pierre-fabre-drug-fails-to-win-nice-backing-for-bladder-cancer.html
Pierre Fabre SA  had its medicine
Javlor rejected by the U.K.’s health-cost agency to treat
bladder cancer in patients who have undergone prior treatment.  The agency does not have enough confidence on the benefits
of Javlor, also known as vinflunine, to recommend use of the
drug, the  National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
said in an e-mailed statement today. NICE, which advises the
U.K.’s state-owned  National Health Service  on what medicines to
pay for, issued the final ruling after dismissing an appeal by
Pierre Fabre against a  preliminary decision .  Javlor typically costs a patient about 9,818 pounds
($15,600) for a course of treatment for metastatic bladder
cancer which progressed after prior administration of platinum-
containing chemotherapy, excluding administration costs,
according to the regulator.  The drugmaker, based in Boulogne-Billancourt, just outside
of Paris, was unable to provide “conclusive evidence on how
effective vinflunine is, particularly the extent to which it can
prolong survival compared with best supportive care,”  Andrew Dillon , NICE’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.  NICE wasn’t persuaded that an extension of life of at least
three months had been proven, the agency said in the statement.
Pierre Fabre also didn’t propose a patient access scheme for the
medicine, NICE said.  Countries including  Austria , the  Czech Republic ,  Denmark ,
 Finland , France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Norway, Spain 
and Sweden pay for the drug, Pierre Fabre said in a statement.  ``Vinflunine is the only agent registered in its indication,'' 
the company said. ``It has the highest level of evidence ever 
reported. Even though NICE does not consider reimbursement in 
the United Kingdom for this limited population, they acknowledge 
that there is currently no valuable alternative. Vinflunine 
significantly prolongs survival in patients eligible for 
treatment.''  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  