-- PKO Bank Slumps as Poland Sells $1.6 Billion Stake
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-01-23T18:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/pko-bank-slumps-as-poland-selling-1-7-billion-stake.html
PKO Bank Polski SA (PKO) , Poland’s largest
lender, slumped to a seven-week low as the government sold a
$1.6 billion of stake to raise cash for investments and budget
deficit financing.  The  stock  plunged as much as 4.3 percent and closed 1.6
percent lower at 34.76 zloty in Warsaw, the lowest since Dec. 4.
The stake was sold at 34.25 zloty per share, the Treasury
Ministry said on its website, which corresponds to the top end
of a preliminary range, according to a term sheet obtained by
Bloomberg. The benchmark WIG20 Index fell 0.3 percent today.  The Treasury Ministry and state-owned Bank Gospodarstwa
Krajowego started taking orders for 146.9 million shares, or an
11.8 percent stake late yesterday, according to the term sheet.
The sale was the biggest share offering by a publicly traded
company in  Poland , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This was a very quick sale,” Rafal Janczyk, chief
investment officer at Aviva Investors Poland TFI SA, which
manages the equivalent of $3.7 billion of assets, said by phone.
“The timing and size of the deal was a surprise.”  The number of PKO shares traded today was 1,029 percent of
the three-month daily average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  State Sales  Poland is selling assets to curb public debt and finance
state investments. The Treasury Ministry today started a sale of
a 25 percent stake in Warsaw-based property company Grupa PHN SA
in an initial public offering. Other offerings this year may
include utility Energa SA and insurer  PZU SA. (PZU)   Bank BGK offered its entire 10.3 percent  stake  in PKO Bank
while the Treasury Ministry is cutting its holding to 31.9
percent from 33.4 percent, according to the term sheet. The
government pledged not to sell more shares in PKO within 180
days, the terms showed.  “We could see the Treasury sell its PKO stake down further
to 25 percent, most likely in 2014,” Mark MacRae and Michal Konarski, analysts at Wood & Co., said in a note today.  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, PKO were global
coordinators of the sale. Credit Suisse Group AG, Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Ipopema Securities SA
and Societe Generale SA were joint bookrunners.  PKO trades 1.8 times its book value, above the industry’s
average of 1.55 in eastern  Europe , according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Its profit last year was “near” its record 2011
result of 3.81 billion zloty, Chief Executive Officer Zbigniew Jagiello said on Jan. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  