-- Poland Sells Record Amount of Bonds as Rate-Cut Bets Revive
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-01-23T15:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/poland-sells-record-amount-of-bonds-as-rate-cut-bets-revive.html
Poland sold a record amount of
domestic bonds at an auction today and borrowing costs dropped
to all-time lows as investors bet that the central bank will
keep cutting  interest rates  to bolster the economy.  The  Finance Ministry  raised a total of 13.7 billion zloty
($4.4 billion) from the sale of notes maturing in July 2015 and
in April 2018, it said in an e-mailed statement. The two-year
bonds were priced to yield 3.285 percent and five-year debt at
3.437 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While policy makers have signaled they may pause after
cutting rates for a third month in a row, data last week showed
the biggest slump in industrial output in more than three years
as inflation slowed to the central bank’s target. The sale came
two days before the ministry is due to pay off 10.1 billion
zloty in maturing bonds, the data shows.  “An impressive result,” Arkadiusz Urbanski, a fixed-
income analyst at  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , said by phone from Warsaw
today. “Expectations that the easing cycle will continue are
being revived and that along with the money coming back from
redemptions has bolstered demand.”  The yield on domestic 10-year notes fell 12 basis points to
3.82 percent following the sale, sending the premium over
similar-maturity German bunds in euros to a four-year low of 225
basis points, or 2.25 percentage points.  The zloty advanced 0.2 percent to 4.1662 per euro at 2:27
p.m. in Warsaw, as the government today also sought to sell as
much as $1.6 billion of shares in PKO Bank Polski SA, the
nation’s biggest bank, to foreign and domestic investors.  Record Demand  Today’s bond sale attracted “record” demand from
international investors,  Piotr Marczak , the head of the
ministry’s public debt department, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  The ministry sold 12.4 billion zloty of five-year bonds at
the primary and the subsequent supplementary tenders as
investors bid for 16.6 billion zloty of the notes, according to
the statement. It raised 1.3 billion zloty from two-year debt.  The government had planned to sell as much as 9 billion
zloty in two-year and five-year debt.  Poland met around 40 percent of this year’s borrowing needs
after the auction, where local investors were “very active,”
Deputy Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk told reporters in
parliament today. The foreign demand “bodes well” for future
sales and the plan to finance more than half of 2013 needs
through the end of the first quarter, he said.  The country’s track record of combining  economic growth 
with  budget-deficit  cuts buoyed demand for zloty debt last year
as international investors sought alternatives to near-zero
 interest rates  in the U.S.,  Japan  and the euro area.  Below Maximum  Today’s auction is the second domestic bond sale this year.
The government failed to reach its maximum target at the auction
on Jan. 3, selling 3.66 billion zloty of 10-year and 16-year
debt, less than the maximum 5 billion zloty planned.  Kowalczyk said he saw no signs that foreign funds are
pulling out from Polish domestic bonds while the local investors
are “rebuilding their position” in the market.  Local pension funds, the biggest investors in government
debt until July 2010, increased their cash holdings last year
and missed the biggest rally in 10-year yield in a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  