-- Poland Seeks $90 Million From Property Group’s Share Sale
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-01-23T07:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/poland-seeks-90-million-from-property-group-s-share-sale.html
Poland  plans to sell as much as 282
million zloty ($90 million) of shares in an initial public
offering of property company  Grupa PHN SA  as the government
seeks funds to help finance the  budget deficit .  The government is offering 10.8 million shares, or 25
percent of PHN, at the maximum price of 26 zloty a share, the
Warsaw-based company said in a prospectus on its website today.
The final price will be set on Feb. 4, when bookbuilding for
institutional investors ends.  Poland plans to raise at least 5 billion zloty from asset
sales in 2013 to curb public debt growth and boost investments.
The Treasury Ministry and a  state bank  are selling today a 11.8
percent stake in PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s largest
lender, to stock market investors, according to a term sheet
obtained by Bloomberg late yesterday. Other state offerings may
include this year utility Energa SA and insurer PZU SA.  The government resumed plans to sell PHN, which estimates
its net value of assets at 1.75 billion zloty, after shares of
real-estate developers rebounded last year. Warsaw’s  WIG
Developers Industry Index (WIGDEV)  jumped 14 percent in the last three
months of 2012, its biggest quarterly gain in three years.  Industry Investor  The IPO will be the biggest in Poland since the 2.1
billion-zloty offer of Warsaw-based Alior Bank SA in November.
PHN plans to start trading on the Warsaw exchange by Feb. 13.  Citigroup Inc., UBS AG, Societe Generale SA and Deutsche
Bank AG are helping manage the sale as joint global coordinators
and joint bookrunners. BRE Bank SA, Bank Zachodni WBK SA, Wood &
Co. and PKO Bank are joint bookrunners.  Poland will sell a controlling stake in the developer to a
strategic investor after the IPO, according to the prospectus.  Grupa Radius, the real-estate developer controlled by Polish
investor Robert Szustkowski, is seeking to gain control over
PHN, it said this month. Mennica Polska SA, a Polish coin maker,
is also interested in the sale, PAP reported on Jan. 11, citing
Chief Executive Officer Grzegorz Zambrzycki.  PHN’s net loss widened to 142.9 million zloty in the first
nine months of 2012 from 85.4 million zloty a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  