-- Portuguese Retail Group Expects Lower Consumer Spending in 2013
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-23T10:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/portuguese-retail-group-expects-lower-consumer-spending-in-2013.html
Portuguese retail sales are set to
decline again this year as consumers in the southern European
country trim spending on everyday products to deal with higher
taxes and unemployment, a trade group said.  Portuguese retail sales will continue to decline after they
fell an estimated 2 percent in 2012 to 15.4 billion euros ($20.5
billion), Ana Trigo Morais, head of the  Portuguese Association
of Retail Companies , said in a phone interview. Retailers need
to rely on discounts and other promotions to avoid a bigger drop
in spending this year, she also said.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  has increased taxes by
3.7 billion euros this year through measures that include levies
on tobacco and luxury goods as well as a 3.5 percent surcharge
on income. His government forecasts the economy will contract 1
percent in 2013 after shrinking an estimated 3 percent in 2012,
while the  unemployment rate  will rise to 16.4 percent from 15.5
percent last year.  “Portugal runs the risk of being perceived as an
unfriendly country for investors in the retail sector,” said
Morais. “There is big uncertainty as to how people will react
to this huge tax increase,” she said.  To counter a slump in spending in Portugal,  Jeronimo
Martins (JMT)  SGPS, the country’s biggest publicly traded retailer by
market value, said on Jan. 10 it has focused on “aggressive”
food pricing at its Pingo Doce supermarket chain in the country.
The company is also expanding in  Poland  and relying on  Colombia 
as its third market this year.  Sonae (SON)  SGPS SA, another Portuguese retailer, formed a
partnership in 2011 with an Angolan company to open a chain of
hypermarkets in the African country while Groupe Auchan SA of
France announced last year it would close one of its Jumbo
hypermarkets in Portugal, news agency Lusa  reported  on March 26,
citing Auchan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  