-- Postal Service Losing to FedEx, UPS on Federal Shipping
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-01-23T14:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/postal-service-losing-to-fedex-ups-on-federal-shipping.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , required to
send congressional letters at reduced rates, can’t win regular
business from the federal government, according to an inspector
general’s report.  Private-sector competitors led by  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  “consistently” have more than 98 percent
of the $337 million annual shipping spending by federal
agencies, according to the Jan. 18 report.  “The Postal Service faces challenges to growing its share
of this market,” the Postal Service’s inspector general said in
the report. “Major challenges include pricing flexibility and
the lack of 2- and 3-day guaranteed express delivery products.”  Having lacked a sales force, the Postal Service was late to
enter bidding for U.S. General Services Administration contracts
for federal agencies. UPS, based in Atlanta, and FedEx, based in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , have been official suppliers since 2001,
while the Postal Service only began participating in 2009,
according to the report.  Another handicap is the preference the Defense Department
gives to carriers that have their own planes and participate in
the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program, the report said. The Postal
Service primarily contracts its air shipping to FedEx and
doesn’t own cargo planes. The FedEx contract expires in
September.  Government Shipping  In fiscal 2012, which ended Sept. 30, the Postal Service
got $4.8 million of the almost $337 million that U.S. agencies
spent through GSA contracts on shipping, the report shows.  The Postal Service could gain $34.8 million in revenue this
year and next year if it implements the inspector general’s
recommendations to capture more of the U.S. government market,
the report said.  The government would have spent more to ship via the Postal
Service than UPS and FedEx, both of which can undercut
competitors’ prices to gain business, according to the report.
Postal Service rates must cover costs as well as a share of the
organization’s overhead, and are regulated by the Postal
Regulatory Commission and overseen by Congress. The service
can’t price express and priority mail, the fastest two ways to
ship through the system, at a loss in order to attract
customers, the report shows.  $15.9 Billion Loss  Lawmakers in the House of Representatives and Senate held
hearings in the previous legislative session calling on the
Postal Service to improve its finances. The service lost $15.9
billion in fiscal 2012, and has said the losses will mount until
Congress lets it cut costs faster and restructure a required
payment for future retiree health benefits.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
yesterday that postal legislation is one of the proposals he
plans to take up this year.  David Partenheimer, a Postal Service spokesman, referred to
the agency’s comments in the inspector general’s report and
declined to comment further.  The service, according to the report, said it’s
“addressing” its pricing with GSA and looking at more user-
friendly payment methods to help boost government shipping
business. The service “did not agree” that it could gain $34.8
million in revenue this year and next, saying it’s “nearly
impossible” to predict a revenue gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  