-- Putin Said to Have Three Candidates for Central Bank Job
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-01-24T07:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/putin-said-to-have-three-leading-candidates-for-central-bank-job.html
President Vladimir Putin is
selecting from three main candidates to fill the post of central
bank chairman when Sergey Ignatiev’s third and final term ends
in June, three officials with knowledge of the talks said.  Former Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, central bank First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev , and Mikhail Zadornov, head of
VTB Group’s retail-lending unit, are being considered for the
nomination, which must be made by the end of March, the three
officials said, declining to be identified because the matter
isn’t public. Oleg Vyugin, a former central bank first deputy
chairman, has also been discussed, one of the people said.  The race pits two former finance ministers against the
central bank’s most outspoken voice in an escalating clash with
the government over the need for monetary stimulus. Bank
Rossii’s first new leader in more than a decade will also
oversee its merger with the country’s financial regulator.  “Markets would be happy about a conservative and
technocratic governor,” Viktor Szabo, who helps manage about
$10 billion in emerging-market debt at  Aberdeen Asset Management (ADN) 
in  London , said by e-mail yesterday. “The rumors are about
Kudrin, who the market would be very happy about. I think Kudrin
could be more independent than Ulyukayev.”  Ulyukayev, Zadornov and Kudrin declined to comment on the
nominating process, as did the central bank’s press service.
Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov declined to comment on any
names, saying that there’s no shortlist.  “It’s too early,” he said by phone from Moscow yesterday.  Beefed-Up Bank  Ignatiev , 65, exits amid the biggest-ever expansion of the
monetary authority’s mandate that will give it oversight of
banks and markets. With the world’s fourth-biggest reserves
already under its management, Bank Rossii will cement its place
as the country’s most potent economic institution not directly
under government control.  Ignatiev was reappointed to a maximum third four-year term
by then-President Dmitry Medvedev in 2009. In  Russia , the
president appoints the central bank chairman, who must be
approved by the lower house of parliament.  Ignatiev has presided over the regulator since 2002,
guiding it through the 2008 global liquidity crisis and
loosening controls over the ruble before a shift to inflation
targeting by 2015. Russia, which holds the Group of 20
presidency this year, will be leading discussions on
implementation of new bank-oversight rules.  Putin’s Friend  Kudrin, 52, is a long-time ally of Putin and one of the few
Russian politicians the president has publicly called a friend.
He left the government in September 2011 after more than a
decade as finance minister because of a public feud with
Medvedev over military spending.  Ulyukayev, 56, who joined the central bank as a first
deputy chairman in 2004, was a deputy to Kudrin in the Finance
Ministry, along with Ignatiev. He said last week that additional
easing of monetary policy would be counter-productive,
challenging calls by officials including Finance Minister Anton Siluanov for cheaper borrowing costs to stimulate growth.  Zadornov, 49, who was finance minister in 1998 when
Russia’s government defaulted on $40 billion of domestic debt,
has been president of VTB Group’s retail unit, VTB24, since
2005.  ‘Huge Argument’  To succeed, Ignatiev’s replacement will have to bridge a
widening gap between the central bank’s efforts to fight
inflation and calls for monetary easing by top government
officials including Siluanov and First Deputy Prime Minister
Igor Shuvalov. A “huge argument” between the government and
the central bank has been raging over economic priorities,
Shuvalov said in a Jan. 18 interview.  Russia, the largest emerging economy to raise borrowing
costs last year, left the  refinancing rate  at 8.25 percent for a
fourth month on Jan. 15. Policy makers also dropped a phrase
that money-market rates are acceptable for the “nearest
future,” which Ulyukayev said opens the door for either
increases or decreases as soon as next month.  Bank Rossii probably won’t get enough new information in
the “near future” to justify a change in borrowing costs from
current levels, Ulyukayev said in Davos, Switzerland, RIA
reported today.  Investor Bets  Investors, who switched to betting on lower interest rates
in November for the first time in six months, are now pricing in
a 16 basis-point, or 0.16 percentage point, cut in rates over
the next three months, according to forward-rate agreements
tracked by Bloomberg. That’s down from 35 basis points the day
before the rates meeting in December and compares with a jump of
as much as 54 basis points forecast on May 17.  “Cabinet concerns over slow economic growth will translate
into stronger pressure on the Russian central bank to reduce
interest rates,” Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, economists
at Alfa Bank in Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed research note
yesterday. “We thus doubt that the central bank’s independence
will improve following the current chairman’s planned
retirement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Davos, Switzerland at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  