-- Quiet! Find Peace, No Horrid Music at These Spots: Dining
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/quiet-find-peace-no-horrid-music-at-these-spots-dining.html
New York ’s quietest restaurants are
also New York’s priciest. We have the decibel counters -- and
the receipts -- to prove it.  If Per Se’s most expensive dish is the $175 white truffle
risotto, the second and third dearest items are surely peace and
tranquility. I mean that only half-jokingly, as using real
linens can add tens of thousands of dollars to a restaurant’s
annual costs.  Anything that absorbs noise -- carpeting, drapes or extra
space between tables -- is an expense that restaurants pass
along to you. Of course, the sound supplement, unlike your foie
gras add-on, isn’t listed on the menu.  So if price is no barrier and you need quiet, you’ll dine
at Per Se and thank me later. Other restaurants in that vaunted
category include Eleven Madison Park, Le Bernardin, Jean
Georges, Daniel and Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare.  Or you can consult my list below for some great restaurants
where the decibel levels are tolerable and the check isn’t out
of reach.  Upper West Side  Boulud Sud: Soft carpeting and cushy seats, plus peaceful
sea foam green accents. Boulud Sud ranks, along with Cafe
Boulud, as  Daniel Boulud ’s quietest New York venues outside of
his eponymous three Michelin-starred flagship.  Lincoln: What’s changed since Jonathan Benno opened this
lovely restaurant is the Italian food: it has improved. What
hasn’t changed is the East room, a glass triangle looking out
over the Lincoln Center campus.  Gramercy/Flatiron/Garment  Craft: At  Tom Colicchio ’s flagship restaurant there are no
tablecloths. But that’s not a problem, because of the high
ceilings, luxuriously spaced tables and well-behaved patrons.
You can hear your companion and your conversation stays at your
table. The Wagyu isn’t bad either.  Gramercy Tavern : Eleven Madison Park is charging $195 per
person for three-hour lunches, so this is your go-to spot for
downtown business meals. The formal dining room is sedate and
elegant, with bargain $58 tasting menus during the day and $88
set menus at night.  15 East: The Tocqueville team brought us this life-changing
sushi restaurant back in late 2006. Since then chef Masato
Shimizu has hosted omakase sushi tastings in a fun environment
(unlike the formal, and formidable, Masa).  The NoMad:  Daniel Humm  and Will Guidara have created two
restaurants with The NoMad’s different rooms. There’s the shouty
Atrium and the more relaxed Parlor where you can savor the foie
gras and black truffle stuffed chicken, one of the city’s best
-- and at $79 for two, most expensive -- birds.  Midtown  Ai Fiori: Sure,  Michael White ’s Marea has expensive
soundproofing. But the chef’s most sedate spot is this Southern
French and Italian spot at The Setai on Fifth Avenue. The four-
course menu is $92; the tasting, $130.  Sushi Yasuda: This is your default spot for a proper sushi
business dinner near Grand Central Terminal, an oasis recessed
from the crowded, noisy streets.  Ma Peche: This underrated restaurant at the Chambers Hotel
continues to function as Momofuku’s most civilized New York
spot. And while neither Ko nor Noodle Bar is terribly noisy, Ma
Peche is quieter.  Riverpark: Just a stone’s throw from  New York University 
and Bellevue medical centers, this is Colicchio’s culinary gift
to midtown doctors and members of the biotechnology industry.
The sound level rarely rises above a whisper, all the better to
appreciate an outstanding mushroom consomme, not to mention the
East River view.  East Village/LES/Nolita  Empellon Cocina: Ask for a table in the back and something
very peculiar happens: You hear  Jack White  playing the guitar on
the sound system while the voice of your dining companion is
crystal clear. That’s because chef Alex Stupak invested a bunch
of money in professional sound proofing. Other young
restaurateurs should follow Stupak’s lead.  Degustation: The only sound you’ll hear over the voices of
patrons is the sizzle of a grill at this haute tapas restaurant.
Patrons can watch chefs around a sushi-style bar or sit next
door in the spare, blissfully muted dining room. The seven-
course, $80 tasting menu makes this one of the best deals in the
city.  WD-50: I’m not completely sold on Wylie Dufresne’s tasting
menu ($90-$155) revamp of his famous avant-garde spot on the
Lower East Side. Give the chef credit for accessible modernism
with a pleasant sound level.  Torrisi Italian Specialties: If a 20-ish hedge funder
wanted to woo a young investor, she’d be wise to invite that
prospect to Torrisi, an haute ode ($75-$160) to the classic red
sauce joints of  New Jersey  and  Long Island . It’s hushed, even if
the tables are tightly placed.  Tribeca/Financial District  Corton: Drew Nieporent is the King of Tribeca. The crown
jewel of his dining empire (Nobu, Tribeca Grill) remains this
hushed French restaurant, a sometimes fussy temple to
imaginative chef Paul Liebrandt, who charges $125 for a short
tasting, $155 for a longer one.  Brushstroke:  David Bouley ’s ode to Kyoto comes in the form
of this fine kaiseki restaurant, where guests can enjoy the $85
menu in an environment that never distracts from serious
culinary contemplation.  North End Grill:  Danny Meyer  and chef Floyd Cardoz gave
Battery Park City this high-end American spot earlier this year,
a cafeteria of sorts for the world headquarters of Goldman Sachs
a block away. The bar room is loud and filled with Scotch
drinkers eating clam pizza. Ask for a dining room table and the
roasted turbot.  Atera: Matthew Lightner’s 13-seat chef’s counter is for one
purpose only, taking in a 20-course-plus, $165 extravaganza. No
shouting, no loud music.  Meatpacking/Chelsea  Del Posto :  Mario Batali ’s most expensive, with dinner
starting at $115 per person. Bar diners can order from Del
Posto’s cheaper a la carte menu. And the $39 lunch is still one
of  Manhattan ’s best deals.  Colicchio & Sons: For seekers of black olive oil cod with
caramelized fennel, chorizo and potatoes. It’s part of the
restaurant’s $82 set menu. And the old flat-screen TVs from the
space’s Craftsteak days are long gone.  West Village  Annisa: One of two Michelin-starred female chefs in New
York, Anita Lo runs an adult dining room, a place where couples
can appreciate foie gras dumplings without any unnecessary
disturbances. Tasting menus start at $78.  Blue Hill: When Michelle Obama flew to New York with her
husband on a much publicized “date night,” they chose Dan
Barber’s secluded haute-barnyard establishment for dinner. If
it’s good enough for the First Couple, it’s good enough for us.  Brooklyn  Gwynnett St.: This Williamsburg cookery ranks among last
year’s best new restaurants, a place where hipsters and hedge
fund managers come together to enjoy all the gorgeous
intricacies of cumin spiked carrots. The tasting menu, which
does include meat and fish, costs $85.  Vinegar Hill House: Gastronauts choose this cute DUMBO
restaurant for many reasons, but the best is that you can have
one of the city’s tastiest pan-roast chickens for only $26.  Blanca: I’m cheating a bit with this one, because dinner at
 Blanca  will cost about as much as Daniel,  Jean Georges  or Le
Bernardin. The set menu is $180 per person.  I mention this place because it’s in a converted garage in
Bushwick, which is probably not where you’d expect to find
tranquility along with a 25-course tasting menu.  Blanca is proof that fine dining, with civility intact, is
reason enough to move further and further into the outer
boroughs.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  art  and  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 