-- Rabobank ‘Disturbed’ By Doping Admissions of Cyclists
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-23T17:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/rabobank-disturbed-by-doping-admissions-of-cyclists.html
Rabobank Groep, the Dutch mortgage
lender which in October ended its 17-year sponsorship of
cycling, said doping admissions made by three of its former
athletes were “disturbing and shocking.”  In the past week, Danny Nelissen, Marc Lotz and Thomas
Dekker have admitted to using banned performance-enhancing
substances to various news outlets in the Netherlands. Nelissen
told Dutch broadcaster RTL he’d started using the endurance-
boosting drug EPO during the Tour de  France  in 1996 and 1997,
when he was riding for Rabobank.  Lotz told broadcaster L1 he’d started using EPO and
cortisone in 2001, while Dekker told Dutch newspaper NRC
Handelsblad that “doping was a way of life for many of my
teammates and colleagues.”  “Various parties concerned have recently made, either
anonymously or not, admissions in the media regarding the use of
doping by riders on the Rabo Cycling Team,” Rabobank said in a
statement today.  “Some admissions date back to 1996 when Rabobank first
began sponsoring the sport of cycling,” the bank added. “This
is disturbing and shocking. Rabobank began sponsoring the sport
of cycling 17 years ago with absolute confidence and a clear
mission. Rabobank has always sought a clean sport and has done
everything possible since the start of its sponsorship
activities to enforce a zero-tolerance policy.”  The bank refused to comment on “individual admissions and
testimonies.”  Reconfirmed Belief  Rabobank did say that the recent admissions “reconfirm”
its belief the decision in October to drop its 15 million-euro
($20 million) of annual spending on its Tour de France team
after it was linked to the doping scandal involving Lance Armstrong was the right one.  A report by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency in October, which
described widespread cheating, said American rider Levi Leipheimer doped when on the Rabobank team in 2003. Leipheimer
is a former teammate of Armstrong, who was stripped of his seven
Tour de France titles and banned for life for what USADA said in
October was “serial cheating.”  Armstrong, also of the U.S., admitted to doping in a
television interview last week following years of denials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  