-- Traders Plan Gasoline, Diesel Freight Swaps as U.S. Drives Rally
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-01-23T10:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/traders-plan-gasoline-diesel-freight-swaps-as-u-s-drives-rally.html
Freight traders are designing two
new swaps contracts tied to rates for tankers hauling refined
oil cargoes as rising U.S. and Middle East exports help rates
for the vessels to rebound from a slump.  The first Forward Freight Agreement is linked to how much
vessels earn from shipping European gasoline to the U.S. and
then returning with diesel, Duncan Farmer, the chairman of a
trader group using  Baltic Exchange  oil-shipping prices, said in
a Jan. 21 interview. It will start within 12 months, he said,
adding that a second new contract is being developed based on
shipments for refined fuels within  Asia .  Surging U.S. exports of refined products are helping to
drive up shipping costs for the cargoes at a time when a glut of
crude tankers is cutting returns from those vessels. Trading in
swaps tied to gasoline, diesel and jet fuel freight surpassed
crude-related contracts for the first time since at least 2006
last year, Baltic Exchange data show. Trafigura, WL Ross & Co.
and Blackstone LP are among companies buying product-tankers.  “We should have a good opportunity to get things up and
kicking again,” said Farmer, who is also a Geneva-based freight
trader for Trafigura Pte. “That should allow more people to get
involved that are not necessarily involved in the physical
business themselves, maybe some more institutional money.”  An increase in products exports from the U.S. and new
Middle East and Asian refineries are combining to create trade
routes that increase shipping distances and boost rates as fleet
growth slows, Evercore Group LLC, a New York-based investment
bank, said in a Jan. 17 report.  Crude and Products Diverge  Earnings from Medium Range product tankers, which haul
about 37,000 metric tons of cargo, will jump 39 percent to
$11,500 daily this year, it said, raising a prior estimate of
$10,500. The bank simultaneously cut its forecast for the
biggest crude carriers to $18,000 from $21,000 and said they
will be unprofitable.  U.S. exports of gasoline and other refined oil products
last year probably exceeded the nation’s fuel imports from as
recently as 2009 as strengthening demand from  Latin America 
spurred a fourfold gain in ship charters.  Refineries’ petroleum-product shipments exceeded imports by
an average of 935,000 barrels a day in the first ten months of
last year, U.S. Energy Information Administration figures
compiled by Bloomberg show. Inbound shipments surpassed
deliveries by 841,000 barrels daily in 2009, according to the
data.  Demand Exceeds Supply  Global demand for product tankers will rise 4.6 percent to
the equivalent of 99.9 million deadweight tons this year,
estimates  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker. That
compares with fleet expansion of 2.8 percent. Crude tanker
demand will rise 3.3 percent while the fleet able to carry that
oil will expand 3.7 percent, according to the shipbroker.
Deadweight tons measure ships’ capacity.  Volumes of tanker freight derivatives declined 1 percent to
142.4 million metric tons of refined products traded in 2012,
according to data compiled by the Baltic Exchange. That exceeded
crude oil shipping contracts, which plunged 55 percent to the
equivalent of 82.2 million tons, the data show.  Seaborne product shipments totaled 823.9 million tons in
2011 and is projected to rise to 902 million tons by 2015, the
research division of  DVB Bank SE (DVB) , a German transport lender,
said in a report in September.  Blackstone said in August it bought nine refined  oil
tankers , about a year after WL Ross, the private equity firm led
by billionaire  Wilbur Ross , was part of a group that invested
$900 million in a fleet of 30 of the ships. Trafigura said Jan.
21 it had agreed to buy three medium range product tankers, its
first such purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  