-- Traders Feasted on Ox Tongue, Wine in Rich Luebeck Port
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-01-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/traders-feasted-on-ox-tongue-wine-in-rich-luebeck-port.html
The shopping list for a festive meal
in the north German city of Luebeck in 1596 comprised six young
lambs, seven ox tongues, two wheels of cheese, one hare, seven
fresh salmon and 173 pounds of beef.  All that was to be washed down with three barrels of beer
and 20 liters of wine.  The queen of the Hanseatic League -- and the birthplace of
Thomas Mann -- was a bustling commercial center and one of
 Europe ’s wealthiest ports in medieval and Renaissance times,
comparable with Venice and Genoa.  A compact new museum celebrates Luebeck’s rich bourgeois
heritage with style and simplicity. Tucked into a narrow side
street in the cobbled,  Unesco World Heritage -protected old town,
the  St. Annen Museum  was first built 500 years ago as a convent,
and served as a poorhouse and orphanage for centuries.  The charming, unassuming red-brick exterior is assembled
around two pretty courtyards. Inside, the museum has vaulted
halls and colonnades on the ground floor, where art from the
Middle Ages to the present day is displayed.  Upstairs, a tour through 25 rooms featuring quaint painted
beams, elaborate wood carvings and frescoed ceilings lends
historical insight into the lives of the burghers of Luebeck
over the centuries. Merchants toasted their contracts with the
elaborate wine flagons on show -- usually emptied in one swig.  Imposing carved cabinets and faience from the nearby
village of Stockelsdorf decorated the homes of the wealthy. In
the late 18th century, these gave way to a demand for English
Wedgwood furniture and china, its simple elegance a far cry from
the heavy opulence of the German cabinets. The craze spread
fast, despite an import ban obtained by Luebeck’s carpenters on
mahogany furniture from  England .  Popstar Organist  Luebeck’s 17th-century popstar was Dietrich Buxtehude, an
organist and composer whose “Abendmusik” concerts attracted
musicians from across Europe, including the young Johann
Sebastian Bach, who walked 400 kilometers to hear him.  Local personalities bring the show to life, such as the
mayor Juergen Wullenweber, who melted down all the church silver
in 1530 to fund a futile war aimed at reestablishing Luebeck’s
Hanseatic supremacy.  The jewel in the collection’s crown is a 1491 altarpiece by
the Bruges-based painter Hans Memling, which unfolds to reveal
three different scenes. The central image, exposed only on
special holy feasts in medieval times, shows the story of the
Passion, rich in symbolic detail and luminous colors.  Commissioned by the Greverade family for their chapel in
Luebeck cathedral, it was an opportunity to flaunt their wealth,
and was Memling’s last work.  Crisis Winner  The St. Annen Museum is, like many other cultural
institutions in  Germany , a beneficiary of the economic crisis.
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s 82.2 billion ($109 billion) economic
stimulus programs of 2008 and 2009 included several billion for
local infrastructure.  Spending on a museum has to be one of the best ways to give
the local economy a quick lift while simultaneously investing in
the future. Luebeck city authorities are hoping the newly
renovated museum -- also funded by private donors and the city
council -- will draw a large proportion of the 1 million
tourists who stay overnight each year.  Those who do visit it will go away with a much better sense
of Luebeck’s proud cultural and commercial history.  Information:  http://museumsquartier-st-annen.de .  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater,
 Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts and  Ryan
Sutton  on  New York  restaurants..  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Luebeck at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 