-- Rand Falls to 4-Year Low as Inflation Adds to Growth Woes
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2013-01-23T16:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/rand-falls-as-inflation-accelerating-limits-room-to-spur-growth.html
The rand fell to the weakest level
in almost four years as accelerating inflation added to concern
about slowing growth amid labor protests and civil unrest in
 Africa ’s biggest economy.  South Africa ’s currency fell as much as 2.1 percent to
9.0428 a dollar, the weakest intraday level since April 22,
2009. It traded 1.9 percent down at 9.0205 as of 6:12 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the worst among 25 emerging-market currencies
monitored by Bloomberg. Yields on 6.75 percent bonds due March
2021 rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.45
percent.  Consumer inflation jumped to a seven-month high in
December, reducing the central bank’s room to stimulate the
economy. Protests by township residents opposed to a government
plan to redraw municipal boundaries in Sasolburg in the Free
State province left two people dead yesterday, police spokesman
Motantsi Makhele said. The riot comes a week after  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) ’s platinum unit announced plans to fire workers
amid labor unrest in the mining and agricultural industries.  “All these factors are weighing on the rand,” Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in
Johannesburg, said by phone. The rand’s drop triggered automated
orders to sell the currency, known as stop-losses, which
hastened the decline, he said.  The rand may extend its fall to 9.20 per dollar if it
breaches 9.04, a key support level for the currency, Nalla said.  Faster Inflation  The  consumer price index  accelerated to 5.7 percent in
December, compared with 5.6 percent in November, Statistics
South Africa said today. The  Reserve Bank  will keep benchmark
rates unchanged tomorrow at 5 percent after its monetary
meeting, according to all 21 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Foreign investors sold a net 1.2 billion rand ($133
million) of South African stocks and bonds yesterday, according
to JSE Ltd., operator of the stock and bond exchanges. South
Africa’s trade deficit grew to 112.7 billion rand in the first
11 months of 2012, more than six times bigger than a year
earlier, according to government data.  Faster inflation “will be a constraint on just how much
the SARB can do in using monetary policy to stimulate the
economy,”  Russell Lamberti , a Johannesburg-based economist at
ETM Analytics, and colleagues wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients. “Imbalances in the form of the trade and record
current-account deficits will further constrain the SARB’s
ability to cut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  