-- Rand Breach Points to Losses, JPMorgan Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-01-23T17:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/rand-breach-points-to-losses-jpmorgan-says-technical-analysis.html
The rand may weaken to an almost
four-year low versus the  U.S. dollar  as the South African
currency breaches so-called resistance levels, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co., citing technical trading patterns.  “The next big target is around 9.20, 50 percent
retracement from the 2008 high,”  Niall O’Connor , a technical
analyst at JP Morgan Securities, wrote in an e-mail. “The rand
can maintain the underperformance bias, so upside risks for
dollar/rand look to be intact.”  The rand last touched 9.20 per dollar on April 15, 2009.
The South African currency fell today to as low as 9.044, the
least since April 22, 2009.  The rand weakened beyond 9 per dollar for the first time in
nine weeks as accelerating inflation added to concern about
slowing growth amid labor protests and civil unrest in  Africa ’s
biggest economy.  Consumer inflation jumped to a seven-month high in
December, reducing the central bank’s room to stimulate the
economy. Protests by township residents opposed to a government
plan to redraw municipal boundaries in Sasolburg left two people
dead yesterday, police spokesman Motantsi Makhele said. The riot
comes a week after Anglo American Plc’s platinum unit announced
plans to fire workers amid labor unrest in the mining and
agricultural industries. Africa’s biggest economy has an
unemployment rate of 25.5 percent.  “The rally in dollar/rand has extended into the critical
9.00 medium term range highs,” O’Connor wrote in a note to
clients. “An eventual bullish breakout is expected.”  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a bond,
commodity, currency or index. Resistance is an area on a price
graph where technical analysts anticipate sell orders to be
clustered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in  New York  at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  