-- Rape Report Rebukes Delhi Police, Indian Government Over Apathy
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-01-23T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/rape-report-rebukes-delhi-police-indian-government-over-apathy.html
The gang rape and murder of a
student in  New Delhi  reflected a collapse in governance in India
where lawmakers and police fail to ensure basic protections for
women, a retired chief justice said in a  report .  Berating India’s home secretary, the capital’s police force
and its citizens for their indifference at the time of the
attack on the woman and her friend aboard a moving bus last
month, J.S. Verma said yesterday a change in attitudes and
better education were more important than introducing new laws.  “Failure of good governance is the obvious root cause for
the current unsafe environment eroding the rule of law, and not
the want of major legislation,” Verma said at a press
conference before the report was made public. His three-member
panel was set up by the government after the rape to recommend
ways to make women safer.  The brutal attack on the medical student as she returned
home from the cinema on Dec. 16 shocked India and reverberated
around the world, triggering street protests and drawing
attention to the scale of sexual violence against women in the
world’s largest democracy.  Verma said he decided to complete his report within 30 days
so the government could act on the panel’s suggestions in the
session of parliament expected to begin next month. Verma said
he received 80,000 recommendations from around the world.  The government will make addressing the Verma report a top
priority, Law Minister Ashwani Kumar was cited as saying by the
 Press Trust of India .  Verma outlined a series of steps the panel would like to
see introduced, including making the failure of police to
officially record a rape accusation a criminal offense, and
ensuring greater sensitivity among police and doctors gathering
evidence of sexual assaults.  Police Praise  The Indian government and the country’s most senior police
officials were singled out for criticism by Verma, who was
India’s top judge from 1997 to 1998. He said he was outraged by
the decision of Home Secretary R.K. Singh in the aftermath of
the attack to praise Delhi’s top  police  official for his
handling of the case.  “I was shocked when I saw the incident with the police
commissioner of Delhi being given a pat on the back for his
prompt action,” Verma said yesterday.  The least the government
should have done was seek an apology from the police for failing
to fulfill its duty of ensuring the safety of citizens, the
former judge said.  Verma said the appointment of  India ’s most senior
policemen, known as director generals of police, should be
reviewed after the majority of them failed to respond to his
requests for recommendations. He described their feedback as
“laughable.”  ‘Total Apathy’  “Police reforms are very important if you have director
generals of police who think they can ignore paying any
attention to this important issue,” Verma said.  The failure of passersby to help the couple, neither of
whom have been officially named, after they were thrown out of
the bus naked was “equally shocking,” Verma told reporters.
“There was a total apathy of everyone who had a duty to
perform,” he said.  The gang rape set off a charged debate in a country where a
woman was raped every 22 minutes in 2011, according to the
 National Crime Records Bureau . There were 572 cases of rape
reported in New Delhi that year, a 23 percent increase from
2008. The rise may reflect a greater confidence in reporting
assaults.  Five men charged with the woman’s murder and kidnapping
will appear today at a specially convened fast-track court in
New Delhi. A sixth person charged is appearing before a juvenile
justice board as he’s believed to be under 18.  The  Supreme Court  is considering a petition filed by the
defense lawyer of one of the accused demanding the trial be
moved from the capital to ensure a fair hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  