-- RBS Changing Money-Market Funds to Accommodate Negative Yields
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-01-23T15:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/rbs-changing-money-market-funds-to-accommodate-negative-yields.html
RBS Asset Management Ltd. joined
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley in changing the
structure of money-market funds so they can continue to operate
even when yields fall below zero,  Fitch Ratings  said.  RBS’s  Global Treasury Funds Plc (GTMMFBP)  will automatically reduce
the number of shares issued by its funds when total assets
decline, an action not allowed under previous rules, according
to Fitch. Without the change, record-low yields on the debt the
funds buy will threaten their fixed-share price and force them
to shut.  RBS “added its name to the increasing number of European
money market funds which have, or are in the process of,
implementing changes to allow funds to maintain a stable net
asset value per share in a negative yield environment,” Fitch
analysts John Cahill and Alastair Sewell wrote in a report
yesterday.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in October it was replacing two
stable NAV euro money-market funds with variable share classes,
which means investors may get back less than they originally
invested.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has announced similar structures for
its money funds, Fitch said.  The RBS Asset Management funds total 9.8 billion pounds
($15.5 billion) of assets denominated in pounds, dollars and
euros, said Aoife Reynolds, a London-based spokeswoman for  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , without providing more information.  Money-market funds buy short-term, high-grade debt
securities, and are designed to offer investors an alternative
to holding cash.  The average seven-day yield on funds that buy euro-
denominated government securities was at zero percent for the
week ended Jan. 18 while the equivalent sterling funds yielded
0.2 percent, according to research firm  iMoneyNet Inc.  in
Westborough, Massachusetts. The average yield on euro funds
eligible to purchase corporate debt was 0.03 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  