-- Real Sets New Revenue Mark as City Rises on Money League
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-23T22:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/real-sets-new-revenue-mark-as-city-rises-on-money-league.html
Real  Madrid  is the first sports club
to make more than 500 million euros ($665 million) in annual
revenue, according to accountant Deloitte LLP.  Real, a record nine-time Champions League winner, topped
the ranking for the richest soccer team by revenue for the
eighth straight year, Deloitte said in its 16th annual “Money
League” report of the sport’s highest-earning clubs. Sales
through June 2012 rose 7 percent to 512.6 million euros. Real’s
eight straight years at the top of the ranking matches
Manchester United’s run, which began with the initial list in
1996-97.  Real’s revenue is “an impressive achievement,” Dan Jones,
a partner in Deloitte’s Sports Business Group, said. The team
has “led the way in the phenomenal rate of revenue growth
achieved by the game’s top clubs.”  Soccer’s top teams are getting even richer, with the
combined revenue of the world’s 20 top earners rising 10 percent
to 4.8 billion euros, Deloitte said. Combined sales of those
clubs, which generate a quarter of total revenue of the European
soccer market, has quadrupled since Deloitte started its survey.
The top 20 may earn as much as 5 billion euros next year,
Deloitte said.  Just like in the previous five years, Real is followed by
Spanish rival  Barcelona , Manchester United, Bayern Munich,
Chelsea and Arsenal. English Premier League teams now occupy
half of the top 10 places, with Liverpool in ninth spot.  Real Madrid and Barcelona top the ranking partly because
Spanish clubs negotiate their own television rights deals,
unlike teams in the Premier League.  Settled Top  “An unchanged top six emphasizes the fact that these clubs
have some of the largest fan bases and hence strongest revenues,
in both domestic and international markets,” Jones said in a
statement.  Manchester City jumped five spots to seventh position with
a 51 percent increase to 285.6 million euros after winning its
first Premier League title.  City’s revenue gain was “the largest absolute and relative
growth of any Money League club,” said Austin Houlihan, senior
manager at Deloitte’s Sports Business Group. City is expected to
remain in the top 10 for the foreseeable future, and may
leapfrog Arsenal and Chelsea for a top five ranking, he added.  Chelsea, the European champion, is expected to drop from
fifth position next year because of an early exit in European
competition this season, Deloitte said. Despite early departures
from the F.A. Cup and the Champions League last season,
Manchester United continues to benefit from its commercial
operations, Deloitte said.  Global Brand  “Manchester United continue to successfully leverage their
global brand,” Houlihan said. A seven-year shirt deal with
General Motors as well as new Premier League broadcast deals
from 2013-14 may help United move into the top two of the
Deloitte ranking.  Newcastle United is a new entry, replacing Spanish club
Valencia at no. 20. German champion Borussia Dortmund, in 11th
place, and Italian side Napoli, No. 15, also moved up five spots
to enter the top 20 for the first time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 