-- Treasuries Pare Gains as House Votes to Suspend Ceiling
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-23T22:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/treasury-market-inflation-expectations-rise-to-3-mo-high.html
Treasuries rose as the  House of
Representatives  voted to temporarily suspend the nation’s
borrowing limit, leaving for a later date decisions on automatic
spending cuts and government funding.  Benchmark  10-year note  yields briefly pared losses as the
measure, which lifts the government’s $16.4 trillion borrowing
limit until May 19, passed 285-144. It goes to the Senate, where
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said lawmakers will pass the measure
unchanged and send it to President  Barack Obama . Treasuries rose
earlier as the  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 global
growth forecasts.  “What happens with the debt ceiling is the most important
thing facing the Treasury market,” said Dan Mulholland, head of
 U.S. Treasury  trading in the capital-markets unit of BNY Mellon
Corp. in  New York . “If an agreement on the debt ceiling and the
budget is reached, we could move out of the 1.7-to-2 percent
range.”  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.82 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after dropping as low
as 1.81 percent. The 1.625 percent note due November 2022 gained
5/32, or $1.56 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 98 7/32.  The 30-year  bond yield  declined one basis point to 3.02
percent.  Debt Limit  With the revised strategy on the debt limit, Republicans
plan to use two other approaching deadlines -- the March 1 start
of automatic spending cuts and the need to pass a bill to fund
the government by the end of March -- to extract spending
reductions from Obama and congressional Democrats.  The measure passed today, H.R. 325, would allow the
nation’s borrowing authority to automatically rise May 19 to
accommodate the amount the U.S. Treasury borrowed during the
three months that the limit is suspended.  “It puts off any interruption until May,” said  Michael Franzese , senior vice president of fixed-income trading at ED&F
Man Capital Markets in New York. “It also doesn’t put our debt
into focus internationally. It looks like it’s helping
Treasuries.”  Global investors surveyed by Bloomberg said the state of
America’s finances represents the greatest risk to the world
economy.  With the government weeks away from reaching its borrowing
limit, 36 percent of respondents to a quarterly Bloomberg poll
said the nation’s fiscal woes was the biggest threat compared
with 29 percent who choose  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and 15
percent who name a slowing Chinese economy.  Bullish Reversal  U.S. 10-year yields will increase to 2.27 percent by year-
end, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  Treasuries handed investors a 0.3 percent loss this month
through yesterday, while bonds in an index of sovereign debt
around the world declined 0.2 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  Investors in Treasuries cut bullish bets this week to the
lowest since Aug. 15, 2011, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The  proportion  of net shorts was at 12 percentage points in
the week ending yesterday, according to the JPMorgan survey,
reversing from a net-long position of six percentage points in
the week ending Jan. 14.  Outright longs dropped to 7 percent, from 21 percent the
previous week, the survey said, while the percent of outright
shorts, or bets the securities will fall in value, rose to 19
percent from 15 percent.  Investors raised neutral bets to 74 percent from 64
percent, the survey reported.  IMF Forecast  The IMF reduced its global growth forecast to 3.5 percent
from 3.6 percent. It forecast a 0.2 percent contraction for the
euro region as progress in battling Europe’s debt crisis fails
to produce an economic recovery.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency  house-price index  gained
0.6 percent in November from the previous month. It was forecast
to rise by 0.7 percent, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The Fed purchased $1.474 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to November 2042 today as part of the $85 billion
of government and mortgage debt it is buying each month to spur
the economy by putting downward pressure on bond yields.  Inflation expectations dropped from the highest in almost
three months as the U.S. prepares to sell $15 billion in 10-year
inflation-indexed debt tomorrow. The last six sales of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities since January 2012 have drawn
negative yields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  