-- Treasury Receives Mixed Advice on Floating Rate Note Index
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-23T19:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/treasury-receives-mixed-advice-on-floating-rate-note-index.html
Feedback from participants and
observers in the government bond market was split on what
benchmark index the U.S. Treasury Department should use for
pricing floating-rate notes, according to  public comments .  The Treasury, which plans to issue floating rate notes
later this year,  queried  feedback on Dec. 5 on the structure of
the securities. The questions included one on whether the 13-
week Treasury bill auction high rate or a Treasury general
collateral overnight repurchase agreement rate would best
“result in the Treasury attaining the lowest cost of financing
over time.” The highest accepted competitive yield bid at a
Treasury bill auction is also known as the stop-out, or stop,
rate. The comment period ended yesterday.  The floating-rate notes would be the first new U.S.
government debt security since Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, known as TIPS, were introduced in 1997. With a
 budget deficit  over $1 trillion last year, the Treasury needs to
expand its base of investors, and floaters may appeal to those
who are seeking to protect themselves from a possible increase
in  interest rates  or faster inflation stemming from the Federal
Reserve’s unprecedented monetary stimulus.  “In a hypothetical market stress scenario where perceived
U.S. credit risks increased sharply, FRNs tied to bill yields
offer little diversification benefit,” JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said in a comment letter dated Jan. 16. “By contrast, repo
rates are likely to be more stable in this circumstance,
producing lower repricing risk for the Treasury. This has
clearly been evident in recent years in  Europe  where peripheral
bill yields have increased significantly more than repo rates as
credit concerns escalated.”  GCF Index  The Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. publishes daily a GCF
Repo index for Treasuries, which is a weighted average of all
general collateral finance repurchase agreements between dealers
each day through the tri-party market. The Treasury noted the
index as an option for use as the repo benchmark in its request
for public comment. The Treasury also sought feedback on the
merits of using a broader measure, which currently doesn’t
exist, of general collateral tri-party repo, given the DTCC
index is a subset of the transaction among dealers only.  The federal funds effective  rate , a volume-weighted average
of trades between major brokers for overnight funds that is
reported on a day lag by the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York ,
would be the most ideal choice as a  reference rate  for Treasury
floaters, wrote Troy Rohrbaugh, head of global rates and foreign
exchange at JPMorgan, in the bank’s response.  ‘Most Consistent’  The average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.08 percent yesterday, according
to the DTCC GCF Treasury Repo index. That rate has fallen from
as high last year as 0.526 percent on Oct. 29. The fed effective
rate was 0.14 percent yesterday.  “We believe that a Treasury bill index is most consistent
with the Treasury’s objective to obtain diversified funding at
the lowest possible cost,” Citigroup Inc. said in a letter
dated Jan. 22 in response to the Treasury’s comment request.
“Repo rates tend to be more volatile than T-bill rates measured
at a daily frequency and can move dramatically higher or lower
based on technical factors unrelated to demand for Treasury
debt. The drawbacks of a repo index, particularly the questions
surrounding the availability, consistency, and
representativeness of the index, are more significant that those
associated with a T-bill index.”  The rate on the current Treasury bill maturing on Feb. 14
is 0.04 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Borrowing Costs  The Treasury sought comment from the public on the design
details, terms and conditions, and other features of a floating-
rate note program. Floating-rate notes, which are already being
offered by  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and some European banks, have
coupon payments linked to changes in short-term rates, which in
the U.S. have been close to zero since late 2008.  The Treasury will use the floating-rate note program “to
assist us in our mission of borrowing at the lowest cost over
time, as well as to manage the maturity profile of our
marketable debt outstanding, expand the investor base, and
provide financing tools that gives debt managers additional
flexibility,” according to the note published in the Dec. 5
Federal Register.  The Treasury has in recent years sought to lock in record
low borrowing costs for longer terms and cut the amount of
outstanding short-term bills, which  ballooned  to $2.1 trillion
during the financial crisis that began almost five years ago.  “The 13-week Treasury bill rate should provide lower
borrowing costs for the government versus a Treasury general
collateral repurchase agreement rate,” according to a response
dated Jan. 10 from Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit
in  Chicago , written by  Scott Graham , head of government bond
trading. “The 13-week bill rate has been less volatile than the
overnight general collateral rate over the past 10 years. A
funding vehicle that is less volatile should result in a lower
funding cost.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net .
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 