-- Three Charged for Cybervirus That Targeted Bank Accounts
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-23T22:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/three-charged-with-using-computer-virus-to-steal-records-1-.html
Three men were charged by the U.S.
with distributing a virus that infected more than 1 million
computers worldwide, allowing thieves to steal data and millions
of dollars from online accounts.  Prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
 Manhattan  today unsealed accusations that Nikita Kuzmin, 25,
Deniss Calovskis, 27, and Mihai Ionut Paunescu, 28, created and
used “one of the most financially destructive computer viruses
in history.” Named Gozi, it’s a so-called Trojan virus.  “Banking Trojans are to cyber criminals what safe-cracking
or acetylene torches are to traditional bank burglars -- but far
more effective and less detectable,”  George Venizelos , head of
the FBI’s New York office, said today in a  statement . “The
investigation put an end to the Gozi virus.”  The cases are the latest brought by Bharara’s office
targeting computer hacking and fraud. Last March he charged
members of hacker groups Anonymous and LulzSec with conspiring
to attack computers and websites of victims including the U.S.
Senate and the governments of Tunisia, Yemen and  Algeria .  Guilty Plea  Kuzmin, who was arrested in 2010, pleaded guilty in May
2011 and agreed to cooperate with the government, Bharara said
today in a press conference. Bharara said Kuzmin’s cooperation
was key to the investigation, which began 2 1/2 years ago and is
continuing.  Calovskis, a citizen of  Latvia , was arrested there in
November, according to the statement. Paunescu, a Romanian known
as “Virus,” was arrested in Romania last month. Prosecutors
are seeking to have Calovskis and Paunescu extradited to the
U.S., Bharara said.  The Gozi virus infected 40,000 computers in the U.S.,
including more than 160 belonging to the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, prosecutors said. Gozi also infected
computers in Germany, the U.K., Poland, France, Finland, Italy
and Turkey, according to the U.S.  Skill Sets  “It just demonstrates how sophisticated these rings are
getting,” said  Marcus Asner , a former chief of the Major Crimes
and Computer Hacking-Intellectual Property unit in the Manhattan
U.S. Attorney’s Office now with the law firm Arnold & Porter
LLP. “This is not just a lone teenager in his basement. These
are people with different skill sets who are trading with one
another to be able to attack financial institutions.”  Kuzmin began designing Gozi in 2005 to steal bank account
information belonging to individuals and businesses and hired a
co-conspirator to write the virus’s source code, prosecutors
said in a criminal information filed under seal in 2011.  Kuzmin rented the virus to criminals through what he called
“76 Service” from 2006 to 2008, the U.S. said. He then sold
the source code to co-conspirators in 2009 and 2010, for at
least $50,000 a sale, plus a share of the buyers’ illegal
profits, prosecutors said. The alleged co-conspirators weren’t
named in court filings.  Toxic E-Mail  The virus was sent to computers in spam e-mails with
benign-looking pdf files that, if opened, secretly installed the
virus. The virus then collected data to determine user names,
passwords and other security information, which criminals used
to steal from the victims’ online bank accounts, Bharara said.  Paunescu, who was charged with three counts of conspiracy
in a sealed indictment this year, operated a so-called
bulletproof hosting service using computers in the U.S. and
 Romania , prosecutors said.  The service provided Internet protocol addresses and
servers that allowed computer criminals to evade detection by
law enforcement, according to the U.S.  Criminal Connections  Paunescu’s service aided in the distribution of Gozi and
other malicious software used to target banks, including the
Zeus Trojan and the SpyEye Trojan, according to the indictment.
His service also helped criminals send spam e-mails and execute
distributed denial of service attacks, according to the
indictment.  In May, Paunescu or his co-conspirators obtained the login
for an EBay Inc. account from one of the infected NASA
computers, according to the indictment.  A 2012 indictment unsealed today charges Calovskis, also
known as Miami, with five counts of conspiracy. Prosecutors said
he developed “Web injects,” which changed the appearance of
banking websites that were viewed on infected computers, making
the Gozi virus more dangerous. The Web injects fooled victims
into providing personal information that was used by others to
steal from bank accounts, prosecutors said.  Seven Charged  In a 2011 case, the U.S. charged one Russian and six
Estonians in a computer intrusion scheme that used malicious
software to manipulate online advertising, divert users to rogue
servers and infect more than 4 million computers. Victims
included at least 500,000 U.S. individuals, businesses and
government agencies, including  NASA , prosecutors said at the
time.  The cases are U.S. v. Kuzmin, 11-cr-387; U.S. v. Calovskis,
12-cr-487; and U.S. v. Paunescu, 13-cr-41, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 