-- Republicans Are Wrong: Taxes Are On the Table in Next Fiscal Go-Round
-- B y   D e b o r a h   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-23T18:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/republicans-are-wrong-taxes-are-on-the-table-in-next-fiscal-go-round.html
Today's  vote  by  Congressional Republicans  to temporarily lift the nation's
borrowing limit tees up another budget battle, one that will invariably focus on
taxes. Wait, you say, Republican leaders in Congress are loudly  refusing   to
consider new taxes as part of upcoming deficit talks, with Senator  Mitch
McConnell  calling the tax issue "finished, over, completed." Except that it isn't. In fact,  legislation  passed on the eve of the fiscal
Armageddon almost guarantees taxes -- both individual and corporate -- will be
front and center in the next round of fiscal talks. Why? Well, the 2012 American Taxpayer Relief Act may have prevented the U.S.
from tipping into recession by raising taxes only on the wealthiest Americans,
but it also created a bigger mess of an already-disheveled  tax code . This,
combined with the $1.4 trillion in deficit savings lawmakers must find to
stabilize the debt, will invariably thrust taxes onto the table. As a  Bloomberg Government  study points out, among the trouble spots are that
the 2012 law inverts the top tax rates so the highest individual income tax rate
(39.6 percent) now exceeds the top corporate rate (35 percent). This inversion,
which hasn't occurred since 2002, is likely to inflame Republicans, who claim
higher individual taxes will hurt small businesses and stifle  job creation . The law also  reinstated  confusing and varying limits on itemized  tax
deductions  and exemptions for certain higher-income taxpayers (generally
individuals earning above $250,000). Given the intent behind the change --
limiting the value of  costly  tax expenditures -- it's hard to see how lawmakers
don't embrace a cleaner approach and one that generates more revenue for the
U.S. The White House  estimates  the limits on tax breaks will raise $152 billion
over 10 years (when benchmarked against the  Congressional Budget Office 's
current policy  baseline ), but a flat $50,000 cap on tax deductions could raise
at least  double  that amount -- with the burden falling most heavily on the top 1
percent of earners. These changes will likely propel taxes into the discussion, which would be a
welcome development and an opportunity for lawmakers to enact the kind of tax
reform leaders in both parties say they want. As Bloomberg Government notes,
Congress will want to address the corporate tax rate inversion "in some fashion
to bring into closer alignment the top corporate and individual tax rates, which
will create a more level playing field for business investment." To avoid paying corporate taxes, many small-business owners report profits on
their individual tax returns. Such “pass-through” entities include sole
proprietorships, partnerships, limited liability companies and S corporations.
As Bloomberg View editors have  written , many of these companies aren’t engaged
in traditional small-business activity and are instead partners in  hedge funds ,
law firms and private-equity shops. Fewer than 3 percent of small business
owners fall into the upper-income bracket affected by the tax increase, but
those filers account for half of all pass-through income, giving Republicans a
potent argument for revamping the corporate tax code. This should be doable, given both parties have sounded similar notes about
wanting reform that lowers the statutory corporate tax rate while broadening the
base of tax-paying corporations. The White House last year  outlined  its
"revenue-neutral" blueprint of how to get there, offering to lower the rate to
28 percent and make up the difference by closing loopholes, ending certain tax
subsidies and other changes. Republicans say they're all for lowering the rate
but argue it doesn't need to be revenue-neutral since a lower rate will spur
macroeconomic growth (which, in turn, will lower the deficit). This is a divide
that can be bridged, perhaps not easily but without great difficulty if both
sides agree to compromise. Limiting tax breaks was also a bipartisan  theme  in earlier fiscal cliff
talks, with both parties suggesting it was time to reduce the value of tax
expenditures that cost the U.S. $1 trillion per year. The new law does this to
some extent, but taxpayers will need a good accountant to figure out how to
calculate what they owe (one look at this Tax Policy Center  explainer  shows
why). The law reinstates the "Pease" limitation on itemized deductions (named
after former Ohio Democratic Representative Donald Pease) and the personal
exemption phase-out. Both limit the exemptions and deductions for taxpayers who
exceed certain thresholds ($250,000 for individuals, $275,000 for heads of
household and $300,000 for married couples). President  Barack Obama  has  offered  his own, more streamlined version of the
same idea -- limiting the benefit of deductions for people in the higher tax
brackets by treating them as if they were in the 28 percent bracket. The plan
would increase revenue by more than $288 billion over the next decade.
Republicans have also suggested setting an overall cap, which could bring in
significantly more money than Obama's plan or the reinstated limits. The bottom line is that it's hard to see how lawmakers will avoid talking
taxes during the next round of fiscal discussions. Doing so is actually in both
parties' interest and can help clean up a cluttered tax code, lower the tax
burden for corporations and also raise some revenue for a cash-strapped
nation. ( Deborah Solomon  is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
her on Twitter.)