-- Romanian Cabinet Approves 2013 Budget That Trims Deficit to 2.1%
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-01-23T16:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/romanian-cabinet-approves-2013-budget-that-trims-deficit-to-2-1-.html
Romania ’s government approved the
2013 budget that targets cutting the deficit to 2.1 percent of
economic output by boosting taxes on energy companies.  Prime Minister Victor Ponta’s Cabinet forecasts gross
domestic product will rise 1.6 percent, compared with 0.2
percent expected for 2012, Finance Minister Daniel Chitoiu told
reporters in Bucharest today. The government had previously
estimated GDP growth of 0.7 last year and 1.8 percent this year.  The Balkan nation is in talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union for a third international
loan that would act as a safety cushion against  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis as its 5 billion-euro ($6.6 billion)
credit accord expires at the end of March.  “Our economic growth forecast for this year is very
conservative,” Liviu Voinea, the minister delegate for the
budget, said in Bucharest today. “We’ve agreed with the IMF,
the EU and the  World Bank  that this forecast is realistic and
well grounded.”  The government, approved by lawmakers last month, is
counting on improved tax collection and plans to introduce a 60
percent tax on natural-gas liberalization revenue and a
temporary special tax of 0.5 percent of total sales on natural
resources on items other than natural gas for energy companies
from Feb. 1 through 2014. It will also seek to increase a
tobacco levy from April.  Public-Sector Increases  The boost in state revenue will trim the shortfall from 2.3
percent of GDP last year while allowing increases in state
salaries and pensions. The government aims to keep the budget
gap under control so it can exit an EU excessive-deficit
procedure.  “It’s not an austerity budget,” Voinea said. “We have
the IMF’s approval for this budget and for the measures we plan
to introduce.”  The 2013 budget plan still needs Parliament’s approval and
lawmakers have the right to add amendments to the project.  Last year’s budget deficit figure was revised upward from
2.2 percent of GDP, according to a document published on the
ministry’s website today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  