-- Rousseff Expands Brazil Oil Auction to Raise Up to $4.9 Billion
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-01-23T20:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/rousseff-expands-brazil-oil-auction-to-raise-up-to-4-9-billion.html
President  Dilma Rousseff  expanded by
68 percent the amount of acreage offered in Brazil’s first oil
exploration auction since 2008 in a move that will help relieve
pent-up demand and increase the government’s auction revenue by
raising as much as 10 billion reais ($4.9 billion).  Brazil will auction 289 licenses onshore and off the coast
of northeastern Brazil on May 14 and May 15, Marco Antonio Almeida, the secretary of oil and natural gas at the Energy
Ministry, told reporters in Brasilia today. Brazil also plans to
auction areas in the so-called pre-salt region that holds the
country’s largest deposits on Nov. 28 and Nov. 29 and shale
onshore gas blocks on Dec. 11 and Dec. 12, he said.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s biggest producer in
deep waters, has discovered high-quality oil in the Ceara and
Sergipe basins, where new blocks will be available. The geology
along Brazil’s equator also mirrors recent discoveries near the
coast of Africa.  “The announcement shows that Brazil is seeking to re-
engage with investors and that there is a genuine interest in
moving ahead with licensing,” T.J. Conway, a research and
advisory manager at New York-based Energy Intelligence Group,
said by telephone from  Washington . “This licensing round will
likely be the true test of the viability and potential of the
Brazilian equatorial margin.”  Of the 117 additional blocks offered in the Round 11
auction, 65 are located in the Foz do Amazonas basin near the
border with  French Guiana , Almeida said. The other new blocks
are in the basins of Espirito Santo, Pernambuco-Paraiba and
Tucano Sul, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  