-- Rousseff Deepens Brazil Power Cost Cuts as Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-01-24T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/rousseff-says-brazil-power-cost-cuts-to-be-bigger-sooner-1-.html
Brazil will lower energy costs this
year more than the government previously announced and made the
cuts effective today as part of an effort to slow inflation that
has remained above the central bank’s target since August 2010.  “Beyond anticipating the enforcement of the new rates, the
cut is bigger than previously announced,” President  Dilma Rousseff  said in a nationally-televised address yesterday.  The president said the cuts that go into effect today
rather than early next month will pare consumers’ power costs 18
percent and those for industry by 32 percent compared to the
reductions of 16.2 percent and 28 percent she had announced in
September.  Brazilian consumer prices in the month through Jan. 15 rose
more than forecast by all economists surveyed by Bloomberg and
annual inflation accelerated for the fourth straight month to
6.02 percent, the fastest pace in a year, the national
statistics agency reported yesterday.  Price pressures have been building in Brazil as the
government stokes demand by reducing taxes and expanding credit
amid record low unemployment.  No Rationing Seen  Rousseff has pressured utilities including  Eletrobras (ELET6) , as
the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known, to reduce rates in
exchange for the renewal of licenses for an additional 30 years.  Companies such as  Cia Energetica de Minas Gerais  and  Cia
Energetica de Sao Paulo  refused the offer for believing that
their assets were being undervalued and that the proposed rates
were not enough to meet the companies’ cash flow needs.  The larger-than-expected tariff cut will bring only
temporary relief to inflationary pressure, said  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA.  “The government is using administered prices to control
inflation, but it doesn’t solve the numerous bottlenecks the
economy faces,” Rostagno said by phone after energy regulator
Aneel disclosed the larger cuts prior to Rousseff’s national
address. “The inflation dynamics are very unfavorable.”  Rostagno forecasts that annual inflation will dip to 6.14
percent in February from 6.20 percent in January only to
accelerate beyond the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s target in the second quarter. The bank targets annual
inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  There is also no chance that low reservoir levels at the
country’s hydroelectric plants will require the government to
impose power rationing, Rousseff said. The start of the rainy
season will fill the country’s hydroelectric reservoirs, she
said.  ‘More Growth, More Production’  The government’s move to lower energy prices is part of a
broader effort to improve  Brazil ’s competitiveness by cutting
production costs. Brazil will increase power generation 7
percent in 2013 and will double generating capacity in 15 years,
she said.  “This means lower expenses for each of you and for the
country’s entire economy. We will reduce costs for the
productive sector, which means more growth, more production,
more jobs,” Rousseff said. “Brazil will have all the energy it
needs to grow in the future.”  At the same time, a contraction in investment and
 industrial output  is complicating Rousseff’s efforts to revive
the slowest growth in three years.  The central bank board, led by Alexandre Tombini, on Jan.
16 kept the  benchmark interest rate  at 7.25 percent for the
second straight meeting, saying that risks for inflation had
worsened in the short term and that economic recovery was less
intense than expected.  The economy expanded an estimated 1 percent last year,
according to the central bank, down from 2.7 percent in 2011 and
7.5 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  