-- Trulia Surges to Record as Home Prices Gain: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-01-23T21:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/trulia-surges-to-record-as-home-prices-gain-san-francisco-mover.html
Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , the operator of a
residential-property listings website, surged to a record on
optimism that gains in U.S. home prices would help boost
advertising revenue.  The stock advanced 4.7 percent to $24.50 at the close in
 New York . The  shares  have increased 44 percent since an initial
public offering in September.  Trulia is taking on larger rival  Zillow Inc. (Z) , which sold
shares to the public in July 2011, by developing smartphone
applications designed to reach prospective homebuyers on the
move. Revenue may be bolstered by U.S. home prices, which
according to a report today from the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  climbed 5.6 percent in the 12 months through November
as buyers competed for a dwindling inventory of properties.  “Sellers want to reach consumers in every way,” Kerry Rice, an analyst at Needham & Co., said in an interview. “That
means more agents will advertise on Trulia.”  Real estate professionals subscribe to Trulia’s service as
a way to reach potential homebuyers, and they can also place ads
on the company’s website and mobile application.  Home prices  have been climbing as growing employment and
low borrowing costs fuel demand. Sales of existing homes fell 1
percent in December to a 4.94 million annual rate, restrained by
the tight supply of available properties, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed yesterday.  Zillow Buyout  Shares of Trulia may also be gaining on speculation that
Zillow could be acquired by Google Inc., operator of the world’s
largest search engine, Rice said.  “If you’re interested in Zillow, you’re likely interested
in Trulia because they do the same thing,” Rice said.  Google or another buyer might offer as much as $45 a share
for Zillow, Dan Kurnos, an analyst at Benchmark Co., said in an
interview.  Katelin Todhunter-Gerberg, a spokeswoman for Google,
declined to comment, as did Katie Curnutte, a spokeswoman for
Zillow. Daisy Kong, a spokeswoman for Trulia, didn’t respond to
a request for comment.  Shares of Zillow advanced 3.3 percent to $34.69, and have
increased 25 percent this year. Zillow, based in  Seattle , sold
3.46 million shares at $20 apiece in an IPO in July 2011.  Trulia, based in  San Francisco , sold 6 million shares at
$17 apiece in its IPO last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Baker in New York at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  