-- Rupert Everett Shines as Wilde in Fat Suit: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-01-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/rupert-everett-shines-as-wilde-in-fat-suit-london-stage.html
Sometimes the props do the acting.
Remember Nicole Kidman’s false nose in “The Hours”?  Rupert Everett is playing Oscar Wilde, and his fat suit
looks like it’s about to leap off and start reciting monologues
from “Falstaff” at him.  No marks for costume designer Sue Blane then, and full
marks to Everett delivering a career-defining performance in
David Hare’s “The Judas Kiss” now playing in  London .  In Act 1, Wilde is about to be charged with sodomy. He has
to choose whether to flee to  France  or stay and make a stand on
English hypocrisy. His friend Robert Ross (Cal MacAninch) urges
the former, and his hot-headed lover Lord Alfred Douglas
(Freddie Fox) the latter.  The act creates a feel of ticking-bomb suspense and zings
with operatic energy. Set it to music, and it could be a
terrific soprano-tenor-baritone trio from a 19th-century opera.  Act 2 takes place after Wilde has been released from his
hard labor, and is living in Naples. He watches Douglas become
increasingly discontented with his shabby surroundings.  Oscar is asked why he once preferred the dusty memoirs of
the Duke of Argyll to a comic novel by Jerome K. Jerome. “The
unread is always better than the unreadable,” he replies airily.  Who knew that Hare had such a talent for witty paradox, or
such a flair for the mechanics of a well-made play? It’s the
best thing he’s written, and offers a wonderful chance for
Everett to show his chops. One moment his Wilde has poise; the
next, he’s crumpled into fear.  Freddie Fox crackles like blazing logs as the fiery
Douglas, and Can MacAninch makes the most of the quieter role of
Ross.  The production (a transfer from the Hampstead Theatre) is
worthy rather than exciting. Director Neil Armfield offers few
surprises, while doing a fine job with the actors. Rating: ****.  Birtwistle’s Minotaur  There’s a more successful costume over at the Royal Opera
in “The Minotaur” by Harrison Birtwistle.  Bass John Tomlinson, who plays the half-man-half-bull of
the title, sports a wire-mesh bull’s head and a body stocking
covered in hair (designs by Alison Chitty.)  The role was written in 2008 for Tomlinson, and in this
first revival he has added power. While awake, the Minotaur is a
beast who grunts and roars. While he dreams, he’s human.  The plot (libretto David Harsent) is a model of its kind.
Theseus (Johan Reuter) wants to kill the Minotaur. He can only
do it with the help of the creature’s sister, Ariadne (Christine
Rice). Her price is Theseus’s love. It’s neat and taut.  Birtwistle’s music is of the angular, atonal school.
Stephen Langridge’s production, set in a stylized bull-ring, has
a mythic simplicity, and conductor Ryan Wigglesworth drives the
score hard. Rating: ****.  Stenham’s Latest  Contemporary drama doesn’t fare so well over at the Royal
Court Theatre. Polly Stenham’s piece “No Quarter” doesn’t build
on the promise of “That Face” and “Tusk Tusk”.  Robin (an awkward Tom Sturridge) is an upper-crust bohemian
druggy who, after he has helped euthanize his ailing mother
(with her consent), finds she has sold the home he was hoping to
live in. Various friends come and offer support or conflict over
the course of a rambling 110 minutes with no interval.  Stenham’s dramatic ironies, when the audience is privileged
to know more than the characters, are masterly. Still, she
doesn’t offer much contrast from the selfish main character.
Rating: **.  “The Judas Kiss” is at the Duke of York’s Theatre.
 http://www.atgtickets.com   “The Minotaur” is in repertory at the Royal Opera.
 http://www.roh.org.uk   “No Quarter” is at the Royal Court.
 http://www.royalcourttheatre.com   Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris arts and  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  restaurants..  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 