-- Russia Says U.S. Ties `Not in Best Shape' on Jewish Claim
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-01-23T11:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/russia-says-u-s-ties-not-in-best-shape-on-jewish-claim.html
U.S.- Russian relations are “not in
the best shape” as new irritants complicate dialog, Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov said after a U.S. court fined  Russia  for
not returning documents to a New York-based Jewish group.  “We’re witnessing a new aggravation now,” Lavrov told
reporters in Moscow, referring to the U.S. court ruling last
week that ordered Russia to pay $50,000 a day until it returns
the Schneerson collection of religious documents sought by
Agudas Chasidei Chabad, the Brooklyn, N.Y.-based library. U.S.
authorities did little to counter the decision, Lavrov said.  Ties with the U.S. have deteriorated after Congress in
December imposed a visa ban and asset freeze on Russian
officials allegedly linked to the death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky and other human-rights abuses. Tensions are also
growing after President Vladimir Putin, who faced unprecedented
protests since late 2011, criticized U.S. efforts to promote
democracy in Russia and oust Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Russia responded to the congressional action by banning
adoptions of Russian children by Americans. The Magnitsky case
isn’t over yet and U.S. lawmakers’ actions amount to meddling in
Russian affairs, Lavrov said.  “A human tragedy was used in a cynical way to punish
Russia,” he said.  While a U.S.-built missile shield in  Europe  remains the
“main” irritant in U.S.-Russia ties, the library issue marks
an “outrageous decision that has nothing to do with justice,”
Lavrov said, adding that Russia may sue the Jewish group. The
collection of 12,000 books and 381 manuscripts was seized by the
Soviet government and is part of Russia’s state library now.  Russia doesn’t want to be lectured by those who are “not
irreproachable,” Lavrov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Donovan in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  