-- Russian Equities Climb as Consumer, Power Grid Stocks Rally
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-01-23T17:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/russian-equities-climb-as-grid-stocks-consumer-shares-advance.html
Russian (INDEXCF)  equities climbed for the
first time in three days as consumer stocks rallied after
reporting earnings and as power grid shares advanced.  The Micex Index increased 0.8 percent to 1,537.49 by the
close in Moscow. Of the 50 stocks in the gauge, 37 advanced and
13 sank. The  RTS Index (RTSI$) , Russia’s dollar-denominated equity
gauge, added 1 percent to 1,605.36.  Consumer services  shares
were the biggest gainers among nine industry groups, rising 3.8
percent on average, while utilities added 1.6 percent.  Fourth-quarter sales at  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , Russia’s
largest food retailer by revenue, grew 8.6 percent from a year
earlier. OAO Dixy Group, a Russian supermarket chain, reported
2012 sales climbed 21 percent to 147 billion rubles. Dixy
rallied as much as 3.8 percent, while X5 added as much as 2.6
percent in  London . OAO Magnit, Russia’s largest food retailer by
market value,surged 4.5 percent to a record-high after falling
for the first time in nine days yesterday.  “Russian company earnings, especially those of retailers,
have been very positive, beating estimates,” Dmitry Mikhailov,
who manages $130 million in assets at Renaissance Capital in
Moscow, said by phone today. “After a slight paring of gains
yesterday, Magnit has reached new heights today.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration said it
welcomes a move by House Republicans to vote today on lifting
the nation’s debt ceiling through mid-May. Crude oil was little
changed at $96.54 in New York. Russia receives about half of its
budget revenue from oil and natural gas.  Retailer Earnings  Magnit’s fourth-quarter  net income  was 8.2 billion rubles
($271 million) versus 5.32 billion rubles in the year-earlier
period, the Krasnodar-based retailer said in a statement
yesterday. That beat the average estimate of 6.63 billion rubles
of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Dixy’s retail sales last month increased 19 percent to 15.6
billion rubles, the company said in a statement. X5 Retail’s
fourth-quarter sales climbed to 134.9 billion rubles.  Five of 26 companies on  Russia ’s Micex Index that reported
third-quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates by an average
2.7 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  VTB Group’s 2012 net income rose 2.4 percent to 21.6
billion rubles under Russian accounting standards, RIA Novosti
reported today. The shares climbed as much as 1.7 percent before
closing up 0.1 percent at 5.94 kopeks. The volume of stocks
traded was 58 billion, equivalent to about 2.1 times the three-
month average.  Russia’s second-biggest lender may sell as much as $3
billion of new shares this year, its first offering since 2011,
VTB’s Chief Executive  Andrei Kostin  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today at the World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland.  Russian Grids  Grid companies Federal Grid Co. and OAO MRSK Holding added
2 percent and 3.2 percent respectively. Deputy Prime Minister
 Arkady Dvorkovich  said yesterday in Moscow that Russia will
present details of their merger at the Davos forum.  President Vladimir Putin in November signed a decree
transferring 79.55 percent of Federal Grid’s shares to MRSK
Holding, the nation’s largest electricity distribution company,
according to an e-mailed copy of the document. The merged
company was renamed as Russian Grids or OAO Rossiskiye Seti,
according to the document.  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly, pared
gains, closing up 0.5 percent at 146.63 rubles. Russia may end
the company’s monopoly on gas exports of natural gas as long as
it makes economic sense, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said
today during an interview with Bloomberg News in Davos.  Volatility  Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer and supplier of a
quarter of Europe’s gas, is the only Russian company permitted
to export the fuel following legislation introduced by President
Vladimir Putin in 2006. OAO Novatek, Russia’s second-largest
producer, is seeking an exemption from the law to secure rights
to export liquefied natural gas. Novatek rallied 2.3 percent to
341.44 rubles.  OAO GMKN Norilsk Nickel increased 1.8 percent to 6,089
rubles, the highest level since Oct. 28. Russian mining company
Metalloinves is boosting its stake in Norilsk, Interfax
reported, citing billionaire  Alisher Usmanov .  The amount of shares traded on the Micex was 1.2 times
above the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
Micex’s  10-day volatility  dropped to 12.194, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index added 0.1 percent to 664.68.
All metals but copper on the London Metal Exchange rose,
including lead, zinc and nickel.  Industrial Production  Russia’s industrial production unexpectedly slowed last
month. Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 1.4 percent
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since April, compared with
1.9 percent in November, the Federal Statistics Service in
Moscow said today in an e-mailed statement.  The gauge trades at about 5.7 times  estimated earnings  and
has added 4.3 percent this year. That compares with a multiple
of 11 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has
gained 2.1 percent this year.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  