-- Russia’s Medvedev Says Gazprom May Lose Gas-Export Monopoly
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e ,   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-01-23T16:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/russia-s-medvedev-says-gazprom-may-lose-its-gas-export-monopoly.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  may lose its monopoly on
natural gas exports to domestic competitors as long as the move
doesn’t cut prices and damage Russia’s economic interests,
according to Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.  “It is possible, because there are other, independent gas
producers,” Medvedev said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Davos, Switzerland. “But we mustn’t lose money,
that’s the most important thing. Money comes first.”  President Vladimir Putin granted state-controlled Gazprom,
the world’s biggest gas producer and Europe’s biggest single
supplier, the exclusive legal right to ship the fuel abroad in
2006.  OAO Novatek (NVTK) , Russia’s second-largest producer, is seeking
to weaken the monopoly by exempting liquefied natural gas, which
is shipped by tanker rather than through Gazprom’s pipelines.  Lifting Gazprom’s monopoly may be possible only “after
considering all the consequences with the utmost thoroughness,”
Medvedev said today. Putin, who brought in the law to prevent
domestic rivals from undermining export prices, said in 2011
that while there were no immediate plans to end the monopoly,
such a move may be possible in the future.  ‘Uneasy’ Markets  Russia’s government fears that producers jockeying for
European customers in “uneasy” export markets will drive down
gas prices, cutting into budget revenue, Ildar Davletshin, a gas
analyst at Renaissance Capital in Moscow, said by phone.  The government received 50 percent of its 2012 revenue from
the oil and gas industry, when the budget deficit was 0.02
percent of gross domestic product.  “This argument prevails so far, and I think the export
monopoly will remain for at least two more years,” Davletshin
said. Gazprom relies on export revenues to finance construction
of pipelines at home and to export markets, which may mean
broader changes are needed in how the industry operates,
Davletshin said.  Gazprom battled weakening markets in Europe last year as
the economy slowed and competition from Norwegian gas
intensified, while the continent burned cheaper coal instead of
gas. Gas demand fell 3.7 percent last year to the lowest level
since 1999, Societe Generale said in a statement on Jan. 16. The
bank cut its growth forecast to zero for 2013.  Making Money  Gazprom’s gas output fell 5 percent last year, while
exports dropped 8 percent. Sberbank Investment Research said in
a note today that it cut its financial forecasts for Gazprom for
the next four years as expectations of an export rebound recede.  Europe has sought to diversify supplies away from Russia.
Pricing disputes between Gazprom and Ukraine disrupted Europe-
bound exports in freezing weather at least twice before they
reached a 2009 deal.  Medvedev, who served as Gazprom board chairman from 2002 to
2008, defended Gazprom as a reliable supplier to Europe.  “Gazprom doesn’t have the political role that it’s
sometimes prescribed,” Medvedev said. “Gazprom is making
money. Gazprom is needed in Europe just as the European
consumers are needed by Gazprom.”  Novatek, which increased gas output 7.1 percent last year,
is limited to selling natural gas domestically. It signed its
first trading contract with  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) 
last year to establish a market position and customer base in
Europe.  Novatek LNG  The gas producer, controlled by billionaires Leonid Mikhelson and  Gennady Timchenko , is developing the $20 billion
Yamal LNG project with  Total SA (FP) , targeting European and Asian
markets. The government may back an exception for LNG from the
gas-export monopoly because the project will need to sign up
customers to get financing, Davletshin said. Putin has called
for Russia to keep pace with global increases in LNG output.  The Energy Ministry submitted proposals about Novatek’s
export request to the government, which will probably make a
decision in the next couple of months, Deputy Energy Minister
Pavel Fedorov said today.  Mikhelson, who is also Novatek chief executive officer,
said in an interview in Davos today that he still hopes for a
“positive decision” on liberalizing LNG exports. The gas
producer, based in Tarko Sale in Siberia, plans to boost output
by 7.5 percent this year, he said.  Novatek rose 2.3 percent, the biggest gain since Dec. 5, to
341.44 rubles in Moscow today. Gazprom gained 0.5 percent.  “We need to understand whether this competition kills the
price for Russian gas, whether it is sufficient for the global
gas market that the market survives without Russian gas, First
Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov said in a Jan. 18 interview.
‘‘When everybody is happy with this, maybe then we will provide
competition.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Chilcote in Davos, Switzerland at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Davos, Switzerland at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  