-- Russia December Industrial Output Probably Grew 2 Percent
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-01-23T09:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/russia-december-industrial-output-probably-grew-2-percent.html
Russian  industrial production 
probably expanded in December at about the same pace reached
during the previous  four months , showing the economy failed to
pick up momentum last quarter.  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 2 percent in
December from a year earlier, according to the median estimate
of 17 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . That compares with 1.9
percent in November and 1.8 percent in October. The Federal
Statistics Service will report the data today or tomorrow.  The world’s largest energy exporter is seeing a
stabilization of industrial growth at weak levels as the economy
cools, the central bank said this month. Stagnating output may
support the government’s calls for monetary stimulus and cheaper
money to lift the stuttering economy.  “With the important exception of oil, external demand is
weak,” said Jacob Nell, chief economist for  Russia  at Morgan
Stanley in Moscow. “Fears of a return of a second wave of the
crisis are keeping domestic consumers and businesses cautious.”  Russia’s economy is forecast to slow to 2.4 percent in the
fourth quarter, the weakest pace since a recovery began in 2010,
according to the median estimate of 15 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The government should seek to increase growth to a
stable 5 percent pace, Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said at a
conference in Moscow last week.  Bank Rossii removed guidance from its interest rates
statement this month, signaling that it may either raise or
lower borrowing costs as soon as February, according to First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev .  Opposing Views  The central bank doesn’t think monetary easing is
appropriate to boost the economy now, while Cabinet officials
including First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  and Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov have called for lower borrowing costs to
jumpstart growth.  Sales of cars and light vehicles grew by 1 percent in
December compared with a year earlier, down from last year’s
high of 25 percent in February, according to the Association of
European Businesses in Russia. Sales at OAO AvtoVAZ, the
country’s biggest carmaker, were flat in December compared with
a year earlier and fell 7 percent during all of 2012, the
committee said Jan. 15.  Company Doubts  “Industrial production growth was weak at the end of the
year, and the slowdown of corporate lending growth to 13 percent
suggests that,” Dmitry Dolgin, an economist at  Alfa Bank  in
Moscow, said by e-mail before the release. “Companies have
doubts about the stability of domestic demand and the prospects
for global economic growth.”  The price for  Urals crude , Russia’s main export blend, has
advanced 1.7 percent this year to $111.61 a barrel. The
country’s biggest export earner averaged $110.27 a barrel last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The economy’s “soft patch” probably contained industrial
output in December, a trend that will likely remain throughout
the first quarter, said  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for
Russia at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow.  “Investment has been weak in 2012 because of the political
cycle and external uncertainty,” he said by e-mail before the
release. “Investment will recover strongly in 2013 as the
global backdrop will be better and global economy firmer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  