-- Russian Industrial Output Growth Unexpectedly Slows
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-01-23T12:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/russian-industrial-output-growth-unexpectedly-slows.html
Russian  industrial production 
unexpectedly slowed in December to the weakest pace in  eight
months , showing the slumping economy failed to pick up momentum
last quarter.  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 1.4 percent
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since April, compared with
1.9 percent in November, the Federal Statistics Service in
Moscow said today in an e-mailed statement. The median estimate
of 17 economists in a Bloomberg  survey  was for a 2 percent
advance.  Industrial output in the world’s largest energy exporter is
stabilizing at weak levels as the economy cools, the central
bank said this month. Stagnating output may support the
government’s calls for monetary stimulus and cheaper money to
boost growth, which was the weakest in the third quarter on an
annual basis since the recovery from a recession began in 2010.  “With the important exception of oil, external demand is
weak,” Jacob Nell, chief economist for Russia at  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
in Moscow, said by e-mail before the report. “Fears of a return
of a second wave of the crisis are keeping domestic consumers
and businesses cautious.”  Economic growth slowed to 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter
compared with the same period a year earlier from 2.9 percent in
July-September, according to the median estimate of 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The government should seek to
increase growth to a stable 5 percent pace, Prime Minister
Dmitry Medvedev told a conference in Moscow last week.  Rate Arguments  Bank Rossii removed guidance from its interest-rates
statement this month, a sign that it may either raise or lower
borrowing costs as soon as February, according to First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev .  The central bank doesn’t think monetary easing is
appropriate to boost the economy now, while Cabinet officials
including First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov and Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov have called for lower borrowing costs to
jump-start growth.  Natural-resources output expanded 0.2 percent from a year
earlier in December, while manufacturing growth eased to 1.5
percent from 4 percent in November, the statistics service said.
Output at utilities grew 4.7 percent after contracting the
previous three months.  Sales of cars and light vehicles grew by 1 percent in
December compared with a year earlier, down from last year’s
high of 25 percent in February, according to the Association of
European Businesses in  Russia . Sales at OAO AvtoVAZ, the
country’s biggest carmaker, were flat in December compared with
a year earlier and fell 7 percent during all of 2012, the
committee said Jan. 15.  Company Doubts  “Industrial-production growth was weak at the end of the
year, and the slowdown of corporate-lending growth to 13 percent
suggests that,” Dmitry Dolgin, an economist at Alfa Bank in
Moscow, said by e-mail before the release. “Companies have
doubts about the stability of domestic demand and the prospects
for global economic growth.”  The price for  Urals crude , Russia’s main export blend, has
advanced 1.7 percent this year to $111.61 a barrel. The
country’s biggest export earner averaged $110.27 a barrel last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The economy’s “soft patch” probably weighed on industrial
output in December, a trend that will probably remain throughout
the first quarter, said  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for
Russia at Renaissance Capital in Moscow.  “Investment has been weak in 2012 because of the political
cycle and external uncertainty,” he said by e-mail before the
release. “Investment will recover strongly in 2013 as the
global backdrop will be better and global economy firmer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  