-- Ryan Says Republican Goal Is ‘Big Down Payment’ on Debt
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-01-23T21:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/ryan-says-republican-goal-is-big-down-payment-on-debt.html
House Republicans  want to force “a
big down payment on the debt crisis” during debate on spending
cuts and extending the U.S. government’s borrowing authority,
said Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan .  Ryan said the debt-limit issue, the scheduled March 1 start
of $110 billion in automatic spending cuts -- half in defense --
and the need to extend the government’s spending authority past
March 27 “are the points” to “force the conversation” on
reducing the debt.  What “I expect to come out of that is a big down payment
on the debt crisis,” Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, said at a
Wall Street Journal breakfast today in  Washington . The
Republican-led House later voted, 285-144, to suspend the
nation’s $16.4 trillion borrowing limit until May 19. The
measure goes to the Senate, where leaders of the Democratic
majority said they will support it.  Republicans have sought to cut federal spending by
partially privatizing the Medicare health insurance program for
the elderly and disabled and slowing Social Security cost-of-
living increases. Ryan, the 2012 Republican vice presidential
nominee, said his party will demonstrate “realistic
expectations while being reasonable” following President  Barack Obama ’s re-election and Democratic victories that added two
seats to their Senate majority.  Setting Expectations  “We have to set our expectations accordingly” and “fight
for those things” Republicans stand for “in a realistic way,”
Ryan said. “Our job as we see it is to get spending under
control, to get some entitlement reforms” and “make sure we
don’t have a debt crisis,” he said.  Ryan said House Republicans will pass a spending plan that
would balance the government’s budget in 10 years. He said that
is achievable without additional  tax revenue , which Obama
insists must accompany further spending cuts or reductions in
Social Security or Medicare benefits.  Democrats have “already gotten the revenues,” Ryan said,
referring to tax increases that took effect at the start of this
year. “To get this debt and deficit under control, you cannot
mathematically fix this problem through revenues.”  Changes to Medicare and other entitlements that yield long-
term budget savings instead of short-term spending cuts “is the
sweet spot” and ‘is where hopefully this ends up going,” he
said.  Tax Loopholes  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat on the
House Budget Committee, said that during a debate on revising
the tax system Democrats will press Republicans to close the
loopholes that Ryan and  Mitt Romney , the party’s presidential
nominee, promised to end during last year’s election campaign.  “Every loophole that they talked about is still out there,
so why shouldn’t we close loopholes for the purpose of reducing
the deficit” to avoid deeper cuts in social programs instead of
financing lower tax rates, the Maryland lawmaker told reporters.  Under Ryan’s scenario, Republicans would “get rid of tax
breaks from Swiss bank accounts in order to lower the tax rates
for people with Swiss bank accounts,”  Van Hollen  said.  The debt-limit measure the House passed includes a
provision to prod the House and Senate to pass budgets by April
15. If that doesn’t happen, the bill calls for withholding pay
for all members of Congress.  Age Issue  Since taking control of the House in 2011, Republicans have
passed budgets that would partially privatize Medicare by
offering retirees a chance to buy private insurance. The changes
would affect people age 55 and younger. Those budgets have
stalled in the Senate.  Ryan declined to say whether balancing the budget over the
next decade would require applying those changes to people
closer to 65, the current eligibility age for Medicare.  Representative  John Fleming , a Louisiana Republican,
suggested yesterday that applying the Medicare changes to people
as old as 59 would be a way to help achieve such budget savings
in 10 years.  Ryan said it “would be premature to speculate” about
changing the timetable for Medicare changes. “I am not going to
get into it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  