-- Samsung, Jason Wu, Rex, Target: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-23T23:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/samsung-jason-wu-rex-target-tag-oil-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  asked a U.S.
judge to allow it to use documents from its patent-infringement
case against Apple Inc. in  California  for litigation pending
between the companies in  Japan .  Samsung told U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal in San Jose,
California, yesterday that it needs information exchanged
between the companies in his court to contest the validity of
Apple’s patents at issue in cases pending in Japan.  Samsung seeks any documents concerning iPhone sales before
June 29, 2007, as well as the actual device introduced as
evidence, according to a court filing. Samsung also wants the
iPhone that Apple founder Steve Jobs used when he introduced the
device at his Jan. 9, 2007, MacWorld presentation.  “Samsung’s request is not an attempt to circumvent foreign
proof-gathering restrictions,” Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung
said in a court filing. “Quite simply, a Japanese court cannot
order Apple to produce evidence without the cooperation of court
within the U.S.”  In the San Jose case, a jury decided Aug. 24 at the end of
a trial that Samsung should pay $1.05 billion for infringing six
Apple patents. Apple awaits a decision from U.S. District Judge
Lucy Koh on its request for additional damages against Samsung
after the iPhone maker lost its bid to block U.S. sales on 26 of
the Galaxy maker’s devices. Apple failed to establish that
consumer demand for Samsung products was driven by technology it
stole, Koh ruled.  Samsung’s request should be denied because it is
“attempting an end-run around the discovery procedures of the
Japanese courts and because Samsung has not presented this court
with evidence that it has a substantial need for the information
it belatedly seeks,” Apple said in a court filing.  Apple said two of the cases at issue are in Tokyo district
court, where the company seeks a temporary sales ban and damages
based on its “rubberbanding” patent that Koh, in the San Jose
case, found to be valid and infringed. Rubberbanding is the the
way an iPad or iPhone screen seems to bounce when a user scrolls
to the end of a file.  The San Jose case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics
Co. Ltd., 12-cv-80275, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  The appeals in  Washington  are Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 13-1129, and Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co., 12-1507, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  Intel Wins Dismissal of University of New Mexico Patent Suit  The University of New Mexico’s patent-infringement case
against  Intel Corp. (INTC)  was dismissed by a federal judge in New
Mexico Jan. 17.  The licensing arm of the school sued Santa Clara,
California’s Intel in November 2012, accusing the world’s
largest chipmaker of infringing a patent for printing electronic
circuits.  At issue was patent 6,042,998, which covers a technique to
print electronic circuits closer together on silicon wafers,
which lets more information be stored on the chips.  The suit was filed by STC.UNM, the school’s technology
transfer office.  In his ruling, U.S. District Judge Robert S. Brack
dismissed the infringement claim.  One of the issues in the case was the right to sue for
infringement. According to court papers, an agreement between
the school and the Sandia National Laboratories included Sandia
as an owner of the patent.  Sandia chose not to take part in the litigation and Brack
rejected the school’s request to force Sandia to join in.
According to court documents, the government lab said it wanted
to remain neutral in the dispute.  The judge said that while a commercialization agreement
between the school’s technology transfer office and Sandia gave
the office the exclusive right to license the patent, “it
nowhere contemplated that Sandia relinquished its rights to
refuse to join in an infringement action.”  He said Sandia “has a right to refuse to appear, and
intervening would force it to incur substantial legal fees and
contribute time to a lawsuit in which it clearly does not wish
to participate.”  The case is STC.UNM v. Intel Corp, 1:10-cv-01077-RB-WDS,
U.S. District Court, District of New Mexico ( Albuquerque ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Jason Wu, Michelle Obama’s Choice, Struggles to Register Mark  Jason Wu , whose  bright red ball gown  was worn by first lady
Michelle Obama at this week’s inaugural ball, has run into
difficulty trying to register one of his trademarks in Taiwan,
the Focus Taiwan website  reported .  Although Taiwan’s Intellectual Property Office approved two
of his applications, it found fault with his “ Miss Wu ,” mark,
saying it lacked inherent distinctiveness, according to Focus
Taiwan.  Wu, who now operates his fashion business in New York,
appealed the rejection, and received a second rejection, Focus
Taiwan Reported.  Wang Mei-hua, who directs the Intellectual Property Office,
told Focus  Taiwan  that Michelle Obama’s and Taiwan first lady
Chow Mei-ching’s wearing dresses with the “Miss Wu” label may
help the requested mark rise from being too generic.  Lego, Czech Pirate Party At Odds Over Use of Figures in Video  Lego A/S, the Danish maker of plastic-block building toys,
is involved in a dispute with the Czech Pirate Party, the
TorrentFreak anti-copyright news service  reported .  The toymaker is objecting to the Czech group’s use of Lego
figures in a 2012 campaign video, according to TorrentFreak.  Lego is demanding that in addition to no longer using the
figures in their video, the Czech Pirate group apologize for
their use and say that the Danish company didn’t provide any
funds for the campaign and pay the litigation costs,
TorrentFreak reported.  Mikulas Ferjencik, vice president of the Czech Pirate
Party, told TorrentFreak that it is filing another appeal and
that meantime, it is encouraging its supporters to photograph
themselves in front of Lego stores while wearing their Pirate
Party Gear, so that photos can be used by the party.  New Orleans Mardi Gras Organization Sues Texas Liquor Company  The School of Design, which operates the 141-year-old New
Orleans Mardi Gras club or krewe known as the  Rex Organization ,
sued a liquor company for trademark infringement.  School of Design objects to packaging used by  Rex Spirits
Inc. , of San Antonio,  Texas , according to the complaint filed
Jan. 17 in federal court in New Orleans. The liquor company is
producing rum, vodka and bourbon under the “King Rex” name and
is using symbols the School of Design claims infringed its
trademark when used with the word “Rex.”  These include the colors  purple, green and gold , a carnival
mask, a crown, and the phrase “faith, justice power,”
according to the complaint. The School of Design, which
traditionally  parades on Mardi Gras Day , says the alcoholic
beverage’s packaging contains the word “King” in a much
smaller size than “Rex,” thus giving rise to the impression
that an affiliation exists between it and the distiller.  The School of Design also objects to a press release from
King Rex Spirits, in which the company says its brands honor the
“King of Carnival.” The title used for the New Orleans civic
leader chosen each year to parade with Rex Organization and to
represent the spirit of Mardi Gras is “Rex King of Carnival.”  Another objection raised in the complaint is that Rex
Spirits has allegedly “expressed an interest in staging its own
Mardi Gras costume ball, to be called the King Rex Ball, in New
Orleans during Mardi Gras.” The School of Design says the
spirits company has even released a video that uses without
authorization an image of a  doubloon  -- a specially minted coin
typically thrown from Mardi Gras floats -- bearing the Rex
Organization’s motto, “ Pro Bono Publico .”  The School of Design asked the court to bar any further
infringement of its mark, and for an order for the recall of all
products and promotional materials that allegedly infringe the
krewe’s marks. Additionally, it seeks awards of the liquor
company’s profits related to the alleged infringement, together
with money damages and extra damages aimed at punishing the
Texas company for its actions.  Rex Spirits didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Mardi Gras is celebrated in New Orleans  this year  on
February 12.  The case is School of Design v. Ortiz, 2:13-cv-00094, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Target’s Non-Infringement Ruling Appealed by Textile Designer  After failing to convince a federal court that  Target Corp. (TGT) 
and others infringed its copyrighted fabric patterns, a Los
Angeles textile designer has gone to a federal appeals court,
seeking to overturn the lower-court ruling.  Meridian Textiles Inc. of Los Angeles sued Target,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Topson Downs of California Inc.,  for copyright
infringement in October 2011. The textile company claimed the
defendants were selling or manufacturing apparel made from
fabric that infringed copyrights for four of its designs. It
also sued unidentified manufacturers it said were supplying the
allegedly infringing fabric to the retailers.  U.S. District Judge Gary Klausner said in an Aug. 24 order
that one of the designs, a zebra-stripe print, wasn’t entitled
to copyright protection because zebra stripes occur in nature.
He also found that the other three designs weren’t infringed.  Meridian said it would appeal and the case was entered into
the appeals court’s docket in December.  In January the court ordered the parties to submit
responses to a mediation questionnaire or face dismissal of the
appeal. According to the docket, Target and Topson Downs
submitted their required paperwork Jan. 17.  The case is Meridian Textiles Inc. v. Topson Downs of
California Inc., 2:11-cv-08351-RGK-AGR, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Tag Oil Manager Given Bail in New Zealand Trade Secrets Case  A former oil and gas manager for  Tag Oil Ltd. (TAO) ’s New Zealand
ventures was accused of unlawful access of a computer, said his
lawyer, Susan Hughes.  The former production and facilities manager was accused of
accessing a computer belonging to the  Vancouver , British
Columbia-based company for dishonest purposes, New Zealand’s
Business Day reported.  Charges were filed after the former manager left to work
for rival  New Zealand Energy Corp. (NZ) , also of Vancouver, Business
Day reported.  Hughes said in an e-mail that her client is “defending the
charge.”  The manager was given bail and his next court date is Feb.
7, according to Business Day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  