-- SanDisk Sales Forecasts Miss Estimates Amid Plan to Limit Supply
-- B y   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-01-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/sandisk-sales-profit-beat-estimates-signaling-prices-rebounding.html
SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) , a maker of  flash
memory  for mobile devices, gave sales forecasts for the first
quarter and 2013 that fell short of analysts’ estimates as the
company limits supply to avoid an industry glut.  Revenue in the current period will be $1.23 billion to $1.3
billion, the company said yesterday on a conference call. That’s
less than the  average  analyst projection of $1.37 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For the year, sales
will be $5.3 billion to $5.6 billion, while analysts on average
had estimated revenue of $6 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Mehrotra said he’s willing
to risk limiting sales growth this year by increasing his
company’s output at a slower pace than the rest of the industry.
SanDisk hasn’t yet decided if or when it will add new
production, he said. Memory-industry profits have been hurt or
wiped out in the past when companies have produced more chips
than their customers needed.  “While our supply growth plan for 2013 may somewhat limit
our annual revenue growth, we believe it paves the way for
healthier business fundamentals for us,” Mehrotra said in
prepared text published by the company.  SanDisk  shares  fell as low as $45.13 in extended trading
following the company’s forecast. The stock began to drop in
late trading after Apple Inc., one of SanDisk’s biggest
 customers , reported sales that missed estimates. SanDisk shares
had earlier slipped less than 1 percent to $47.65 at yesterday’s
close in New York.  Gross Margin  Excluding some costs, gross margin in the current period
will be about 38 percent, SanDisk said. Gross margin, or the
percentage of sales remaining after deducting costs of
production, before certain items will be about 41 percent for
2013.  “As long as the supply of Nand flash is under control,
prices are going to increase,” said Kevin Cassidy, an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Fourth-quarter profit excluding some items was $1.05 a
share on sales of $1.54 billion, the Milpitas, California-based
company said in a statement. Analysts on average had estimated
profit of 75 cents and revenue of $1.53 billion, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Baker in  New York  at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  