-- SAP Forecasts At Least 12% Profit Gain on Software Demand
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-01-23T09:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/sap-forecasts-full-year-earnings-trailing-estimates.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software, forecast at least a 12 percent
gain in full-year earnings as it adds Internet-based programs to
attract users and fend off competition from Oracle Corp.  Operating profit adjusted for some items will rise to 5.85
billion euros ($7.79 billion) to 5.95 billion euros from 5.21
billion euros in 2012, assuming unchanged exchange rates, SAP
said today. Analysts project 6.11 billion euros, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While the forecast trailed estimates, it helped quell
concerns that SAP’s pace of growth may be petering out. Co-Chief
Executive Officers Jim Hagemann Snabe and  Bill McDermott  have
added mobile and Web-based programs as well as the fast Hana
database to compete with Oracle and persuade companies to spend
even as economies such as that of the euro area shrink.  “I certainly wouldn’t consider that a low-key guidance,
it’s double-digit growth and it’s significant,” McDermott said
in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Walldorf,
 Germany . “Our cloud business is growing fantastically, as is
Hana and mobile, and this emanates from a consistent core, so
we’re really bullish.”  SAP shares rose 2.7 percent to 59.40 euros as of 10:43 a.m.
in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 73 billion euros. The stock
rallied 50 percent  last year , making it the fourth-best
performer in Germany’s 30-member benchmark DAX Index and
exceeding  Oracle (ORCL) ’s 30 percent gain.  Narrowing Margins  SAP will continue to win market share and probably grow
more strongly than Oracle in combined revenue from software
licenses and cloud subscriptions, McDermott said. Business in
southern  Europe  is showing “good signs,” adding to strong
performance in markets such as  Russia  and the  Nordic countries ,
he added.  The company fell short of its 2012 profit target as it
hired more salespeople and license sales in the Americas slowed
in the fourth quarter. Adjusted operating profit as a proportion
of sales fell to 32 percent last year from 33 percent in 2011,
pushed down by the addition of 8,700 employees and the
acquisitions of SuccessFactors Inc. and Ariba Inc., whose Web-
based business has lower margins. It targets a  margin  of 35
percent by 2015.  SAP is sticking to its forecast of sales exceeding 20
billion euros by 2015, aided by growth in new business areas,
McDermott said.  ‘Increasing Uncertainty’  Last week, SAP reported preliminary earnings for the fourth
quarter. Operating profit for the period, excluding some items,
rose 10 percent to 1.96 billion euros, missing the 2 billion
euro average of analysts’ estimates.  For this year, SAP predicted revenue from software and
software-related services, excluding some items, to gain 11
percent to 13 percent, less than the 14 percent predicted by
analysts.  “It is clear that it is becoming tougher to close deals
and this can be seen in the wide license guidance,” Barclays
Plc analysts said in a note to clients. “Given that guidance is
a touch light and points to increasing uncertainty this is a
mild further disappointment.”  Cloud subscription and support sales will more than double
this year to about 750 million euros, SAP predicted. The company
expects sales of its Hana database to rise to 650 million euros
to 700 million euros from 392 million euros last year.  SAP reports adjusted sales to take into account recurring
revenue, such as subscription and support brought in by
acquisitions. It also adjusts operating profit for acquisition-
related charges, share-based compensation expenses,
restructuring costs and discontinued activities.  Industry spending on enterprise software may increase 6.4
percent to $296 billion this year, faster than the 3.3 percent
growth pace recorded in 2012, Gartner Inc. said Jan. 3. The
research firm also raised its overall estimate of spending on
 information technology , saying that uncertainty regarding an
upturn in the world economy is “nearing resolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Walldorf at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  