-- SAP CFO Brandt Sees Dividend Increase, Focus on Integration
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-01-23T16:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/sap-cfo-brandt-sees-dividend-increase-focus-on-integration.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker of
business-management software, plans to increase its dividend
this year and concentrate on integrating past acquisitions
rather than embarking on new ones.  “We will focus,” Chief Financial Officer Werner Brandt
said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Walldorf,
 Germany . “We will not open up the next big mergers and
acquisitions project right now, because there are fantastic and
exciting opportunities ahead with the technology and solutions
we have.”  The software maker, which competes with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  to
sell Web-based software and mobile applications, will
concentrate on tasks such as rolling out a new version of its
Business Suite software and linking its existing business to the
Web marketplace of Ariba Inc., which it bought for $4.3 billion
last year, according to Brandt.  While the dividend will increase, according to Brandt, the
amount of the next payment still needs to be determined by the
supervisory board. Analysts expect the regular payout to reach
85 euro cents ($1.13) a share this year, up from 75 cents in
2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Last year, SAP also paid
a special dividend of 35 euro cents for its 40-year anniversary.  SAP may resume share buybacks, which it stopped to help
finance the 2011 acquisition of SuccessFactors Inc., once it
reaches net  liquidity  of between 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion)
and 2 billion euros, according to Brandt.  While the figure fell to a negative 2.5 billion euros at
the end of last year following the purchase of Ariba, an annual
free cash flow of about 3 billion euros should enable SAP to
rebound soon, he said. A net liquidity of 4 billion euros would
be ideal, Brandt added.  Younger People  SAP today forecast an increase in  sales and profit  for this
year. The company plans to refine its longer-term target, which
calls for revenue to exceed 20 billion euros by 2015, sometime
this year, possibly at the shareholder meeting in June, Brandt
said.  The company’s ratio of adjusted operating profit to sales
will increase by about 1 percentage point this year to 33
percent and probably rise steadily to reach the 35 percent-
margin target set for 2015, according to Brandt.  The bonuses of board members may suffer after earnings last
year missed the company’s target, he said. Employee numbers
probably won’t vary much after 8,700 full-time posts were added
in 2012. Any hiring will be concentrated on software developers
and sales representatives, Brandt said.  Brandt, who has served as CFO since joining SAP in 2001,
said he plans to step down following the company’s shareholder
meeting in mid-2014, after helping train his successor.  “I’ll be 60 then, and I think younger people should take
the helm,” he said. “I’m looking forward to other
opportunities which might be coming my way then,” he said,
adding that he may look beyond the technology industry for
future tasks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  