-- Bankers at Davos Swap Obama-Bashing for Pragmatism
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2013-02-04T19:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/schwarzman-obama-bashing-swapped-for-pragmatism-at-davos.html
(Corrects Cox’s comments about taxes in 21st paragraph of
story originally published Jan. 23.)  Wall Street  leaders descending on
Davos this week will drink cocktails at Hotel Schatzalp, consort
with Nobel laureates and try to “ reshape ” capitalism, as the
World Economic Forum’s website puts it.  They won’t be doing it with as much vitriol as in previous
years, when financiers including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Schwarzman  lashed out at government
leaders, according to interviews with seven executives of firms
with ties to the banking industry who are attending the annual
Swiss Alpine meeting.  Following the second inauguration this week of President
 Barack Obama , whose re-election Wall Street spent a record
amount to prevent, financial elites gathering in Davos say overt
antagonism has fallen out of fashion.  “We have to move on in our society,” Schwarzman said
today in an interview in Davos with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik
Schatzker . “I like President Obama as a person, and he’s well-
intentioned.”  Schwarzman, 65, warned in Davos in 2010 that banks could
restrict lending because “their entire world is being shaken
and they’re being attacked personally.” Later that year, at a
nonprofit group meeting, he likened Obama’s tax proposals to
Hitler’s invasion of Poland. Third Point LLC CEO  Daniel Loeb ,
who in 2010 compared Wall Street’s Obama supporters to
“battered wives,” will help lead a Jan. 25 Davos dinner
discussion, “Can Capitalism Evolve?”  Romney’s Millions  “The best way forward is to work with the people in
Washington,” said Archibald Cox Jr., 72, chairman of  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s Americas business until June 2011 and a backer of
Republican candidates last year. “You don’t stand up and
challenge openly the administration.”  This year, more than two dozen executives from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Citigroup Inc.,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will converge on Davos
after Wall Street employees gave $21 million to Mitt Romney,
more than any presidential candidate since the modern campaign
system began with the 1976 election, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a research group that tracks campaign
contributions. The six biggest contributors to Romney were
banks, while Obama was the only major nominee in 20 years whose
top five funding sources didn’t include the banking industry,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  Executives know they have to live with four more years of
Obama and will be making fewer “big, loud public statements,”
said Hans-Paul Buerkner, chairman and former CEO of Boston
Consulting Group Inc., which advises global banks on strategy
and costs.  ‘Quite Pragmatic’  “Business people are usually quite pragmatic,” Buerkner
said. “They are not politicians, they are not ideologists, they
want to do as well as possible.”  Romney’s loss to a champion of financial regulation wasn’t
Wall Street’s only disappointment. Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit,
co-chairman of last year’s meeting, was ousted in October
following setbacks with regulators. Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond ,
who said at Davos in 2012 that politicians arguing against pay
for failed bankers should also talk about rewarding success,
left in July after the London-based firm was fined 290 million
pounds ($460 million) for rigging global  interest rates .  “Wall Street is pragmatic, if nothing else,” said  Peter Weinberg , co-founder of Perella Weinberg Partners LP, a New
York-based advisory and asset-management firm, and a former CEO
of Goldman Sachs International.  Schwarzman Apology  Schwarzman apologized in 2010 for his comparison of Obama’s
effort to double taxes on private-equity income to the invasion
of Poland. He said the analogy was inappropriate and that the
administration’s need to work with business “is still of very
serious concern.”  The Blackstone co-founder, who held a December 2011
fundraiser for Romney at his Park Avenue apartment, is worth
about $6.8 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index . His firm, whose holdings include hotel chain Hilton
Worldwide Inc. and SeaWorld Entertainment Inc., is the largest
U.S. private real-estate owner. Its shares have fallen 42
percent from their $31 initial-public-offering price in 2007.  Obama didn’t shun Wall Street. His economic team has
included  Lawrence Summers , who was paid more than $5 million by
hedge fund D.E. Shaw & Co., and former Citigroup managing
director Jack Lew, nominated as Treasury secretary this month.
Obama also appointed Mary L. Schapiro, former CEO of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, to head the Securities
and Exchange Commission, and made former JPMorgan executive
 William Daley  his chief of staff.  ‘No Voice’  While Attorney General Eric Holder vowed in 2009 to
prosecute those responsible for the financial crisis, no senior
Wall Street executives have faced criminal charges.  Still, Buerkner said bankers felt the White House’s pursuit
of Wall Street and public anger at bankers was unfair.  “There was no voice of the business community in the first
administration,” said Colin Dyer, CEO of Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc., a Chicago-based commercial-property broker, citing Daley’s
departure after one year. He said he expects the second term to
be “more balanced.”  Bankers see compromises as losses, according to Erwann Michel-Kerjan, managing director of the Wharton Risk Management
& Decision Processes Center at the University of Pennsylvania.  “You cannot be angry all the time,” said Michel-Kerjan,
37, who helps prepare an annual global-risk report issued by the
World Economic Forum and has consulted for banks. “At some
point you have to calm down and say, ‘What do we do about it?’”  ‘Greed Issue’  Bank profits are at stake. Early this year regulators will
finish drafting the Volcker rule, the part of the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act limiting proprietary bank wagers, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said. The draft proposal drew
18,000 comment letters, including complaints from banks that the
rule is too complex and could hurt economic growth.  Personal wealth is at stake, too. Even after Congress’s
Jan. 1 budget deal raised the top rate private-equity managers
pay on some profits to 20 percent, that is about half of the top
rate for ordinary income. Maintaining that preferential
treatment is “a greed issue,” said Cox, chairman of private-
equity firm Sextant Group Inc.  Wall Street will pursue its agenda more constructively in
small meetings with the White House, according to Buerkner and
two executives who have supported Obama.  “I think we have, on both sides, better understanding,”
said  Glenn Hutchins , 57, co-founder of Silver Lake Management
LLC, a Menlo Park, California-based private-equity firm.  Joe Echevarria, CEO of accounting firm Deloitte LLP,
agreed, saying that adjustments aren’t instant.  “These are humans,” Echevarria said. It “takes time for
those emotions to go from one extreme to the other.”  In Davos today, Schwarzman said he does have one regret.
“The team that I was involved with lost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in  New York  at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  