-- Scottish Independence Support at Lowest Since 1999, Survey Shows
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/scottish-independence-support-at-lowest-since-1999-survey-shows.html
Support for independence in Scotland
is at its lowest since the country got a semi-autonomous
government in 1999, according to the annual Scottish Social
Attitudes survey.  Backing for independence fell to 23 percent last year from
32 percent in 2011,  ScotCen Social Research  said in an e-mailed
statement. The proportion of people thinking independence would
give Scotland a stronger voice in the world fell to 42 percent
from 51 percent.  Breaking away from the U.K. is the flagship policy of the
ruling  Scottish National Party . First Minister  Alex Salmond 
reached agreement in October with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  to hold a referendum on independence by the end of 2014.  “The proponents of independence have apparently struggled
to capitalize on the resulting opportunity to persuade Scots of
the merits of their case,”  John Curtice , professor of politics
at Strathclyde University, said in the statement. “Instead more
voters appear to have become concerned about the prospect of
leaving the U.K.”  Since 2007, when the SNP ran a minority administration,
support for independence reported in the Scottish Social
Attitudes survey has averaged 26 percent compared with 30
percent in the eight years before that.  The latest opinion poll by TNS BMRB showed support for
 Scotland  going it alone at 28 percent, the same as three months
earlier, with an increase in the number of undecided voters.  About three times as many voters are worried about the
prospect of independence than confident, according to the
survey, which was funded by ScotCen, the  Economic and Social
Research Council  and the Electoral Reform Society. They are
equally divided as to whether independence would improve
Scotland’s economy.  A total of 1,229 adults were interviewed between July and
November for the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  