-- Securities Fraud Class-Actions Fall as Crisis Cases Wane
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-23T14:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/securities-fraud-class-actions-fall-as-crisis-cases-wane.html
The number of  securities fraud 
class-action cases filed last year fell 19 percent as litigation
over mergers and acquisitions and the credit crisis decreased,
according to a report.  Major securities fraud cases in 2012 included litigation
against  Facebook Inc. (FB)  over its initial public offering, and
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  over more than $6 billion in
trading losses at the bank.  The 152 cases filed in 2012 fell from 188 in 2011 and
represented the second-lowest level in 16 years, according to
the report by Stanford Law School and  Cornerstone Research , a
consulting firm.  “The question is if this is the beginning of a long-term
trend or a reflection that there haven’t been any market
disruptions in the past year,”  Mark Holland , a partner at law
firm Goodwin Procter LLP, said in an interview. “I think it’s
an aberration.”  Last year marked an end to securities fraud class-actions
related to the credit crisis as no new cases were filed compared
to three in 2011, according to the report. Credit crisis cases
peaked in 2008 at 100.  Federal cases related to mergers and acquisitions dropped
to 13 in 2012 compared with 40 in 2010 and 43 in 2011, according
to the report. Those cases are now being pursued almost
exclusively in state courts.  “The trends that we saw in the last few years just didn’t
occur this year,” said John Gould, a senior vice president at
Cornerstone, which prepared the report with the  Stanford Law
School Securities Class Action Clearinghouse .  Major Cases  Although there were no class-action credit-crisis cases,
according to the report, Wall Street banks are still contending
with lawsuits and claims over mortgage securities sold during
the housing boom.  “Even though securities filings are down, it doesn’t mean
securities work is down,” Holland said. “We’re still pretty
busy with the backlog.”  Class-action securities filings against financial companies
fell, according to the report. They were defendants in 15
filings, or 10 percent of all filings, compared with 25 filings
in 2011 and 43 in 2010.  London Whale  In the case against JPMorgan, pension funds accuse the
biggest U.S. bank of transforming the chief investment office
from a risk management unit into a “secret hedge fund.” The
so-called London Whale, the nickname of the U.K.-based trader
Bruno Iksil because his trading book was so large, made a wrong-
way bet on  credit derivatives  that led to the company’s single
biggest trading loss and at one point wiped out as much as $51
billion in market value.  Other companies facing lawsuits filed last year include
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , which was sued by investors after it
recorded an $8.8 billion writedown related to Autonomy Corp.,
and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which was sued over bribery
allegations.  Health-care, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies had
a larger share of filings, with 33 total, or 22 percent of all
filings, compared with 28 filings or 15 percent in 2011,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  