-- Siemens’ Osram Spinoff Seen as Prelude to More Disposals
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-01-24T08:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/siemens-osram-spinoff-seen-as-prelude-to-more-disposals.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  shareholders yesterday
approved the spinoff of the underperforming Osram lighting unit.
Declining orders, rising costs and a contracting European
economy will lead to more disposals.  Siemens, whose shares last year returned only one third of
the German DAX benchmark index’s advance, earmarked units such
as airport luggage systems, mail automation and water technology
for disposal. It’s now combing through its portfolio to weed out
other laggards.  Europe ’s biggest engineering company outlined
yesterday that units making trains and low-voltage gear also
fell short of their potential in the most recent quarter.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher , 55, is under
pressure from investors as Siemens’ returns fail to live up to
the “world-class” standards the executive says he aspires to.
At yesterday’s annual shareholder meeting, a top 10 investor
took to the stage and likened Siemens to an underperforming
 soccer club  as the FC Barcelona-supporting Loescher looked on.  “In the current form, Siemens wouldn’t have got past the
group stages of the  Champions League ,”  Ingo Speich , a  fund
manager  at Union Investment, told the meeting, using an analogy
frequently employed by Loescher and drawn from Europe’s top club
soccer competition. “The operational development is not
pleasing and margins are under pressure. Cost savings are not
sufficient.”  Trailing GE  Siemens’ profitability has trailed that at competitors
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  for six consecutive quarters,
according to Bloomberg data. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the three months ended Sept.
30, the last time all three companies reported earnings for the
same quarter, represented 13.2 percent of the German company’s
sales, compared to 16.9 percent at GE and 14 percent at ABB.  The company said yesterday that net income from continuing
operations slipped 1.4 percent to 1.3 billion euros ($1.7
billion) in the three months through December. The company had
7.8 billion euros in cash and cash equivalents at the end of
2012, a 28 percent decline from the end of September.  The results also show that the company can’t rely on orders
and the economy to boost profitability. The company’s order
intake declined 3.3 percent to 19.1 billion euros in the fiscal
first quarter. Loescher said the European economy won’t support
Siemens’ business this year.  “The mood in Europe calmed down in the second half of
2012, but economic output in the  euro zone  will most likely
decline once again,” the CEO said at a press conference. “The
economic forecasts for the U.S. are still very cautious.”  European Woes  The euro-area economy is hobbled by a recession, and
unemployment in the region reached a record 11.8 percent in
November. The currency bloc fell into its second recession in
four years in the third quarter and the  European Central Bank 
expects the economy to shrink 0.3 percent this year. The euro
region absorbs about 40 percent of German exports.  The stock today dropped 0.5 percent to 80.29 euros as of
9:07 a.m. in Frankfurt trading, valuing the company at 70.7
billion euros.  Loescher acknowledged yesterday that Siemens hasn’t yet
reached the position where it wants to be.  “Every member of the management board is committed to
fulfilling our aspiration to be world-class,´´ Loescher told
shareholders at the AGM.  Portfolio Check  Siemens is combing through its portfolio to make sure
businesses have a clear strategy, competitive products and the
potential to increase profits.  The company has ‘‘noticeable interest´´ for the water, mail
and airport baggage units from ‘‘several parties´´, Chief
Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said yesterday.  Siemens’ shareholders approved plans to spin off the Osram
lighting unit into a standalone company. Investors receive one
Osram share for every 10 Siemens shares they own. Osram posted a
profit of 79 million euros in the quarter, compared with 111
million last year.  ‘‘Businesses that do not fulfill our criteria will be
subject to question, including whether Siemens is the best
possible home for such activities in the long term,´´ Loescher
said.  That revamp will probably hit the infrastructure and cities
unit, formed 2011 and spanning building technology, low- and
medium-voltage products, smart grids, train manufacturing and
rail automation equipment. Siemens created this fourth major
division to better serve municipal clients as a one-stop shop,
while analysts including William Blair’s  Nicholas Heymann  say
the strategy hasn’t yet paid off.  Amorphous Blob  At 4.8 percent, the sector’s operating profitability in the
fiscal first quarter was less than half that of the energy
businesses at 10.8 percent, and the only one that did not meet
its profitability targets. The industry sector posted 14
percent, while health care earned more than 20 percent.  ‘‘This infrastructure and cities thing is still a
flashlight without any focus to the beam,´´ New York-based
Heymann said by phone. ‘‘People still haven’t really figured out
how they’re going to turn the corner,’’ he said, calling the
sector an ‘‘amorphous blob.’’  Loescher also said yesterday he aims to make more
‘‘targeted´´ acquisitions.  ‘A Disaster’  Some of the deals supervised by the CEO soured, and a push
into more environmentally friendly energy generation led to
spiraling costs. Profitability last year dropped back to the
levels when Loescher started in 2007, prompting a new program in
November to cut costs. Even with the savings push, costs rose
0.7 percent in the first quarter.  The solar energy unit was put up for sale in October, three
years after its founding through acquisitions including
Archimede Solar Energy and Solel Solar Systems. Deteriorating
prices for photovoltaic modules have made concentrated solar
power less attractive, and the activities had been unprofitable
since Siemens bundled the operations into a separate unit.  In November, Loescher embarked on his biggest purchase in
half a decade, saying it would buy  Invensys Plc (ISYS) ’s rail unit for
1.74 billion pounds ($2.78 billion) to bolster its signaling
business, a price investors said is high for an asset that has
shown a mixed performance track record and promises limited cost
savings.  Henning Gebhardt, the head of European equities at Deutsche
Bank AG’s DWS Investments unit, which manages more than 140
billion euros including Siemens shares, said he was
‘‘surprised´´ by the Invensys deal and called the company’s
solar power acquisitions ‘‘a disaster.’’ The challenge for
Loescher is not only to sell underperforming businesses, he
also needs to buy assets at a better price, he said.  ‘‘The  portfolio management  is absolutely not
satisfactory,´´ Gebhardt said. ‘‘It may be difficult to sell
assets when they are loss-making, but Siemens also struggles
with its acquisitions.´´  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  