-- Slovenian Coalition Member Pulls Out as Bailout Risk Rises
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-01-24T14:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/slovenian-bailout-risk-intensifies-as-coalition-member-pulls-out.html
Slovenia  lurched toward early
elections and a bailout after the Citizens List party pulled out
of the ruling coalition because of corruption allegations
against Prime Minister  Janez Jansa .  Citizens List, which announced the move yesterday, has
seven lawmakers in the 90-member chamber, leaving Jansa short of
the 46-vote majority needed to pass legislation. The premier
said today that the economic situation is “serious” and the
country can’t afford its second early poll in a year.  “Slovenia needs a snap election like it needs a hole in
the head,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in London, said yesterday in an e-mail. “Slovenia
sticks out like a sore thumb in the central European region in
terms of the severity of the economic downturn this year.
Political risk is the last thing the country needs.”  The Alpine nation is looking to avoid becoming the sixth
euro-area nation to resort to financial aid after the government
devised a 4 billion-euro ($5.32 billion) bank bailout. Jansa’s
Cabinet, less than a year in office, is working on an economic
overhaul and savings measures to cope with the country’s second
recession in three years.  The cost of insuring the debt with credit-default swaps,
which rise as perceptions of creditworthiness worsen, increased
to a month high of 268, the third-highest level among countries
in emerging  Europe  tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Serious’ Situation  “The economic situation in the country is serious,” Jansa
told reporters in Ljubljana, adding the government will continue
with its work during the crisis. “I won’t seek a confidence
vote, but lawmakers can propose one. We have no problem being in
opposition and letting someone else taking the helm that would
have a majority in parliament.”  Early elections would mean “a dead run for several
months” and there would be no guarantee the result would
produce “a more stable government,” Jansa said. He wants party
leaders to agree on changes to the election system to avoid
future political crises.  Other partners in the five-party coalition have said they
may also quit after the anti-graft agency found Jansa failed to
declare more than 200,000 euros in private assets, raising the
chance of a second early vote in less than a year. The premier
has called the omission an accident.  Citizens List leader Gregor Virant said in televised
remarks yesterday that he’ll resign as parliamentary speaker,
while Janez Sustersic, another party member, will step down as
finance minister.  ‘Dissolving Coalition’  An early vote would mean “a stalling of implementation of
the bad bank legislation and no further reforms possible,”
Peter Attard Montalto, a fixed-income strategist at Nomura
International Plc in  London , said in a note to clients today.  “While Jansa’s has struggled with moving forward reforms,
its direction of slow travel has been more investor and credit
friendly than the previous set up, and a switch now to the more
popular opposition in an election would spell more fundamental
inability to get out of the recession,” he said.  The country risks a credit-rating downgrade, an increase in
 risk premium  on Slovenian bonds and in the cost of capital in
case of snap elections, Jansa said Jan. 11. Moody’s Investors
Service rates Slovenia at Baa2, its second-lowest investment
grade, while  Standard & Poor’s  gives it an A rating with a
credit-watch negative outlook.  EU Implications  An early vote also “wouldn’t be helpful” in efforts to
approve  Croatia ’s European Union accession treaty as Slovenia
needs a two-thirds majority to do that, Jansa said. Croatia’s
goal is to become the bloc’s 28th member in July.  Slovenia may sell as much as 3 billion euros of debt this
year to repay maturing credits as yields fall, finance the
budget and recapitalize the banking industry, Deputy Finance
Minister Dejan Krusec told reporters in Vienna Jan. 15.  The former Yugoslav republic sold $2.25 billion of 10-year
bonds in October with a yield of 5.7 percent on increased demand
on the U.S. debt market.  The yield on the notes rose 3 basis points by 2:29 p.m.  in
Ljubljana to 5.17 percent, the highest since Dec. 18 on a
closing basis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 SBITOP (SBITOP)  share index slid 0.1 percent from to close at 639.04 in
fourth consecutive drop this week.  “Slovenia must ensure its liquidity after the October bond
sale,” Jansa said today. “With that sale, we ensured liquidity
for several months, probably for half a year.”  ‘Political Inquisition’  Addressing criticism that his party was triggering
political turmoil, Citizens List’s Virant, who favors an early
vote, blamed Jansa and said the crisis began when the anti-
corruption commission presented its findings.  Jansa said he will appeal the findings, which he called a
“political inquisition.”  Sustersic helped pass legislation to create the so-called
bad bank that will take non-performing loans from lenders such
as Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor. (KBMR) 
In exchange, the banks would receive government-guaranteed
bonds. Lawmakers also passed budgets for this year and next as
well as changes to the pension system to ease the burden on
public finances.  Gross domestic product fell 3.3 percent from a year earlier
in the third quarter, the third-biggest drop in the euro region
after Greece and  Portugal , as consumption slumped and exports to
Europe eased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  