-- S. Africa’s Oldest Private Equity Firm Targets East Africa
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-01-24T11:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/south-africa-s-oldest-private-equity-firm-sees-east-africa-deals.html
Ethos Private Equity Ltd.,  South
Africa ’s oldest private equity firm, is targeting investments in
the continent where oil-driven economic growth and a rising
middle class are boosting demand for goods and services.  The Johannesburg-based firm, which said yesterday it raised
$800 million for a sixth fund, expects to deploy the cash in the
next three to four years in countries such as Kenya and
 Tanzania , Chief Executive Officer Andre Roux said in a telephone
interview from the South African city yesterday.  “In a world starved of growth, sub-Saharan  Africa  has
become an investment bright spot,” Roux said yesterday,
referring to economic growth in African countries of between 5
percent and 6 percent. “The consumer is clearly an important
area of growth but that’s not just limited to retail, but to
industrial services that serve the oil industry.”  Kenya , which announced its first discovery of oil last
year, and Tanzania, which has offshore gas reserves, are two
countries where growth could mirror that of oil-rich West
African nations, Roux said.  Ethos  will only consider raising
more funds after it has spent at least 70 percent of its
existing undeployed cash and is also reviewing exits from
investments made for the previous fund, Fund V, he said.  ‘Big Boost’  “In the medium term the big boost is oil in Kenya and
continued exploration for oil in  Uganda ,” Cavan Osborne, a
portfolio manager at Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa,
said in a telephone interview from  Cape Town  today. With African
stock markets often being small and illiquid, private-equity
firms have a role to play in accessing some of the continent’s
growth opportunities, he said.  Sub-Saharan Africa’s gross domestic product will expand 5.7
percent in 2013 as commodity prices rise, making it the second
fastest-growing region after  developing countries  in  Asia , the
 International Monetary Fund  said Oct. 9. Kenya, the biggest
economy in east Africa, is forecast to grow 5.6 percent in 2013,
more than the 5.1 percent estimate for last year, the IMF said.  Ethos has already made two investments with the new Fund VI
and is weighing others after exceeding its target of raising
$750 million, Roux said. Ethos began raising cash about 24
months ago for the fund and has invested in Waco International
Ltd., a building, construction and scaffolding company, and
Kevro (Pty) Ltd., a clothing and gifts corporate branding
company, he said.  Ethos said in January last year that it bought a 72 percent
stake in Kevro for 850 million rand ($108 million). The firm
hasn’t publicly disclosed the amount it paid for Waco, Wilkinson
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  