-- South Korea Grows Less Than Forecast as Won Strengthens
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-01-24T00:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/south-korea-grows-less-than-forecast-as-won-gains-dim-outlook.html
South  Korea ’s economy expanded less
than analysts forecast in the fourth quarter as gains in the
won,  Asia ’s best performing currency of the past six months,
threaten to restrain exports in 2013.  Gross domestic product  grew 1.5 percent from a year
earlier, unchanged from the expansion in the third quarter, the
 Bank of Korea  said today. That compares with the median 1.8
percent estimate of 12 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
From a quarter ago, Asia’s fourth-largest economy grew 0.4
percent.  South Korea’s export growth may be capped this year as
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to drive down the
yen makes his nation’s products relatively cheaper. In Seoul,
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan yesterday signaled that Korean
officials may do more to ease currency volatility, aiding
exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co. that account for
nearly half of gross domestic product.  “ Japan  is trying to boost its economy by weakening the
currency for exporters at the expense of its consumers and other
countries,” said Lee Sung Kwon, an economist at Shinhan
Investment Corp. in Seoul. “ South Korea  will be hit the hardest
among others as it is in direct competition with Japan over many
products -- from cars to electronics.”  The Korean currency fell 0.1 percent to 1,067.50 per dollar
today in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won
rose 22 percent against the yen and 7.5 percent against the
dollar over the past six months. Exports unexpectedly fell last
month for the first time in three months.  Won’s Gains  Bahk, the finance minister, said yesterday that the won’s
gains may put exporters at risk, and that South Korea may raise
Japan’s policies with Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers next month in Moscow. Japan’s actions may harm a fragile
economic recovery, according to Michael Meister, parliamentary
finance spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party.  Japan’s top currency official pushed back against
international criticism of his nation’s monetary policy
yesterday evening, saying that the central bank isn’t engaged in
a competitive devaluation of the yen.  The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s stance is “aimed at ending persistent
deflation, so criticism that it’s a form of competitive
devaluation is misplaced,” Vice Finance Minister Takehiko Nakao
said in an interview in  Tokyo . “Recent developments toward a
weaker yen reflect the yen’s correction phase from one-sided and
excessive gains until last year.”  2013 Growth  The Bank of Korea lowered its forecast for the nation’s
2013 growth on Jan. 11 to 2.8 percent from an October estimate
of 3.2 percent. The economy will expand 3.8 percent next year,
and consumer inflation will accelerate to 2.8 percent from this
year’s 2.5 percent, according to the central bank’s projection.  Exports and construction investment fell quarter-on-quarter
while private consumption rose, the Bank of Korea said in a
statement. Lee Sang Jae, a senior economist at Hyundai
Securities Co. in Seoul, said that an  interest-rate  cut is
possible if growth falters on weak sentiment and a strong
currency.  South Korea’s incoming president, Park Geun Hye, will take
over a government that plans to spend 72 percent of the budget
in the first half of the year to aid a recovery. The government
already announced this week a number of financial support
measures for small exporters suffering from the strengthening of
the won.  “The economy has passed a bottom but the road ahead still
looks bumpy,” Lee Jae Hyung, a fixed-income analyst at  Tongyang
Securities Inc. (003470)  in Seoul, said before the release. “Policy
makers will likely wait and see the impact of the fiscal effort
before cutting the interest rate again.”  -- With assistance from Sungwoo Park and Rose Kim in Seoul and
 Michael Munoz  in  Hong Kong . Editors: Nicholas Wadhams, Paul
Panckhurst  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  