-- Sovereign, Structured Finance Ratings Getting ESMA Review
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-01-23T11:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/sovereign-structured-finance-ratings-getting-esma-review.html
The European Union’s top markets
regulator said it would review how credit-ratings companies
evaluate sovereign debt and structured products, following
concerns market volatility increased in the past year.  The market for structured products features “high
outstanding volume and ratings fluctuations,” the European
Securities and Markets Authority said in an e-mailed statement.
Meanwhile, ratings on sovereign debt will be probed because of
“their importance for credit markets and financial stability.”  EU lawmakers voted in favor of rules last week that would
place curbs on how credit-rating firms update markets about the
quality of government debt and give investors the right to sue
if they lose money because of poor quality or deliberately
distorted credit assessments.  “We are all aware of the influence that credit ratings
have had, and continue to have, on the EU’s financial markets,”
Steven Maijoor, ESMA chairman, said in the statement.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday
barred Egan-Jones Ratings Co. from grading government debt and
asset-backed securities for 18 months after settling claims the
company misled the regulator over how long it had been rating
the two asset classes.  The plans approved by EU lawmakers on curbing how credit-
ratings companies update markets about the quality of government
debt are meant to make it less likely ratings decisions roil
markets and give investors a recourse when ratings are off the
mark. European Parliament legislators, voting in Strasbourg,
 France , backed the plans in a compromise deal with the EU’s 27
governments, which must now sign off on the accord before it can
take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  