-- SSE Chief Marchant Quits After Leading Renewables Push
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-01-23T18:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/sse-ceo-marchant-quits-after-leading-utility-s-renewables-push.html
Ian Marchant, chief executive
officer of  SSE Plc (SSE) , stepped down after a decade of leading the
British power and gas utility’s push into renewable energy.  Deputy CEO Alistair Phillips-Davies will take over on July
1, SSE said today in a statement. Finance Director Gregor Alexander will have an expanded role deputizing for the chief
executive, according to the utility, which is the U.K.’s second-
biggest energy supplier.  “I need a change, the company needs a change,” Marchant,
51, said in a  video  posted on SSE’s website. He expects to do
“a number of different jobs” in the future, he said, ruling
out another “big, executive” role.  SSE produces about 29 percent of its power from renewable
sources including  wind turbines  and hydroelectric dams following
an investment program led by Marchant. The Perth, Scotland-based
utility is now the biggest generator of electricity from
renewables in the U.K. and Ireland. In 2011, SSE abandoned
efforts to build nuclear reactors.  “Marchant oversaw significant growth in the business and
improvement in its strategic position,” Edmund Reid, a U.K.
utilities analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said by phone. He
cited SSE figures showing the dividend grew 147 percent, market
capitalization 136 percent and energy customer numbers 106
percent since Marchant became CEO.  Jury Out  “He did move the company more towards renewable energy,
though it would be fair to say the jury is still out on the
financial success of that strategy,” Reid said.  Marchant, who joined SSE’s predecessor company Southern
Electric in 1992, has clashed with Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government in the past month on plans to reform energy
laws to spur development of atomic power and renewables. SSE
said Marchant’s departure has been in the works for some time.  “This is something that Ian informed the board of some
months ago, and the board has been working to ensure a very
orderly succession,” said Brian Lironi, a spokesman for SSE.  The U.K. government is making its biggest changes to the
energy market in two decades to lure investment in nuclear
generation and push utilities into replacing more than a dozen
power plants due to retire from service in the next 20 years.  Government Influence  The direction of the government’s clean energy policies
will alter SSE’s future renewable energy developments more than
Marchant’s departure, according Reid at JPMorgan.  Legislation detailed in an Energy Bill published in
November would provide new financial mechanisms and incentives
for low-carbon power such as nuclear and wind. The government
has yet to clarify how all of the measures would work.  Marchant on Jan. 14 wrote an article for the  Guardian
newspaper  expressing doubts about whether the arrangements could
keep the nation adequately supplied with power into the 2030s.  He had also criticized the government’s negotiations with
 Electricite de France SA  regarding the price for power from its
planned nuclear reactors, saying decisions were being made in
“smoke-filled rooms, over champagne and croissants.”  Phillips-Davies joined SSE’s predecessor Southern Electric
in 1997 and landed a seat on the board as energy supply director
in 2002. He was appointed as deputy CEO last year.  “I am leaving the company in good hands,” Marchant said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  