-- Standard Bank Says Physical Gold Purchases Unusually High
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-01-23T17:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/standard-bank-says-physical-gold-purchases-unusually-high.html
Physical gold demand has been
unusually strong for this time of year, with “good buying”
from Southeast Asia, according to Standard Bank Plc.  The Standard Bank Gold Physical Flow Index signaled demand
climbed to the highest since November, the bank wrote in an e-
mailed report yesterday. Purchases typically pick up toward the
end of the year amid religious festivals and the wedding season
in  India . Gold reached a four-week high of $1,696.28 an ounce in
London on Jan. 17.  India, the biggest buyer in 2011, raised taxes on gold
imports two days ago to reduce a record current-account deficit
and to moderate demand. Standard Chartered Plc said earlier this
month that its gold shipments to India soared on mounting
concern the duty would be raised. While gold has gained for the
past 12 years, the best run in at least nine decades, prices
dropped as much as 9.5 percent from October through Jan. 4.  “It was strong in November and that’s normally a usual
seasonal pattern that we see coming through from Indian post-
monsoon, wedding season buying,” Marc Ground, a commodity
strategist at Standard Bank in Johannesburg, said by phone
yesterday. “The fact that January is as high as we see in
November usually, that’s unusual. There was probably some Indian
buying ahead of this tariff increase.”  Central Banks  Bullion for immediate delivery rose 0.7 percent this year
to $1,687.57, after advancing 7.1 percent last year. It
rebounded above the 200-day moving average, currently at about
$1,663, earlier this month. Investors own 2,618.8 metric tons
through  exchange-traded products , a hoard valued at about $142
billion and bigger than the official reserves of all but two
nations, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gold gained last year as central banks from the U.S. to
 China  pledged more action to bolster economies. The  Bank of
Japan (8301)  said yesterday it will buy about 13 trillion yen ($147
billion) in assets per month from January 2014 and set a 2
percent inflation target.  “Gold should find support from the BOJ stimulus as the
liquidity created by the BOJ finds its way into the broader
global economy,” Standard Bank analyst Walter de Wet wrote in
the report. “We still expect $1,700 to provide resistance and
$1,660 to provide support. If gold manages to break through
$1,700, we would target $1,720.”  Import Duties  India raised import duties on gold and platinum to 6
percent immediately from 4 percent. A levy on gold ore,
concentrate and so-called dore bars for refining will be doubled
to 4 percent, and an excise tax on refined gold will climb to 5
percent from 3 percent. About 80 percent of India’s current-
account deficit, the broadest measure of trade, tracking goods,
services and investment income, is due to gold imports,
according to the Reserve Bank of India.  UBS AG said its gold flows to India on Jan. 21, when the
tax revision was announced, were about twice the average. Indian
purchases “paused” yesterday and may be “muted” in the next
few days as buyers wait for clarity on details related to the
change in import taxes, a typical response following such an
announcement, the bank wrote today in a report.  Buying gold is considered auspicious in India during
religious festivals and weddings. The festivals start in August
and end in November, and are followed by the wedding season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  