-- Stanford Investors Must Repay Bogus CD Profits, Judge Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-01-23T17:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/stanford-investors-must-repay-bogus-cd-profits-judge-says-1-.html
R. Allen Stanford’s defrauded
investors must repay any interest they earned on the bogus
certificates of deposit at the heart of the convicted  Texas 
financier’s $7 billion Ponzi scheme, a Dallas judge ruled.  About 800 investors had urged U.S. District Judge David Godbey to reject lawsuits by Ralph Janvey, Stanford’s court-
appointed receiver, seeking recovery of more than $220 million
in profits they’d taken out of Stanford’s scheme before it was
shut down by U.S. securities regulators in February 2009.  “The court recognizes that forcing net winners to pay back
interest payments will cause some pain,” Godbey wrote in a
32-page order released today in federal court in Dallas. “But
for victims of a Ponzi scheme, everyone is a loser. And the net
winners will be in far better shape, having recovered at least
their principal, than most Stanford victims, who lost
everything.”  Godbey ruled that while investors have legitimate claims to
recover the money they originally invested in a fraud scheme,
they have no contractual claim to any interest from those funds
because investment contracts with a  Ponzi scheme  are
unenforceable.  Fictitious Payments  “Judge Godbey agreed with the receiver’s position that the
fictitious interest payments that Stanford made to investors on
their Stanford International bank CDs simply represented money
taken from one set of investors and paid to another; it was just
part of Stanford’s efforts that kept the Ponzi scheme going for
well over a decade,” Kevin Sadler, Janvey’s lead attorney, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of stealing more than
$2 billion in investor deposits at his Antigua-based bank to
fund a lavish personal lifestyle and bankroll money-losing
private enterprises ranging from Caribbean airlines to cricket
tournaments. He is serving a 110-year sentence in a Florida
federal prison while he appeals that verdict.  Janvey has asked Godbey’s permission to distribute
$55 million of the funds he has recovered from Stanford’s estate
to more than 17,000 investors within the next few months. That
payment represents about one cent on the dollar of the funds
investors lost through the scheme, according to court documents.  The case is Janvey v. Alguire et al, 3:09-cv-0724, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 