-- Stephens Stays Calm to Oust Her Idol Williams at Australian Open
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-23T13:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/stephens-stays-calm-to-oust-her-idol-williams-at-australian-open.html
Sloane Stephens kept her cool before
her family lost theirs to oust her idol  Serena Williams  from the
Australian Open and reach her first tennis Grand Slam semifinal.  Stephens, a 19-year-old from  Florida , fought back to win
the all-U.S. quarterfinal 3-6, 7-5, 6-4 at Melbourne Park
yesterday and secure her first career win against a top 10-
ranked player. She’ll face defending-champion Victoria Azarenka
today for a place in the Jan. 26 final.  The only teenager ranked in the top 50 on the women’s tour,
Stephens went immediately for her smart phone after ending
Williams’s 20-match winning streak, only to be frustrated.  “I couldn’t really do anything because the messages were
coming in, so I couldn’t read anything,” Stephens said in a
news conference. “I was like, wait, this is pointless, so I
just put it down. I couldn’t reach my mom. I called my brother
and he couldn’t even talk. He was like, freaking out. I was
like, OK, where’s mom? Never mind. Bye.”  Stephens, whose late father, John, was an All-Pro running
back with the  National Football League ’s  New England Patriots ,
stayed focused when Williams, a 15-time major champion, received
treatment for a back injury that restricted her movement and
reduced her serving power.  “I kind of just was hanging out,” said Stephens, the 29th
seed. “I kind of go through some things in my head and then
look and see what my coach is doing. And he was eating a chicken
sandwich when that happened.”  Prize Money  By becoming the first American teenager to reach a Grand
Slam semifinal since Williams at the 2001  U.S. Open , Stephens
guaranteed herself a check of at least $A500,000 ($527,000).  She’d entered the tournament with career prize money of
$694,995, compared with a women’s-tour record $41.9 million for
Williams.  “She’s a good player,” Williams, 31, said after the loss.
“She runs fast and she gets a lot of balls back. That’s always
a plus to have.”  The additional funds may not mean Stephens goes on a
spending spree. She said that she would try to avoid replying to
her more than 200 well-wishing  text messages  because of concerns
over racking up a big bill.  “I thought it was free to receive text messages, but
someone told me otherwise,” Stephens said. “I’m still trying
to figure out what I’m going to do, because otherwise my phone
bill is going to be crazy and my mom is going to be like, ‘Oh my
God, your phone bill.’”  Stephens also discovered that the number of followers on
her  Twitter account  had more than doubled to 35,000. Among those
to congratulate her on the social networking site were four-time
National Basketball Association champion Shaquille O’Neal and
three-time U.S. Open winner  Kim Clijsters  of  Belgium .  ‘Great News’  “Just woke up to great news!” Clijsters, who was one of
Stephens’s three tennis idols growing up along with Serena
Williams and her older sister  Venus Williams , said on Twitter.
“Have been a fan of you for a couple years now! Well done
girl!”  Stephens’s best performance in six previous Grand Slam
tournaments was reaching the fourth round of the  French Open 
last year. She has never played Azarenka.  The defending champion from Belarus said she was aware of
Stephens’s development over the last couple of years.  “Her game has come together,” said Azarenka, who broke
through for her first major title in Melbourne 12 months ago.  Stephens, who was introduced to tennis at age 9 by her
mother, said the magnitude of her accomplishment in getting to
the final four of a Grand Slam only hit her in the locker room.  “I was stretching and I was like, ‘I’m in the semis of a
Grand Slam,’” she said. “I was like, ‘Whoa. It wasn’t as hard
as I thought.’ But it’s pretty cool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  