-- Sugar Mills to Lose $1.1 Billion on Record Cane: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-01-24T10:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/sugar-mills-to-lose-1-1-billion-on-record-cane-corporate-india.html
Sugar mills in  India , the biggest
producer after Brazil, are set to lose about 60 billion rupees
($1.1 billion) this year as record cane prices and surging
imports prompt them to sell below production cost.  Factories in Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra states,
accounting for 65 percent of the nation’s output, are selling
sugar at least 11 percent below cost, Abinash Verma, director
general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said in a phone
interview. Producers may report financial losses if a slump in
sugar prices isn’t stemmed by halting cheap imports, said Vivek Saraogi, managing director of  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM)   Producers are riled by a government policy that sets limits
on sales by each mill to cap sugar prices, while states fix cane
rates to help about 50 million farmers, a powerful voting bloc,
earn more. Local sugar futures have tumbled for four straight
months from August’s 20-month high. Falling prices of the
sweetener may erode profit margins at companies including  Bajaj
Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH) , Balrampur and  Dhampur Sugar Mills Ltd. (DSM)  and
delay payment to cane growers.  “The fact is that the government induces a high cost,”
Saraogi said in a telephone interview. “At least it must ensure
that imports don’t come in.”  Sugar production in the country may decline as farmers
switch to more profitable crops such as cotton, soybeans and
wheat, potentially turning the world’s biggest consumer of the
sweetener into an importer in 2013-2014, according to  Vinay
Kumar , managing director of the  National Federation of
Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd.   Eroding Margins  The northern state of Uttar Pradesh raised cane prices by
as much as 17 percent to a record for the 2012-2013 crop, while
rates in Maharashtra were raised 22 percent. That’s led to a
pile-up of dues to growers of as much as 29.87 billion rupees in
 Uttar Pradesh  alone, Verma said. Arrears will increase if sugar
prices don’t improve, he said.  Apart from limits on sales, mills must also sell 10 percent
of their output typically below market rates to the government
for resale to the poor at a subsidized cost to shield them from
food inflation.  “Cane prices have gone up while sugar prices have
fallen,” Parineeta Poddar, an analyst with ICICIdirect said in
a phone interview. “Higher cane costs will erode margins of
companies, reducing their earnings.”  Share Slump  The operating margin of Bajaj Hindusthan, the nation’s
biggest sugar producer,  narrowed  to 13 percent in the 12 months
ended March 31, from an average 17 percent in the previous four
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge of
profitability shrank to 11 percent at Balrampur Chini, the
second-biggest, from as high as 27 percent in 2009.  Shares of Uttar Pradesh-based mills have fallen in the past
three months. Balrampur Chini fell 36 percent, Dhampur Sugar has
dropped 30 percent during the same period, while Bajaj
Hindusthan has plunged 26 percent. Bajaj Hindusthan fell 1.7
percent to 22.55 rupees, Balrampur dropped 0.8 percent to 43.30
rupees, while Dhampur declined 2.1 percent to 47.30 rupees in
Mumbai today.  Sugar slumped 16 percent in 2012 in  New York  because of a
second year of glut and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  on Jan. 14 cut
its forecast to 18.5 cents a pound in three and six months from
an earlier estimate of 22 cents, citing rising inventories. The
contract for delivery in February on the National Commodity &
Derivatives Exchange Ltd. fell for a fifth day, losing 0.5
percent to 3,197 rupees ($59.4) per 100 kilograms (220 pounds).  Brazil Output  Indian refiners, seeking to profit from a slump in global
prices, have contracted to import about 919,000 tons of raw
sugar since Oct. 1, including about 190,000 tons for sale in the
local market, Verma said. That’s more than the combined imports
in the previous two years, according to U.S. Department of
Agriculture data. Inbound shipments will increase in the coming
months if the government doesn’t raise taxes, he said.  Sugar-cane growers in  Brazil ’s Center South, the world’s
largest producing region, may harvest more than previously
forecast as rainfall benefits crops, said Antonio de Padua Rodrigues, technical director at industry association Unica.  Mills want the Indian government to immediately raise the
import tax on white and raw sugar to 60 percent from 10 percent
to prevent inflows, said M. Srinivaasan president of the mills
association.  “Mills will start making losses if imports are not
banned,” Saraogi said. Producers also shouldn’t be asked to
sell 10 percent of their output below cost to the government if
the factories have to stay profitable, he said.  Trending Down  Balrampur Chini posted profit of 488.8 million rupees in
the quarter ended Sept. 30 compared with losses in the preceding
three-month period and a year earlier. Dhampur Sugar’s net
income climbed to 107.93 million rupees in the quarter ended
Sept. 30 from 30.77 million rupees a year earlier and 64.23
million rupees in the preceding quarter. Bajaj Hindusthan posted
losses in four of the last five quarters that ended Sept. 30.  “Profitability margins of sugar firms could continue to
trend downwards because of higher cane costs and lower extent of
pass-through to prices, lower world sugar prices and
consequently lower export realizations,” according to IMaCS, a
unit of credit rating company  ICRA Ltd. (ICRA)   Earnings from sale of ethanol, molasses and electricity
won’t be enough to bridge the drop in profitability from sugar
sales, Ashwini Picardo and Carrol D’Silva, analysts at India
Ratings & Research, a unit of Fitch Group, said in a report. In
2012, “high cash flows from by-products had cushioned stressed
margins from sugar operations. However, such support from by-
products will not be sufficient in 2013,” they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  