-- Suicide of Minister Turns Focus on Crash Taking Toll in Ireland
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-01-23T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/suicide-of-minister-turns-focus-on-crash-taking-toll-in-ireland.html
On Christmas Eve, Irish Prime
Minister  Enda Kenny  paid a graveside tribute to an ally who
helped bring him to power amid the worst economic crisis in
Ireland’s modern history.  Shane McEntee was a “true friend and confidante, who
listened to other people’s problems and made them his own,”
Kenny said in his speech, after 3,000 people attended the
funeral of the food minister. Three days earlier, McEntee had
taken his own life. He was 56 with four children.  While financial hardship has led to a spate of suicides in
parts of austerity-hit Europe, the deaths of McEntee and the son
of well-known restaurant owners less than a week later have
turned the national spotlight onto the issue in Ireland.  Since the end of the Celtic Tiger era in 2007, the number
of people taking their own lives has risen by about 15 percent,
and that figure only includes those officially recorded as such
in a country where suicide historically was taboo. Over the same
period, the economy contracted by 11 percent as banks collapsed,
while the jobless rate tripled to almost 15 percent.  “Unemployment and financial problems can be a trigger
event, especially in the course of a very speedy recession,”
said Ella Arensman, director of the  National Suicide Research
Foundation  in Cork. “Paradoxically, as the problems worsen,
austerity means we have less to spend on prevention.”  Suffering Abuse  It’s hard to tell how much of a role the economy has
played, according to Arensman, who said there’s a “complex”
mix of factors behind the increase. The two biggest underlying
causes are alcohol abuse and depression.  In McEntee’s case, his brother placed at least some of the
blame on pressure through social media, after defending the
spending cuts in the 2013 budget, when the government reduced
money for respite care for the disabled.  “Shame on you people, you faceless cowards who sent him
horrible messages on the website and text,” Gerry McEntee said
at the funeral, according to  comments  cited by broadcaster RTE.  While the minister was in his 50s, statistics show a much
larger increase in cases of suicide among men under 30. The
level of  self-harm  in that group has risen by about a third
since 2007, the height of the economic boom, according to the
suicide research foundation.  “What we can say is that a speedy recession exposes the
vulnerable,” said Arensman.  No Accident  Three days after McEntee’s funeral, Andrew Clarke, the 16-
year son of one of Ireland’s best-known restaurateurs, took his
own life. Initial media reports indicated he had died after his
Volkswagen Jetta fell on him while he was working on it.  His parents, Derry and Sallyanne, who run the Michelin-
starred  L’Ecrivain  restaurant in Dublin, disclosed that it
hadn’t been the case after his funeral on Jan. 5.  “For the four days our son lay in a coma we prayed and
hoped for a miracle, and if he survived we didn’t want him to be
stigmatized by his actions in a moment of madness,” they said
in an e-mailed statement released on Jan. 12. “It was not our
intention to mislead; we were, and remain, so very distraught.”  It’s a plight becoming increasingly familiar to the
families of young Irish men. Between 2000 and 2007, as Ireland’s
economy outpaced the rest of  Europe , the total number of
suicides fell 12 percent to 458 cases. By 2011, the latest
figures available, the number had risen to 525, or about  11.5 
per 100,000, up from about 10.3 in 2007.  To an extent, that may understate the problem. In some
incidents where open verdicts were recorded at death inquests,
there were similarities with cases of self-harm based on
psychological and social characteristics, indicating hidden
suicides, according to Arensman.  European Deaths  Ireland is on a par with European averages. Among men under
30, Ireland is the fifth-highest in the European Union,
according to the  World Health Organization.  Other countries
bearing the brunt of austerity measures amid Europe’s debt
crisis have also been affected.  In  Spain , the government said on Nov. 9 it would speed
measures aimed at ending evictions after a woman committed
suicide as officials tried to remove her from her home for
defaulting on the mortgage.  A Greek former deputy interior minister was found dead in a
suspected suicide in October, while in April a retired
pharmacist shot himself in the head near the parliament in
 Athens . A note he left blamed economic hardship.  In the U.K., suicides per 100,000 people jumped to 11.8 in
2011 from 11.1 a year before, the  Office for National Statistics 
 said yesterday . It was the highest rate for males since 2002.  Financial Strain  Back in Cork, Arensman sifted through 190 cases of suicides
in the course of her research. Some 38 percent were unemployed.
A third had worked in construction, the part of the economy that
has suffered the biggest collapse since the downturn.  The recession has had a “massive impact,” said Paul
Kelly, who set up support service  Console  in 2002 after a family
member died through suicide.  “I was speaking to a woman who said her home was going to
be repossessed, the family car was already repossessed by the
bank and her children were distraught while her husband was
burying his head in the sand,” Kelly said in an interview.
“She said she didn’t see a way out.”  Funding for prevention has also suffered, he said. Kelly
said the government reduced its subsidy for Console, by about 7
percent over the last four years.  “We’ve seen cuts in our funding for the last few years,
even as demand for our services has increased, so the crash has
hit us in every way,” said Kelly. “We’ve dealt with builders
and developers who saw everything collapse around them. They
don’t see a future; they just see disaster ahead.”  German Example  More is being done in healthier economies to tackle mental
illness. The rate of suicide in  Germany  dropped 15 percent
between 1999 and 2011 following a campaign that included
limiting access to toxic substances and bridges, according to
Arensman. The program also included training for health-care
workers and raising public awareness.  While some signs are emerging that that worst of the
economic collapse is over in Ireland, unemployment is still at
14.6 percent, close to the highest level since the 1980s. One in
four mortgages is in trouble, according to the central bank.  At the funeral of his minister and friend, Prime Minister
Kenny asked people to be aware of the “capacity of a kind word
to change, comfort or heal,” he said. “Goodbye Shane. I shall
see you further on up the road.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  