-- Suzlon Sees 225 Megawatts of Brazil Turbine Sales Amid Loan Ban
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-01-23T18:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/suzlon-sees-225-megawatts-of-brazil-turbine-sales-amid-loan-ban.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s biggest
wind-turbine maker, expects sales in Brazil to surge to 225
megawatts this quarter, even after the country’s development
bank suspended financing for projects using its equipment.  The company will close deals worth 1.2 billion reais
($588.7 million) for wind farms this quarter, according to
Arthur Lavieri, chief executive officer of Suzlon’s Brazil unit.
The company sold 152 megawatts of turbines for two Brazilian
power projects last year.  Demand for turbines in Brazil will more than double this
year from 2012 to 2,024 megawatts, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. The country is seeking to ensure that domestic
suppliers benefit and stopped offering loans in May for
purchases of equipment from Suzlon and four other non-Brazilian
companies that it said weren’t using enough locally produced
components. That hasn’t slowed sales, Lavieri said.  “The majority of the customers already know that for a
large time they will need to have their own resources” to
finance turbine purchases, Lavieri said yesterday in an
interview in Alphaville,  Brazil .  The company expects to invest as much as $25 million to
expand its supply chain to meet Brazil’s local content rules,
including opening a factory in 2014 to assemble nacelles, the
car-sized units that house the gears, electronics and other
machinery, he said.  Manufacturers are required to source at least 60 percent of
their components in Brazil and Suzlon’s rate is now 68 percent,
he said. The company expects the development bank, Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social, to lift the
financing ban, and Lavieri said he doesn’t know when that will
happen.  Meeting Requirements  Suzlon has gone through two audits to show compliance since
the loan freeze took effect last year, he said. “We delivered
all the documentation. Right now we’re just waiting for them to
issue the resolution.”  The lending ban affects two projects under construction
using 130 megawatts of Suzlon turbines, he said. They won’t be
affected by new rules that took effect this month for contracts
signed starting in December 2011 and require turbine companies
to produce or assemble most of their equipment within the
country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  