-- Swansea Beats Chelsea, Reaches First Final in 100-Year History
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-24T00:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/swansea-beats-chelsea-to-reach-english-league-cup-soccer-final.html
Swansea reached the first major cup
final in its 100-year history after a goalless draw with Chelsea
in English soccer’s League Cup.  The result last night in Wales was enough to give Swansea
victory in the two-match series following its 2-0 win in  London 
two weeks ago. The Swans will face Bradford, which plays in the
fourth level, on Feb. 24 at Wembley Stadium in London.  “To do it over two legs against a team like Chelsea,
tonight we made history,” midfielder Leon Britton told  Sky
Sports .  Chelsea finished the match with 10 men after Eden Hazard
was red carded in the 80th minute for kicking a ball boy who
wouldn’t give him the ball back prior to a goal kick.  The boy went to the ground as Hazard tried to get the ball
and the Chelsea winger tried to kick the ball from under the
youngster. Players from both teams went over to tend to the boy,
who walked away holding his side as referee Chris Foy showed
Hazard the card.  “The boy put his whole body onto the ball and I was just
trying to kick the ball, and I think I kicked the ball and not
the boy,” Hazard told Chelsea TV. “The ball boy came in the
changing room and we had a quick chat and I apologized and the
boy apologized as well, and it’s over. Sorry.”  Chelsea coach  Rafael Benitez  said the ball boy was guilty
of time wasting and Hazard was at fault for letting his
frustration get the better of him. Team officials “will talk to
the player. We will deal with this internally,” Benitez said.  Chelsea made an early penalty claim as Demba Ba went down
under a challenge from Ben Davies. Swansea broke on a counter
attack and Wayne Routledge’s volley was deflected over the goal
for a corner kick.  Swansea Chances  Chelsea goalkeeper  Petr Cech  then stopped a shot from
Swansea’s leading scorer Miguel Michu, who signed a new four-
year contract yesterday, while Swansea’s Angel Rangel cleared
 Gary Cahill ’s header off the line. Ba then sent a shot over the
goal just before halftime.  Ba curled a shot wide of the post early in the second half
and Swansea goalkeeper Gerhard Tremmel saved  Juan Mata ’s attempt.
Hazard was then shown his red card, ending Chelsea’s chances of
reaching the final.  “We were playing with 10 players, had problems and needed
to score three goals,” Benitez said. “We couldn’t. That’s the
main thing.”  Bradford eliminated Aston Villa 4-3 on aggregate two nights
ago to also reach its first League Cup final. The Bantams, who
are 10th in League Two, are the first club from the fourth tier
to reach the championship game in  England ’s second-tier cup
competition since Rochdale in 1962.  “This final is between the small fairytale and the huge
fairy tale,” Swansea manager Michael Laudrup told Sky Sports.
“If we are the small fairy tale, what can you say about
Bradford?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 