-- Swiss Stocks Snap Three Days of Losses; Novarti Advances
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-01-23T10:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/swiss-stocks-snap-three-days-of-losses-novarti-advances.html
Swiss stocks  rose, after three days
of losses, as  Novartis AG (NOVN)  gained after reporting better-than-
expected profit, and before the U.S. House of Representatives
votes to suspend the country’s borrowing limit.  Novartis AG climbed 4 percent after fourth-quarter earnings
beat estimates and it appointed a new chairman.  SGS SA (SGSN)  and
 Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  advanced at least 1.6 percent after the
shares were upgraded at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG, respectively.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 1 percent to 7,366.17 at 11:50
a.m. in Zurich, after the biggest three-day slide in more than
two months. The gauge has rallied 8  percent  so far in 2013, the
best start to a year since the measure was formed in 1988. The
broader Swiss Performance Index also added 1 percent today.  “Novartis’s numbers could give the market support today,”
Peter Buergler, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG, wrote in a
note to clients. “Numerous upgrades from various analysts also
give the SMI some foundation today. It seems as if the market
didn’t give investors too much time to engage amid low stock
prices.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the equity benchmark was 60 percent greater than the average of
the last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., the Republican-led House will vote today to
pass legislation suspending the government’s $16.4 trillion debt
limit until May 19. At that point, the U.S. borrowing authority
would be automatically increased to accommodate the amount the
Treasury borrows during those three months.  Spending Cuts  By postponing a decision on raising the debt ceiling,
Republicans plan to focus on other deadlines to seek deeper
spending cuts from President  Barack Obama  and Congressional
Democrats. Lawmakers have until March 1 before automatic
spending reductions start and until the end of that month to
pass a bill to fund the government.  Swiss investor confidence rose in January for the fourth
straight month to the highest level since May 2012.  An index of investor and analyst expectations that aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance climbed to
minus 6.9 from minus 15.5 in December, the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research in  Mannheim ,  Germany , and Zurich-
based Credit Suisse Group AG said in a statement today.  In a speech in Frankfurt late yesterday, European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the “darkest clouds” over the
euro area have receded because of policy steps taken last year,
including the introduction of an unlimited bond-buying plan.  Novartis Gains  Novartis added 4 percent to 62.50 Swiss francs after saying
Chairman  Daniel Vasella  will step down from the board after 17
years, and Bayer AG’s Joerg Reinhardt will take over as non-
executive chairman.  Earnings excluding some costs climbed 3 percent to $3.1
billion, or $1.27 a share, in the fourth quarter from $3
billion, or $1.23, a year ago, the company said in a statement.
Analysts had predicted profit of $1.25 a share, the average of
14  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  SGS advanced 1.6 percent to 2,162 francs, its highest price
since at least 1989. Goldman raised its recommendation on the
world’s largest product-inspection company to buy from neutral,
saying it expects 2013 to be a key year for margin progress.  Straumann, the world’s biggest maker of dental implants,
gained 2.6 percent to 120.70 francs. Credit Suisse upgraded its
rating on the stock to outperform, meaning investors should buy
the shares, from neutral, citing the company’s cost-reduction
program and benefits from a weakened franc.  Adecco Raised  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest provider of temporary
workers, rose 1.8 percent to 52.50 francs, its highest level
since July 2011. Exane BNP Paribas raised its price estimate for
the shares by 17 percent to 62 francs, citing its resilient
margins.  Ascom Holding AG (ASCN)  surged 5 percent to 9.92 francs, its
highest price since October 2011. The Swiss provider of mobile
communications said its operating margin almost tripled in the
second half as it cut costs at the network-testing unit.  Ascom implemented measures to reduce costs at its network-
testing unit by 20 million francs ($21.5 million) in 2013, the
Dubendorf-based company said in a statement today. The unit’s
second-half sales were 15 percent higher than in the first half,
bringing its full-year revenue to about 130 million francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  