-- Symantec Rises as Revenue Beats Estimates: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n   a n d   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-01-23T19:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/symantec-revenue-tops-estimates-schulman-named-board-chairman.html
Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the biggest maker of
antivirus software, advanced to the highest price since 2008
after reporting fiscal third-quarter sales and profit that beat
estimates, aided by strong demand for data-management tools.  The shares rose 3 percent to $21.49 at 2:53 p.m. in  New
York , and earlier touched $21.82, the highest intraday price
since September 2008. Revenue for the period, which ended Dec.
28, rose 4.4 percent to $1.79 billion from the same period a
year earlier, the  Mountain View , California-based company said
today in a statement. Analysts on average had projected sales of
$1.74 billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales for storage and server-management, the company’s
biggest business, climbed 7.8 percent to $666 million, while
revenue from security tools gained 3.3 percent. Chief Executive
Officer Steve Bennett is expected to outline a strategic plan
after the close of markets today that may include divestitures
and across-the-board cost cuts as the company works to beef up
storage and security products, said  Daniel Ives , an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets.  “There’s a lot of anticipation about tonight with the
strategic update,” Ives said in an interview. “They’re kinda
playing the role of comeback kid.”  Profit excluding some items was 45 cents a share, topping
analysts’ 38 cent average projection.  Non-Executive Chairman  The company bought back $200 million of shares in the
period. Symantec also named  Dan Schulman  as non-executive
chairman, a role previously held by Bennett.  Bennett, the former CEO of  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  was named to the top
Symantec post in July after the board ousted  Enrique Salem .  After losing market share in data-storage to EMC Corp. and
International Business Machines Corp., Symantec has faced
pressure to sell or spin off that division, said  Steve Ashley ,
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. The unexpected growth in
storage in the quarter now makes a divestiture less likely, he
said.  “Clearly there were areas of surprise, the biggest being
growth in the storage business,” Ashley said in an interview.  Instead of paring storage, Symantec may instead choose to
cut costs by eliminating jobs in other areas and by streamlining
administrative tasks, he said.  “I think we’re going to hear them say this is a company
that has made dozens of acquisitions over time, and those
acquisitions have not been on a back-office basis fully
assimilated,” Ashley said.  Symantec has scheduled a Webcast for 4:30 p.m. New York
time to discuss “strategic direction, operational plan, capital
allocation strategy and financial results, including guidance,”
the company said in the statement.  Cris Paden, a spokesman for Symantec, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Baker in New York at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  