-- U.K. Homebuilders Fall as JPMorgan Downgrades: London Mover
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-01-23T17:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/u-k-homebuilders-fall-as-jpmorgan-questions-value-london-mover.html
U.K. homebuilders fell the most in
four months after JPMorgan Chase & Co. said a moderate housing
market improvement is already accounted for in their share
prices.  The  Bloomberg EMEA Homebuilders Index (BEUHBLD)  slumped by 2.6
percent, the biggest drop since Sept. 26. Redrow Plc led the
declines at 4.3 percent and  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the U.K.’s
largest homebuilder by volume, fell 3.6 percent. Both were cut
to underweight by analyst Emily Biddulph.  The index, composed of the U.K.’s seven biggest publicly
traded homebuilders, gained 70 percent last year as higher
selling prices and improved margins helped overcome the
country’s stuttering economy and a lack of mortgage lending.
While some economic indicators show signs of improvement, it’s
unclear how those will affect the market, Biddulph wrote.  “The sector is now pricing in a near-term meaningful
improvement in housing market conditions,” Biddulph wrote in
the note. “Although we continue to see some medium-term value
in the sector and see little risk to consensus earnings
estimates, we see near-term risk to sentiment.”  Bovis Homes Group Plc was also cut to underweight. Bellway
Plc and  Taylor Wimpey Plc  were downgraded to neutral by the New
York-based bank and Persimmon Plc was kept at neutral.  Britain is facing the prospect of a triple-dip recession
this year, hurting efforts by potential homebuyers to save for a
deposit. Weekly pay growth slowed to an annual 1.5 percent in
the three months through November, while pay increases excluding
bonuses eased to 1.4 percent, the lowest since June 2010. That
compares with an inflation rate of 2.7 percent in December.  Taylor Wimpey remains Biddulph’s preferred stock because of
its valuation and its land for building, she said. Shares of the
U.K.’s second-biggest homebuilder by volume fell 3.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  