-- U.K. Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Fall to 1 1/2-Year Low: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-23T11:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/u-k-jobless-claims-unexpectedly-fall-to-1-1-2-year-low-1-.html
U.K.  jobless claims  unexpectedly
fell in December and a quarterly measure of unemployment also
dropped, underlining the resilience of the labor market in the
face of a weak economic recovery.  Unemployment claims declined by 12,100 from November to
1.56 million, the lowest since June 2011, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. In the quarter through
November,  unemployment  measured by International Labour
Organisation methods fell to 7.7 percent, the lowest since the
three months through April 2011. The report also showed that
wage growth slowed.  The jobs market remains the bright spot in the economy,
which may have shrank in the  fourth quarter  and is facing the
threat of a triple-dip recession. The Bank of England’s Monetary
Policy Committee voted 8-1 to leave its  bond-purchase program 
unchanged this month and said today recent developments
“strengthened” the view among some officials that no more
stimulus is needed.  “It continues to be surprising that employment is growing
so strongly when the economy is flat-lining,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “The
weakness of pay growth helps. The economy may grow this year,
albeit slowly.”  The median forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News
Survey was for jobless claims to increase by 500 in December.
The unemployment rate on that basis remained at 4.8 percent.  Payrolls Growth  Employment rose 90,000 during the quarter through November,
taking the total to 29.7 million, the ONS said. That’s the
highest since records began in 1971. The employment rate of 71.4
percent is at the highest since February-April 2009. The ILO
unemployment level fell by 37,000 to 2.49 million, a 10th
consecutive decline. The unemployment rate has come down from a
peak of 8.4 percent in December 2011.  The labor-market report showed that consumers remain under
pressure from subdued wage increases.  Weekly pay growth  slowed
to an annual 1.5 percent in the three months through November,
while pay excluding bonuses rose 1.4 percent, the least since
June 2010. That compares with  inflation  of 2.7 percent.  At the same time, threats to the labor market remain.
Carmaker Honda Motor Co. said this month it will eliminate as
many as 800 jobs in the U.K. this year. Thousands of jobs are
also at risk after retailers including  HMV Group Plc (HMV)  and
Blockbuster Entertainment Ltd. entered administration.  Currency Impact  In the minutes of its Jan. 9-10 meeting, the BOE said
“substantial headwinds to recovery remained,” though it noted
“modestly positive recent developments.” Governor Mervyn King
said yesterday that a “gentle recovery” may be under way.  BOE policy makers also warned in the minutes that the
sterling real exchange rate “might be above the level
compatible with the necessary rebalancing of the economy.”  “Sterling has been the favored whipping boy of monetary
policy makers for years,” said Philip Rush, an economist at
Nomura International Plc in London. “So this is not a new tune,
but the volume is being turned up.”  Separately today, Australian  consumer prices  gained less
than economists forecast last quarter, pushing down the local
dollar and giving the central bank scope to reduce interest
rates. The trimmed mean gauge of core prices rose 0.6 percent
from the prior quarter, compared with the median forecast for a
0.7 percent gain. The broader consumer price index advanced 0.2
percent, half the forecast increase.  Clouds Part  In the euro area, an index of  consumer sentiment  probably
rose to minus 26 this month from minus 26.5 in December,
economists said before a report today. The Bank of Spain said
that the nation’s recession deepened in the last quarter of
2012, with gross domestic product falling 0.6 percent from the
previous three months, when it slipped 0.3 percent.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said yesterday
the “darkest clouds” over the euro area have lifted due to
decisive policy steps last year. King used similar language in
his speech, saying strengthening banks and implementing
structural reforms could help “roll back the black cloud of
uncertainty darkening the outlook for demand.”  The Washington-based International Monetary Fund is
scheduled to release an update to its World Economic Outlook
today. The U.S. Mortgage Bankers Association will report
mortgage applications for the week ended Jan. 18, while a survey
predicted the U.S.  Federal Housing Finance Agency  will say home
prices gained 0.7 percent in November from the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  