-- U.K. Unlikely to Keep Market Access in Exit: Pissarides
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-01-23T12:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/u-k-unlikely-to-keep-market-access-in-exit-pissarides.html
Britain’s assumption that it will
retain full access to European Union markets if it leaves the
27-nation bloc is unrealistic, said Nobel economics laureate
 Christopher Pissarides .  The expectation in the U.K. “is that Britain can continue
to have free trade relations with Europe” yet “be outside the
union in terms of the budget, in terms of political decisions,”
Pissarides said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today
in Davos. “I don’t think that’s a very realistic view.”  The comments came after Prime Minister  David Cameron 
promised a referendum by the end of 2017 on whether the U.K.
should leave the EU, describing British backing for the status
quo in Europe as “wafer thin.” Cameron was responding to calls
by lawmakers in his  Conservative Party  for looser ties with the
bloc or an outright departure.  European leaders have rejected his demands to renegotiate
membership terms.  Switzerland and Norway have such access “but they are
small countries and they’re just going along with the European
decisions,” Pissarides said. “They’re not too concerned about
the politics, they don’t want to be world leaders, they don’t
have special relationships with the U.S.”  President  Barack Obama  told Cameron last week that the U.S.
“values a strong U.K. in a strong European Union,” according
to a White House readout of a call between the two leaders.  Pissarides, a professor at the  London School of Economics ,
also said he doesn’t expect a global currency war anytime soon.  “The chances we’re going to get a currency war are very
very small,” he said. “There might be more pressure on  China 
to appreciate, and that could bring some retaliation. But China
is appreciating little by little, so I don’t see it as too
serious a concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  