-- U.K. Stocks Climb to Highest Since 2008; Unilever Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-23T17:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/u-k-stocks-climb-to-highest-since-2008-unilever-gains.html
U.K. stocks  climbed, extending the
 FTSE 100 Index (UKX) ’s highest level since May 2008, as unemployment
unexpectedly fell and Prime Minister  David Cameron  pledged to
hold a referendum on Britain leaving the European Union.  Unilever gained 3.1 percent after the world’s second-
largest consumer-goods maker reported sales that exceeded
analysts’ estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  rose 1.4 percent after
forecasting annual output growth of 10 percent. TUI Travel Plc
lost 4.8 percent after its majority owner, TUI AG, said it will
not make an offer for the rest of the shares.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index added 18.47 points, or 0.3
percent, to 6,197.64 at the close in  London . The gauge has
advanced  5.1 percent  this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget. The broader FTSE All-Share Index climbed 0.2
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slipped 0.1 percent.  “There is more upside to go, people are willing to take
more risk and there is more money coming back into the market
which is encouraging,” said Justin Urquhart Stewart, who helps
oversee about $6.8 billion at Seven Investment Management Ltd.
in London. “It’s about time spent in the market, not timing the
market, so you will see short-term volatility.”  Compass Group Plc (CPG)  and  SSE Plc (SSE)  trade without the right to
their latest dividends today, erasing 2 points from the FTSE
100. The volume of shares changing hands in the gauge’s
companies was 19 percent greater than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Claims for unemployment benefits  unexpectedly decreased by
12,100 to 1.56 million in December, the fewest since June 2011,
according to the  Office for National Statistics . The  jobless
rate  for the quarter through November fell to 7.7 percent.  Cameron Speech  In a speech in London, Cameron described British backing
for the status quo in  Europe  as “wafer thin.” The prime
minister said he will put the U.K.’s continued membership of the
EU to a popular vote by the end of 2017 if he wins a general
election in two years’ time. Cameron said that he wants to
negotiate the return of some powers to the U.K.  Stocks also rose after a measure of  consumer confidence  in
the euro area climbed for a second month in January, adding to
evidence that the combined economy of the 17 nations using the
single currency may be emerging from its recession.  Unilever Rises  Unilever added 3.1 percent to 2,526 pence, its highest
price since at least 1988, after reporting a 7.8 percent
increase in quarterly revenue, led by increased sales in North
and South America. The average estimate of 13 analysts polled by
Bloomberg had called for growth of 6.2 percent. The quantity of
goods sold rose 4.8 percent, more than the 4 percent estimated
by analysts.  BHP Billiton (BLT)  advanced 1.4 percent to 2,110 pence after the
company forecast 10 percent annual output growth through its
fiscal year ending in 2014. The world’s  largest mining company
 said  iron ore , copper and petroleum production increased in the
final three months of last year.  Afren Plc (AFR)  surged 9.2 percent to 152 pence amid speculation
the owners of the Paipai-1 well in  Kenya  will soon release
drilling results. The volume of shares changing hands was more
than 10 times the three-month average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. An external spokesman declined to comment
when contacted by  Bloomberg News  today.  “Afren is up on high volume amid rumors of forthcoming
results from the Paipai prospects in which Tullow Oil and
Africa Oil also have a stake,” said Jawaid Afsar, a trader at
Securequity Ltd. in Sheffield,  England .  Tullow Oil, which operates the well, gained 3.5 percent to
1,195 pence.  TUI Travel  TUI Travel (TT/)  retreated 4.8 percent to 278 pence after TUI AG,
which owns a 55.47 percent stake, dropped a share-based takeover
deal one week after confirming that the two companies had held
preliminary talks.  TUI AG said a stock bid for TUI Travel would not be in its
shareholders’ interest. The Hanover, Germany-based tour operator
cannot make another approach for the U.K. business for six
months under the country’s takeover rules.  U.K. housebuilders fell as JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its
recommendation for the industry, saying investors should sell
following the shares’ recent gains.  Bovis Homes Group Plc (BVS) 
dropped 1.9 percent to 618 pence, Barratt Developments Plc lost
3.6 percent to 218.4 pence and  Redrow Plc (RDW)  slid 4.3 percent to
184 pence. All three companies were downgraded to underweight at
JPMorgan, the equivalent of a sell rating.  Flybe Plunges  Flybe Group Plc (FLYB)  sank 4.8 percent to 47.1 pence as Europe’s
biggest regional airline said it will eliminate about 300 jobs
and reduce its divisions to two to save 35 million pounds ($55.5
million) in two years and restore profit. The company also
confirmed its guidance for the full year.  Big Yellow Plc declined 3.6 percent to 368 pence after
selling 10 million new shares, or 7 percent of its capital, to
help reduce debt. JPMorgan Chase, the sole bookrunner, sold the
shares through an accelerated book-build process.  Severfield-Rowen Plc (SFR)  sank 35 percent to 78 pence, its
biggest tumble in more than nine years, after the company said
Chief Executive Officer Tom Haughey has stepped down. The maker
of structural steel said it will discuss its banking covenants
with its lenders. Severfield-Rowen will also review its order
book and update the market with the results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  