-- U.K. Explorer Shows French Fracking Ban Stalls Conventional Oil
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/u-k-explorer-shows-french-fracking-ban-stalls-conventional-oil.html
Celtique Energie Ltd. is among oil
and gas explorers suffering months of delays in getting permits
in  France  as a ban on unconventional shale-fuel technology has
led to a logjam even for traditional operations.  Celtique has been waiting for two years for its application
to alter an exploration permit to be approved, according to the
U.K. company’s Chief Operating Officer Stuart Catterall. The
request in December 2010 to allow a partner to share expenses
should have been a formality granted within 15 months, he said.  “We have been ready to drill for at least six months,”
said Catterall, whose company operates in six European countries
including the U.K., Germany and  Poland . “It’s very frustrating.
We are ready and we want to invest,” he said in an interview.  Closely held Celtique hasn’t any plans for hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, used to access shale oil and gas, as it
seeks a permit for its first well in the Pyrenees foothills.  France outlawed fracking amid public protests against the
technology that energy companies such as  Total SA (FP)  planned to use
to explore in areas where they had previously obtained permits.
President Francois Hollande, elected in May, upheld the ban and
his government pushed ahead with changes to the mining code that
also governs the exploration and production of oil and gas.  Celtique, granted an exploration permit for the Claracq
license in Aquitaine in 2006, isn’t alone in suffering delays.  120 Permits  France is blocking 120 oil exploration permits, threatening
future investment, Jean-Louis Schilansky, head of the country’s
oil industry lobby Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres,
told a parliamentary hearing on Jan. 23. The government has
effectively halted the granting of permits, as well as many
authorizations for works related to projects, he said.  While UFIP hasn’t named any of the companies affected,  Hess
Corp. (HES)  and  Zaza Energy Corp. (ZAZA)  officials have described delays.  “The country risk has increased for France because of
regulatory instability and the inability of companies to move
ahead with plans,” Guillaume Defaux, adviser to the president
at Hess Oil France, told a conference in Paris in October.
“Before investing we look at risks and if they are too high, we
don’t. This doesn’t auger well for investment in France.”  The government has set up a commission headed by advisor
Thierry Tuot to revise the mining code before the passage of a
new law, French Environment Minister Delphine Batho says. The
changes will increase public consultations for oil and gas
projects and may modify state royalties paid by operators.  “Our industry isn’t functioning in a normal way,”
Schilansky told lawmakers. “We are in a sort of vacuum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  