-- U.S. Should Act Unilaterally on Climate Change
-- B y   C a s s   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-23T23:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/u-s-should-act-unilaterally-on-climate-change.html
As his second inaugural address made
clear, U.S. President  Barack Obama  is committed to taking action
to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and thus to  confront  the
threat of climate change.  There are plenty of bad objections to taking such  action ,
and we will be hearing a lot of them in the weeks and months to
come. Yet one criticism -- let us call it the Sophisticated
Objection -- deserves respectful consideration, not least
because answering it will help us to specify the steps we ought
to be taking.  Those who make the Sophisticated Objection acknowledge that
 climate change  is a serious problem, and that the world’s
nations should be doing something about it. They contend,
however, that unilateral action by any country, including the
U.S., will impose significant costs without producing
significant benefits. The underlying problem is that the risk of
 climate change  is a product of two things: the existing
“stock” of past greenhouse-gas emissions and the continuing
“flow” of such emissions.  Unilateral action by the U.S. would do nothing about the
global stock and little about the global flow.  China  is now the
biggest greenhouse-gas emitter on earth, and in developing
nations, emissions are growing at an extraordinary rate. The
Sophisticated Objection is that if the U.S.  acts on its own , it
will impose costs on the American people without seriously
addressing the climate problem. What’s the point?  It’s a legitimate question, and there are three good
answers.  Unilateral Action  The first is that if international action is to occur, the
U.S. has to help to lead it, through deeds as well as words. In
recent years, international negotiations have stalled. That is
partly because, as those who offer the Sophisticated Objection
emphasize, developing nations (above all  China ) have been
reluctant to make serious commitments to reduce their
greenhouse-gas emissions. But another reason for the lack of
progress is that nations haven’t yet been convinced that the
U.S. is itself willing to make such commitments. True, action by
the U.S. can’t guarantee an international accord. But it may be
a necessary condition for such an accord, and it would certainly
increase the likelihood that other nations will act as well.  The second answer to those who oppose unilateral action has
to do with the need for technological innovation. The critics
rightly point out that making significant reductions in
greenhouse-gas emissions won’t be cheap. One reason is that many
nations, including the U.S., remain  dependent  on fossil fuels,
which are major contributors to these emissions. If the world is
to make serious progress in combating climate change, we will
have to innovate to develop energy sources that are clean and
less expensive. Regulation will likely spur such innovation.  In protecting the  ozone layer , regulatory requirements did
exactly that, leading to unexpectedly cheap substitutes for
ozone-depleting chemicals. True, climate change is far more
challenging, but there is no question that regulation would
accelerate current efforts to develop cleaner energy sources.  The third argument against the Sophisticated Objection is
that it plays down the benefits of purely unilateral action. In
2009, a technical working group of the U.S. government, building
on established scientific models, came up with  economic values 
for “the social cost of carbon,” meaning the cost of a ton of
carbon dioxide emissions. In calculating the benefits and costs
of regulations designed to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, many
federal agencies have been using the working group’s central
number, which is $22.80 in 2013 dollars.  Carbon Costs  Examples include recent rules intended to increase the fuel
economy of motor vehicles and the energy efficiency of
appliances (such as refrigerators, small motors and beverage
vending machines). These rules have generally been supported by
industry. The economic benefits of these rules -- which total
billions of dollars -- include significant monetized savings
from greenhouse gas emissions reductions.  It is here that answering the Sophisticated Objection can
help us to specify what to do. No sensible person thinks that
the U.S. should spend billions of dollars to achieve small
 greenhouse-gas  reductions. Some imaginable initiatives should be
rejected because they would cost too much and deliver too
little. At the same time, the U.S. should not overlook
opportunities to produce significant emissions reductions at
justifiable expense. Recent regulations have easily passed that
test. Future initiatives should be embraced when they do so as
well.  Those who make the Sophisticated Objection are correct to
emphasize that to limit the risks of climate change, many
nations will be required to act. But unilateral action should
not be avoided for that reason. On the contrary, pragmatic steps
by the planet’s most important nation are likely to help spur
action by others -- and to lead to technological advances that
will ultimately be in the interest of the world as a whole.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” forthcoming in 2013. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 