-- U.S. Bank Deposits Drop Most Since 9/11 Terror Attacks
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-01-23T23:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/u-s-deposits-post-biggest-drop-since-9-11-as-fdic-ends-support.html
Clients of the largest U.S. banks
withdrew funds this month at the fastest weekly pace since the
Sept. 11 attacks as a deposit-insurance program ended and
customers tapped into their year-end cash hoards.  Net withdrawals at the 25 largest U.S. lenders totaled
 $114.1 billion  in the week ended Jan. 9, pushing deposits down
to $5.37 trillion, according to Federal Reserve data released
last week. The magnitude of the drop was second only to the
decline after the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, according to
 Jason Goldberg , a New York-based analyst at Barclays Plc.  Customers may be moving money no longer insured by the
U.S., drawing down year-end balances and investing in advancing
equity markets. A Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. backstop, the
Transaction Account Guarantee program, ended last month,
prompting some analysts, investors and trade organizations to
predict it could drive funds from the banking system.  “What you are seeing now is probably TAG money,” Subadra Rajappa, a fixed-income strategist at New York-based Morgan
Stanley, said in a phone interview. “Some of the banks’
corporate customers have said they were going to take the money
out” if the program expires as it did, she said.  The transaction-account protections were introduced in the
wake of the 2008 credit crisis and had guaranteed about $1.5
trillion in non-interest-bearing accounts above the FDIC’s
general limit of $250,000. The program expired Dec. 31.  Deposits closed the year at about $5.4 trillion, the
highest month-end total in 2012 and more than $500 billion
higher than at the end of 2011, according to Fed data.  Guarding Accounts  Industry groups such as the  American Bankers Association 
and  Independent Community Bankers of America  had sought an
extension for TAG to keep accounts from being moved.  “We knew that fund managers would re-evaluate where they
want to keep their money -- in a non-interest bearing account,
another account at the bank or in other investments,”  James Chessen , chief economist at the ABA, said in a phone interview.
“If it continues there will be reason to be concerned.”  Total money-market-fund assets climbed $70 billion in the
two weeks ended Jan. 8 to $2.7 trillion, according to money-fund
research firm iMoneyNet in Westborough,  Massachusetts . Assets
fell to $2.69 trillion in the week ended Jan. 15.  The rate to borrow and lend Treasuries in the repurchase
agreement, or repo, market fell as government debt may have
served as an alternative to insured bank deposits.  Lowest Rate  The overnight Treasury repo rate, measured by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. general-collateral finance
repo index, is about a third of its 0.25 percent fourth-quarter
average. The rate, published at the end of the trading day by
the DTCC, was 0.08 percent yesterday, the lowest in over a year.  “Given the recent decline in repo rates, it’s a clear sign
of that cash entering the repo market,” Scott Skyrm, former
head of repo and money markets for Newedge USA LLC, wrote on his
website today. Skyrm said repo rates decline about 0.025
percentage points for every $100 billion of bond-buying by the
Fed. “If the relationship holds for former TAG funds, then
there is no doubt a few hundred billion just came into the repo
market.”  Another set of Fed figures show some deposits may have
moved within the banking system, from one type of account to
another.  Savings Balances  Savings and other time-deposit balances at commercial banks
rose about $186 billion. Demand deposits at U.S. banks and
branches of non-U.S. lenders dropped almost $187 billion, and
so-called checkable deposits fell by $16 billion. The data
measure deposits through Jan. 7, two days before the central
bank’s newer data measuring outflows at the 25 largest lenders.  Some deposit moves may also reflect year-end balance-sheet
management by corporate customers, according to Chessen and
strategists including  Alex Roever  at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s  Brian Smedley . Rajappa said it’s too
early to say for sure what caused the drain of deposits.  The 25 largest banks lost almost $53 billion of deposits
once seasonal variations are taken into account, according to
the Fed data released Jan. 18. That shows some of the decline is
tied to “calendar-related effects,” Roever said.  “You see a run-up in deposits at year-end and then a draw-
down after the start of the year,” he said in a phone
interview. The cash isn’t going into investments one would
expect if it were coming from FDIC-insured accounts, such as
Treasury or government-related money-market funds, he said.  Seeking Returns  “If people were shifting out of  bank deposits  and looking
for a government-type return we’d see more growth in Treasury
funds,” he said. “It doesn’t seem to be happening.”  Treasuries had declined 0.31 percent this month through
yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed  today for the sixth
straight session and has gained 4.8 percent in 2013. Global
investors are the most bullish on stocks in at least 3 1/2
years, with close to two-thirds planning to boost equity
holdings within six months, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The outflow follows a year in which total deposits from all
sources and regions surged as much as 8 percent at the nation’s
five biggest lenders, with the fastest pace set by San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Minneapolis-based U.S.
Bancorp. Wells Fargo had $945.7 billion in core deposits at
year-end. U.S. Bancorp reported $249.2 billion of deposits.  Lenders Ranked  JPMorgan, ranked first by deposits, reported a 6 percent
rise for 2012 to $1.19 trillion. Bank of America, ranked second
by assets and based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , boosted
deposits 7 percent to $1.11 trillion, the same pace as  New York- 
based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , with $930.6 billion at year-end.  For the largest lenders, the decline in deposits this year
may be a welcome trend, Chessen said. An increase coupled with
weak loan demand means banks must purchase lower-yielding
securities, driving down profit margins, he said.  Net interest margins, a measure of profitability
represented by the gap between what banks pay depositors and
what’s earned on loans, are falling across the industry. The
figure at Wells Fargo and JPMorgan fell at least 0.3 percentage
point in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, according to
company statements.  “The bigger banks have to pay FDIC insurance on these
deposits plus some of their capital and leverage ratios are
adversely impacted,” Rajappa said. “Many of the banks don’t
want these.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  