-- Muni Tobacco Debt of $20.5 Billion Put on Review by Moody’s
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-01-23T18:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/muni-tobacco-debt-of-20-5-billion-put-on-review-by-moody-s.html
More than $20 billion of municipal
bonds backed by funds from tobacco companies were placed on
review by Moody’s Investors Service, which said an agreement
over disputed payments would reduce  cash flow  to the debt.  Philip Morris USA,  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  and  Reynolds American
Inc. (RAI)  said last month they would release to 17 states, the
 District of Columbia  and  Puerto Rico  their portions of more than
$4 billion in payments held back from a 1998 health-care
settlement. In exchange for the release of funds, the companies
would get credit against future payments.  “The joining states will receive only 54 percent of the
approximately $4 billion share under dispute, significantly less
than the 100 percent that we expected,” Moody’s said in a
release yesterday.  The 46-state accord in 1998 required the companies to pay
$206 billion to resolve their liability in health-care cost
litigation. Some states borrowed against the payments, which are
based on cigarette shipments. Most of the tobacco bonds graded
by Moody’s are ranked below investment grade.  A dispute between the tobacco makers and states later arose
over more than $7 billion due under the deal for the years 2003
to 2012, stemming from claims that market-share erosion reduced
the companies’ obligations.  By establishing a formula, the December agreement suggests
that future payment disputes and settlements at less than 100
percent may continue for the term of the bonds, Moody’s said.
The accord must be approved by an arbitration panel.  The December plan also indirectly affects tobacco bonds
from states that join the pact because it sets a precedent that
their recoveries of future disputed amounts can be less than 100
percent, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  