-- Unilever Hits Record After Sales Growth Tops Expectations
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-01-23T13:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/unilever-sales-growth-beats-estimates-on-emerging-markets-1-.html
Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-largest
consumer-goods maker, hit a record after the company reported
revenue growth that beat estimates for a third straight quarter,
led by gains in North and South America and demand for personal-
care products.  The shares rose as much as 3 percent to 30.19 euros in
Amsterdam trading. Sales excluding acquisitions and currency
shifts rose 7.8 percent in the three months to Dec. 31, London-
and Rotterdam-based Unilever said today, exceeding the 6.2
percent average estimate of 13  analysts  polled by Bloomberg. The
quantity of goods sold gained 4.8 percent, more than the 4
percent estimated by analysts and the biggest quarterly gain in
two years.  “It was an excellent quarter for Unilever, continuing its
run of high-quality, consistently strong performance,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a note.
“While the lack of growth in foods and  Europe  remains a worry,
the overall performance remains impressive.”  Sales growth of 12 percent in the Americas, which represent
a third of the company’s 51.3 billion euros ($68.4 billion) in
annual revenue, was more than double the estimate of analysts
such as Alain-Sebastian Oberhuber at MainFirst Schweiz AG. The
Anglo-Dutch company has been pushing brands including Magnum ice
cream in  emerging markets  such as Indonesia and  Brazil  to offset
slowing growth in other regions.  Unilever’s results put pressure on  Danone (BN)  and  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
which are both scheduled to report full-year results next month.
The maker of Knorr soups said today it expects “difficult”
economic conditions to persist this year.  Emerging Markets  The  shares  were up 2.8 percent at 30.15 euros as of 2:52
p.m. in Amsterdam after hitting 30.19 euros a share earlier.
That’s the highest price since at least 1989. Nestle gained 0.6
percent to 63.35 Swiss francs in Zurich and Danone added 0.9
percent to 50.99 euros in Paris.  Fourth-quarter sales in  North America  rose at a “mid
single-digit” pace, Unilever said, helped by a systems
implementation that brought sales forward into the third quarter
of last year. Even adjusting for that easier comparison, sales
in the region were “strong” and largely drove the beat, said
Dirk Van Vlaanderen, an analyst at Jefferies International.  U.S. sales growth was fueled by Magnum and the introduction
of Clear anti-dandruff shampoo, the company said.  “At a macro level, there are some signs the U.S. is
slightly picking up,” Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said
at a meeting with analysts in London today.  In  Latin America , fourth-quarter revenue rose 12 percent,
driven by gains in Argentina and Brazil.  CEO’s Spacesuit  Sales in Europe, which represent 27 percent of its
business, increased 0.2 percent. In an interview last month,
Polman said the region is facing “at least 10 years of slow
economic growth,” and today Unilever said developed markets
remained “subdued,” growing 1.6 percent in the year. The
company has offered lower-priced products in  Greece  to meet the
needs of cash-strapped consumers.  A Unilever spokeswoman said the company had no immediate
comment on U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s pledge to hold a
referendum on whether Britain should leave the European Union.  Personal-care sales rose 12 percent, fueled by shampoo and
skincare products such as Dove Damage Therapy and Dove Nutrium
Moisture. Operating margins in the business eased 0.5 percentage
point last year as the company put more advertising spending
behind brands like Sunsilk and Dove Men+Care.  Polman, who donned a spacesuit for the analyst meeting to
promote the company’s new Axe Apollo deodorant, said it would be
tough to maintain sales growth at a pace of more than 10 percent
in personal-care, the company’s largest  business  with 18.1
billion euros in annual sales.  Pruning Food  Unilever has been pruning its food business -- now 28
percent of sales and skewed toward developed markets -- to focus
on faster-growing health and beauty products. Polman said he had
expected a better performance in food, where shipments declined
for the second straight year, hurt by “weak” sales of spreads.  The CEO said he’s seeking to sell businesses with annual
revenue of as much as 750 million euros as they have become “a
distraction” and are not easily expanded globally. That would
follow this month’s agreement to sell Skippy peanut butter to
 Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL)  for $700 million.  “Foods continues to fall in importance,” Liberum Research
analyst  Pablo Zuanic  said in a note.  Full-year revenue increased 11 percent. Unilever has a goal
to reach 80 billion euros in sales by 2020 and Polman said today
that more than 90 percent of the growth will come from emerging
markets.  Cash Flow  Unilever’s  free cash flow  rose 39 percent to 4.33 billion
euros last year, the most since 1999, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said the
company had no plans to use the cash to buy back shares, and
said Unilever will continue to look for “bolt-on” acquisitions
between 1 billion and 2 billion euros in size.  A larger purchase than that would be “fine as long as it’s
not distracting,” Huet said.  The company’s so-called core operating profit margin
widened 0.3 percentage point to 13.8 percent, helped by lower
restructuring costs.  Raw-ingredient expenses for commodities such as edible oils
will rise at a “low- to mid-single digit” pace this year, a
decline from last year’s high-single digit increase which
amounted to an additional 1.5 billion euros, Huet said.
Commodity prices remain “volatile,” he said on the call.  Net income in 2012 rose 5.4 percent to 4.48 billion euros,
beating the 4.38 billion-euro average estimate of 21 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  