-- Government Workers Lead Drop in U.S. Union Rate
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-01-23T18:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/union-membership-falls-to-record-11-3-in-u-s-.html
Labor unions lost ground among
government workers in 2012 as Republican-led efforts curtailed
collective bargaining rights in several U.S. cities and states,
and total union membership fell to a record low.  Labor unions represented 35.9 percent of government
employees, down from 37 percent in 2011, according to  data 
released today by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. A record low
11.3 percent of all U.S. workers were union members, down from
11.8 percent in 2011, the government said.  “Public employment has become the heart of the American
 labor movement ,”  Gary Chaison , a labor professor at  Clark
University  in Worcester, Massachusetts, said today in an
interview. Still, “in two or three years, most cities in the
U.S. with over a million population will be considering
bankruptcy just to escape pension obligations. Every large city
will be a  Detroit , every smaller city will be Stockton,
California.”  Public workers are fighting political leaders in states
such as  Wisconsin  where Republican Governor  Scott Walker 
supported legislation in 2011 curbing the bargaining rights of
some government unions. The law sparked protests at the state
Capitol and a 2012 recall election, in which Walker turned back
a challenge from Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, a Democrat.  Last year, voters in  San Diego  and  San Jose ,  California ,
also approved ballot measures to restructure benefits for
municipal workers after the cities said they couldn’t afford
them. States including Indiana and Ohio took steps to limit the
bargaining rights public employees.  Michigan , birthplace of the
United Auto Workers union, last month became the 24th state to
prohibit compulsory union dues for employees in organized
workplaces.  Declining Membership  Unions in 2012 represented 6.6 percent of workers in
private companies, down from 6.9 percent in 2011, according to
the data. Total union membership fell to 14.4 million last year
-- down from 14.7 million a year earlier -- with 7.3 million in
public jobs and 7 million at private companies.  Since 2002, the rate of union membership in the private
sector has fallen in every year, except 2007 and 2008, from 8.6
percent, according to Labor Department data. Membership among
public-sector workers increased four times during that period,
peaking at 37.4 percent in 2009.  “This has been a year of calamities for the labor
movement,” Chaison said. “American workers feel as if the
contract between them and their employers doesn’t work any more,
but they’re not turning to unions.”  ‘Ideological Assaults’  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO, which includes
the American Federation of Government Employees among its member
unions, blamed a struggling economy, weak legal protections and
“ideological assaults” for the decline. The trend threatens
overall economic security and good-paying, middle class jobs, he
said.  “Working women and men urgently need a voice on the job
today, but the sad truth is that it has become more difficult
for them to have one, as today’s figures on union membership
demonstrate,” Trumka said in a statement. “We enter 2013 with
our eyes open and understand that these challenges offer real
opportunities for working people to reshape the future.”  Economic headwinds that thwarted growth in manufacturing
jobs continue to erode union participation, said William
Spriggs, chief economist for the AFL-CIO. In states where
economic activity is expanding, such as Nevada,  Louisiana  and
Texas, union membership is rising, according to today’s report.  Texas, Kentucky  “It’s going up in Texas, which is a right-to-work state,”
Spriggs said in an interview. “It’s going up in Louisiana,
which has a very anti-union governor. It’s going up in  Georgia ,
 Tennessee ,  Kentucky . These are Republican states. The union
movement I think when you look underneath the numbers, is
showing great strength.”  The AFL-CIO analysis ignores shortcomings in organizing and
recruiting, Chaison said. Even when accounting for the impacts
of globalization and unemployment, it should be easier for
unions to demonstrate their relevancy to workers in tough
economic times, he said.  “There’s no way the unions can put a positive spin on
this,” Chaison said. “They have not invested in the manpower
or the funds in organizing new members. They haven’t taken the
risks. What the membership losses signify is that they’re not
able to market themselves appropriately in hard times.”  Education, Libraries  Workers in education, training and library occupations had
the highest unionization rate, the Labor Department said. Among
states,  New York  led the nation again with 23.2 percent of
workers in a union, down from 24 percent in 2011, and  North
Carolina  had the lowest, at 2.9 percent.  The report also showed the average weekly earnings of union
workers was $938, while non-union workers were paid $729.  In 1983, the first year the agency collected the data, 20.1
percent of the U.S. workforce and 16.8 percent of company
workers were members of a union.  “It’s a mixed story because the older part of the economy
is still suffering greatly and the public sector is still
suffering greatly,” Spriggs said. “What the numbers show is
that there has to be a great emphasis on organizing
manufacturing workers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  