-- Turkey Bond Yields Decline to Month-Low as Rate Cuts Spur Demand
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-01-23T16:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/turkey-bond-yields-head-for-month-low-as-rate-cuts-spur-demand.html
Turkey ’s bond yields fell to the
lowest level in more than a month and the lira weakened as a cut
in the central bank’s overnight interest rates yesterday fueled
demand for short-maturity local currency debt.  Yields on benchmark two-year notes slid for a fourth day,
declining six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.84
percent, the lowest since Dec. 18. The lira depreciated less
than 0.1 percent against the dollar to 1.7694 by 5:09 p.m. in
Istanbul in its fourth day of losses.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee reduced its
overnight borrowing and lending rates by 25 basis points each on
concern the lira may become overvalued as Turkey’s stock and
bond markets draw in money on bets of a second upgrade by a
rating company this year. One-year  interest-rate swaps , which
indicate investor expectations of borrowing costs, fell 36 basis
points to 6.34 percent in the biggest drop since February.  “When short-term interest rates are reduced, naturally
short-term debt yields fall as well,” Selim Gulkan, a fixed-
income trader at  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  in Istanbul, said in e-
mailed comments.  Fitch Ratings raised Turkey to investment grade for the
first time in 18 years in November, helping the lira close last
year 6 percent stronger.  Before this week, Turkey’s currency had gained almost 2
percent in a month against the dollar. Central bank Governor
Erdem Basci said he’s monitoring an index of the currency’s real
exchange rate, weighted against Turkey’s trading partners, and
may act to weaken the lira if it appreciates. As capital inflows
accelerate, bank credit has started to grow faster than
expected, the central bank said yesterday.  Lira Appeal  “The central bank limited the attractiveness of the
lira,” Egemen Candir, research director at Integral Securities
in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed note today. “This can be seen
as intervention in the lira’s appreciation.”  Basci will cut the overnight borrowing rate to 4 percent by
March 31, after lowering it to 4.75 percent from 5 percent
yesterday, said  Ahmet Akarli , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in  London , who was the only one to correctly predict
yesterday’s reductions among 12 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The central bank will reduce the lending rate by 25
basis points, after cutting it a quarter percentage point to
8.75 percent, he wrote in a report.  The central bank aims to keep loan growth within a 14
percent to 15 percent range, Deputy Governor Turalay Kenc said
last week. Credit was expanding at a 17 percent annual pace as
of Jan. 11.  Turkey’s economic growth slowed to about 3 percent last
year, less than half its 2011 pace. That helped bring inflation
down to 6.2 percent last month, the lowest in more than a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  