-- US Airways Rises as Profit Tops Estimates on Record Sales
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-23T21:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/us-airways-profit-tops-estimates-on-passenger-demand.html
US Airways  Group Inc., the carrier
pushing for a merger with bankrupt  American Airlines , rose 1.5
percent after record quarterly revenue and higher  travel demand 
drove profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Shares traded at $15.07 at the close, the highest price
since Jan. 10. The stock has more than  doubled  since US Airways
disclosed its interest in a combination on Jan. 25, 2012.  US Airways recorded its  seventh  consecutive quarterly net
profit in the fourth quarter as passenger traffic rose 2.7
percent and unit revenue, a measure of fares and seats,
increased 2.5 percent. The airline may know soon if it will
succeed in engineering a friendly combination with  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
American as bankruptcy creditors complete their review.  “It definitely is a story they need to tell to give them a
stronger position to come to the American deal,” Savanthi Syth,
a Raymond James & Associates Inc. analyst, said in an interview,
referring to US Airways’ financial and operational performance.
The company cited annual records for on-time flights, completed
flights and baggage handling.  Earnings excluding one-time items more than doubled to $46
million, or 26 cents a share, from $21 million, or 13 cents, on
that basis a year earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based airline said
in a statement today. That exceeded the 19-cent average of
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Well Prepared’  “As we carry this momentum into 2013, we’re very pleased
with our strategic positioning and extremely well-prepared for
whatever may lie ahead,” Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker
said on a conference call today. He declined to answer any
questions related to  Fort Worth , Texas-based American, citing a
non-disclosure agreement.  American CEO  Tom Horton  told employees on Jan. 3 that he
expected a decision on whether to merge with US Airways “within
a matter of weeks.”  Superstorm Sandy reduced quarterly results by $35 million,
the company said. Sales rose 3.9 percent to a record $3.28
billion, matching an average estimate from 11 analysts. The
carrier ended the quarter with $2.7 billion in cash and
investments, with $336 million of that reserved for specific
purposes.  US Airways benefited as spending on fuel, its largest
expense rose 2.1 percent year over year, compared with a 29.4
percent increase in 2011’s fourth quarter, Syth said. US Airways
is the only major U.S. carrier that doesn’t hedge fuel, which
involves using financial instruments to help flatten price
spikes. Syth, who is based in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , rates US
Airways outperform.  American, Delta  Including $9 million in costs linked to corporate
transactions and auction-rate securities auctions, net income
rose to $37 million, or 22 cents, from $18 million, or 11 cents,
a year earlier.  American last week reported that its fourth-quarter loss
excluding bankruptcy-related items narrowed to $88 million.
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  yesterday reported quarterly profit of $238
million, excluding costs primarily related to restructuring its
fleet and refinancing some debt.  Full-year profit rose to a record $537 million, or $2.79 a
share, excluding special items, US Airways said.  The airline expects to reach a third tentative contract
agreement with its flight attendants union “in the very near
future,”  Steve Johnson , a US Airways executive vice president,
said on the call. The two prior agreements were rejected in
votes by members of the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  