-- Vale Argentine Potash Project Suspended Indefinitely
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-01-23T21:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/vale-argentine-potash-project-suspended-indefinitely.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s third-largest
mining company, suspended works at its $6 billion potash project
in Argentina indefinitely.  A suspension at the Rio Colorado potash project in the
Argentine province of Mendoza since last month will be
maintained, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said in an e-mailed
reply to questions.  Vale Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira is selling
assets and canceling projects as the company is set to post the
lowest annual  profit  in three years. Vale is in talks with a
potential partner for the Rio Colorado project,  Roger Downey ,
head for fertilizers and coal, said on Dec. 12. Last month the
company cut the 2013 budget for the project to $611 million from
$1.08 billion last year.  “The project isn’t canceled,” Rolando Baldasso, Mendoza
province’s minister of infrastructure and energy, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “There are financial issues that
are triggering an operational restructuring.”  Vale  declined  0.2 percent to close at 39.50 reais in  Sao
Paulo . The stock has dropped 3.4 percent this year.  Partners Sought  Los Andes newspaper reported earlier today that the project
was suspended for an indefinite period and it won’t be reopened
until Vale gets a partner. Vale is currently holding talks with
two multinational companies seeking to seal a partnership, the
Mendoza City-based newspaper said, citing an unidentified
company official.  Brazil’s only potash producer, Vale said in October it has
spent $1.8 billion on Rio Colorado and completed 41 percent of
the project. The venture includes the developing of a mine in
Mendoza, the renovation of 440 kilometers (273 miles) of railway
trucks and the construction of a 350 kilometer-long railway spur
to transport the potash to a terminal in the port of  Bahia
Blanca , in  Buenos Aires ’ province, for its export.  With the capacity to produce 4.3 million metric tons of
potash, the project would make Argentina the world’s third-
largest exporter of the crop nutrient, President  Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner  said in July after signing agreements with
Vale to proceed with the project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  