-- Verizon Wins Ruling in $9.5 Billion Lawsuit Over Spinoff
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/verizon-wins-ruling-in-9-5-billion-lawsuit-over-spinoff-1-.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  will
likely win a lawsuit over the 2006 spinoff of its directory
business, a federal judge said after rejecting claims that the
business was insolvent at the time of the deal.  The unit, Idearc Inc., had a value of at least $12 billion,
and the “only credible evidence” shows the business was
solvent when it was spun off, U.S. District Judge A. Joe Fish in
 Dallas  said in a decision yesterday.  Fish ordered U.S. Bancorp, which sued Verizon on behalf of
Idearc creditors, to explain why its claims are viable following
the ruling on valuation. The judge said it “appears” creditors
will be unable to prove their case “so that all of the
plaintiff’s remaining legal claims will fail.”  Now named  SuperMedia Inc. (SPMD) , Idearc completed a bankruptcy
reorganization that created a trust to bring lawsuits on behalf
of creditors with claims of about $6 billion, according to court
papers. Creditors contend the spinoff, designed to generate $9.5
billion for Verizon, left Idearc with so much debt it was
insolvent and destined to collapse. It filed for bankruptcy 28
months after the spinoff.  The lawsuit against New York-based Verizon went to trial in
October and included testimony from former Verizon chairman and
chief executive officer  Ivan Seidenberg .  Directory Business  At the trial, Werner Powers, an attorney for Idearc
creditors, said that Verizon loaded Idearc with debt and “sent
it into the market to die.” He said the directory business was
suffering double-digit declines in major urban markets, which
was a “canary in the mine shaft” that he said the company hid
from investors.  Verizon attorney Reid Figel argued at the trial that the
company wasn’t insolvent at the time of the spinoff and had been
valued by Wall Street analysts at $12.5 billion to $14.5
billion.  In his ruling, Fish rejected the testimony of Carlyn Taylor, an expert witness for creditors, that Idearc’s value was
$8.15 billion, calling her valuation an “outlier.”  “We are gratified that the court found no evidence to
sustain the trustee’s allegations,” Verizon spokesman Bill Kula
said in a statement. “We look forward to the final resolution
of this matter in the near future.”  Powers said in an e-mail that he hadn’t reviewed Fish’s
decision.  The case is U.S. Bank National Association v. Verizon
Communications Inc., 10-01842, U.S. District Court, Northern
District Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  