-- Wal-Mart Readies Fresh-Food Fight With Target
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-01-23T14:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/wal-mart-readies-fresh-food-fight-with-target.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  plans to expand
its fresh-food offerings to every store in Canada from about 50
percent now as it takes on grocer  Loblaw Cos. (L)  and girds for
 Target Corp. (TGT) ’s arrival in the country this year.  Wal-Mart will add food sections to stores in Canada’s
Maritime provinces this year and plans to increase its food line
to as many stores as possible, Shelley Broader, 48, chief
executive officer and president of Wal-Mart’s Canadian unit said
in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s Toronto office.  “The addition of fresh food through supercenters a few
years ago has really not only driven our growth trajectory in
Canada, but it is really meeting the needs of the consumer base
that was under-served,” Broader said. “I would like to put
fresh food in every facility that I can.”  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer, said yesterday it
will spend C$450 million ($454 million) to build new stores and
renovate other locations in Canada, adding at least 37
superstores in the next year to the 379 current locations. Wal-
Mart shares fell 14 cents to $69.44 at 9:50 a.m. in  New York  and
are up 14 percent in the past 12 months.  The fresh food expansion allows Wal-Mart to set it apart
from Target, which is more focused on clothing and housewares.
Target, based in Minneapolis, plans to open about 125 Canadian
stores starting in March or April in its first expansion outside
the U.S.  “Let’s be honest here, Target is going to take some market
share,” said Brian Yarbrough, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.
in  St. Louis . The renovations and focus on food help Wal-Mart
“differentiate” itself from Target, he said.  Pushing North  Lisa Gibson, a spokeswoman for Target Canada, could not
immediately comment on the company’s plans for Canada and
competition with Wal-Mart on items such as food.  Target joins a push north by U.S. companies including
clothing retailers  Express Inc. (EXPR)  and J.Crew Group Inc. just as
Canada’s economy starts to lag the U.S., and  consumer debt 
levels reach records.  Lowe’s Cos Inc. (LOW) , the home-improvement
retailer, and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , the department store chain, are
also expanding in Canada.  The world’s 11th-largest economy grew 0.6 percent in the
third quarter, compared with 3.1 percent in the U.S., while the
ratio of consumer debt to disposable income reached a record 165
percent, according to  Statistics Canada . The growth in  household
debt  has prompted policy makers such as Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  to warn Canadians against taking on too much debt.  Low-cost Food  Wal-Mart Canada data show Canadians may be taking heed. The
company’s spending power tracker showed that while disposable
income per household increased C$96 in November from a year
earlier, people devoted the excess cash to savings, Broader
said. About eight out of 10 Canadians shop at Wal-Mart now, the
CEO said.  “In the more touchy-feely aspects of dealing with our
customers they tell us that they are concerned about meeting
their budget, that low cost of food is incredibly helpful for
them, that they are willing to travel further to get to a store
that will provide them with lower-cost basic needs,” said
Broader.  Wal-Mart will create more than 7,000 store and construction
jobs through the expansion. The company’s 94,000 Canadian
employees represents about 4 percent of its  workforce  and puts
it among the top five employers in the country, Broader said.
Its staff exceeds  the  80,000 employed by Royal Bank of  Canada ,
Canada’s biggest publicly-traded company.  Older Stores  Some of the work may be needed for older stores that don’t
have the special equipment needed to sustain a fresh food
section, said  Kenneth Wong , who teaches marketing at Queen’s
University in Kingston, Ontario.  “For everyday items Wal-Mart should be able to offer the
best value,” he said, adding, “that’s what I think the
renovations are all about.”  Wal-Mart last year had $318 billion of  sales  in the U.S. or
72 percent of its total, versus $125.9 billion abroad. Sales
growth outside the U.S. has been faster, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, with the American growth rate over three
years at 1.7 percent and international sales gaining at an 8.4
percent pace.  Wal-Mart has been in Canada since 1994, and has found
Canadian shoppers differ from other countries because there is a
smaller gap between what they tell retailers they want to  buy
and what they actually purchase. Even richer Canadians seek out
low prices, Broader said.  A basket of groceries costs about 12 percent less at Wal-
Mart than grocery stores, Broader said.  “Canadians are also, regardless of income level, very
frugal and very value conscious, which isn’t necessarily true in
other developed countries.”  Financial Services  Wal-Mart’s strategy isn’t geared toward any single
competitor such as Target, Broader said, while making references
throughout the interview to focusing on cutting prices.  “Our business has been based on the needs of the consumer
and bringing lower prices is what we have always been about,”
said Broader, who started the interview by handing out business
cards about two-thirds the size regular ones. “Competition is
good for the marketplace and competition is good for the
customer.”  Broader  said the company plans to add “traditional
financial services” to the MasterCard it introduced in 2010.  “We will look at the other opportunities that come along
with financial services,” Broader said without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  