-- Wall Street’s Bulge Bracket May Shrink to 5 Firms, McKinsey Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-23T16:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/wall-street-s-bulge-bracket-may-shrink-to-5-firms-mckinsey-says.html
Investment banks must take further
actions to improve returns and more will follow firms like  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  that have exited businesses,
McKinsey & Co. said.  Only five or six companies will remain “bulge bracket”
firms that offer all  investment banking  and trading products
worldwide, the consulting firm said today in a report titled
“After the Reckoning.” Others will step back from some
businesses to focus on areas where they have a competitive
advantage, according to the report.  “There are more aspiring flow monsters than projected
levels of flow can support,” McKinsey analysts said in the
report. “We have already seen a few early movers exit capital-
intensive fixed-income businesses or scale-intensive cash
equities businesses to focus on areas where they were better
able to compete; we will see more such moves in the future.”  UBS, which has been the most aggressive in reducing costs
and risk-weighted assets according to the report, said last year
it was trimming 10,000 jobs and exiting many fixed-income
businesses. RBS plans to close or sell its unprofitable cash
equities, mergers advisory and equity capital markets divisions,
the Edinburgh-based firm said last year.  The 13 largest investment banks have announced plans to cut
$15 billion in expenses, including compensation, and $1.03
trillion in risk-weighted assets, McKinsey said. Still, the
investment bank divisions of those firms produced an average
return on equity of 7 percent in 2011. ROE will probably be 6
percent to 9 percent in 2017 without “significant actions.”  Boosting ROE  If banks can boost their ROEs to the industy’s cost of
equity, which will probably be an estimated 11.7 percent in
2017, they can restore $160 billion of  shareholder value ,
according to the report.  The top three firms in each asset class account for about
two-thirds of trading volume in that product, according to the
report. Banks that lack such scale or face higher funding costs
will probably focus on businesses such as foreign exchange or
structured rates and credit, McKinsey said.  The 13 firms addressed in the report were Bank of America
Corp., Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
HSBC Holdings Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Morgan Stanley, RBS,
Societe Generale SA and UBS. Those firms accounted for about 60
percent of the $292 billion of investment banking and trading
revenue in 2011, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  