-- WellPoint Profit Beats Estimates on Lower Medical Spending
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-01-23T21:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/wellpoint-profit-beats-estimates-as-medical-costs-prove-stable.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health insurer, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat
analyst estimates on lower-than-expected medical costs and an
enrollment boost from its Amerigroup Corp. acquisition.  Earnings excluding a tax settlement and investment gains
were $1.03 a share, nine cents higher than the average of 16
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Medical-plan membership
increased to 36.1 million with last year’s $4.9 billion
Amerigroup purchase, Indianapolis-based WellPoint said in a
statement today.  WellPoint forecast 2013 profit will rise to at least $7.60
a share, less than the average analyst estimate of $7.93. The
company is being cautious in its outlook while searching for a
new chief executive officer, said Chris Rigg, a Susquehanna
Financial Group analyst in  New York .  “It’s rational to offer a conservative outlook,” Rigg
said in a phone interview. “You wouldn’t want to back the new
CEO, whoever she or he may be, into the corner.”  WellPoint is seeking a new leader to replace former CEO
Angela Braly, who resigned in August amid complaints about the
company’s performance. Interim CEO John Cannon repeated on a
conference call today that the search is expected to be
completed by the end of this quarter. He declined to say more
about the topic.  WellPoint rose 1.6 percent to $64.83 at the close of New
York trading. The shares have fallen 8.9 percent in the past
year.  President’s Overhaul  The 2013 forecast reflects “uncertainties” that include a
flu outbreak, U.S. budget negotiations and implementation of
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul, said Kristin Binns, a WellPoint spokeswoman, in an e-mail. It also includes
integration costs for the Amerigroup purchase.  “Certainly, our intention is to grow and we are
positioning the company to do that,” Cannon said on the call.
He said it would be “premature to project” when asked about
2014 earnings.  Fourth-quarter net income surged 38 percent to $464.2
million, or $1.51 a share, from $335.3 million, or 96 cents, a
year earlier, according to WellPoint’s statement. Revenue
climbed to $15.3 billion from $15.2 billion a year earlier.  The results were buoyed by WellPoint’s purchase last month
of Amerigroup, the largest insurer specializing in government-
sponsored Medicaid plans for the poor. Adding Amerigroup’s 2.7
million members, total enrollment increased about 5 percent.  Medical costs for WellPoint’s employer-sponsored plans also
came in below expectations, helping earnings. That followed a
Jan. 17 report by Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH) , the largest U.S. medical insurer, that Americans hadn’t
used medical services as much as expected last year.  “In terms of an uptick in utilization, we haven’t seen
that at all,” Thomas Carroll, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst
in Baltimore, said in a telephone interview before the
announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  