-- White House Keeps Secrets as CIA Agent Goes to Prison
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-23T23:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/white-house-keeps-secrets-as-cia-agent-goes-to-prison.html
When he receives an expected
sentence of 30 months in federal prison later this week, John
Kiriakou will pay the price for a catastrophic error in
judgment. But he shouldn’t suffer alone: the  Barack Obama 
administration, too, needs to do a little penance if it hopes to
live up to the president’s famous promise to “usher in a new era
of open government.”  Kiriakou is a former Central Intelligence Agency official
who came to public notice in 2007 when he told ABC News that
while he believed waterboarding could be an effective
interrogation technique, he felt this method was a form of
torture and it was critical to “shine some light on what was
happening” in CIA interrogations.  His legal troubles started the next year, when he gave a
freelance reporter the name of a fellow officer who had been
involved in rendition programs -- capturing suspects and
delivering them to foreign prisons. The reporter never printed
the name, but it ended up in the hands of lawyers for detainees
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Kiriakou insists that he thought the
official had retired, but that’s no excuse: He violated his
oath, compromising a colleague’s safety and national security.  Still, the lengthy sentence seems unjustified, and the
government’s prosecution has the whiff of vendetta. After all,
former Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage wasn’t even
charged after admitting he leaked the name of CIA officer
Valerie Plame in 2003.  Or compare Kiriakou’s actions against those of Jose A.
Rodriguez Jr., the former head of the CIA’s clandestine
operations. In 2005, Rodriguez destroyed 92 videotapes of
detainee interrogations because, he wrote in an e-mail, letting
the public see them would be  “devastating”  to the agency. Both
the destruction of the tapes and the scenes they documented were
probably felonies. Yet the Justice Department’s two-year
investigation into the case ended with a whimper, and no
charges, last summer. Rodriguez, now retired, was last seen
 opining  on the torture scenes in “Zero Dark Thirty” for the
Washington Post.  The Kiriakou saga shines yet more light on the Obama
administration’s vexed relationship with transparency. There
were 720 Freedom of Information Act-related complaints  filed  in
district courts in the last two years of Obama’s first term, a
28 percent jump from the final two years of  George W. Bush ’s
presidency.  Six  Americans have been indicted for violating the
Espionage Act of 1917, twice as many as in the previous 90
years. All were charged with giving secrets not to hostile
powers but to journalists.  This record is all the more unsettling because of the
relish with which the administration plays the double game of
leaks: While officials have  furtively  and even  openly  divulged
secret details on the drone war against Islamic militants when
it served their purposes, the White House has stonewalled FOIA
requests to release the Justice Department documents making the
legal case for the program. Similarly, days after the  New York 
Times published a  front-page  article on U.S.-instigated computer
attacks against  Iran  that clearly relied on classified
information from the administration, Obama had Attorney General
Eric Holder open an  investigation  into such leaks. “The notion
that my White House would purposely release classified national
security information is offensive,” Obama said, stretching
credulity.  As Kiriakou accepts his guilt, the administration might
also show some contrition, taking steps to restore its
reputation and help promote an informed public and congressional
discussion of what is being done in our name in the fight
against terrorism.  Where should it start? Well, here are a few ideas. The
administration could begin by releasing the drone-war legal
brief. It could also expand protections for government whistle-
blowers who leak to the press if they feel their concerns are
being ignored through official channels. The White House could
drop claims of executive privilege over materials relating to
the  Justice Department ’s botched “Fast and Furious” gun-running
operation against Mexican gangs and kill the farcical Justice
Department investigation into last summer’s leaks. Taken
together, such steps just might constitute the start of a truly
“open” era.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 