-- Yahoo, Dell Swell Netherlands’ $13 Trillion Tax Haven
-- B y   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2013-01-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/yahoo-dell-swell-netherlands-13-trillion-tax-haven.html
Inside Reindert Dooves’s home, a 17th-
century, three-story converted warehouse along the Zaan canal in
suburban Amsterdam, a 21st-century Internet giant is avoiding
taxes.  The bookkeeper’s  home office  doubles as the headquarters
for a  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  offshore unit. Through this sun-filled, white-
walled room, Yahoo has taken advantage of the law to quietly
funnel hundreds of millions of dollars in global profits to
island subsidiaries, cutting its worldwide tax bill.  The Yahoo arrangement illustrates that the  Netherlands , in
the heart of a continent better known for social welfare than
corporate welfare, has emerged as one of the most important tax
havens for multinational companies. Now, as a deficit-strapped
Europe raises retirement ages and taxes on the working class,
the Netherlands’ role as a $13 trillion relay station on the
global tax-avoiding network is prompting a backlash.  The Dutch Parliament is scheduled to debate the fairness of
its tax system today. Lawmakers from several parties, including
members of the country’s governing coalition, say they want to
remove a stain on the nation’s reputation.  “We should not be a tax haven,” said  Ed Groot , a
parliament member from the  Labour Party , which along with the
 People’s Party  for Freedom and Democracy took power in November.
Both ruling parties are “fed up with these so called PO Box
companies,” he said. “If they go somewhere else we are not
sorry at all because they spoil the name of Holland. Otherwise
you can wait for retaliation measures and this we don’t want.”  War Declaration  Last month, the European Commission, the European Union’s
executive body, declared a war on tax avoidance and evasion,
which it said costs the EU 1 trillion euros a year. The
commission advised member states -- including the Netherlands --
to create tax-haven blacklists and adopt anti-abuse rules. It
also recommended reforms that could undermine the lure of the
Netherlands, and hurt a spinoff industry that has mushroomed in
and around Amsterdam to abet tax avoidance.  Attracted by the Netherlands’ lenient policies and
extensive network of tax treaties, companies such as Yahoo,
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , Merck & Co. and Dell Inc. have moved profits
through the country. Using techniques with nicknames such as the
“Dutch Sandwich,” multinational companies routed 10.2 trillion
euros in 2010 through 14,300 Dutch “special financial units,”
according to the Dutch Central Bank. Such units often only exist
on paper, as is allowed by law.  ‘Harmful Role’  The EU’s 27 member states had accumulated an annual 519.5
billion euro budget deficit as of the second quarter of 2012,
according to Eurostat. In response, Spain is slashing teacher
salaries and Greece is cutting funding for public hospitals and
 prescription drugs . The Netherlands had a deficit of 24.9
billion euros.  “Governments around the world have to cut budgets and at
the same time multinational companies are avoiding taxes,” said
 Arnold Merkies , a Dutch parliament member from the Socialist
Party.  Merkies recently sent questions to the state secretary for
finance about the Netherlands’ role in enabling a tax-avoidance
strategy used by Google, after  Bloomberg News  reported in
December that the company had funneled almost $10 billion
through a Dutch shell company en route to Bermuda in 2011. The
move cut the company’s worldwide tax bill by $2 billion that
year.  “We connect the tax havens here,” Merkies said. “We have
a harmful role in the world and have a responsibility toward the
rest of the world.”  OECD Proposal  Profit shifting into tax havens by corporations costs the
U.S. $90 billion a year, according to  Kimberly Clausing , an
economics professor at  Reed College  in Portland, Oregon. The
U.S. faces a projected budget deficit of almost $1 trillion in
fiscal 2013.  The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development -- which sets standards for how multinational
companies allocate taxable income around the world -- is also
tackling the issue. It’s discussing a proposal that could make
it harder for companies to move profits through the Netherlands
into island tax havens.  Anger over corporate tax avoidance is spreading throughout
Europe. On Jan. 31, the U.K. Parliament is scheduled to hold its
second hearing on the issue. At a November hearing, members of
Parliament quizzed executives from Google and Starbucks Corp.
about their use of Netherlands subsidiaries to cut taxes.  ‘Applicable Taxes’  Yahoo’s offshore operations cut its taxes by $42.8 million
in 2011, U.S. securities filings show. Last February, the
company reported a dispute with the U.S.  Internal Revenue
Service  regarding its overseas arrangements. It didn’t disclose
the amount at stake.  “Yahoo! pays all applicable taxes in every jurisdiction
where we operate,” said Sara Gorman, a spokeswoman for the
company, based in Sunnyvale, California. She didn’t respond to a
detailed list of questions about Yahoo’s Dutch tax-cutting
arrangements.  By routing profits through the Netherlands en route to
island havens, companies receive an important benefit: They
generally don’t have to pay taxes on payments leaving or
entering the country.  Technology and pharmaceutical companies often seek to
reduce their tax bills by paying royalties to license  patent
rights  from offshore subsidiaries.  Withholding Tax  Such transactions could incur a cost: many developed
nations impose a withholding tax -- sometimes as high as 33
percent -- on royalties leaving for zero-tax locales with which
they don’t have tax treaties, such as Bermuda and the  Cayman
Islands . By contrast, the Netherlands doesn’t impose withholding
taxes on royalties leaving the country, regardless of their
destination.  Countries often either eliminate or reduce those taxes when
such payments head to a treaty partner. The extensive Dutch
treaty network thus protects payments on the way into the
country as well.  The Netherlands’ role in facilitating tax avoidance began
in force in the late 1970s, when it started so-called advance-
pricing agreements to attract multinational companies, said
Francis Weyzig, chair of  Tax Justice Network  Europe, who is
finishing a Ph.D. thesis at Radboud University on Dutch tax
policy.  Under such agreements, multinational companies agree to
leave a tiny amount of income in the Netherlands to be taxed in
exchange for being permitted to route profits through the
country. This remainder left for the revenue authorities in the
Netherlands is known to tax planners as “the Dutch Turn.”  ‘All Upfront’  Yahoo, for instance, has an agreement to pay taxes equal to
about 1.35 percent of the unit’s total revenue, said the soft-
spoken Dooves, who has run the Yahoo unit since 2007. He
previously worked as treasurer for a Dutch packaging company for
almost 15 years.  “The benefit of the Netherlands is that you know all
upfront,” Dooves said in his high-ceilinged home office in the
town of Koog aan de Zaan, overlooking a placid commercial street
with a scooter store, bakery and Thai restaurant.  Records show that the Yahoo unit reported Dutch income
taxes in 2009 of 1.28 million euros -- out of the 101.5 million
euros in royalties it funneled through the subsidiary that year.  That’s a small price to pay. In return, Yahoo can move
profits to virtually any destination without paying a
withholding tax.  Nothing Illegal  Tax avoidance has fostered a sizable industry in the
Netherlands of so-called trust firms, generating about 1 billion
euros in annual tax revenues and about 3,500 jobs, according to
a 2009 study by SEO Economic Research. Local companies such as
Intertrust Group Holding SA and  TMF Group  set up high-priced
mailboxes for multinational companies, often by providing them
with an address at their gleaming, high-rise office buildings
near the Amstel River and Amsterdam’s massive soccer arena.
Trust firms also provide non tax-related services, such as
bookkeeping and payroll administration.  Jan Reint de Vos van Steenwijk, managing director of TMF
Holding BV, said he expects the Dutch government to wait until
the release this spring of a research report on the economic
impact of the corporate services industry before taking any
action.  “The benefits to Holland are employment, high-level tax
advisers,” said Jos Peters, tax director for Merlyn Tax
Solutions & Royalty Conduit Services in Rotterdam. “They come
to us and why should we refuse this? We are not doing anything
illegal or immoral.”  Blackstone Purchase  In December,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the New York-based
private equity giant, announced it would buy one of the biggest
such firms, Intertrust, for $833 million, according to a person
with knowledge of the deal.  Merck, the maker of diabetes drug Januvia and asthma
treatment Singulair, lists 54  subsidiaries  in the Netherlands.
From 2002 to 2010 the company routed more than 7 billion euros
in royalties, mostly from European sales, to Bermuda via an
Amsterdam subsidiary called Crosswinds BV.  The unit -- which had no employees -- was named Crosswinds
to conjure the image of royalties crossing in and out “like
wind blowing,” said a person familiar with the matter.  In late 2010, after Merck acquired Schering Plough Corp.,
it stopped using Crosswinds to route royalties. Merck cut $1.9
billion off its tax bill that year because of its  offshore
arrangements , securities filings show.  Ronald Rogers , a spokesman for Merck, based in Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey, declined to discuss its tax strategies.  “Merck files its income tax returns in accordance with all
applicable laws and regulations,” Rogers said.  Double Non-Taxation  One purpose of tax treaties is to prevent companies from
paying tax twice in two different countries on the same profit.  Dell, however, uses the Netherlands to avoid paying income
taxes in either place. The world’s third-largest personal-
computer maker has avoided about $4 billion in income taxes
since 2004, thanks partly to its use of a Dutch unit.  The subsidiary, called Dell Global BV, paid income taxes at
a rate of 1/10 of 1 percent on profits of about $2 billion in
2011, the most recent year for which records are available. That
means the unit took credit for almost three quarters of Dell’s
worldwide income. That subsidiary had no actual employees in the
Netherlands as of 2009, filings show.  The Dutch company conducts its business through a branch in
 Singapore (DELL) , where it designs and sells laptops and other
equipment for the U.S., European and Asian markets.  Singapore Business  For tax purposes, Dell says the unit’s profit is generated
in  Singapore , where it obtained an income-tax holiday in 2004.
Although the company pays almost no income taxes in Singapore,
the Netherlands doesn’t impose any significant income taxes
either because “avoidance of double taxation can be claimed
with respect to the” profit earned in Singapore, according to
the Dutch subsidiary’s 2011 annual report.  “You don’t want companies to pay double tax but you also
don’t want them to not pay any tax at all,” said Merkies, the
Dutch parliament member.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service is seeking back taxes
avoided through Dell’s intra-company arrangements, according to
a company securities filing. Dell is contesting the IRS’s
proposed assessment. While the company didn’t disclose the
amount in dispute, it said an unfavorable outcome could have a
“material impact” on its financial position.  Cash Overseas  One result of its tax avoidance: Substantially all of
Dell’s $14.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents is overseas,
according to a company filing in December. It may now have to
tap that cash pile as it goes private, potentially subjecting
the money to U.S. taxes.  “We’ve always been clear that Dell has a responsibility to
pay its fair share of taxes,” said  Jess Blackburn , a spokesman
for Dell, based in  Round Rock , Texas. “We operate according to
all applicable laws and regulations and in accordance with the
letter and spirit of those laws.” He declined to respond to a
detailed list of questions about Dell’s tax arrangements.  Last month, the European Commission recommended that EU
members require in their treaties that income be subject to tax
in one country before being exempt in another. That could
prevent companies such as Dell from avoiding taxes in two
countries simultaneously.  Another EU proposal to combat tax-avoidance strategies has
moved slowly through the bureaucracy since 2004. It would
allocate multinational companies’ taxable profits into various
countries based on factors such as actual sales or number of
employees there.  ‘Waiting for Godot’  Whether the EU can implement such a change remains
doubtful. Under its rules, the move requires unanimous approval
from the 27  member states , including the Netherlands. At a
December news conference in Brussels announcing the plan to
combat tax avoidance, Algirdas Semeta, the EC’s commissioner for
taxation, avoided answering a Dutch journalist’s question about
whether the commission would target the Netherlands.  “I regard the Netherlands as the central European hub in
corporate tax avoidance,” said Sven Giegold, a member of the EU
parliament from Germany’s  Green Party . “The main challenge is
you need consensus within the EU, and waiting for consensus on
tax matters is like waiting for Godot.”  Last year, representatives from the Netherlands fought at
least two internal EU proposals to clamp down on tax avoidance
techniques, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Other European countries are competing to attract
multinational companies with tax inducements. Luxembourg has
imitated the Dutch system of conduit companies and advance tax
rulings, and Switzerland offers long-term tax holidays and other
incentives.  Swiss Generosity  Yahoo is taking advantage of the Swiss tax generosity: In
late 2009, the company began shifting profits from its European
sales into a small subsidiary in Rolle, Switzerland, a
picturesque town 25 miles north of Geneva at the foot of the
Alps.  Through Yahoo! Netherlands BV, headquartered at Dooves’s
suburban home, Yahoo has also routed European and Asian revenues
from Web ads to a subsidiary incorporated in Ireland that claims
its residency in the tax-friendly Cayman Islands, according to
filings.  In 2009, for example, the Dutch unit collected 101.5
million euros in royalties from around the world -- and promptly
paid out 98.7 percent of that to the Cayman subsidiary, records
show. If those payments went directly from, say, Yahoo’s France
sales arm to the Cayman unit, they could trigger a 33.3 percent
withholding tax in France.  ‘Beneficial Owner’  In 2011, a Yahoo French sales subsidiary reported 66
million euros of revenue, yet paid just 462,665 euros in income
taxes, records show.  A typical Dutch tax avoidance arrangement may violate the
tax treaties of various countries, said Peters, the Rotterdam
tax adviser. Only a small percentage of royalties stays in the
Netherlands in these transactions, records show, yet treaties
typically require that, in order to avoid withholding tax, the
Netherlands unit must be the “beneficial  owner.”  “It’s clearly visible in the public accounts in Holland
that these Dutch entities are not the beneficial owners,” said
Peters, speaking generally about such arrangements.  Yahoo recently introduced another circuitous path through
the Netherlands to cut the taxes on profits from its Asian
sales: Royalties travel from Singapore, through Dooves’s house,
to another subsidiary in Mauritius, a tax-friendly island off
the southeast coast of Africa.  In 2011, the Dutch unit collected 110 million euros from
Asian sales, according to Dooves -- before paying royalties to
the Mauritius subsidiary.  On paper, the  cash  remains with the Dutch subsidiary, which
uses it to finance operations throughout the world outside the
U.S., said Dooves. In reality, much of it sits in a HSBC
Holdings Plc bank account in London, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Drucker in Rome at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net  