-- Stocks Rise on Debt Bill; Futures, Apple Fall After Bell
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-01-23T21:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/yen-gains-japan-stocks-drop-on-delayed-stimulus-as-gold-rises.html
U.S. stocks gained, with benchmark
indexes closing at five-year highs, while Treasuries trimmed an
earlier advance as the House voted to temporarily suspend the
federal debt limit. Oil led commodities lower.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.2 percent to close
at 1,494.81 at 4 p.m. in  New York , while  futures  on the gauge
followed Apple Inc. lower after the maker of the iPhone reported
sales and a revenue forecast that trailed analysts’ estimates.
Ten-year Treasury yields decreased 1.4 basis points to 1.83
percent after losing three points earlier.  Japan ’s currency rose
less than 0.1 percent to 88.69 per dollar, its first three-day
gain since November.  The S&P 500 reversed an early drop as the House voted
285-144 to lift the nation’s debt ceiling through mid-May as a
Bloomberg poll showed global investors say the state of the
American government’s finances is the greatest risk to the world
economy. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth
forecasts and now projects a second year of contraction in the
euro region as progress in battling  Europe ’s debt crisis fails
to produce economic recovery.  “The recent theme seems to be early weakness overcome by
afternoon buying,”  Ryan Larson , the Chicago-based head of U.S.
equity trading at RBC Global Asset Management (U.S.) Inc., said
in an interview. His firm oversees $250 billion. “Earnings
continue to be in focus while the House votes on extending the
debt ceiling.”  Debt Ceiling  Thirty-year bonds  held two days of gains, with the yield
down less than one basis point at 3.02 percent, as the  Federal
Reserve  purchased $1.474 billion in longer-term debt. Inflation
expectations dropped from the highest in almost three months as
the U.S. prepares to sell $15 billion in 10-year inflation-
indexed debt tomorrow.  The House voted to suspend the government’s $16.4 trillion
 borrowing limit  until May 19, when the measure would allow the
U.S.’s borrowing authority to automatically be increased to
accommodate the amount the Treasury borrowed during those three
months. Republicans plan to use two other approaching deadlines,
the March 1 start of automatic spending cuts and the need to
pass a bill to fund the government by the end of March, to
extract spending reductions.  Market Movers  In the stock market, a rally in International Business
Machines Corp. drove the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to its
best level since October 2007. Technology shares rose 1.2
percent as a group for the biggest gain in the  S&P 500  among the
 10 main industries .  IBM surged 4.4 percent, the most in a year, after the
world’s biggest computer-services provider forecast profit that
exceeded analyst estimates. The gain in IBM, which accounts for
almost 12 percent of the price-weighted Dow, added more than 66
points to the gauge. The average closed up 66.96 points, or 0.5
percent, to 13,779.17 even as 17 of its 30 stocks retreated.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  rose 5.5 percent, the most in more than a year,
after the profit topped analysts’ estimates as advertisers
boosted spending to reach consumers during the holidays.  Apple Inc. climbed 1.8 percent in the regular session,
before retreating 4.1 percent to $493.04 in extended trading.
Apple reported first-quarter sales below analysts’ predictions,
adding fuel to investor pessimism that has sent shares down 27
percent since September. Futures on the S&P 500, of which Apple
is the biggest company, lost 0.2 percent.  Apple Earnings  Profit (AAPL)  was little changed at $13.1 billion, or $13.81 a
share, in the period that ended Dec. 29. Sales rose 18 percent
to $54.5 billion. Analysts had predicted profit of $13.53 a
share on revenue of $54.9 billion, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. For the fiscal second quarter, which is
now under way, Apple  forecast  sales of $41 billion to $43
billion. That compares with predictions by analysts for revenue
of $45.5 billion. The company didn’t provide a profit forecast.  The S&P 500 has climbed 4.8 percent so far in January,
poised for its best start to a year since 1997.  Per-share earnings have exceeded analysts’  projections  at
about 76 percent of the 101 companies in the S&P 500 that
released results so far in the earnings season, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Profits at companies in the index are forecast
to exceed $1 trillion this year, according to more than 11,000
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings have grown 20
percent for the group amid a 4.5 percent increase in sales. More
than 30 companies in the S&P 500 are reporting today.  European Movers  Among European stocks, TUI AG and  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  fell more
than 4.8 percent as the former retreated from a plan to combine
with the latter, a week after the two travel companies said they
were in preliminary merger talks.  Novartis AG (NOVN) , Europe’s biggest drugmaker, climbed 4.1
percent after reporting earnings that beat projections and
saying Chairman  Daniel Vasella  will step down. Unilever gained
2.4 percent as the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker
reported faster-than-estimated revenue growth.  Portugal’s 10-year bonds gained for a fifth day, extending
the longest rally since November, before the country sold notes
for the first time since requesting a bailout in April 2011. The
bond’s rate slid seven basis points to 5.82 percent, the lowest
level in more than two years.  Sugar, lead and zinc climbed at least 1.5 percent to lead
gains in 17 of 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI Index, while a
decline in oil left the gauge down 0.3 percent. Crude futures
oil lost 1.5 percent to $95.23 a barrel as capacity on the
Seaway pipeline was reduced and the IMF cut its global growth
forecasts.  IMF Forecasts  The world economy will expand 3.5 percent this year, less
than the 3.6 percent forecast in October, the Washington-based
IMF said today in an update of its World Economic Outlook
report. While the fund projects growth this year increasing from
last year’s 3.2 percent pace, it expects the 17-country euro
area to shrink 0.2 percent in 2013, instead of growing 0.2
percent as forecast in October.  “Is Europe on the mend? I think the answer is yes and
no,” IMF Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said in a video
released with the report. “Something has to happen to start
growth.”  The yen strengthened against 10 of 16 major counterparts,
gaining 0.1 percent per euro. Europe’s shared currency was
little changed at $1.3317 and the  Dollar Index , a gauge of the
greenback against six major peers, was little changed at 79.92.  ‘Upward Correction’  The yen will weaken against the U.S. currency by the end of
the year, as the BOJ’s decision to hold off on fresh stimulus
puts pressure on the government to revive growth through fiscal
measures, according to a Bloomberg survey of strategists.  “The yen currently is in an upward correction phase after
it weakened rapidly in the past two months,” said Noriaki Murao, managing director of the marketing group at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. “The market was somewhat
disappointed in that no deadline has been set for the inflation
target and that the open-ended asset purchases don’t start until
2014.”  Japan’s top currency official, Takehiko Nakao, said the
central bank isn’t engaged in a competitive devaluation of the
yen, pushing back against international criticism of the
nation’s monetary policy.  “The BOJ’s monetary policy, decided yesterday, is aimed at
ending persistent deflation, so criticism that it’s a form of
competitive devaluation is misplaced,” Nakao, the Vice Finance
Minister, said in an interview in  Tokyo  today.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.2 percent.  South
Korea ’s Kospi Index slipped 0.8 percent as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. cut its economic growth forecast.  India ’s Sensex index
gained 0.2 percent,  Russia ’s Micex Index closed up 0.8 percent.
The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.3 percent before a
manufacturing report tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  