-- Yield Below Sweden Curbs Demand in Czech Government Bond Auction
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-01-23T14:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-23/yield-below-sweden-curbs-demand-in-czech-government-bond-auction.html
The  Czech Republic  sold the minimum
planned amount of new 3 1/2-year bonds at today’s auction as
yields below higher-rated  Sweden  damped investor demand.  The country issued 3 billion koruna ($157 million) of notes
due in July 2016, compared with a target of 3 billion koruna to
5 billion koruna, central bank data shows. Investors bid for 4.6
billion koruna of the debt, rated A1 at Moody’s Investors
Service, and the average accepted yield was 0.63 percent. Top-
rated Swedish bonds of the same maturity yield 1.1 percent.  Optimism that  Europe  will contain its economic crisis is
pushing bondholders to lower-rated debt offering higher returns
from Spain to  Hungary . The Czech Finance Ministry today also
sold 3.8 billion koruna of bonds maturing in 2022, near the top
of the 2 billion koruna to 4 billion koruna plan. Bids totaled 8
billion koruna and the yield was 1.96 percent, compared with
similar securities trading at 1.82 percent in Sweden and 1.51
percent in  Germany , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Shorter Czech yields are no longer competitive,” Marek Drimal, an economist at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  in  Prague , said by
phone after the auction. “Demand for the longer bond was solid
because it still offers a nice yield premium.”  Czech bonds have the highest credit ratings in central and
eastern Europe, on par with Estonia, and are the cheapest to
insure with credit-default swaps. The Czech swaps fell one basis
point today to 58, after touching a three-year low of 57 on Jan.
4. The contracts for France traded at 85 today.  The swaps, which drop as perceptions of creditworthiness
improve, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ’Safe Haven’  The koruna gained less than 0.1 percent today to 25.599 per
euro by 2:55 a.m. in Prague.  Demand for Czech debt surged after the government curbed
sales in the last quarter of 2012 and said its gross borrowing
this year will fall by about 25 percent to 230.7 billion koruna
($12.5 billion). The  Finance Ministry  doubled its cash reserve
to about 140 billion koruna last year, a “sufficient cushion in
the event of market instability,” Petr Pavelek, head of the
ministry’s debt-management department, said on Dec. 12.  Lower-than-expected borrowing costs helped trim the central
government’s budget deficit to 101 billion koruna last year
compared with the target of 105 billion koruna, Finance Minister
Miroslav Kalousek said on Jan. 3. That is ’’credit positive’’
and supports the perception of the Czech Republic as “a
regional safe haven,” Moody’s analysts Jaime Reusche in New
York and Dietmar Hornung in Frankfurt wrote in a Jan. 8 research
note.  The A1 rating is Moody’s fifth-highest grade, four steps
above  Italy  and five above Spain.  “The ministry is in a comfortable situation thanks to its
high financing reserve,”  Komercni Banka ’s Drimal said. “Yields
are likely to rise in future auctions as investors are leaving
safe-haven bonds and hunting for higher returns elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  