-- Lagarde to Defend IMF Credibility in Euro-Area Talks on Greece
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-11-17T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/lagarde-to-defend-imf-credibility-in-euro-area-talks-on-greece.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said she’ll defend the IMF’s
credibility in talks on Greece this week, signalling a potential
clash with euro finance chiefs over Greek debt sustainability.  Lagarde cut short a visit to  Southeast Asia  yesterday to
return to  Europe  for a meeting with euro-region finance
ministers in Brussels on Nov. 20. With the two sides deadlocked
over the timeline for reducing Greek debt levels, Lagarde said
she was approaching the talks feeling “patient and resilient.”  Speaking in an interview in the Philippine capital  Manila 
before leaving for Europe, Lagarde said she’ll seek to “operate
independently” while sticking to the fund’s rules, suggesting
no retreat from her position in the negotiations. Maintaining
the “solidity of our advice” on  Greece  will be just as
important as ensuring the country’s program works, she said.  Lagarde took issue last week with European governments’
decision to push back a debt reduction target by two years to
2022 against the fund’s recommendations, raising questions over
whether the IMF would keep financing Greece. Agreement on how to
reduce Greece’s debt to sustainable levels is key to disbursing
the next tranche of aid under the bailout that euro nations co-
finance with the IMF.  “We never leave the table,” Lagarde said in the interview
when asked about dropping support. She declined to answer a
question on whether the IMF has room for maneuver in the
negotiations.  ‘Solid Program’  The IMF’s goals are to achieve “a solid program for Greece
that convinces investors today that it will stand tomorrow, and
the reliability, credibility, quality of the advice we give and
that we lend to the Europeans,” Lagarde said. “I’m always
desperately optimistic and I’m always trying to be constructive,
but I’m guided by the two objectives.”  The IMF target is for a reduction of Greece’s debt to 120
percent of gross domestic product by 2020, from a projected peak
of 190 percent of GDP in 2014. European officials at a Nov. 12
meeting agreed to postpone the 120 percent target to 2022, while
rejecting a write off of official debt. The Nov. 20 meeting was
called to reach a final deal.  The fund’s credibility rests on the quality of its advice,
according to Lagarde. While the IMF accounts for less than a
third of the 240 billion euros ($305 billion) pledged for Greece
since 2010, the participation of the fund, with its experience
in shoring up distressed economies, has helped give investors
confidence in the packages for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal .  “It’s not our billions of dollars that really matter on
this occasion,” Lagarde said. “It’s the solidity of our advice
that we are lending to the program.”  Debt Write off  European Central Bank Governing Council member Jens Weidmann said Nov. 16 that Greece may need a second debt write
off after policy makers in  Athens  enact economic reforms.
Lagarde, who has suggested that Greece may need another debt
cut, declined to comment on Weidmann’s suggestion.  Greece has already undergone the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history after getting private investors to
forgive more than 100 billion euros of debt in March. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman said last month that
imposing losses on European taxpayers who have lent to Greece is
“out of the question.”  In  Malaysia  on Nov. 14, Lagarde said for Greece the IMF
wants “a real fix, not a quick fix and that means clearly a
debt that is sustainable as quickly as possible.” At an earlier
press conference last week, she stuck to the IMF’s recommended
target date of 2020 and acknowledged the disagreement with euro
finance chiefs.  Officials including Italian Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  and his German counterpart,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , have
since expressed confidence an agreement can be reached.  Fiscal Cliff  Lagarde said that officials she met in Malaysia and the
 Philippines  talked to her less about Europe’s debt crisis than
about the U.S. They were concerned about its ability to avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff, the combination of $607 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts that threatens to
throw the country into a recession next year without an
alternative agreement by lawmakers.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in a Nov. 16
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” that he’s confident an agreement on averting the fiscal
cliff can be concluded within weeks after White House talks
between President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders.  “I think the several weeks will be necessary for people to
come to common sense, to practicalities and to get away from
their campaign positioning,” Lagarde said in reference to
Geithner’s comments. A “sense of practicality will prevail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Manila at  srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  