-- American’s Pilot Leaders Approve Member Vote on New Deal
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-11-17T01:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/american-s-pilot-leaders-approve-member-vote-on-new-deal.html
American Airlines pilot union
leaders decided to let its 8,000 members vote on a tentative
contract that may help the carrier exit bankruptcy.  The  Allied Pilots Association  board voted 12-4 to allow the
balloting, according to a message today to members. The union
already has a conditional contract with potential suitor  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , should the two carriers merge.  The pilots at  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American are the lone labor group
to reject concessions negotiated to reduce employee costs that
the carrier said helped push it into bankruptcy. The  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based airline wants a pilot contract before leaving court
protection to assure creditors about future labor expenses.  The agreement “addresses the priorities identified by APA
as most important to our pilots, while staying within the same
cost savings target that we required from all other employee
groups,” said  Bruce Hicks , an American spokesman. The carrier’s
goal for such reductions was 17 percent a year.  Pilots will vote on the agreement from Nov. 23 through Dec.
7, said Tom Hoban, a union spokesman.  Separately,  Laura Glading , president of the  Association of
Professional Flight Attendants , said AMR’s unsecured creditors
committee still is examining both a possible merger and
American’s stand-alone business plan. Glading sits on the panel
that represents some groups owed money by AMR and has a voice in
major decisions in the bankruptcy.  Creditors Committee  “I can only say that progress is being made,” Glading
said today in a message to flight attendants. Committee members
are bound by a confidentiality agreement, and the lack of
information “has caused a great deal of frustration for our
membership,” she said.  American retains the exclusive right to file a
reorganization plan through Jan. 28 and could seek additional
time, she said. As a result, a date for the carrier’s emergence
from bankruptcy can’t be estimated, she said.  American imposed cost cuts on the pilots to trim spending
by $315 million a year after they rejected an earlier accord in
August. The two sides reached the latest agreement on Nov. 9
after ending a stalemate over pay, protection against layoffs
and the size of jets that can be flown at regional partners.  Six-Year Contract  The proposed six-year contract would raise pay 4 percent
when it’s signed, with subsequent 2 percent annual increases. It
also calls for a “mid-contract adjustment” to bring pilots to
an industry-standard pay rate, and would provide furlough
protection for current employees.  Pilots would work more hours and have to pay more for
medical benefits, and the agreement would let regional partners
fly more jets of as many as 76 seats. American would be allowed
to expand a marketing agreement known as code-sharing with
Alaska Airlines and establish one with  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)   American pilots also would get a 13.5 percent equity stake
in the restructured post-bankruptcy company.  The airline and APA had failed to reach a contract
agreement in talks that began more than five years before the
carrier sought  bankruptcy protection  on Nov. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  