-- Argentina Won’t Evade Orders in Bond Case, Official Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-11-17T07:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/argentina-won-t-evade-orders-in-bond-case-official-says-1-.html
Argentina  won’t evade the orders of
a New York court that is considering suits by holders of the
country’s defaulted bonds, an official said in court papers.  Argentina “has complied, is complying and will comply”
with the terms of a March 5 order barring the country from
changing the way it pays holders of its restructured debt to try
to evade the court’s jurisdiction, according to a declaration
filed late last night by Francisco Guillermo Eggers, director of
Argentina’s National Bureau of Public Credit.  Argentina also asked U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa to
reject the bondholders’ arguments that they must be paid the
full value of their bonds, plus interest, before the country can
make payments to investors who agreed to accepts bonds of lower
value in two debt restructurings.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York ruled Oct. 26 that
Argentina must pay holders of the defaulted notes if it pays off
on its restructured debt. Griesa is considering how to apply the
ruling to third parties and setting a formula for paying holders
of the defaulted bonds.  In a court conference Nov. 9, Griesa requested that the
country confirm its intention to comply with his order while he
considers those two issues. Holders of the defaulted bonds had
cited press statements by Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and members of her cabinet that, they claimed, show
the country is trying to evade the appeals court ruling.  Bondholders’ Demand  Holders of the defaulted bonds, who are seeking more than
$1.4 billion, want Griesa to block Argentina from going forward
with more than $3 billion in scheduled payments on the
restructured debt next month if it continues its refusal to pay
them.  Argentina argued that requiring it to pay 100 percent of
the value of the defaulted bonds violates the principal that
those bondholders be treated equally with restructured
bondholders.  “Plaintiffs’ unprecedented demand for over one billion
dollars from the fiscal reserves of a foreign state, with
further demands to follow as more ‘me too’ plaintiffs pile in,
had the immediate, intended effect on the market of sending it
into disarray,” Argentina said in its brief. “Faced with
losses already, third-party bondholders have asked the court to
protect their interests.”  Third-Party Harm  Argentina also claimed that the plaintiffs’ proposed
solution would harm non-parties including  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. , the trustee for holders of the restructured bonds,
financial institutions tied to payments on those bonds, and
registered bondholders.  Earlier yesterday,  BNY Mellon  told Griesa that he
shouldn’t hold the bank responsible if Argentina fails to pay
holders of the defaulted debt.  “BNY Mellon has no control over Argentina and no
involvement in Argentina’s performance of any obligations to
plaintiffs,” the bank said in a court filing yesterday.
“Plaintiffs’ efforts to threaten an indenture trustee with an
extraordinary citation of contempt go too far.”  Argentina defaulted on a record $95 billion in debt in 2001.
In 2005 and 2010, the country offered to let holders of the
defaulted bonds exchange them for new bonds at a discount more
than 70 percent, according to a brief filed today by holders of
the exchanged bonds. About 92 percent of the bondholders
accepted the offer, they said.  Griesa said he will rule by Dec. 1 on the payment formula
and the issues relating to third parties. Argentina has asked
the appeals court to reconsider its Oct. 26 ruling.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 08-
cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story: Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  