-- Asian Stocks Outside Japan Drop; Election Spurs Nikkei 225 Rally
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-11-17T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/asian-stocks-outside-japan-drop-election-spurs-nikkei-225-rally.html
Asian  stocks  outside Japan declined
this week as companies including  QBE (QBE)  Insurance Group Ltd. and
Tencent Holdings Ltd. warned of slower earnings growth. Japanese
shares rose ahead of next month’s elections.  QBE Insurance fell 15 percent in Sydney after  Australia ’s
biggest insurer said claims from U.S. superstorm Sandy will dent
full-year profit. Tencent slid 7 percent in Hong Kong as the
operator of online games said revenue growth will slow after
reporting profit that missed estimates. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc., Japan’s biggest bank, rose 3.1 percent in  Tokyo  on
speculation the elections will hand power to an opposition party
advocating more aggressive monetary easing.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  dropped 1.2
percent this week, trimming to 10 percent the gauge’s gain
through yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as central
banks added stimulus to spur economic growth and data showed a
slowdown in China may be ending.  “Confidence is crucial,” said  Jing Ulrich , Hong Kong-
based chairwoman of global markets at the China division of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The economy is beginning to stabilize.
Maybe in the coming few months we’ll see corporate earnings
recover. We are already seeing signs of recovery in things like
power generation, retail sales, industrial production and
surprisingly Chinese exports have performed better than
expected.”  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  decreased 2.8 percent this
week. South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 2.3 percent. Taiwan’s
 Taiex Index  slipped 2.2 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
fell 1.1 percent.  Leadership Change  The Shanghai Composite slid 2.6 percent this week. The
Communist Party appointed Xi Jinping general secretary on Nov.
15, putting him in line to become president, while Vice Premier
Li Keqiang is forecast to replace Premier Wen Jiabao.  “A lot of  China ’s leaders are new and there’s been little
coverage on their current positions,” said Tim Leung, a
portfolio manager who helps manage about $1.5 billion at IG
Investment Ltd. in Hong Kong. “I’m quite sure in the longer
term we will notice the change, but it’s very difficult to make
predictions at this point.”  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 3 percent. Prime
Minister Yoshihiko Noda dissolved parliament yesterday,
triggering an election on Dec. 16 that polls suggest his
Democratic Party of Japan will lose.  Shinzo Abe, the leader of the main opposition Liberal
Democratic Party, called on Nov. 16 for the central bank to
pursue unlimited monetary stimulus to end deflation and revive
an economy that shrank last quarter at the fastest pace since
the 2011 earthquake.  QBE, Noble  Of the 555 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
posted quarterly results since Oct. 1, for which estimates were
available, 55 percent missed expectations, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg News. Shares on the Asian benchmark index
traded at 13.2 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.1
times for the S&P 500 Index and 11.8 times for the Stoxx Europe
600.  QBE plunged 15 percent to A$10.91 in Sydney. Moody’s
Investor Service put the insurer’s credit rating on review for a
possible downgrade after the company said its profit margin will
drop to around 8 percent this year. That’s down from an August
forecast for better than 12 percent, as losses from superstorm
Sandy total $350 million to $450 million.  Lynas, Noble  Lynas Corp. (LYC) , which is building the world’s biggest rare-
earths refinery in  Malaysia , tumbled 31 percent to 55.5
Australian cents. The stock will be removed from MSCI Australia
Index effective Nov. 30 and Malaysian activists appealed against
a court decision allowing the company to proceed with its
project in the Southeast Asian nation.  Noble Group Ltd. sank 9.8 percent to S$1.06 in  Singapore 
after Vice Chairman Emeritus Harindarpal Singh Banga sold a 3.5
percent stake in the commodity supplier that reported lower-
than-expected earnings last week.  Tencent sank 7 percent to HK$248.20 in Hong Kong after
Chief Executive Officer Pony Ma said China’s decelerating
economy may slow revenue growth rates for online advertising.
The company, which received 7 percent of sales from advertising
in 2011, posted profit that missed analyst estimates.  Japanese banks advanced ahead of elections. The lenders are
the best way to bet on a return of the LDP to power, Bank of
America Corp. strategist Michael Hartnett wrote in a report
yesterday. Mizuho Financial Group Inc. climbed 4.1 percent to
128 yen. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial gained 3.1 percent to 366 yen.  Brokerages and carmakers led gains as the Topix Index,
 Japan ’s broadest measure of equity performance, climbed 2.8
percent for the week. Toyota Motor Corp. advanced 5.9 percent to
3,325 yen. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. surged 13 percent to 348
yen.  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index, a gauge of how
much it costs to buy options protecting against swings in the
country’s main stock-price measure, fell on Nov. 14 to the
lowest since before last year’s record earthquake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  