-- Australia Beats England in Rugby; New Zealand Extends Run
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-17T22:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/australia-beats-england-20-14-in-rugby-new-zealand-extends-run.html
Australia rallied in the second half
to beat  England  20-14 as rugby world champion  New Zealand 
extended its unbeaten run to 19 matches.  Berrick Barnes kicked three penalties after halftime to
give Australia the win at Twickenham in London. Barnes finished
with 15 points, while Nick Cummins touched down for the
Wallabies.  “All credit goes to them,” England captain Chris Robshaw
told  Sky Sports . “They came here and did a job. We need to go
away and look at where we lost points.”  New Zealand used a strong second-half performance to beat
Italy 42-10 in Rome,  South Africa  continued its domination of
 Scotland  with a 21-10 win in Edinburgh, and France defeated
Argentina 39-22 in Lille in today’s other international games.  The autumn series of matches in  Europe  will affect the
seedings for the 2015 Rugby  World Cup . The International Rugby
Board rankings as of Dec. 3 will be used to band the 12
automatic qualifiers in the 20-team tournament in England, with
the first four placed at the top of the four five-team groups.  Australia rebounded from last weekend’s 33-6 loss in France
to beat England for the 24th time in 42 meetings.  “We spoke about character and resolve this week and I
though the effort was outstanding,” Australia captain  Nathan Sharpe  said. “  Toby Flood kicked three penalties, offsetting a penalty and
drop goal from Barnes, to give England a 9-6 first-half lead.
Australia went in front in the 35th minute as Cummins touched
down in the corner after taking a pass from  Nick Phipps , with
Barnes missing the conversion.  Penalty  England went back on top just before halftime as Manu
Tuilagi broke down the left side and went over, with the score
confirmed by the television match official. Flood missed the
conversion to leave the England with a 14-11 lead at the break.  Barnes tied the game four minutes into the second half with
a penalty, then kicked two more over the next nine minutes to
give the Wallabies a 20-14 advantage.  England twice opted for lineouts instead of taking
penalties, but couldn’t score. Thomas Waldron stretched for the
line, but video review showed it lost control of the ball as he
tried to ground it.  England eschewed another penalty with 11 minutes remaining
but never was able to get close to scoring as the Australia
defense held.  “We put a lot of pressure on them and we didn’t come away
with points when we needed to,” England coach  Stuart Lancaster 
said. “We have got to take those points when we are in the red
zone.”  Unbeaten Run  Julian Savea scored two tries and Ma’a Nonu and Cory Jane
added one each as New Zealand outscored Italy 29-3 in the second
half to extend its unbeaten run. The All Blacks touched down
five times, to Italy’s one, and Aaron Cruden kicked 17 points.  Adrian Strauss scored two tries and Pat Lambie kicked three
penalties and a conversion as South Africa beat Scotland for the
17th time in 22 meetings. The Springboks avenged a 2010 loss at
Murrayfield, their last to a northern hemisphere team.  Vincent Clerc touched down twice as France outscored
Argentina three tries to one. Frederic Michalak kicked 24 points
for France and Nicholas Sanchez booted 17 points for Argentina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 