-- Australia Must Curb Costs to Lure Energy Projects, Minister Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-11-18T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/australia-must-curb-costs-to-lure-energy-projects-minister-says.html
Australia  needs to reduce project
development costs in the mining industry to keep attracting
investment as the cushion provided by high commodity prices
diminishes, Resources and Energy Minister Martin Ferguson said.  “All of us have to be conscious about better managing
these projects so as to continue the pipeline of investment,”
Ferguson said in an interview with the Australian Broadcasting
Corp.’s Inside Business program yesterday. “When you’ve got
very high iron ore or coal prices, well you can afford to have a
bit of fat in the system, have a few over-runs, but the world’s
completely changed.”  Australia’s economy grew 2 percent in the six months
through June, the fastest first-half expansion in five years, on
the strength of resource industry investment and consumer
spending.  Estimates of a A$230 billion ($238 billion) pipeline of
future projects are being reviewed as plunging iron ore prices
prompted mining companies, including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , to put off projects.  Iron ore fell 37 percent between Dec. 30 and Sept. 6 to its
lowest price in almost three years. Prices have since rebounded,
trimming the year’s loss to about 11 percent, according to data
compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  BHP, the world’s biggest miner, in August delayed $68
billion of projects. Last week it agreed on a four-year
extension to develop its Olympic Dam copper and aluminum mine in
South Australia because it faced unforeseen economic
circumstances preventing it from moving forward as planned, the
state government said.  Fortescue in September deferred development of its Kings
deposit and completion of a fourth berth at its Herb Elliott
Port. It subsequently said it may resume the iron ore project in
stages before year-end as prices recover.  Coal Prices  High-cost coal mine projects have been delayed as the price
of coking and thermal coal falls in world markets, Ferguson said.
Producers such as  Indonesia  are increasing output, putting more
pressure on Australian miners, he said.  Costs on  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Gorgon liquefied natural gas
project off the nation’s northwestern coast may be A$20 billion
($20.7 billion) more than projected because of a high currency,
labor union demands and low productivity, the Australian
Financial Review reported last week.  “This is not good in terms of attracting further
investment,” Ferguson said of the Gorgon announcement. In
September, Chevron said it was reviewing the costs and schedule
of the development, adding that construction had been affected
by weather, logistics and labor productivity.  Monitoring Costs  Nations such as  Japan ,  China , South Korea are “monitoring
our project costs, delivery and time lines and I think it’s
better that we’re forewarned by what’s happening at the moment
rather than taking it for granted that these projects will just
willy nilly come our way,” he said.  The government is working on reducing regulations that
impede projects, Ferguson said. Companies need to better manage
projects and labor unions must also be involved.  “We’ve all got to accept we’ve got to pull our weight,”
he said. “Look, we’re fortunate. There’s good jobs and
investment at the moment but that window through to 2025 is
there to be grabbed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  