-- Canadian Dollar Weakens to Three-Month Low on Growth Concern
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-11-17T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/canadian-dollar-weakens-to-three-month-low-on-growth-concern.html
The Canadian dollar weakened to the
lowest level against the greenback since August on concern that
budget gridlock in the U.S. and Europe’s unresolved sovereign-
debt crisis will weigh on demand for the nation’s exports.  The loonie, as the dollar is nicknamed for the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, traded in the narrowest range this
week since March.  Statistics Canada  is forecast to report on
Nov. 23 that the rise in consumer prices slowed in October from
the prior month, suggesting Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
doesn’t need to emphasize raising  interest rates .  “There’s already risk impairment that’s embedded in the
marketplace right now, which is having an adverse effect on the
Canadian dollar,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, said in a phone
interview. “Every other country is effectively going through
the same scenario, so we’re not an outlier.”  The Canadian currency weakened to as low as C$1.0057
yesterday, the least since Aug. 3, and was little changed on the
week at C$1.0012, after trading between C$1.0057 and 99.85 U.S.
cents. One Canadian dollar buys 99.88 U.S. cents.  The loonie touched its more than three-month low as Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he’ll delay plans to balance the
budget and run larger-than-expected deficits because global
turmoil risks slowing growth in the world’s 11th largest
economy.  Global Outlook  The 17 nation euro-area economy slipped into a recession
for the second time in four years as governments imposed tougher
budget cuts and leaders struggled to contain the debt crisis
that broke out in October 2009. Gross domestic product slipped
0.1 percent in the third quarter after a 0.2 percent decline in
the previous three months, the European Union’s statistics
office said this week.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said he offered a “framework”
including new revenue to reduce the  U.S. budget deficit  in his
first face-to-face talks yesterday with President  Barack Obama 
and top Congress leaders since the Nov. 6 election.  “The fiscal cliff has dominated the market,”  Benjamin Reitzes , senior economist and vice president economic research
in Toronto at BMO Capital Markets, said at a telephone
interview. “This is going to persist and be a weight on risk
sentiment, stocks, and the Canadian dollar. That won’t change
until there’s more clarity on that front.”  The $607 billion fiscal cliff is a combination of tax
increases and spending cuts that will take effect in January if
Congress doesn’t act. Lawmakers of both parties want to avoid a
short-term shock to the economy while making progress on long-
term deficit reduction.  International Demand  Canadian  government bonds  rose, with the yield on the
benchmark 10-year security falling two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.69 percent this week. The price of the
2.75 percent bond maturing in June 2022 rose 18 cents to
C$109.27.  Foreign net purchases of Canadian securities almost doubled
in September from the month before on government bond sales, the
federal statistics agency said. Purchases totaled C$13.9 billion
($13.9 billion) in September and the estimated August purchase
was increased to C$7.56 billion from an initial C$6.90 billion.  The  consumer price index  rose 1.2 percent in October from
a year ago, according to the median forecast of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank’s preferred core rate
probably slowed to 1.2 percent from 1.3 percent in September,
according to the survey.  Moving Averages  Carney has kept his key lending rate at 1 percent for more
than two years and will probably leave it unchanged again at the
Dec. 4 decision, according to a Bloomberg economist survey.  The Canadian currency weakened past its 50-day, 100- and
200-day moving averages this week for the first time since July
25. The averages, momentum indicators, are seen by some traders
as a turning point in the direction of a currency’s price.
They’re calculated by adding closing prices for a specific
number of assessment days, then dividing by that number.  “This week the U.S. dollar-loonie cross failed to make any
meaningful gains above 1.0040,” and “continues to trade within
a relatively narrow range around its two-hundred day moving
average,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of
 Nova Scotia  in Toronto, said in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  