-- China’s Xi May Unveil Plan for Change Late 2013, CICC Head Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-17T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/china-s-xi-may-unveil-reform-plan-in-late-2013-cicc-head-says.html
China’s new leadership, headed by  Xi Jinping , will probably unveil new market-oriented changes in
late 2013, according to Li Jiange, head of the country’s biggest
investment bank.  Li, chairman of China International Capital Corp. and a
vice chairman of state-owned Central Huijin Investment Co.,
which holds stakes in the nation’s biggest lenders, said the
focus will probably be on reducing government intervention in
the economy and breaking up state monopolies. Li spoke at Caixin
Media’s annual conference in Beijing yesterday.  China last week completed the most important phase of a
once-a-decade power transition with Xi taking over as head of
the ruling Communist Party and Li Keqiang, set to become premier
in March, made No. 2 in the party hierarchy. They inherit an
economy burdened by slower growth, an aging population, widening
income disparity and environmental degradation that’s fueling
social unrest.  “Expectations are high” for the new leadership to make
changes as government intervention, ranging from excessive
regulation to rigid price controls, has become “unbearable”
over the last couple of years, said Li, who previously worked
for the Development Research Center, an organization that
advises the State Council, China’s cabinet.  Unbalanced Country  “When  inflation  was high, many Chinese stores, merchants
and even producers received phone calls from regulators telling
them not to increase prices,” Li said. “But how can a
supermarket not change the price of pork if hog prices are
rising,” he said.  At a separate conference in Beijing yesterday, central bank
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said it was “hard to reach consensus”
on detailed reforms as China is a big and unbalanced country.  The new government will continue to value changes initiated
at local level although it will also still attach great
importance to overall planning, he said. China must allow trial
reforms so that it can test what could go wrong, he said.  Zhou, 64, wasn’t named to the new central committee of the
Communist Party during last week’s leadership transition that
saw Xi take over from  Hu Jintao  as head of the party,
heightening speculation that he will retire from the People’s
Bank of China.  More Competition  Xi, set to succeed Hu as president in March, may face
economic growth of 7 percent in 2013, the slowest in 23 years,
according to Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the
world’s largest bond fund. Standard Chartered Plc sees a risk of
annual expansion slumping to between 3 percent and 4 percent
within 10 to 15 years without market-driven change to introduce
more competition for state enterprises.  Growth this year may slide to 7.7 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  from
Oct. 18-22. That would be the slowest pace since 1999 and down
from an annual average pace of 10.6 percent in the decade
through 2011.  Li Jiange added his voice to calls by economist Wu Jinglian, billionaire entrepreneur Liang Wengen and liberals
including the son of late party chief Hu Yaobang for the
government to allow a bigger role for market forces, roll back
the dominance of state-owned enterprises and give equal
treatment to private companies.  Market Economy  Speaking on the first day of the Caixin conference on Nov.
16, Wu, a senior research fellow at the center, said China needs
to draft a plan for economic and political change that will push
forward the development of a competitive market economy. Wu, who
was named “Man of the Year” in 2001 by the official Shanghai
Securities News, is known for describing the nation’s stock
market as being worse than a casino.  The Development Research Center collaborated with the  World
Bank  to produce a report titled  China 2030  published in February
this year. It outlined policies to help the nation sustain its
growth while avoiding the so-called middle-income trap, where
expansion slows because of a failure to implement reforms needed
to create a wealthy middle class.  The report highlighted the need to overhaul state-owned
companies, banks, land, labor and financial markets, promote
competition and reduce the role of government.  The 448-page document was endorsed by  Li Keqiang , according
to Ding Shuang, senior economist for China at Citigroup Inc. in
 Hong Kong  who previously worked for China’s central bank.  Louder Voice  The party central committee, made up of 205 officials
including the government’s top leaders, generals of the  People’s
Liberation Army  and heads of the biggest state-owned
enterprises, will hold a plenary session late next year, Li
said. That should lead to the unveiling of “a new reform
blueprint to guide China’s reforms,” he said.  Opponents of market-oriented changes gained a louder voice
during the global financial crisis when the government’s
intervention in the economy increased and intensified, said Li,
who became vice chairman of Central Huijin in 2008. “We need to
review what the Chinese Communist Party decided 20 years ago:
that is to let market forces play a fundamental role in
allocating resources,” he said.  Central Huijin was set up in 2003 by the government and
holds stakes in the nation’s biggest state-owned banks and
financial institutions including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China (601398)  Ltd. and CICC.  Fingers Burned  Li, a member of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative
Committee, an advisory body to the nation’s legislature, said
the organization met recently with managers of Chinese private
businesses.  “They told us they don’t have the willingness or the guts
to compete against state players in certain sectors because they
have repeatedly had their fingers burned,” Li said. “We must
give private business equal treatment.”  Liang Wengen, who heads the nation’s biggest machinery
maker, has also called on the new leadership to create a level
playing field for private companies.  Private entrepreneurs “hope the new generation of leaders
will continue to reform and open the market, which means fine-
tuning the relationship between the government and the market,
deepening reforms so the market’s ability to allocate resources
will be stronger, and provide more space for private enterprises
to develop,” Liang said at a Nov. 11 briefing during the party
congress that anointed the new leadership.  Hu Deping, the son of late party General Secretary Hu
Yaobang whose death helped trigger the Tiananmen Square
protests, called on the nation’s new leaders to pursue political
and economic changes, in a commentary published Nov. 3.  China ’s problems threaten the nation’s healthy development,
violate people’s rights and undermine the party’s ability to
govern, Hu wrote in the Economic Observer newspaper.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Zheng Lifei in Beijing.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Andrew Langley  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  