-- China’s Next Step on Yuan Is Convertibility, Zhou Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-19T03:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/china-s-next-step-in-yuan-overhaul-is-convertibility-zhou-says.html
China ’s central bank governor said
convertibility will be the next step in the overhaul of the
 exchange-rate  system as calls grow for the nation’s new
leadership to deepen changes in the economy to sustain growth.  “For the central bank, I think the next movement related
to the yuan is going to be reform of convertibility,”  Zhou Xiaochuan  said at a conference in Beijing on Nov. 17. “We are
going to realize it, we are moving in this direction, we need to
go further, we will have some deregulation.”  Zhou’s comments underscore pledges by the ruling Communist
Party, which last week completed the most important phase of a
once-a-decade power transition, to promote freer movement of
capital in and out of the country for investment purposes and to
make the exchange rate more market-based. The reforms may be
part of a broader sweep of changes the nation’s new leadership,
headed by  Xi Jinping , will be pressured to roll out in the
world’s second-biggest economy.  “Expectations are high” for change as government
intervention, ranging from excessive regulation to rigid price
controls, has become “unbearable” over the last couple of
years, said Li Jiange, head of the country’s biggest investment
bank and a vice chairman at the government-run company that
holds stakes in state-owned lenders.  Li, who spoke at a separate conference in Beijing on Nov.
17, is chairman of China International Capital Corp., and a vice
chairman of Central Huijin Investment Co., a unit of the
nation’s sovereign wealth fund.  Market Forces  He added his voice to calls this month by billionaire
entrepreneur Liang Wengen, economist Justin Lin Yifu and
liberals including the son of late party chief Hu Yaobang for
the government to allow a bigger role for market forces.  Liang, head of Sany Heavy Industry Co., the nation’s
biggest machinery maker, said private entrepreneurs “hope the
new generation of leaders will continue to reform and open the
market.” He spoke on Nov. 11 as a delegate to the congress that
selected the party’s new ruling body last week.  CICC’s Li said opponents of market-oriented changes gained
a louder voice during the global financial crisis when the
government’s intervention in the economy increased and
intensified.  “We need to review what the Chinese Communist Party
decided 20 years ago: that is, to let market forces play a
fundamental role in allocating resources,” he said.  Government Intervention  The new leadership will probably unveil market-oriented
changes in late 2013 after a plenary session of the party’s
central committee, Li said. Reforms will focus on reducing
government intervention in the economy and breaking up state
monopolies, he said.  The PBOC is often pressured by interest groups to relax
monetary policy and to support growth, Zhou said in a separate
talk on Nov. 17.  Zhou, who has headed China’s central bank for the past
decade, wasn’t reappointed to the central committee on Nov. 14,
suggesting he will probably leave his job. At a press briefing
during the congress, Zhou didn’t directly answer a question on
his retirement.  During his tenure, the country started to overhaul its
exchange-rate system and financial markets. Changes included
revaluing the  yuan  and ending its peg to the  U.S. dollar  in 2005,
allowing the currency to become convertible for trade purposes,
giving banks more freedom to set  interest rates  and allowing
some foreign institutional investors access to the country’s
stock and bond markets.  Liberalize Rates  The yuan has appreciated about 33 percent against the
dollar since the revaluation. The currency had its biggest
weekly gain in a month in the five days through Nov. 16. It was
little changed today at 6.2345 per dollar at 11:38 a.m. in
 Shanghai .  “ Interest rates  should be liberalized, rates should be
decided by market demand and supply,” Lin, a former  World Bank 
chief economist, said at a forum in Beijing yesterday.  China’s financial system is dominated by large state-owned
banks and the stock market and favors big “capital-intensive”
players, said Lin, who is a professor at Peking University’s
China Center for  Economic Research . China must develop small,
local banks to serve rural areas and small businesses, he said.  Lin was at the World Bank when it published a 448-page
report in February titled  China 2030 , which outlined policies to
help the nation sustain growth while avoiding the so-called
middle-income trap, where expansion slows because of a failure
to implement reforms needed to create a wealthy middle class.  Promote Competition  Co-written with the Development Research Center, a body
that advises the State Council, China’s cabinet, the document
highlighted the need to overhaul state-owned companies, banks,
land, labor and financial markets, promote competition and
reduce the role of government.  The report was endorsed by  Li Keqiang , according to Ding Shuang, senior economist for China at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong
Kong  who previously worked for China’s central bank. Li was made
No. 2 in the party hierarchy in last week’s power transition and
is set to become premier in March when Xi is appointed president.  Xi and Li are inheriting an economy burdened by slower
growth, an aging population, widening income disparity and
environmental degradation that’s fueling social unrest.  They may face economic expansion of 7 percent in 2013, the
slowest in 23 years, according to Pacific Investment Management
Co., which runs the world’s largest bond fund. Standard
Chartered Plc sees a risk of annual expansion slumping to
between 3 percent and 4 percent within 10 to 15 years without
market-driven change to introduce more competition for state
enterprises.  Growth this year may slide to 7.7 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  from
Oct. 18-22. That would be the slowest pace since 1999 and down
from an annual average pace of 10.6 percent in the decade
through 2011.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  