-- China Solar Makers Seek Penny-Stock Boost After Warnings
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-11-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/china-solar-makers-seek-penny-stock-boost-after-warnings.html
Two of  China ’s top solar
manufacturers are seeking to boost the value of their American
depositary receipts after they slipped below listing
requirements.  JA Solar Holdings Co., China’s biggest solar-cell maker,
plans to make its Nasdaq-listed ADRs worth five regular shares,
up from one now, according to a statement yesterday. LDK Solar
Co., the second-biggest supplier of polysilicon wafers for the
cells, said yesterday it’s working to raise its ADRs above $1
after the New York Stock Exchange warned they may be delisted
for failing to meet the minimum threshold.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. received a similar warning in
September, adding to pressure on solar manufacturers struggling
with falling prices, thinning margins and plunging earnings. The
three companies sold shares in  New York  between 2005 and 2007 to
finance factory expansions, leaving them with too much capacity
when the recession drove down demand for panels.  “They’re fighting to stay alive,” Aaron Chew, an analyst
at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said by phone. The low ADR
prices are symptoms of larger problems on their balance sheets,
and they have few options available to boost their ADR prices,
he said.  “They need to recapitalize and restructure their debt,”
Chew said. A reverse split may be only a temporary fix.
Eventually, “the price could just go back to $1.”  Suntech, which  traded  as high as $88.35 a share in December
2007, has closed below $1 on all but one trading day since Sept.
25. LDK fell 5.3 percent to 91 cents in New York yesterday, down
71 percent in the past year and 99 percent from a peak of $73.95
in September 2007. JA Solar peaked at $25.75 in April 2008 and
has been below $1 since August 28. The ADRs fell 10 percent
yesterday to 63 cents.  Top Producers  Those companies are three of the world’s five biggest
solar-cell makers by production capacity, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The two others, Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. and Trina Solar Ltd., have experienced similar stock
declines but remain above the $1 threshold.  Chinese companies used cash from public offerings to boost
panel production, wresting leadership of the industry away from
German manufacturers such as Q-Cells SE and Sharp Corp. of
 Japan . Q-Cells, after filing for insolvency, agreed in August to
sell most of its assets to Hanwha Group of  South Korea . Sharp
has said it will scale back its solar business to avoid
bankruptcy.  The surge in output from China depressed  panel prices ,
which fell 56 percent in the past two years to 79.3 cents a
watt.  German Shares  Companies in other regions weren’t spared from slumping
panel prices.  Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Germany ’s biggest maker of panels,
fell 9.4 percent to 94.6 euro cents in  Frankfurt  yesterday, the
first close below the 1-euro mark. The Bonn-based manufacturer,
which lost money in four of the past five quarters, peaked at
47.95 euros a share in November 2007.  Investors are reluctant to invest in solar companies,
Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts Robert Schramm-Fuchs and Shai Hill
wrote in a note Nov. 15. “Given the painful experience of solar
stock price collapses over the last four years, investors will
want to see tangible signs of an improvement before returning to
the industry,” they said.  JA Solar’s new ADR ratio will take effect Dec. 10, boosting
the price overnight.  LDK received the delisting notice after the average closing
price for its ADRs was 99 cents, below the $1 threshold, for 30
trading days as of Nov. 5. The company has six months to raise
the price above that level and “has notified the NYSE of its
intention to cure this deficiency” according to the statement,
though it didn’t say how it plans to do so.  Local Support  LDK is selling 19.9 percent of itself, arranging financial
support with help from local governments and terminating some
supply contracts to shore up its balance sheet.  Suntech also has said it will raise its ADR price without
providing specifics, and is also receiving financial support
from local governments.  Those “token loans from the local provinces,” which are
in the tens of millions of dollars, “are a drop in the bucket
as far as liquidity needs,” said Jeff Osborne, an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York.  Suntech has total  debt  of $2.3 billion, while LDK owes
about $3.6 billion and Jaso owes about $824 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The bigger impact on the minds of solar investors at the
moment is the new government taking over there and the access to
capital,” Osborne said in an interview. “They’re burning so
much cash, but in the past they were given lines of credit to
use. If you see people start putting a freeze on the ability to
access that, that’s a big issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  