-- Deutsche Bank Uses ‘First Call’ Principle for Crises, CEOs Say
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-11-17T13:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/deutsche-bank-uses-first-call-principle-for-crises-ceos-say.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officers Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen said they share duties
using a “first call” system for matters that need to be
escalated within the bank, while both providing pressing counsel
to clients and politicians.  The first call principle means “our colleagues have one
person they call if they have any doubts, and that person is
responsible to carry the information on,” Fitschen said today
on a panel with Jain in Berlin. “Some issues we both have to
deal with, such as with  investors  or politicians, those are
decisive issues where we are both called upon.”  Jain and Fitschen revived a system of dual CEOs that
Deutsche Bank has used three times in the past when they
succeeded  Josef Ackermann , 64, at the end of May. Pairing the
two is an attempt to bridge the company’s roles as a Frankfurt-
based lender to German companies and an investment bank that
vies with Wall Street firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “We have a few guiding principles and the most important
is joint responsibility,” said Fitschen, also 64. “No one has
an exclusive area for which he doesn’t share responsibility.”  Jain, 49, said that skepticism in  Germany  of an investment
banker leading the country’s biggest bank when he was discussed
as a successor to Ackermann was “understandable” given the
context of the preceding financial crisis.  India-born Jain said that while he “knows how important it
is to learn German,” his travel schedule has prevented him from
making significant progress. Jain and Fitschen spoke in English.
Their comments were translated into German and relayed on
broadcaster NTV’s website.  “Berlin is really the heart, the political heart, some
might say of all  Europe , but certainly of Germany,” said Jain.
“I’ve had a good relationship with the people here in Berlin
for many years, it isn’t as if I just turned up overnight.”  Separately, Fitschen said, if elected, he is ready to
assume the role of president of the BdB Association of German
banks, a lobby group to which Deutsche Bank belongs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  