-- ECB’s Noyer Says Rejecting OMT Is Stance Against Price Stability
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-11-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/ecb-s-noyer-says-rejecting-omt-is-stance-against-price-stability.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Christian Noyer  said rejecting the ECB’s new
bond-purchase tool is akin to opposing price stability, as his
colleague Jens Weidmann suggested concern on the program isn’t
limited to him.  “If we are unable to avoid deflation because our monetary
policy has no grip on the economy, we cannot fulfill our
mandate, we are completely paralyzed,” Noyer, governor of the
French central bank, said in Madrid yesterday. “Simply from
that I take the conclusion that being against the OMTs today is
being against price stability, it is as simple as that.”  Noyer’s remarks signal persisting disagreement on the
central bank’s signature crisis-fighting tool after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  suggested in September that opposition to
any action would have been dangerous. Weidmann, the sole voter
on the Governing Council against so-called Outright Monetary
Transactions, suggested yesterday he wasn’t isolated.  “Of course there are other colleagues as well who worry”
about the consequences of the program, Weidmann said at an event
in Berlin. “This discussion and these concerns reflect in the
conditionality we implemented.”  The ECB is fighting to gain support for its bond-buying
program in  Germany , where some voters are concerned the
purchases might stoke inflation. Draghi has tried to ease
opposition by saying  price stability  remains the ECB’s primary
goal and that inflation will fall below 2 percent next year.  No Risk  ECB officials will “make sure we will never be caught off
guard, we offset the liquidity, we sterilize liquidity all the
time,” Noyer said. “The inflation risk is absolutely none.”  “We must never forget price stability” has always
referred to deflation risks as well as inflation risks, he said.
“If there is no proper transmission there is a risk of
deflation.”  Draghi pledged to do whatever it takes to save the euro in
July and introduced the bond-buying program on Sept. 6. Weidmann
is the only member of the ECB’s Governing Council who voted
against the plan, saying it is tantamount to printing money to
finance governments.  A German group of 5,217 plaintiffs sued the ECB over its
proposal to buy unlimited bonds from debt-laden countries to
regain control of  interest rates . The lawsuit was filed with the
European Union General Court, the 27-nation EU’s second-highest
tribunal, on Nov. 12.  Weidmann’s Input  Weidmann’s concerns were “vital” to the design of the
OMT, ECB Chief Economist Peter Praet told Germany’s Handelsblatt
newspaper last month. The ECB will only buy bonds if a country
signs up to budget consolidation and structural reforms, he
said.  ECB Governing Council member Jozef Makuch said on Nov. 14
he’d prefer the ECB not to have to use the OMT and doesn’t see
any need for any new tools for now.  The ECB’s plan has helped financial markets rally and
brought down Spanish and Italian bond yields. Investors are now
waiting for  Spain  to request aid from  Europe ’s bailout fund, one
of the prerequisites for the ECB to intervene in debt markets.  Noyer said the ECB will leave setting the conditions to the
European bailout fund, called the European Stability Mechanism,
and the  International Monetary Fund .  “They are equipped to do that, they are legitimized to do
that,” he said. “We don’t want to interfere.”  Noyer said he does not expect any euro-area central bank
not to buy bonds, once a country has asked for aid and the ECB
has agreed to trigger the bond purchases.  “I have no doubts all the 17 national central banks of the
ECB will execute when the ECB gives the green light,” he said.
“There is no example since the beginning of the euro that any
national central bank has not executed measures decided by the
Governing Council of the ECB, whatever the position of its
governor in the council was.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  