-- Google Judge Accepts $22.5 Million FTC Privacy Settlement
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-11-17T19:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/google-judge-accepts-22-5-million-ftc-privacy-settlement.html
Google Inc.’s $22.5 million
agreement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to settle
claims the company improperly planted cookies on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
Safari Internet browser was approved by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco found
arguments from a consumer group that the settlement was
inadequate unpersuasive and accepted the agreement.  The court “finds that the proposed order is both
procedurally and substantively fair, adequate and reasonable,”
Illston wrote in her  order  issued after yesterday’s hearing.  Under terms of the settlement, in addition to paying the
fine, Google agreed to disable all the tracking cookies it had
placed on the computers of Safari users and ensure all are gone
by February 2014. Google denied wrongdoing, according to filings
in federal court in San Francisco. When the breach was exposed
in February, Google said that it “didn’t anticipate this would
happen.”  Advocacy group Consumer Watchdog opposed the accord at a
court hearing yesterday, saying it let Google off too easily.
The group also suggested that the FTC’s separate antitrust
investigation of the world’s largest search engine company may
lack teeth.  “It implicates the procedure that will be used to resolve
the antitrust case,” Gary Reback, an attorney for Consumer
Watchdog, said in an interview after the hearing. “A consent
decree will be weak, it won’t really make Google do anything.”  FTC Probe  The FTC has been investigating whether Google is abusing
its dominance of the Internet for almost 20 months, and the
agency is prepared to sue if the Mountain View, California-based
company fails to make an acceptable proposal, two people
familiar with the matter said last week.  The record $22.5 million fine for the Safari breach is the
FTC’s first for an alleged violation of Internet privacy. Google
deceived consumers and violated terms of a 2011 consent decree
when it bypassed Apple software’s privacy settings and planted
cookies on Safari, which allowed it to track users Internet
browsing behavior, the FTC alleged.  Claudia Bourne Farrell, a spokeswoman for the FTC, didn’t
immediately respond today to an e-mail seeking comment on the
judge’s decision.  “We’re glad the court agreed there was no merit to this
challenge,” Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Google, said in an
e-mail.  Software cookies are files residing on computers that help
websites and browsers identify users.  Settings Overridden  Santa Monica, California-based Consumer Watchdog said the
cookie settlement allows Google to keep and use the data it
collected, thus letting the company continue to profit from its
misconduct. Google collected data from as many as 190 million
users whose browsers’ privacy settings were overridden by the
cookies, the group said in court filings.  The group also faulted the settlement because it doesn’t
include an admission of wrongdoing by Google.  David Kramer, Google’s attorney, told Illston that Consumer
Watchdog’s concerns are “neither realistic or practical”
because the company doesn’t retain cookie information
identifying users and their Internet addresses change over time.  Adrienne Fowler, a Justice Department attorney, told
Illston that Google garnered very little data on users and most
of it came from other legal methods not at issue in the FTC
case.  “Any data collected would really be a drop in the ocean,”
Fowler said.  The company signed a consent decree with the FTC last year
to settle allegations that it used deceptive tactics and
violated its own privacy policies in introducing the Buzz
social-networking service in 2010.  The 20-year agreement bars Google from misrepresenting how
it handles user information and requires the company to follow
policies that protect consumer data in new products.  The case is U.S. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 3:12-cv-04177, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  