-- GrainCorp CEO Says Growth, Not Sale, Will Lift Shareholder Value
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-11-18T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/graincorp-not-in-selling-mode-eyes-shareholder-value-ceo-says.html
GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) , the largest grain
handler in eastern Australia, can best deliver  shareholder value 
by pursuing a growth strategy rather than selling the company,
Chief Executive Officer Alison Watkins said.  The Sydney-based company last week rebuffed a A$2.7 billion
($2.8 billion) offer from  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest corn producer, saying the U.S. company’s
A$11.75-a-share bid undervalued it.  “We’ve got a great strategy that we’re confident is going
to be very appealing to our shareholders,” Watkins told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business program
yesterday.  Buying GrainCorp would give ADM control of seven of the
eight bulk grain ports on the east of Australia, the world’s
second-largest wheat exporter. GrainCorp handles about 75
percent of annual production on the nation’s east coast, it said
last week.  GrainCorp’s board will respond to any proposal in the
interests of shareholders, Watkins said Nov. 15, adding that the
company isn’t in a “selling ourselves” mode. The door isn’t
shut to a higher offer from ADM, said Tom Leske, a sales trader
at Churchill Capital in  Singapore .  GrainCorp closed at A$12.20 on Nov. 16, the day after it
reported full-year earnings that missed analyst estimates. The
stock has surged 38 percent since Oct. 18, the day before ADM
disclosed it had a 14.9 percent stake and was seeking talks.  Attractive Offer  ADM’s eventual offer lodged Oct. 22 was 33 percent more
than the Oct. 18 closing price. It remains an “attractive
proposal,” the Decatur, Illinois-based suitor said last week.  Credit Suisse Group AG and  Greenhill & Co Inc. (GHL)  are advising
GrainCorp while Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. are acting for
ADM.  GrainCorp has identified A$110 million of profit
improvements and expects increased demand from markets in  Asia ,
the  Middle East  and North Africa, where it has a freight
advantage and customers like its products, Watkins said
yesterday.  The strategy details mean “shareholders have a really good
current understanding of the fundamental value of GrainCorp,”
she said. The company’s assets will be delivering value “for
decades to come, and when you’re looking at agriculture you
should have that time horizon in mind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  