-- Netanyahu Says Israel May Widen Action; Cease-Fire Sought
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-11-18T12:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/israel-extends-gaza-airstrikes-after-rocket-barrage.html
Israel  said it may expand an assault
on the  Gaza Strip  amid a fifth day of rocket attacks on its
cities as regional leaders raced to broker an accord ending a
conflict that has killed 52 Palestinians and three Israelis.  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi said late yesterday that
there are indications an agreement to halt the fighting may be
reached. The violence threatens a region still unbalanced after
a wave of popular uprisings last year, including one in Israel’s
neighbor  Syria  that has become a civil war.  Mursi’s cease-fire comments were undermined by air-raid
sirens and loud booms over Tel Aviv today as two rockets were
intercepted by Israel’s Iron Dome missile-defense system. A
rocket hit  Jerusalem  on Nov. 16, the first such attack in
decades. At least 10 rockets were fired from Gaza today, raising
the number since Nov. 14 to more than 750.  “We have extracted a heavy price from Hamas and other
terrorist organizations, and the army is prepared to
significantly widen the operation,” Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  said at the weekly Cabinet meeting today in
Jerusalem. He said he spoke with U.S. President  Barack Obama 
over the weekend and will continue talks with international
leaders, according to an e-mailed statement from his office.  Almost half the Palestinians killed in the Israeli
airstrikes since Nov. 14 were civilians, including women and
children, according to Ashraf al-Qedra of the Ministry of Health
in Hamas-controlled Gaza. Israel says its military goal is to
make Palestinians in Gaza stop firing the rockets that have
killed three Israeli civilians.  Palestinians ‘United’  Hamas said the Israeli actions won’t stop it from
operating. “The government and the Palestinian people are
united to confront the aggression,” it said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “It is the right of Palestinian people and
the government to resist the occupation.”  The Iron Dome, which targets projectiles heading toward
populated areas, has intercepted 260 of those fired from Gaza,
according to the Israeli army. The U.S., Israel and the European
Union consider Hamas a terrorist group.  French Foreign Affairs Minister Laurent Fabius will visit
Israel today to meet with Netanyahu and also will talk with
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who controls the
West Bank, and request that “all the parties” end the
escalation of violence, the Foreign Ministry in Paris said.  “We are not yet at the point to be talking about a cease-
fire,” Uzi Landau, Israeli minister of energy and water, said
on  Army Radio .  Israeli Decisions  Israelis “are going to make their own decisions,”  Ben Rhodes , deputy U.S. national security adviser, told reporters
traveling to  Asia  with Obama on Air Force One yesterday. The
U.S. wants “the same thing the Israelis want, which is an end
to the rocket fire coming out of Gaza.”  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , speaking
before he departed for  Egypt  to meet with Mursi yesterday, said
Hamas is ready to halt missile attacks if it is given guarantees
by the U.S. that Israel also will stop firing.  Israeli stocks and bonds rose for the first time in three
days on optimism about a cease-fire. The benchmark  TA-25 index 
advanced 0.7 percent to 1,189.39, the most in intraday trade
since Nov. 6, at 10:29 a.m. in Tel Aviv. The gauge dropped 2.5
percent last week, the biggest decline since the week ending
June 14. The yield on the 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bond
maturing January 2022 dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 3.98 percent.  Tanks Deployed  World leaders including Obama have called for an end to the
conflict before it escalates further. Israel deployed tanks near
the border, threatening the first ground invasion of Gaza since
an assault that began in December 2008 and left more than 1,100
Palestinians and 12 Israelis dead.  Egypt is trying with  Turkey , Arab nations and the world’s
leading powers, such as the U.S.,  France  and Britain, to get a
cease-fire agreement from both sides, Mursi said yesterday.  Israeli fighter jets hit 50 targets in Gaza overnight,
bringing the number of air strikes over the past four days to
950, an army spokesman said, speaking anonymously in compliance
with military rules.  Among the targets were buildings housing several media
offices, one of which the army said in an e-mailed statement
contained a Hamas communications antenna. That prompted the
Foreign Press Association to issue a statement of concern. Among
the news organizations housed in one of the buildings are
 Germany ’s ARD TV and the U.K.’s Sky News, the association said
in an e-mailed statement. Russia Today television said in a
statement that its office in the same building was destroyed.  Qatari Scolding  The standoff in Gaza is putting pressure on Arab leaders
such as Mursi, who came to power after an uprising that ousted
U.S. ally  Hosni Mubarak  last year and has pledged stronger
support for Palestinians. Tens of thousands have rallied in
Cairo to protest the Israeli attacks, and there were similar
demonstrations in Turkey,  Iran  and other Islamic countries.  Qatari Prime Minister Hamad bin Jasim bin Jabr Al Thani
yesterday took his regional counterparts to task for failing to
do more for the Palestinian cause, while ruling out any sort of
military intervention in the Gaza Strip conflict.  “Our meetings have become a waste of time and public
finances,”  Sheikh Hamad  said at an Arab League meeting
yesterday in Cairo. “We Arabs have helped in the besieging of
our Palestinian brothers.”  Erdogan told Egyptian students in Cairo yesterday that
Turkey and Egypt “represent the joint conscience of the
region” and can work together to help resolve conflicts. He
said earlier that Obama asked him to use his influence with
Hamas to help end the fighting, and that he urged Obama in
return to apply pressure on Israel.  Peace Plan  The Arab League urged its member nations to end
normalization of relations with Israel because of the Israeli
air offensive in Gaza, Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el- Arabi said in a statement after the meeting in Cairo.  The league has endorsed the so-called Arab Peace
Initiative, which was originally proposed in 2002. It offers to
normalize relations between Israel and all Arab states in
exchange for a complete Israeli withdrawal from territories
Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East War, including the  West
Bank , east Jerusalem, the Gaza Strip and the Golan Heights.
Egypt and Jordan are the only Arab League members that have full
diplomatic relations with Israel.  Hamas may want to prolong the conflict for a while “to
keep earning more popular support among the Arab peoples and
Arab leaders,” said As’ad Abu Sharkh, a political science
professor at Al-Azhar University in Gaza City.  Rebuilding Gaza  The group probably isn’t interested in a “fragile” cease-
fire that could be violated by Israel or smaller Palestinian
groups, Abu Sharkh said. Instead, it seeks “a long-term truce
with guarantees that Israel won’t violate it again,” so that
Palestinians can rebuild Gaza, he said.  Israeli ministers agreed to raise the military reservists’
call-up quota to 75,000 from 30,000 at a meeting late Nov. 16 in
Tel Aviv, said  Mark Regev , the spokesman for Netanyahu.  Israeli forces fired artillery shells early today in the
Golan Heights after gunfire from Syria hit an army vehicle,
according to the Israeli army spokesman. The firing on the
Israeli vehicle didn’t cause any injuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  