-- Israel’s Iron Dome Defense System Battles Hamas Rockets
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-11-17T19:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/israel-s-iron-dome-defense-system-battles-hamas-rockets.html
Israel’s U.S.-funded anti-missile
system, known as Iron Dome, appears to be effective against
short-range, unguided rockets used by Hamas, according to U.S.-
based analysts who follow missile defense issues.  Israeli officials including Ambassador to the U.S.  Michael Oren  said the system has been about 90 percent effective this
week against the Hamas rockets fired from Gaza against Israel.
That figure is seen as credible by analysts such as Steve Zaloga, who’s with the Fairfax, Virginia-based Teal Group.  “What they mean is, of the rockets that they are actually
shooting at, they are hitting 90 percent,” Zaloga said in a
telephone interview yesterday. The military has been
“tweaking” the system for improvements since its first combat
intercept in April 2011 because “early on they weren’t scoring
at that rate,” he said.  Ninety percent “is an extremely high level,” Zaloga said.
“Air defense systems are typically not in that range.”  The Israeli military action known as Operation Pillar of
Defense is proving to be the biggest test of the U.S.-funded
Iron Dome. The Israeli Defense Forces reported today that a
total of 737 rockets have been fired at  Israel  from Gaza, and
that the Iron Dome system intercepted 245 of them. Another 492
landed in Israeli territory, the IDF said in a message posted
today on Twitter, Inc.  Four Batteries  Iron Dome, made by Israel’s Rafael Advanced Defense Systems
Ltd, is designed to intercept and destroy rockets capable of
flying as far as 70 kilometers (44 miles). Israel has fielded
its first four batteries consisting of launchers and
interceptors costing as much as $90,000 apiece, according to the
nonpartisan U.S. Congressional Research Service.  Iron Dome’s effectiveness depends on a battle management
system that determines a rocket’s trajectory within seconds of
launch, based on radar and electro-optical sensors. In the same
instant, the system determines whether the rocket is headed
toward a populated area, making an intercept necessary.  “They didn’t design a system that would shoot down
everything,” Jeff White, a military analyst with the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, said in a telephone interview.
“They designed a system that would shoot down threat rockets
and it works pretty good.”  The system is effective “because the concept behind it is
not to engage all the rockets, because a lot of these are poor
quality rockets that aren’t going to hit anything,” Zaloga
said.  Discriminating Defense  “You will see reports where a rocket hit near  Tel Aviv  and
someone will say Iron Dome is not doing its job,” Zaloga said.
“Iron Dome is not supposed to shoot at all the rockets coming
out because you just can’t afford to do it. There’s too many of
them, so they use radar to discriminate.”  A challenge Israel faces is that many of the Hamas rockets
are low-quality and fail to follow a normal ballistic
trajectory, throwing off the Iron Dome radar, he said.  “It’s going after rockets that threaten a defended area --
people, industries,” Michaela Bendikova, a Heritage Foundation
research associate who follows the system, said in a telephone
interview. “That happens only about 20 percent of the time.”  Israel will activate a fifth Iron Dome system two months
before schedule “following recent events,” and it will be
delivered to active air defense units from a testing area today
the Ministry of Defense said by e-mail.  More Batteries  The Israeli military plans to field nine batteries across
the country by 2013, the CRS said in a March report.  One shortcoming is that Israel is using the $90,000
interceptors against crude, inaccurate Hamas rockets that may
cost a few hundred dollars each. So Israel sought a system that
would hold down that cost while providing a defense for civilian
areas, said Zaloga.  It “remains to be seen” whether the Iron Dome will have a
strategic impact on Hamas and deny them an effective capability,
Bendikova said. “I’m not sure if the Iron Dome has the
potential to do that because there are other classes of threats
with different launch points,” she said.  The Iron Dome instead may prompt Hamas to attempt to
acquire more powerful rockets, such as the Russian-made BM-21,
to overwhelm the system’s batteries, analysts said.  Iron Dome “definitely improved morale, especially in
southern Israel, but it hasn’t totally relieved the issue,”
White said. “Israel’s got like a million people within range of
Hamas rockets.”  Air Strikes  Israeli leaders say the air strikes against Gaza are
intended to remove that threat by destroying the launch sites
and storage areas for Hamas rockets. Israel’s strikes have
eliminated most of the long-range missiles in Gaza, and the
remaining threat is mostly from missiles with a range of as much
as 50 kilometers (31 miles), Oren told reporters on a conference
call yesterday.  Iron Dome is one of four legs of an eventual multi-layered
system designed to defend against a variety of weapons fired at
Israel. The other legs include the current Arrow missile, an
upgraded Arrow model in testing and another system called
David’s Sling.  Since 2010, the Obama administration has requested about
$650 million for these defense systems, including $205 million
for Iron Dome. The administration said in May it’s seeking an
additional $70 million for Iron Dome.  ‘Deep Appreciation’  In a telephone call yesterday with President  Barack Obama ,
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  expressed “deep
appreciation” for the U.S. financial support for Iron Dome,
“which has saved countless Israeli lives,” according to a
statement from the White House.  The missile threats to Israelis range from salvos of low-
altitude, short-flight rockets fired from the  Gaza Strip  to more
powerful, medium-range models from Lebanon and long-range
missiles from  Iran .  “The Iron Dome system has proven itself to be remarkably
effective,” said U.S. Army Major Ryan Donald, a spokesman for
the U.S. European Command, which works with the Israeli
military.  Its success may spur international sales to nations such as
 South Korea  that face short-range missile or artillery threats.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , based in Waltham,  Massachusetts , announced a
partnership agreement with Rafael in August 2011 to market the
Iron Dome system overseas. No sales have been announced to date.
When asked yesterday about the status of that pact, Raytheon
spokesman Jon Kasle said “we have nothing further at this
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  