-- Israel Extends Gaza Airstrikes After Rocket Barrage
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n ,   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2012-11-17T17:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/israel-boosts-reserves-readies-for-ground-fight-in-gaza.html
Israel  bombarded the  Gaza Strip ,
destroying Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh’s headquarters as
missiles struck near  Tel Aviv  for the third day.  Bombing raids today killed ten Palestinians, lifting the
toll since Nov. 14 to 40, including 13 civilians and an 11-
month-old child, Ashraf al-Qedra of the Gaza ministry of health
said. Israel says its initiative aims to end the hundreds of
rockets launched from the Hamas-controlled territory, killing
three Israelis this week.  Air-raid sirens sounded in Tel Aviv today. Two missiles
were fired at the region, one landing in an open area without
causing damage or casualties while another was intercepted by
Israel’s Iron Dome missile defense system, Israel Radio
reported, citing police officials. A rocket hit the sea south of
Tel Aviv on Nov. 15 and another landed near  Jerusalem  yesterday,
the first such attack in decades.  World leaders including President  Barack Obama  have called
for an end to the conflict before it escalates further. Israel
deployed tanks near the border, threatening the first ground
invasion of Gaza since the attack in December 2008 that killed
more than 1,100 Palestinians.  Gaza Visit  Arab League ministers are meeting in Cairo today. The
League will propose a delegation to Gaza to show solidarity,
headed by its chief, Nabil el-Arabi, and including foreign
ministers who want to join,  Egypt ’s official Middle East News
Agency reported, citing an unidentified diplomat.  The League will hold Israel fully responsible for the
violence, MENA said, citing an unidentified diplomat. It will
urge an immediate halt to attacks and call for reconciliation
among Palestinians and support for Egyptian efforts to broker a
long-term truce between Israel and Palestinians in Gaza, backed
by international guarantees, the agency said.  Turkish premier  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , speaking before
departing for Egypt, said Hamas is ready to halt missile attacks
if it is given guarantees by the U.S.  Ben Rhodes , deputy U.S. national security adviser, told
reporters traveling with the president on Air Force One that the
Israelis “are going to make their own decisions,” and
reiterated the U.S. position that Israel has a right to defend
itself. The U.S. wants “the same thing the Israelis want, which
is an end to the rocket fire coming out of Gaza.”  The U.S., Israel and the European Union consider Hamas a
terrorist organization.  Israeli Jets  Israeli jets hit 300 targets in Gaza today, an army
spokesman said, speaking anonymously in line with military
rules. The headquarters of the Hamas leader, as well as the
 Interior Ministry  and a police compound were bombed overnight,
the Israeli army said.  Hamas said in an e-mailed statement today that the
destruction won’t stop it from operating. “The government and
the Palestinian people are united to confront the aggression,”
it said. “It is the right of Palestinian people and the
government to resist the occupation.”  More than 640 rockets, missiles and mortars have been fired
into Israel since the conflict started, of which more than 240
were intercepted by the Iron Dome missile defense system, the
Israeli army said in an e-mailed statement. Sixty rockets were
fired today.  Fragile Cease-Fire  Hamas may want to prolong the conflict for a while “to
keep earning more popular support among the Arab peoples and
Arab leaders,” said As’ad Abu Sharkh, a political science
professor at Al-Azhar University in Gaza City.  The group probably isn’t interested in a “fragile” cease-
fire that could be violated either by Israel or by smaller
Palestinian groups, Abu Sharkh said. Instead, it seeks “a long-
term truce with Israel with guarantees that Israel won’t violate
it again,” so that Palestinians can rebuild Gaza, he said.  Israeli ministers agreed to raise the call-up quota to
75,000 from 30,000 at a meeting late yesterday in Tel Aviv, said
 Mark Regev , the spokesman for Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .  “There isn’t a likelihood of a ground operation in the
immediate future,” said Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist
at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya in Israel.  ‘Game of Nerves’  The reservist call-up is “part of a game of nerves as much
as part of opening a military campaign,” as Israel would be
hurt diplomatically if many Palestinians were killed during an
incursion, Spyer said. That could change if a rocket kills a
large number of Israeli civilians, in which case “all bets are
off,” he said.  The army posted a picture of tanks it said were gathered at
an assembly point near Gaza, and it announced it was closing
roads running alongside the Palestinian territory to civilian
traffic.  If Israel does send in troops, they should “finish the
job,” Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said today,
according to the Jerusalem Post. He said Israel paid a heavy
diplomatic price for its failure to do so in the 2008 offensive.  The standoff in Gaza is putting pressure on Arab leaders
such as Egypt’s Mohamed Mursi, who came to power after a popular
uprising against Israeli and U.S.-ally  Hosni Mubarak  last year,
and has pledged stronger support for Palestinians. Tens of
thousands rallied in Cairo yesterday to protest the Israeli
attacks, and there were similar demonstrations in  Turkey ,  Iran 
and other Islamic countries.  Gaza Missions  Mursi dispatched Foreign Minister Hisham Qandil to Gaza
yesterday.  Tunisia , another Arab country that overthrew a pro-
Western ruler during the wave of regional unrest, sent its
Foreign Minister Rafiq Abdel Salam today.  Erdogan told Egyptian students in Cairo today that Turkey
and Egypt “represent the joint conscience of the region” and
can work together to help resolve the conflicts in Gaza and
 Syria . He said earlier that Obama asked him to use his influence
with Hamas to help end the conflict, and that he urged Obama in
return to apply pressure on Israel.  Obama also spoke to Mursi and Netanyahu, according to the
White House.  The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest New-
York traded Israeli companies retreated 0.3 percent in  New York 
yesterday, extending its weekly drop to 2.4 percent, the most in
four months. Oil rose yesterday on concern that the Gaza clashes
may escalate into a wider conflict that would endanger Middle
East shipments. Crude for December delivery climbed 1.4 percent
to $86.67 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza at  sramadan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  