-- Obama Election a ‘Re-start’ on Tax Overhaul, O’Neill, Rubin Say
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-11-17T19:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/obama-election-a-re-start-on-tax-overhaul-o-neill-rubin-say.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
is a chance to improve the  tax code  as part of talks to resolve
the looming fiscal cliff, according to two former Treasury
secretaries,  Paul O’Neill  and  Robert Rubin .  Debt talks and Democrat Obama’s win provide a “re-start”
and “an opportunity for him to educate the people and lead us
in the direction we need to go,” said O’Neill, Treasury
secretary under Republican President  George W. Bush , in an
interview to air tomorrow on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS”
program. O’Neill was joined by Rubin, who served under
Democratic President  Bill Clinton .  Obama, Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  and congressional
leaders have started a new round of deficit-reduction talks in a
bid to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, the combination of $607
billion of tax increases and spending cuts that threatens to
throw the country into a recession next year. House Speaker  John Boehner  said yesterday that Republicans are willing to discuss
revenue in exchange for spending cuts, and Geithner said an
agreement could be reached “within several weeks.”  A deficit deal “would increase business confidence
significantly, both because right now there’s great uncertainty
about future policies and future economic conditions, and
because there’s a real concern about whether our government can
function,” Rubin said. “It’s the single most important thing
you could do.”  Uncollected Taxes  O’Neill, a former chief executive officer of Alcoa Inc.,
said Obama “shouldn’t focus at all on the Republicans. I think
he ought to focus on the American people” in seeking a deficit
solution.  Obama could begin by educating people about the “tax
gap,” an estimated $400 billion in uncollected taxes each year,
and by starting with “a blank page” in overhauling the tax
code, O’Neill said. A value-added tax, which would replace
corporate, individual and payroll levies, would be one possible
solution, he said.  Rubin said a tax overhaul could be structured to have a
short-term stimulus to the economy, making it more attractive to
lawmakers and the public. Now is the time to make a deal to
avoid the becoming like Europe, where debt crises in Greece,
Italy and other nations are roiling markets, he said.  “What’s happened in Europe ought to be a lesson to us,”
he said. “We still have time to phase this in.”  Bill Gates , chairman and co-founder of Microsoft Corp.,
said in a separate interview scheduled to be broadcast tomorrow
on the CNN program that he thinks that “definitely for the next
five years” the U.S. is going to be dealing with the aftermath
of the 2008 credit crunch and the European Union, where “a
fixed currency rate with different competitiveness has created a
real contradiction unless they have large fiscal transfers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  