-- Officials Deny Effort to Drop Terror Role in Libya Attack
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-11-17T17:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/officials-deny-effort-to-drop-terror-role-in-libya-attack.html
The Obama administration dropped
references to possible al-Qaeda connections in the attack on a
U.S. mission in  Libya  from its initial public remarks to protect
intelligence sources, not the president’s re-election campaign,
intelligence officials said.  The information linking individuals to al-Qaeda was derived
from classified sources and methods, and because those links
were -- and remain -- tenuous, it made sense to be cautious, the
official said. In addition, the official said, it’s important
not to prejudice a criminal investigation in its early stages.  The administration’s “talking points” took center stage
yesterday when former CIA Director David H. Petraeus testified
about the attack in separate closed-door sessions of the Senate
and House intelligence committees. His appearances sparked a new
round in the political dispute over the Obama administration’s
early description of the attack as developing from a spontaneous
protest against an anti-Islamic video.  Petraeus, who resigned last week citing an extramarital
affair, told lawmakers yesterday that the Democratic
administration’s unclassified talking points were revised to use
the word “extremists” and didn’t mention al-Qaeda. That led
some Republican lawmakers to claim the change might have been an
attempt to diminish the possibility of an al-Qaeda role in the
attack during President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign  Broad Characterization  The talking points weren’t edited to minimize the role of
extremists, diminish terrorist affiliations, or play down that
the armed attack, according to a senior U.S. official, who spoke
on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations
that included classified intelligence-gathering methods.  The controversy stirred by the memo’s word choice came as a
surprise because saying “extremists” were involved shouldn’t
preclude terrorist participation in the attack, the official
said. Obama administration officials assumed that extremists who
attack U.S. diplomatic facilities and kill Americans are, by
definition, terrorists, the official said. Because various
militant elements were involved in the attack, the
administration used the term extremists to capture the range of
participants.  The Central Intelligence Agency drafted the talking points,
which reflected what it believed at the time about the Sept. 11
attack in Benghazi, according to the official, who’s familiar
with the drafting of the memos. CIA leaders reviewed them and
coordinated the final version with top officials at other
agencies, the official said.  Washington Conflict  Neither Petraeus’s testimony nor intelligence officials’
explanation is likely to end the Washington conflict over the
administration’s initial characterization of the attack that
killed four Americans, including U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens.  U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice  has been
criticized by Republican lawmakers for saying on Sunday talk
shows Sept. 16 that the assault developed from a spontaneous
demonstration that was “hijacked” by militants. Rice, a
possible nominee to succeed  Hillary Clinton  as secretary of
state, relied on the talking points during her talk show
appearances, according to administration officials.  Republican lawmakers are pressing the administration to
explain its early statements, and expressed dissatisfaction
yesterday with what they learned from Petraeus.  “It’s still not clear how the talking points emerged,”
Republican Representative  Peter King  of  New York , a member of
the House intelligence committee, said after the briefing by
Petraeus. “No one knows yet exactly who came up with the final
version of the talking points.”  ‘Long Process’  While Petraeus told the House panel yesterday that he
didn’t know how the reference to al-Qaeda connections was
dropped from the memo, the former CIA chief said it went
“through a long process” with other federal agencies involved,
according to King.  A version of the Sept. 15 memo released yesterday by
Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat and a member of the
Senate intelligence panel, refers to “extremists” rather than
naming al-Qaeda or its affiliates.  “Demonstrations in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by
the protests at the U.S. embassy in Cairo and evolved into a
direct assault against the U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi and
subsequently its annex,” according to the memo, which also
said, “There are indications that extremists participated in
the violent demonstrations.”  Today,  Ben Rhodes , deputy national security adviser, told
reporters traveling with the president on Air Force One that the
talking points and Rice’s statements “indicate that we believed
that extremists were involved in this attack.”  ‘Act of Terror’  “The president himself said it was an act of terror,”
Rhodes said. “Naturally you have to do some work to examine
exactly who those extremists are and exactly what the sequence
of events were.”  Shawn Turner, a spokesman for Director of National
Intelligence  James Clapper , said Sept. 28 that the intelligence
community had revised its initial assessment to say that the
assault was “a deliberate and organized terrorist attack.”  Two other U.S. officials, also speaking on the condition of
anonymity to discuss classified information, said the House
intelligence committee asked U.S. intelligence agencies for
unclassified talking points on Sept. 14. At about the same time,
the two officials said, Petraeus offered what they described as
a classified preliminary assessment of the attack, which one of
the officials said underscored the word “preliminary.”  Ansar al-Sharia  The classified assessment cited the apparent involvement of
the Libyan extremist group Ansar al-Sharia and of individuals
with ties to groups affiliated with al-Qaeda in northern  Africa 
and Yemen, the officials said.  A spokesman for Ansar al-Sharia has denied the group’s
involvement.  While Muhammed Jamal abu Ahmad, a leader of Ansar al-
Sharia, has ties to al-Qaeda in  Pakistan  and its affiliates in
Yemen and North Africa, the officials said, he and others
associated with al-Qaeda and its affiliates learned of the
assault only after attackers called them to boast of it.  The initial assessments also said that, contrary to
allegations of a pre-planned attack, the assault on the Benghazi
compound was a hastily organized act by local men using weapons
widely available in Libya, according to the officials.  Senior officials from a number of agencies, including the
National Security Council, the CIA, the Office of the Director
of National Intelligence, and the State Department, reviewed the
classified reporting beginning on the afternoon of Sept. 14.
They finished work on the unclassified talking points the next
day, said two officials who participated in the process. They
said the drafters were under no pressure to gloss over the fact
that the assault was by definition a terrorist act.  ‘Necessarily Vague’  Nelson said in a statement that “the talking points were
necessarily vague in places because they were written at an
unclassified level.”  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , the California Democrat who heads
the intelligence committee, said after a closed session Nov. 15
that the panel saw a “composite” film that showed the Libya
attack taking place “in real time.” McKeon said yesterday that
Clapper was working to declassify the film, which McKeon called
a “45-minute recap” of the attack, to make it public.  Petraeus resigned as CIA director Nov. 9 after an inquiry
by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation turned up evidence he had
an extramarital affair. Petraeus told the House committee
yesterday that his resignation was an honorable response after
his “dishonorable” behavior, according to Representative Bill Young, a Florida Republican.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  