-- Monti Pressed to Run in Italy Election as Backers Start Party
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-11-17T23:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/monti-pressed-to-run-in-italy-election-as-backers-start-party.html
Supporters of Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti , whose non-elected government is nearing the end of
its stipulated time in office, started a political party to push
for a continuation of the premier’s policies at home and abroad.  “Monti can do the job of reconstruction on Italy and
 Europe  better than anyone else,” Ferrari SpA Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo said at a rally in  Rome  yesterday to
inaugurate the movement, named Toward the Third Republic.
“Admitting it isn’t a sign of weakness, it’s an assumption of
responsibility.”  Monti will need a new political vehicle if he chooses to
seek a second term, given that his biggest allies in parliament
are opposed to a renewed mandate. The 69-year-old premier, who
appeals to Italians weary of recurrent government scandals and
instability, will have to defend his tax increases and spending
cuts if he opts to run. He would also have to convince voters he
can end a recession that has only deepened on his watch.  Italy  needs “stability as far as the government is
concerned,” Francesco Trapani, president of LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA’s watch and jewelry division, said Nov. 16 in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “If the Monti government could
go on for a few years, it would be great news for us.”  Early Election  Elections are due in April, though may be held sooner.
President Giorgio Napolitano has said that regional voting
should be held on March 10. He said he would consider holding
the national ballot the same day, if parliament completes its
legislative agenda by passing the budget plan and new voting
rules.  Public confidence in Monti as premier rose one percentage
point this week to 36 percent, according to a poll released by
SWG Institute on Nov. 16. That’s down from 59 percent in March
and up from 33 percent in June. Sixty-two percent of respondents
in the poll said they opposed a second Monti term, against 22
percent in favor.  “We’re not asking the prime minister to take the
leadership of this movement today,” said Montezemolo, whose
group includes union leader Raffaele Bonanni and International
Cooperation Minister Andrea Riccardi. “That would prejudice his
work, and this is something we can’t permit,” Montezemolo said.  Monti has won the support of bankers and business leaders
even as disapproval of his budget rigor rose among the general
electorate. Public support for the  anti-austerity  campaign of
Beppe Grillo has surged, while Monti’s biggest parliamentary
backer, former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , disavowed the
government’s record as “disastrous.”  Restoring Prestige  Monti defended his record of budget rigor, telling an
audience in Milan yesterday that it restored Italy’s prestige
abroad. Deficit reduction also helped save the 17-nation euro
area from dissolution, Monti said in a statement of policy
principles posted to the government’s website.  “Maybe today, without the austerity measures put in place
by the government, we wouldn’t have the euro zone,” Monti’s
office said in the document, which highlighted achievements of
the premier’s first 12 months. Monti declined to specify his
plans for after the term ends.  Opinion polls show a fragmented electorate that may make it
difficult for any candidate to muster the majority of seats
needed to form a government. Monti, a senator for life, has said
in recent months that, while he won’t run for election, he would
be open to serving again after the vote if asked.  ‘Up to Him’  “It will be up to him to decide in what way to continue,”
Andrea Olivero, president of the Italian Christian workers
association known as Acli and one of the leaders of Toward the
Third Republic, said in an interview with Sky TG24.  The movement headed by Montezemolo, who is the former head
of business lobby Confindustria, adds weight to initiatives by
 Pier Ferdinando Casini , the top Christian Democrat lawmaker, and
 Gianfranco Fini , the speaker of Italy’s lower house of
parliament, who also head two separate parties. The two
politicians have said they will run on a platform of returning
Monti to power.  The SWG poll indicated that Montezemolo’s new party would
have 8.5 percent support, while Casini’s UDC party and Fini’s
Future and Liberty for Italy bloc would attract a combined 6.9
percent. That compares with 25 percent for the  Democratic Party 
and 14.8 percent for Berlusconi’s PDL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  