-- Morgan Stanley Creates Middle-Market Fixed-Income Sales Group
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-11-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/morgan-stanley-creates-middle-market-fixed-income-sales-group.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  created a fixed-
income sales group to focus on middle-market clients as it
transfers some investment bank customers to its wealth-
management division.  The group will consist of 50 to 75 salespeople, Eric Benedict, head of capital markets for Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management, said yesterday in an interview. It will be run by
Tom Driscoll, who will report to Benedict, and serve more than
1,500 middle-market clients, about 1,000 of which will be
transferred from the firm’s fixed-income division in its
investment bank, according to an internal memo.  “It’s freeing up salespeople to cover these accounts
better,” Benedict said. “We’re putting this platform on the
wealth-management side of the business, where we think we can
better cover these clients, and with that, there are revenue
benefits to both.”  Chief Executive Officer James Gorman is relying more on the
wealth-management business as he aims to buy the rest of a
brokerage joint venture from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Gorman has
identified collaboration with the New York-based firm’s
investment bank as one of the five ways Morgan Stanley’s wealth-
management division will reach its goal of a 15 percent pretax
margin by the middle of next year.  The margin was 13 percent in the third quarter, excluding
one-time charges, the highest since the joint venture was formed
in 2009. Gorman had previously expected the margin to hit 15
percent by the end of 2010.  Joint Brokerage  In September, Morgan Stanley increased its stake in the
brokerage joint venture to 65 percent and changed the name from
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney to Morgan Stanley Wealth Management.
The firm also agreed with Citigroup on a price for the remaining
35 percent, which Morgan Stanley will purchase by June 2015.  Andy Saperstein, who became head of the investment products
and services division within wealth management in June, brought
Benedict over from Morgan Stanley’s equity capital markets unit
in September to help build more connections with the investment
bank. Last month, the bank announced a structured-products group
that was a joint effort from the institutional and wealth-
management divisions.  The fixed-income division, run by Ken deRegt and overseen
by Colm Kelleher, will share revenue from the new middle-market
unit with wealth management, which is overseen by Greg Fleming,
Saperstein said in an interview. The middle-market group will
serve wealthy individuals in addition to small and midsize
companies, he said.  The firm has had a middle-market equities sales group, run
by Trey Thomas, for about three years, Benedict said.  ‘Perfect Parallel’  “This is the perfect parallel to the system we have for
equities, which is working extremely well,” Saperstein said.
“We’re segmenting clients, pooling resources and sharing the
revenue.”  The move will allow the fixed-income unit “to deepen its
relationships with and grow the wallet share of the largest
institutional clients by concentrating the amount of resources
dedicated to this objective,” according to the memo, which was
sent by Saperstein, Michael Heaney, global head of credit, and
Rob Rooney, head of fixed income for  Europe , the Middle East and
 Africa .  Gorman announced in July that the firm would shrink assets
within its fixed-income division in order to improve returns as
the bank faces new capital requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  