-- Hostess Seen Attracting Bids for Assets From Flowers
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d ,   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-11-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/hostess-seen-attracting-bids-for-assets-from-flowers.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the bankrupt
baker of Twinkies and Wonder bread, may attract bids for its
brands from rival  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO)  and private equity firm
C. Dean Metropoulos & Co. in a liquidation the company 
estimates will take about a year.  The 82-year-old maker of Hostess CupCakes, Ding Dongs and
Ho Hos said yesterday it would fire more than 18,000 employees
and go out of business after a weeklong strike by its bakers’
union. Metropoulos, owner of Pabst Brewing Co., said it may bid 
for Hostess's ``iconic brands.'' Flowers, maker of Nature’s Own 
bread and Tastykake snacks, could pursue some of its rival's 
assets to expand its geographic reach and fill existing 
territory, wrote William Chappell, an analyst with SunTrust 
Robinson Humphrey.  Flowers is “one of the most eligible acquirers” of
Hostess assets and brands, Amit Sharma, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets Corp. in New York, said in a separate note,
citing Flowers’ management, acquisitions and “relatively
small” overlap with Hostess’s major markets and products.
Flowers shares jumped 10 percent yesterday in New York trading.  “This is an unfortunate situation and we are very sad for
all those impacted,” Keith Hancock, a spokesman for
Thomasville, Georgia-based Flowers, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are staying focused on making sure our consumers
and customers have the baked foods they need –- and on serving
the market.”  ‘Small Consolation’  Flowers probably won’t bid for all of the assets, the
analysts said. Daren Metropoulos, a principal of the Greenwich, 
Connecticut-based private equity firm, said of Hostess in an 
e-mail yesterday that ``shedding the complications of the 
unions and old plants makes it even more attractive.”       Tom Becker, a spokesman for Hostess, declined to comment
on potential asset bids. While Hostess has seen interest in 
pieces of the business, its labor contracts and pension 
obligations have deterred offers for the whole company, Chief 
Executive Officer Gregory F. Rayburn said yesterday. Hostess’s 
brands include Dolly Madison, Drake’s, Merita and Butternut.  “Hopefully, someone will buy the brands, and some of the
brands can live on, but that’s a pretty small consolation for
people who are out of work,” Rayburn said in an interview on 
Bloomberg Television. “Somebody might buy the brand but that 
doesn’t mean they’re going to buy” plants and equipment used 
to make the products.  David Margulies, a spokesman for Bimbo Bakeries USA, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on that company’s potential 
interest in Hostess assets. Bimbo, based in Horsham, 
 Pennsylvania , is the U.S. division of  Mexico ’s Grupo Bimbo SAB, 
the maker of Entenmann’s cakes and Thomas’ English muffins.  ‘Death Spiral’  Even before the strike, Hostess endured years of declining
sales as Americans turned to rivals’ snacks and breads, while
ingredient costs and labor expenses climbed.   Tim Ramey, an analyst for D.A. Davidson & Co., said he 
expects Twinkies and other Hostess brands to disappear from the 
marketplace. Any buyer would need a distribution system to get 
the products into stores, he said.  “Without your own distribution, it’s pretty problematic,”
Ramey said yesterday in an interview. “Twinkies has been on a 
slow death spiral for a long time. Somebody might decide they 
want something to do with it, but it’s not likely.”  Metropoulos, which paid $250 million for Pabst in 2010,
said it looked forward to participating in the bidding.   Struggling Brands  C. Dean Metropoulos, founder of the firm, has specialized 
in purchasing struggling brands, such as Chef Boyardee and
Bumble Bee Tuna and turning them around. The firm said it paid 
close attention to the maker of Twinkies and Wonder Bread 
during its bankruptcy proceedings.  ``We have analyzed this opportunity very carefully for a 
few years now,'' Daren Metropoulos said.   Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , on Nov. 19 will ask a
bankruptcy judge to approve the company’s request to close its
36 bakeries and 565 distribution centers and sell the assets.
About 3,200 of Hostess’s 18,500 workers will be retained to
clean plants and mothball equipment. The plants are in 22
states, stretching from  Alaska  to New Jersey.  Hostess estimates that shutting the plants will cost 
$17.6 million in the next three months. Another $6.8 million 
will be spent to close depots and the same amount to idle retail 
stores, plus $8.1 million to shut corporate offices, according 
to a court filing. Hostess also is seeking permission to pay as 
much as $1.75 million in incentive bonuses to retain 19 officers
during the liquidation.  `Over-Capacity'  “We will try to get what we can from the assets,” Rayburn
said. “It’s an over-capacity industry, though, so that’s going 
to be a difficult prospect.”  The  Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain
Millers International Union  went on strike Nov. 9 after a
U.S. bankruptcy judge in White Plains, New York, imposed 
contract concessions opposed by 92 percent of the union’s 
members. The union represents about 5,000 Hostess workers.  “The crisis facing Hostess Brands is the result of nearly
a decade of financial and operational mismanagement that
resulted in two bankruptcies, mountains of debt, declining sales
and lost market share,” the union said Nov. 15 in a  statement .
Hostess “attempted to resolve the mess by attacking the
company’s most valuable asset -- its workers.”  The liquidation is a ``deep disappointment for all of our 
Hostess members,” said bakers’ international union President 
Frank Hurt yesterday. He said that if members hadn’t accepted 
concessions earlier, “this company would have gone out of 
business long ago. Our members decided they were not going to 
take any more abuse.”  `Scapegoating' Union  Sally Greenberg, executive director of the Washington-based
National Consumers League, accused the company’s executives in a
statement of “scapegoating” the union, “rather than take
responsibility themselves.”       Officials of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters,
representing about 6,700 Hostess employees, were “incredibly
disappointed” and “angry” about the shutdown, Rayburn said.
The Teamsters union had urged the bakers’ union to let members
decide by secret ballot whether to continue the walkout.  “The company has clearly been mismanaged for some time,”
the Teamsters said in a statement. “Unfortunately, the
company’s operating and financial problems were so severe that
it required steep concessions from a variety of stakeholders but
not all stakeholders were willing to be constructive.”  Drivers represented by the Teamsters earlier ratified a new
contract with 8 percent in wage concessions and 17 percent in
benefit reductions. Teamsters members “understood what was at
stake and voted to protect all jobs at Hostess,” the union said
in the statement.  Previous Bankruptcies  Rayburn, who previously helped to guide companies including
Syntax-Brillian Corp., Indianapolis Downs LLC and Sunterra Corp.
through bankruptcy, had said Hostess lacked the financial
strength and manpower to stay open during a strike.  Hostess implemented reductions in salaries and benefits on
Oct. 21. By Nov. 7, some bakery union locals had started sending
strike notices. The union struck 12 plants and set up picket
lines at 12 more.  Hostess closed three plants permanently Nov. 12, blaming
the strike, and warned that the company would liquidate unless
enough employees returned to work to resume normal operations.
Bakers’ union members “crippled the company’s ability to
produce and deliver products at multiple facilities,” the
company said in a statement.  Management's Fault  Hostess sought court protection in January, it's second 
time in bankruptcy, listing assets of $982 million and debt 
of $1.43 billion. Rayburn was hired as chief restructuring 
officer in February and named CEO in March.  The baker ended its earlier trip through U.S. bankruptcy 
court in February 2009 when buyout firm Ripplewood Holdings LLC 
and lenders took control of Interstate Bakeries Corp., which was
renamed Hostess Brands.  Yesterday, as news of the liquidation reached the employees
of a Hostess plant in Wayne, New Jersey, Subhas Patel, 58, 
called a security guard to make sure he could pick up his 
belongings. Patel said he had worked on the production line 
for 13 years.  A co-worker, Rodica Salazar, 62, worked at the company for 
15 years. She blames the management for Hostess's collapse.   “They don’t think about our lives, how you’re going to 
live, how you’re going to pay,'' Salazar said. ``I feel sorry 
for people, but not for them.”   The new case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
04-45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  Missouri 
(Kansas City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  