-- Philippine Treasurer Lauds Savings on $1.46 Billion Debt Buyback
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-11-17T04:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/philippine-treasurer-lauds-savings-on-1-46-billion-debt-buyback.html
The  Philippines  will spend $1.46
billion buying back foreign-currency bonds to help reduce
interest payments and extend debt maturity, Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said.  The Asian nation expects to cut annual interest costs by
$53 million through repurchasing dollar- and euro-denominated
bonds due mostly from 2014 to 2016, de Leon said in a phone
interview today. The government will fund the repurchase with
proceeds from an overseas sale this month of $750 million worth
of 10-year peso-denominated bonds and with dollars bought from
the central bank, she said.  The buyback and peso bond sale let the government “manage
its external liabilities through the redenomination of a portion
of the external debt into the local currency,” Finance
Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a statement today.  “The exercise will also reduce interest costs, avoid
bunching up of maturities, and extend the duration profile,” de
Leon said in the statement.  The $225 billion Philippine economy is reducing its budget
deficit, extending debt maturity and cutting foreign-currency
risks in pursuit of an investment-grade credit rating. President
Benigno Aquino’s administration has conducted bond exchanges,
debt repurchases and peso-bond sales to overseas investors since
starting a six-year term in June 2010.  About $3.8 billion of bonds qualified for repurchase were
offered by investors, de Leon said. The $1.46 billion buyback
cost includes accrued interest on top of the bonds’ original
price of $1.2 billion. Last year, the Philippines spent $1.7
billion buying back $1.3 billion worth of debt.  Record Dollar Reserves  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas also stands to gain from the
government’s plan to buy dollars from the nation’s reserves, de
Leon said. The Philippines’  international reserves  climbed to a
record $82.09 billion in October after the peso rose 1.3 percent
against the dollar that month.  The local currency appreciated to 41.05 per dollar on Nov.
8, its strongest level since March 2008. It fell 0.2 percent
yesterday to 41.335.  The Philippines’ debt rating was raised to Ba1, one step
below investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service last month,
putting it on par with assessments by Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, and HSBC Holdings
Plc are joint global coordinators for the transaction. Citigroup
Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley, Standard Chartered Plc and UBS AG are joint dealer
managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  