-- Treasuries Rally Is Longest Since July on Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-11-17T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/treasuries-rally-is-longest-since-july-on-fiscal-cliff.html
Treasuries had the longest rally in
almost four months as President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers
started tax-and-spending talks to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff, stoking demand for refuge.  The  yield  on the 10-year note touched a 10-week low
yesterday as House Speaker  John Boehner  offered a “framework,”
including increased revenue, as part of a debt-reduction
package. Some Federal Reserve officials said the central bank
may need to buy more  U.S. debt  next year to bolster the economy,
according to policy-meeting minutes, while volatility in
Treasuries dropped to a five-year low. The U.S. will sell $13
billion in 10-year inflation-indexed securities on Nov. 21.  “If the powers that be in Congress are able to come up
with a plan to get a resolution to the fiscal cliff, something
of substance, then the market would view that as relatively good
news,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at
Guggenheim Partners LLC in New York. “The market is waiting to
see the specifics and to hear a plan, as opposed to just
positive rhetoric, which is certainly a first step.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point on the week, to 1.58 percent in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
1.625 percent security due in November 2022 gained 1/4, or $2.50
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 13/32. The yield touched the
least since Sept. 5. The market was closed Nov. 12 for Veterans’
Day.  The four-week drop in 10-year yields was the longest
stretch of declines since the period ended July 20. It traded in
a range of eight basis points this week, the narrowest on a
weekly basis since April.  Futures Trade  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  increased 
net-long position in 10-year note futures in the week ending
Nov. 13, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data. Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 158,519 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, up 48,162 contracts, or 44 percent, from a week
earlier.  Large traders also  reversed  to a net-long position in 30-
year bond futures. Speculative long positions, or bets prices
will rise, outnumbered short positions by 16,912 contracts,
versus last week when traders were net-short 22,654 contracts.  Treasuries traded yesterday at the most expensive levels in
more than six weeks. The 10-year term premium, a model created
by economists at the Fed that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation, was negative 0.94 percent, the most
costly since Oct. 3. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The
average this year is negative 0.76 percent.  Relative Risks  “There’s more risk that yields will go lower than spike
dramatically higher,” said  Chris Ahrens , an interest-rate
strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings for Treasuries based on options, dropped to 55.6 on
Nov. 15, the lowest level since June 2007.  U.S. government securities are set to outperform corporate
bonds on a monthly basis for the first time since May.
Treasuries have returned 0.7 percent this month as of Nov. 15,
versus a 0.2 percent loss for company bonds, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  U.S. bonds have been supported since Obama’s re-election on
Nov. 6 as investors turned their attention to the $607 billion
of tax increases and spending cuts that will automatically come
into force at the beginning of 2013 unless lawmakers act.  Debt Talks  Obama began deficit-reduction talks yesterday with the top
Republicans and Democrats in Congress, saying voters are
demanding a deal.  “What folks are looking for, I think all of us agree on
this, is action,” Obama said as he convened a meeting with
Boehner and other congressional leaders in the Roosevelt Room at
the White House.  “You are firmly tucked into the environment where all
things revolve around the fiscal cliff,” said  Tom Porcelli ,
chief U.S. economist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit, primary dealer.  Treasuries were supported this week by a crisis in the
 Middle East .  Israel ’s Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  signaled his
nation may escalate its military operations against Gaza,
bolstering demand for the safety of government debt.  Military Action  Egypt ’s Prime Minister Hisham Qandil visited Gaza and said
the Arab world was united behind Palestinians there, as Israel
extended its aerial assault and militant groups kept up their
barrage of rockets fired at the Jewish state.  “It’s tough for people to be short in front of the weekend
with this situation in the Middle East,” Rogan of Guggenheim
Partners said yesterday.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in September after its holdings rose $300 million to $1.16
trillion, according to the Treasury yesterday.  Total foreign holdings of Treasuries rose for a 10th month,
climbing $6.2 billion, or 0.1 percent to $5.455 trillion.
Overseas investors held 50.7 percent of the Treasury’s
outstanding public debt in September, the most since September
2011, the data show.  Fed Views  In the minutes of their last meeting released Nov. 14, some
Fed officials said the central bank may need to expand its
monthly purchases of bonds next year after the December
expiration of a program known as Operation Twist, which involves
selling short-term debt and buying longer maturities.  Primary dealers saw the Fed continuing with its asset-
purchase program for more than a year in a survey conducted by
the central bank before its Oct. 23-24 meeting.  The median respondent in the survey by the Fed Bank of New
York predicted that the central bank will continue with its
“flow-based” asset-purchase program until the first quarter of
2014. Primary dealers also saw the Fed purchasing $45 billion of
 Treasury securities  and $40 billion of mortgage debt after the
December and January meetings of the  Federal Open Market
Committee .  Ten-year notes will yield 1.72 percent by Dec. 31 and 1.94
percent by June 30, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  