-- Samsung Seeks Copy of Apple’s HTC Settlement Over Patents
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-11-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/samsung-seeks-copy-of-apple-s-htc-settlement-over-patents.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  asked a
court to force  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to turn over a copy of its settlement
with  HTC Corp. (2498) , saying it’s “highly relevant” to Apple’s
request for an order blocking sales of Samsung smartphones.  It’s “almost certain” that Apple’s settlement with HTC
covers some of the patents at issue in its dispute with Samsung,
according to a filing yesterday by the Suwon, South Korea-based
company in federal court in San Jose, California. The agreement
may undermine Apple’s claim that Samsung’s patent infringement
can’t be resolved with license payments, according to the
filing.  “Apple’s apparent willingness to license these patents
supports Samsung’s argument that Apple cannot show irreparable
harm because monetary damages are adequate,” Samsung said in
the filing.  Apple won a $1.05 billion patent-infringement verdict in
August in a  jury trial  against against Samsung in San Jose. U.S.
District Judge Lucy H. Koh scheduled a December hearing to
consider Apple’s request for a permanent U.S. sales ban on eight
Samsung smartphone models and the Tab 10.1 tablet computer. She
will also consider Samsung’s bid to get the verdict thrown out
based on claims of juror misconduct.  Apple, which had accused HTC of copying features that made
its  iPhone  unique, on Nov. 10 settled all global lawsuits with
HTC and agreed to a 10-year licensing deal, signaling a new
willingness to resolve patent disputes without resorting to the
“thermonuclear war” stance favored by co-founder  Steve Jobs .  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to comment on Samsung’s filing.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  