-- Saudi Shares Fall on Regional Tension, Global Economic Concerns
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2012-11-17T11:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/saudi-shares-fall-on-regional-tension-global-economic-concerns.html
Saudi Arabia’s shares slid for the
sixth day, led by petrochemicals and banks, on concerns about
regional tensions and the global economy.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemical maker, known as Sabic, and Samba Financial Group,
the second-largest lender in the kingdom, dropped the most in
five days.  Al Rajhi  Bank, the largest Saudi lender, declined to
the lowest value since Oct. 23.  The  Tadawul All-Share Index (SASEIDX)  declined 0.7 percent to
6768.73, the lowest level since Oct. 24, at 1:21 pm. The Arab
world’s biggest bourse has gained 5.4 percent this year.  “The Saudi market has been under pressure for the past
several sessions partly as a result of escalating regional
tensions,” Asim Bukhtiar, senior analyst at Riyad Capital, said
in an e-mail. “Increasingly consensus is building for a weak
2013 for the global economy which is tempering domestic
optimism.”  Israel approved the call-up of 75,000 reservists for a
possible ground incursion into the Gaza Strip as Palestinian
rockets landed in areas around Jerusalem and Tel Aviv and air-
raid warnings sounded in both cities. U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said the situation in Syria is “gravely
deteriorating” as the international community fails to resolve
the civil conflict.  Stocks have tumbled  around the world  on concern that the
so-called U.S. fiscal cliff will push the world’s largest
economy into a recession at the beginning of next year.  Sabic lost 1.1 percent to 89.25 riyals. Samba dropped 1.5
percent to 46.20 riyals, while  Al Rajhi (RJHI)  slid 1.1 percent to 69
riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse operating on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  