-- Sierra Leoneans Vote as Nation Shifts to Growth From War
-- B y   S i l a s   G b a n d i a   a n d   E m i l y   B o w e r s
-- 2012-11-17T18:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/sierra-leoneans-vote-as-nation-shifts-to-growth-from-war-1-.html
Sierra Leoneans voted today in the
third election since the end of a civil war, choosing whether to
give President Ernest Bai Koroma a second term leading sub-
Saharan  Africa ’s fastest-growing economy.  Koroma, 59, faces eight challengers including Julius Maada
Bio of the Sierra Leone People’s Party, which ruled the country
before Koroma came to office in 2007. People standing in line by
the 5 p.m. closing time for polling stations were being allowed
to vote, according to  Albert Massaquoi, external relations
officer with the National Electoral Commission. Results are
expected within a week, according to the commission.  None of the candidates will probably secure the 55 percent
needed for a first-round win, said Jean-Baptiste Bouzard, Africa
analyst with Bath, England-based risk-analysis company
Maplecroft. An expanding economy and support from his Temne
ethnic group, the country’s largest, should give Koroma the edge
in a runoff, he said.  “Koroma’s economic achievements during his first term, his
strong support base among the Temne ethnic group, and his
effective use of political alliances are expected to secure
victory,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions Nov. 13.  Sierra Leone’s $2.2 billion economy will expand 21 percent
this year and 7.5 percent in 2013, fueled by diamond mining and
iron-ore production by London-based  African Minerals Ltd. (AMI)  and
 London Mining Plc (LOND) , according to the  International Monetary Fund .
Foreign direct investment soared to $3 billion so far this year
from $200 million in 2007, Koroma said in an interview in
Freetown, the capital, on Nov. 10.  Civil War  The West African nation of 6 million people, founded as a
British colony and a home for former slaves in 1808, gained
notoriety during the 1991-2002 civil war for the tactic used by
Revolutionary United Front rebels of chopping off the hands and
legs of civilians and using child soldiers.  Koroma, leader of the All People’s Congress, may have “an
edge looking at the GDP growth, drop in inflation and investment
ventures in the mining and agricultural sectors that have
created jobs,” Victor Koroma, chairman of the Freetown-based
Civil Society Consultative Forum who is not related to the
president, said in an interview.  Inflation slowed to 11.6 percent in September, the lowest
this year, according to Statistics Sierra Leone, with the rate
forecast to average 13.7 percent this year compared with 18.5
percent a year earlier, IMF data shows.  Job Creation  Nasiru Deen, a 36-year-old auto mechanic, lined up three
hours before polls opened to “exercise my right,” he said as
he waited to vote in eastern Freetown. “No president has done
so much to develop infrastructure and the economy the way
President Koroma did in the past five years.”  If Koroma wins, he will probably continue programs put in
place during his first term, with priority on infrastructure and
energy, said Bouzard.  Hassan Sorie, a 25-year-old electrical technician, said he
wants the next leader to place a priority on  job creation . “I
haven’t seen much in jobs for the past five years and cost of
living is still high for me, so we need a change,” he said as
he waited to cast his ballot.  Sierra Leone remains among the world’s poorest nations,
ranking 180th out of 187 countries on the United Nations
Development Programme’s Human Development Index, which measures
indicators such as  life expectancy and income. At the end of
the civil war a decade ago, Sierra Leone was at the bottom of
the HDI table.  British Troops  The conflict killed at least 50,000 people and forced 2
million to flee their homes. It ended after British troops sent
by U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  to evacuate foreigners
intervened to defeat the rebels.  During the election campaign, SLPP and APC supporters
clashed in the country’s east and south, according to Control
Risks, the London-based risk consultancy. Ten people were
injured in the eastern diamond-mining region of Kono on Oct. 28
and party activists clashed in the Southern province town of Bo
on Nov. 2, the risk advisory group said in a note to clients.  “While a post-election dispute over the results has the
potential to act as a catalyst for renewed violence, the state
apparatus should be capable of restoring order,” said
Maplecroft’s Bouzard. “The risk of violence spiralling out of
control appears to be low.”  High Turn-out  Processes were followed and turn-out was high, Richard Howitt, a member of the European Parliament and head of the
European Union observer mission said on his Twitter account
after polling stations closed.  This year’s campaign has been less tense than in 2007, with
parties being allowed to hold rallies in strongholds of their
opponents and candidates urging peace, said Koroma of the civil
society group.  Koroma’s decision to retain Vice President Samuel Sam
Sumana as his running mate after he was linked to two corruption
investigations this year “illustrates the primacy of domestic
political imperatives over concerns about the government’s
international reputation,” according to Control Risks. Sumana’s
hometown of Koidu is the capital of the Kono region that is
considered a swing area and supported the SLPP in 2007, the
group said.  Bio, a Mende, the country’s second-biggest ethnic group,
has pledged to tackle government corruption, accusing Koroma of
putting “immunity” around “sacred cows,” according to
remarks on his campaign  website . The 48-year-old former military
ruler has also pledged to review mining contracts signed by
Koroma’s government.  “We are not yet there on people voting solely on issues,”
civil society’s Koroma said. “Maybe it works for the elites,
but a good number of people still pay attention to regional and
tribal attachments to determine who to vote for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silas Gbandia in Freetown at 
 sgbandia@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Bowers in Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  