-- Slim Buys Stake in Real Oviedo Seeking to Add Sports Content
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-11-17T18:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/slim-acquires-controlling-stake-in-real-oviedo-el-pais-reports.html
Carlos Slim ’s investment in the
Spanish soccer team Real Oviedo adds entertainment assets to his
growing portfolio as the world richest person seeks to stockpile
video content.  The acquisition of a controlling stake in the soccer team
for 2 million euros ($2.5 million) represents Slim’s second
sports transaction this year. Using his mobile-phone company
 America Movil SAB (AMX) , Slim bought 30 percent stakes in two Mexican
soccer teams Aug. 31. The Real Oviedo transaction was earlier
reported by newspaper  El Pais .  Slim wants to boost video content, including sports, to
help lure online viewers from  Grupo Televisa SAB (TV) , which is the
world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster and owns Club
America, one of Mexico’s most popular soccer teams. Televisa has
been encroaching on Slim’s territory by offering home-phone and
Internet service and entering the mobile-phone business.  Arturo Elias , a spokesman for Slim, confirmed the
transaction in an e-mail and didn’t respond to questions about
the reason for the investment. Real Oviedo has been playing in
 Spain ’s Second Division B in recent years and was seeking to
raise 1.9 million euros in new funds by midnight today to avoid
insolvency, El Pais reported.  Elias also confirmed the transaction in his Twitter account
today. “Friends of the Real Oviedo thousand thanks for inviting
us to participate with you, it’ll be an honor to be part of that
big institution,” he wrote in his profile.  He made the investment using his company Inmobiliaria Carso
SA, according to a statement issued by the billionaire and
reproduced by El Pais on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in  Mexico  City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  