-- Spain Deepens EU Budget Deadlock as Rajoy Spars With Van Rompuy
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-11-17T18:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/spain-deepens-eu-budget-deadlock-as-rajoy-spars-with-van-rompuy.html
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy
rejected a proposal for the European Union budget made by its
president Herman Van Rompuy, while European Commission President
Jose Manuel Barroso requested “solidarity” from members.  “The EU president’s current proposal is not acceptable for
Spain,” Rajoy told reporters today following a two-day summit
of Ibero-American leaders in Cadiz, southern Spain.  While the European Commission’s initial proposal was “a
good starting point”, Spain rejects a second proposal made by
Van Rompuy due to plans for cohesion funds and a “radical”
reduction in the budget for the common agricultural policy,
Rajoy said.  Spanish opposition deepens a deadlock between European
governments over the bloc’s budget for 2014 to 2020 before a
Nov. 22-23 summit of EU leaders. With unemployment at 26 percent
after a five-year economic slump, Spain’s struggle to restore
growth is at the heart of a debate about how to balance
reordering public finances and stimulating growth.  “The most important and substantial point is that the
Spanish government doesn’t like this proposal, so we have
informed the institutions and we hope a more reasonable one can
be made that can be agreed on by all,” Rajoy said.  Barroso, with whom Rajoy said he had discussed budget
issues, earlier today rebuked governments that are resisting
efforts to lessen the impact of what he termed a “social
emergency” in some European Union countries.  “It seems unimaginable to me that at this socially
difficult moment in  Europe , some governments keep proposing
cutting some of our proposals in the next budget,” Barroso told
reporters.  Van Rompuy yesterday said in Vienna that a deal on the
budget “requires political will, compromises and concessions by
all.” EU leaders need to show in talks about bloc’s 2014-2020
budget next week that they “can make difficult decisions in
difficult times,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  