-- Norwich Beats Manchester United in Premier League; Chelsea Loses
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-11-17T20:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/west-brom-beats-chelsea-as-reading-gets-first-premier-league-win.html
Norwich beat Manchester United 1-0
to knock the Red Devils out of first place in English soccer’s
Premier League, while West Bromwich Albion defeated Chelsea 2-1.  Anthony Pilkington scored the only goal as Norwich extended
its unbeaten run to six games and stopped United’s five-match
winning streak in the league.  “It’s a great day for Norwich and it’s a massive win for
us,” Pilkington said in an interview with ESPN. “We’ve been
performing well over the last couple of weeks and we showed
today that we could beat the team that is probably the best in
the league.”  Defending champion Manchester City moved to the top of the
standings with a 5-0 rout of Aston Villa and Reading beat
Everton 2-1 for its first league win. Queens Park Rangers
remained winless after a 3-1 loss to Southampton, Arsenal beat
Tottenham 5-2, Liverpool defeated Wigan 3-0 and Swansea won 2-1
at Newcastle.  Norwich’s win was just its second in 15 league meetings
with United. It continued a strong run at home in which the
Canaries have beaten Arsenal in the league and Tottenham in the
League Cup over the past month.  Pilkington scored in the 60th minute when he headed Javier
Garrido’s cross from the left over goalkeeper Anders Lindergaard
and into the top corner.  Norwich goalkeeper John Ruddy then made two saves in
stoppage time, knocking away a free kick that deflected off the
head of defender Sebastien Bassong and stopping a shot from
Ashley Young.  One Point  United’s third loss in 12 games leaves it one point behind
Manchester City. Sergio Aguero and Carlos Tevez each scored
twice in the second half as City rolled over Aston Villa to
remain the league’s lone unbeaten team. David Silva also scored
for City.  Shane Long and Peter Odemwingie scored as West Brom won for
the sixth time in seven home matches this season and extended
Chelsea’s winless run to four. The Baggies move into fourth
place with 23 points, one fewer than Chelsea in third and four
behind Manchester United.  Adam Le Fondre scored twice in the second half to lead
Reading to its first win.  Steve Naismith gave Everton the lead in the 10th minute
before Le Fondre scored six minutes into the second half. Le
Fondre was then fouled in the area by Seamus Coleman in the 79th
minute and sent goalkeeper Tim Howard the other way with his
penalty kick.  Everton almost tied the game moments later, but Marouane
Fellaini’s header hit the post and was gathered by Reading
goalkeeper Adam Federici.  Winless QPR  Reading’s win leaves QPR as the only winless Premier League
club, following Rangers’ home loss to Southampton.  Goals from Rickie Lambert and Jason Puncheon, plus an own
goal from Anton Ferdinand, lifted Southampton to the win in west
 London . Junior Hoilett scored for QPR, which is in last place
with four points.  Per Mertesacker, Lukas Podolski, Olivier Giroud, Santi Cazorla and Theo Walcott all scored after Emmanuel Adebayor was
red-carded as Arsenal duplicated last season’s 5-2 win over
Tottenham at the Emirates Stadium.  Adebayor opened the scoring against his former club in the
10th minute, but was sent off eight minutes later for a foot-
first challenge on Cazorla. Goals from Mertesacker, Podolski,
Giroud and Cazorla then gave Arsenal a 4-1 lead.  Gareth Bale scored for Spurs in the 79th minute before
Walcott completed the home side score in stoppage time.  Miguel Michu and Jonathan de Guzman scored in Swansea’s win
at Newcastle, while two goals from Luis Suarez helped Liverpool
past Wigan.  Fulham host Sunderland tomorrow, with Stoke visiting West
Ham in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  