-- Twinkies May Vanish as Union’s Brinkmanship Shuts Hostess
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-11-17T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/twinkies-may-vanish-as-union-s-brinkmanship-shuts-hostess.html
Misty Williams and other Hostess
Brands Inc. workers arriving at the plant in Wayne,  New Jersey ,
yesterday found a sign on the doors: “Hostess Brands Has Closed
All Locations.”  Williams, who’s 40 and has worked at the company for 14
years, was shocked that management and union leaders had let
their dispute get to the point that the 82-year-old maker of
Twinkies and Ding Dongs would close its 36 plants, fire more
than 18,000 employees and liquidate assets.  “They were just too stubborn, I guess, the union and
management,” she said.  Hostess and its collection of iconic brands failed after
years of management shakeups and missteps, high labor and
commodity costs and the changing appetites of consumers as they
look for more healthy snacks. In the end, the bakers union
miscalculated: It stopped talking to management a month ago,
betting a strike would pressure executives back to the
negotiating table. Instead, the company, in bankruptcy and
struggling for cash, opted to close its doors to salvage
whatever value it could for lenders.  While the company is liquidating, its brands may yet live
on as bidders for  Hostess assets , including those brands, emerge
ahead of a bankruptcy court hearing next week.  “It’s the bakers’ union that hasn’t done its homework,”
said Steve Cabot, chairman of the Cabot Institute for Labor
Relations, a consulting firm in Palm Coast,  Florida . “They want
to play brinkmanship. This time, they lost.”  Management Ultimatum  The Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain
Millers International Union had gone on strike Nov. 9 and
disrupted production and deliveries, ignoring a  management 
ultimatum to return to work by 5 p.m. Nov. 15. The bosses
weren’t bluffing -- they halted production and sought
liquidation, warning that brands and their recipes may be
snapped up by bargain-seeking corporations, but workers and many
antiquated plants wouldn’t be.  The strike starved Hostess of some of the almost $50
million in weekly sales it was reliant on to make it through
bankruptcy, as baking ceased in most picketed plants, said a
person familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified
because the details weren’t public.  Management and its advisers calculated a shutdown was
necessary should the strike exceed a week, to preserve enough
cash for an orderly  liquidation .  No Margin  “Companies in bankruptcy don’t have any margin for
error,” Hostess Chief Executive Officer Gregory F. Rayburn said
in an interview. “We couldn’t sustain that loss of sales to the
business. We had lenders who were willing to fund an exit if we
could get the union concessions through, but they’re not willing
to fill” the sales gap caused by the strike, “and I don’t
blame them.”  Bakery union President Frank Hurt, who represents 5,600
workers, blamed management, saying in a statement that it
“refused to invest in modernizing its bakeries or devote
necessary resources to advertising and marketing, product
development and new technology,” since its earlier bankruptcy.  “Had it not been for the valiant efforts of our members
over the last eight years, including accepting significant wage
and benefit concessions after the first bankruptcy, this company
would have gone out of business long ago,” Hurt said.  Ding Dongs, Ho Hos  Supplies of Wonder bread, Hostess CupCakes, Ding Dongs and
Ho Hos will run out along with Twinkies, as 6,700 delivery
workers represented by the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters distribute the last of the snacks and lose their jobs
too. The Teamsters, who had ratified a new contract with 8
percent in wage concessions and 17 percent in benefit
reductions, was critical of the bakers union.  “Teamster Hostess members, based on the facts and advice
from respected restructuring advisers, understood what was at
stake and voted to protect all jobs at Hostess,” General
Secretary-Treasurer Ken Hall said in a statement yesterday.
“The timing of the closure could not be worse as we enter the
holiday season.”  Hostess emerged from its first bankruptcy in 2009 as a
private company controlled by buyout firm Ripplewood Holdings
LLC and lenders. The company was previously known as Interstate
Bakeries Corp. It entered its latest bankruptcy in January.  In the immediate standoff, Rayburn said that the bakers’
union misled its members by telling them that a white knight
buyer existed to save Hostess and their contracts. There was
“never” a buyer for the whole company, Rayburn said.  Bargaining Table  Some picketers were convinced by the union that after 13
months of negotiations Hostess would return to the bargaining
table, said the person familiar with the matter and another who
also didn’t want to be named because the details weren’t public.
Yet union leadership had resisted proposing alternative terms
and turned up at fewer meetings as talks continued before
finally disengaging altogether, the people said.  “They stopped returning our calls a month ago,” Rayburn
said.  In contrast, the Teamsters negotiated actively and
countered with its own proposals from July 2011 until an
agreement was reached in August 2012, the people said. A year
ago, the bakers union rejected an offer to bargain with the
Teamsters.  Ten other  unions  representing about 1,000 workers among
them either reached deals or didn’t challenge the court-ordered
contract concessions, according to a list obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  Union’s Message  Rayburn said the union “pretty much didn’t care about the
loss of these jobs. I think they wanted to send a message to
other companies they shouldn’t come looking for these kinds of
concessions.”  Bakery union members make products for food producers
including  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ,  General Mills Inc. (GIS) ,  Kellogg Co. (K)  and
 Nestle SA. (NESN)   “This is a tragic ending for Hostess and its nearly 19,000
employees,” said  Harry Wilson , whose firm Maeva Group advised
on the restructuring. “Unfortunately, the BCT’s leader, acting
with inadequate information and bad judgment, refused to engage
in the restructuring process.”  The bakers union has struck at least twice at other
employers since 2000. That year the union claimed a victory at
Earthgrains Co., then the second-largest maker of packaged bread
in the U.S., following a monthlong strike by almost 4,000
workers. The union eventually obtained wage and benefit
increases of 3.9 percent over a three-year term, sending
employees at plants in 13 states, including Alabama, Georgia and
 Texas , back to work. Earthgrains became part of Sara Lee Corp.
through a $2.8 billion acquisition, including debt, the next
year.  Hershey Strike  In 2002 the union engineered a six-week strike by workers
at Hershey, the longest in the candy maker’s century-old
history. At the center of the dispute was the company’s demand
that employees pay more of health insurance premiums. The
settlement kept the employees’ share of premiums the same in
exchange for smaller pay raises.  The union’s origins date back to 1886, when the Bakery and
Confectionery Workers International Union was formed. The group
combined with other unions, including the Tobacco Workers
International Union of America and the American Federation of
Grain Millers, over the next century, adopting its current
incarnation in 1999.  When Hostess filed for  bankruptcy  this year, it listed
assets of $982 million and liabilities of $1.43 billion.  $2.5 Billion Claims  In May and again in October, a bankruptcy judge in  White
Plains ,  New York , authorized Hostess to impose concessions on
some union workers. Salary and benefits were cut Oct. 21, and by
Nov. 7, some bakery union locals started sending strike notices.
Within two days, the bakery union struck 12 plants and set up
picket lines at 12 others. Hostess closed three plants
permanently on Nov. 12.  Whether Hostess would have survived without the strike will
never be known. The company filed a proposed reorganization plan
in October telling unsecured creditors with more than $2.5
billion in claims they would get nothing.  The plan called for issuing almost $700 million in new
secured debt, most of it paying interest with extra debt. To win
creditor and court approval of the plan, Hostess needed to sell
assets to raise $88 million cash plus enough to pay off the
amount outstanding under the $75 million loan financing the
reorganization.  “This is the second company I worked at that closed, so
I’m very sad,” said Nelson Otalbaro, 49, a sanitation worker at
the Hostess Wayne plant. “Everyone paying for a wedding, and a
house, they were hoping maybe they could make a deal.”  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
04-45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of  Missouri 
( Kansas City ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  