-- Yen Declines to Six-Month Low on BOJ Stimulus Prospect
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-11-19T02:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-17/yen-slumps-to-six-month-low-on-boj-stimulus-view-pound-falls.html
(Corrects direction of yen bets in fifth paragraph of
story initially published Nov. 17.)  The yen slumped to the lowest in
more than six months against the dollar on speculation that
Japanese elections next month will hand power to an opposition
party that advocates more aggressive monetary stimulus.  The Japanese currency weakened versus all of its 16 most-
traded counterparts as Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he
will dissolve parliament, paving the way for elections that
polls shows his  Democratic Party  of  Japan  will lose. The euro
gained against its U.S. peer for the first time in four weeks
after touching a two-month low. The pound fell to a 10-week low
versus the greenback as data showed U.K. retail sales slid. The
 Bank of Japan (8301)  is forecast to keep its main  interest rate  at zero
to 0.1 percent when it meets next week.  “Economic data globally has been weak,”  Greg Anderson ,
the North American head of Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“Rising concerns that we are in a second-dip recession, maybe
not in the U.S., but in Japan and the  euro zone , has weighed on
 market sentiment  all week long.”  The yen depreciated 2.3 percent to 81.32 per dollar in New
York this week, its biggest drop since February. The Japanese
currency decreased 2.5 percent to 103.60 per euro, its most
pronounced fall since September. The euro added 0.2 percent to
$1.2743.  Net Shorts  Futures traders  decreased  their bets the yen will fall
against the dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of
wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline
in the yen compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts
-- was 30,447 on Nov. 13, compared with net shorts of 40,104 a
week earlier.  Wagers the euro will fall against the dollar were 83,646 on
Nov. 13, up from 67,141 a week earlier. Net shorts reached a
record 214,418 on June 8.  The  Mexican peso  was the biggest winner among its 16 most-
traded peers this week, climbing 0.5 percent to 13.1372 against
the dollar. The Brazilian real was the worst performer after the
yen, declining 1.9 percent to 2.0851 per dollar.  Japan’s currency has fallen 6.9 percent this year, the most
out of its major peers, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation currencies.
The euro has been the second-worst performer, losing 2.8
percent. The dollar has declined 0.9 percent, while the  New
Zealand dollar  has been the best performer, rising 4.1 percent.  Further Easing  The dollar gained against the majority of its most-traded
peers this week as a haven play on speculation President  Barack
Obama  and congressional lawmakers will be unable to avoid the
so-called fiscal cliff, more than $600 billion of federal
spending cuts and tax increases that will take effect at the
start of next year unless Congress acts. Failure to reach an
agreement risks pushing the U.S. back into a recession.  A number of Federal Reserve officials said the central bank
may need to expand its monthly purchases of bonds after the
December expiration of what’s become known as Operation Twist,
according to minutes of their October meeting. The Fed is
swapping short-term Treasuries on its balance sheet for longer-
term debt.  “We’ve tempered the potential for dollar gains,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a Nov. 14
telephone interview. “We are baking in that there will be
easing over the course of next year, even with the U.S. growth
story.”  The Dollar Index, which measures the currency against the
euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Swedish
krona, ended the week up 0.2 percent to 81.192, after touching
the highest level since Sept. 5.  European Data  Britain’s pound fell on Nov. 15 to its lowest level since
Sept. 5 after data showed retail sales including fuel dropped
0.8 percent in October from September, when they gained a
revised 0.5 percent. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 0.1 percent decline.  The data wasn’t “terribly positive as far as the fourth-
quarter gross domestic product goes,”  David Tinsley , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said in a Nov. 15
interview. “There is a reasonable chance that the fourth-
quarter release will show the economy slipping backwards. That
will raise the political heat for the government amidst talk of
the economy triple dipping.”  Sterling fell 0.1 percent to $1.5888 after touching
$1.5829. It declined 0.3 percent to 80.17 pence per euro.  Recession Redux  In the euro area, data showed the economy slipped into a
recession for the second time in four years.  Gross domestic product in the region slipped 0.1 percent in
the third quarter after a 0.2 percent decline in the previous
three months, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. From the year-earlier period, GDP dropped
0.6 percent.  The Australian dollar fell versus most of its peers after
the nation’s  Reserve Bank  said it increased sales of the
currency last month to a category of buyers that includes
foreign banks.  The RBA sold A$483 million ($500 million) more in local
currency than it bought in October through the so-called other
outright transactions category, the most since June 2009,
according to data released today.  “There will likely be more chatter that the RBA is perhaps
conducting off-market, central bank-to-central  bank
transactions ,” Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based foreign-exchange
strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd., said in a Nov. 15
interview.  The Aussie slipped 0.4 percent to $1.0343. It gained 1.8
percent to 84.07 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, decreased 0.3
percent to 81.20 U.S. cents after falling to 80.53, its lowest
level since Sept. 7. The kiwi rose 2 percent to 66.01 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  