-- ‘FIFA Soccer’ Maker Enlists Facebook to Win Players: Tech
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/-fifa-soccer-maker-enlists-facebook-to-lure-new-players-tech.html
Forty years after Pong bounced across
screens to kick off the  video-game  era,  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  is 
struggling to adapt to the shifting nature of play, as gamers 
abandon high-priced consoles for tablets and smartphones. Now, 
the company has a plan.  The video-game giant plans to unveil free versions of some
its most popular games for its Play4Free website and other
sites, including Facebook, at the annual E3 video game expo,
which begins today in  Los Angeles . The move is part of bid to
lure customers, who may not own an Xbox or Playstation, to try
best-selling games such as “FIFA Soccer” and “Battlefield,”
according to Peter Moore, chief operating officer.  Offering free versions, the thinking goes, will spark
spending on additional game features for the most popular titles
once new players are hooked. The strategy also entails reducing
the number of games and working to transform those remaining
into brands in their own right.  “There hasn’t been this much change in terms of platforms,
play patterns and monetization ever,” said Joe Minton,
president of Digital Development Management, an industry talent
agent whose clients include the creators of “ Star Wars :
Battlefront” and “Metroid Prime.” “Everything’s up in the
air.”  Electronic Arts, based in  Redwood City ,  California , has
spent at least $1.7 billion since late 2009 to acquire popular
Web and app-based casual gaming titles, as industry sales of
titles for Xbox, PlayStation and Wii players tumbled.  U.S. retail sales of packaged games, accessories and
hardware fell 8.5 percent last year to $17 billion, the third
straight annual decline, according to researcher NPD Group Inc.
To cope, Electronic Arts, the second-largest publisher behind
Activision Blizzard Inc., is moving away from designing titles
for specific gadgets, focusing instead on building the brands
for specific games, regardless of where they are played.  Console Titles  In the past three years, Electronic Arts has cut the number
of titles for consoles and portable players to about two dozen
from 70. At the same time, the company bought Playfish,  PopCap
Games , maker of “Plants vs. Zombies” and “Bejeweled,” and
other smaller publishers to gain a foothold in casual games like
“Farmville,” the title popularized by  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)   Shares of Electronic Arts, down 3.7 percent to $13.12 on
June 1, have retreated 36 percent this year, underscoring
investors’ wariness of the company’s ability to develop new
online markets while adjusting to shrinking industry sales of
PlayStation, Xbox and Wii games. Its new multiplayer “Star
Wars” online game, introduced last year, lost a fourth of its
1.7 million players in the first three months of this year.  New Frontiers  “They bought Playfish, they acquired PopCap games, they’re
not making as much progress as you’d think, given the amount of
money they’ve spent on the business,” said Edward Woo, an
analyst at Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC in  Irvine , California.  Electronic Arts isn’t alone in looking beyond the
traditional game console or handheld player for sales.  Activision Blizzard (ATVI) , known for the blockbusters  “Call of
Duty” and “World of Warcraft,” is trying innovative
approaches to expand its “large, loyal communities” of
customers, Chief Executive Officer Bobby Kotick said.  The  Santa Monica , California-based company’s “Skylanders
Spyro’s Adventure” video game is integrated with collectible
real-world toys. The franchise, introduced last year, has sold
more than 30 million toys and by 2013 will surpass $500 million
in revenue, Eric Hirshberg, CEO of Activision Publishing, said
in May.  Activision also is testing a social site called Skylanders
Spyro’s Universe that lets users chat, play games alongside
friends and customize their lands.  Major Games  “We also have a comprehensive licensing program under way
and have announced partnerships with Frito-Lay as well as
opportunities for apparel, back-to-school, plush toys and
more,” Hirshberg said.  Titles that take millions of dollars and years to develop
aren’t going away, said  David Dennis , a spokesman for Microsoft
Corp., which will show its next “Halo” hit shooter game at the
show. Yet consumers are asking for different entertainment
experiences at home and on the go, he said.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , will unveil
learning titles in partnership with “Sesame Street” and
National Geographic magazine that use the Xbox 360’s Kinect
motion-sensing and voice-command peripheral, he said.  Not Gaming  “We’ve been in the interactive entertainment business for
seven to 10 years, not gaming,” Dennis said in an interview.
“With interactivity, you have the ability to make it less of a
one-way direction between the consumer and us.”  Major publishers aren’t giving up on appealing to
traditional players, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with
Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles who recommends investors buy
Activision and Electronic Arts.  Sony Corp. has offered details on an industry-first free-
to-play PlayStation 3 game called Dust 514 that’s being 
developed by CCP Games.  Most of Sony’s E3 presentation will focus on traditional
gamers, not new markets, according to Dan Race, a spokesman.  “In this unprecedented seventh and eighth year of the
cycle, we’ve run out of pizazz,” Pachter said. “No one is
willing to take a chance on anything new.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  