-- Amylin Said to Draw $29-a-Share Offers in Initial Bidding
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-05T20:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/amylin-said-to-draw-bids-of-25-to-29-a-share-in-first-round.html
Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  is
preparing for a second round of bids after attracting offers
that value the diabetes drugmaker at $25 to $29 a share, said
people with knowledge of the process.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  joined  Sanofi (SAN) , Merck & Co. and Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. in making first-round proposals, said the
people, who declined to be identified as talks are private.
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , which made a bid on the lower end of the range, is
dropping out of the process, said one of the people.  The suitors gave ranges for their bids, with some offering
$25 to $28 a share and others $26 to $29, said one person. Such
bids would value Amylin, whose treatments include the diabetes
drugs Bydureon and Byetta, at $4.1 billion to $4.7 billion,
based on the shares outstanding as of April 26. San Diego-based
Amylin is asking suitors to submit revised offers by the end of
June, with a sale likely in July, said two of these people.  AstraZeneca may have the greatest need, said  Michael King ,
an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw in New York, in a telephone
interview today. “They seem to be struggling. I think they’re
under a lot of pressure to do something to grow sales or they
themselves could be acquired.”  AstraZeneca Situation  David Brennan retired June 1 as chief executive officer.
The London-based company’s Seroquel lost U.S. patent protection
in March. Analysts expect the antipsychotic drug’s sales to drop
to $3.27 billion this year from $5.82 billion last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Valuing Amylin at $25 to $29 a share is reasonable, said
King and  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in New
York. King also said $29 is “pretty pricey” and he expects the
final value to be toward the lower end of the range.  Amylin rose 2.7 percent to $27.35 at the close in  New York .
The stock  gained  78 percent through today since March 27, the
day before Bloomberg News reported that Amylin had rejected an
earlier bid from Bristol-Myers.  Bidders are receiving Amylin senior-management
presentations and confidential information regarding
correspondence the company has had with the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  on certain drugs, said one of these people.  Representatives at Amylin, Merck, Bristol-Myers,
AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Pfizer declined to comment.  Amylin’s Journey  Japanese drugmaker  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  didn’t put in
a first-round bid, said another person familiar with the matter.
The company is still tracking the sales process, this person
said. Elissa Johnsen, a spokeswoman for Takeda, declined to
comment.  Amylin began seeking suitors after rejecting the $22-a-
share offer from New York-based Bristol-Myers in February,
people familiar with the matter said earlier this year. The
company may  generate  as much as $1.5 billion in annual sales
from the diabetes treatments Byetta and Bydureon, according to
 Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York.  Revenue at Amylin surpassed $650 million in 2012 and may
rise about 5 percent in 2012, analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg show. About 346 million people in the world have
diabetes, and the number of deaths from the chronic disease may
double from 2005 to 2030, according to the  World Health
Organization .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Julie Alnwick at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  