-- Annan Should Talk to Putin, Not Assad, to Fix Syria
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/annan-should-be-talking-to-putin-to-fix-syria-not-assad.html
Kofi Annan ’s United Nations-Arab
League  mission  to broker peace in Syria has failed.  It was also worth the attempt. Without the mission’s 300
observers, we wouldn’t know the scale and nature of the
executions that took place last week in Houla and  Deri al-Zour .  But the UN effort has outlived its usefulness. At this
point, it is giving diplomatic cover to Russia, the prime
protector of the regime of President Bashar Al-Assad, to block
stronger international action.  This is why, when the former UN secretary general reports
June 7 to the UN Security Council, he should suggest ending the
mission early. It is perhaps the only way to make clear that
responsibility for the carnage belongs to Assad and, by
extension, his supporters on the  Security Council : Russia and
China.  Sectarian Bloodshed  What Houla indicates is that the sectarian civil war
between Syria’s Sunnis and Alawites that the world had long
feared has begun. Assad’s claim in a speech June 3 that
terrorists conducted the slaughter of fellow Sunnis to create an
international outcry is laughable. Any evidence there is
suggests that the Alawite Shabiha militia, working in tandem
with the government military, was responsible.  Satellite 
photographs show Shabiha units were positioned around Houla at
the time of the attack, which suspiciously took place during a
pause in shelling by the Syrian military.  So what should be done? Pressure is rising for the Obama
administration and its European, Sunni Arab and Turkish allies
to act, with the suggestions of arming  Syria ’s opposition
(Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ), launching
Libya-style airstrikes (Republican Senator  John McCain ) or
creating safe zones (Democratic Senator  John Kerry ).  All the proposed courses for military intervention are
problematic, for reasons we’ve set out before. Above all,
proponents haven’t explained how they would control the
aftermath of a successful intervention that the U.S. and its
allies would then own -- for example, creating a new government,
securing Syria’s large chemical weapons depots, or protecting
the country’s Alawite and Christian minorities from revenge
massacres. Nor have they explained what part of the fragmented
opposition forces they would arm and coordinate with, or how to
avoid widening the conflict to a regional Sunni-Shiite  contest .  Yet we share the growing frustration and horror at events
in Syria. Every remaining step toward isolation of the regime,
its military and its finances should be taken without delay.
Indictment with  war crimes  for all implicated in directing the
killings should be threatened -- though not yet implemented,
leaving open a road to exile for Assad and his henchmen.
Prosecution can follow later.  Military Planning  To maximize pressure on Russian President  Vladimir Putin ,
China and the Syrian regime, the U.S. administration should
order the Pentagon to present options for eventual military
action alongside allies such as  Turkey  and the Gulf Arab
nations. In the meantime, the U.S. and others should use all
means short of military ones to obstruct Syrian forces, from
jamming broadcast signals to cyberwarfare. The public warning on
May 30 from  Susan Rice , U.S. ambassador to the UN, that the U.S.
and others may soon circumvent  Russia ’s veto at the Security
Council is welcome additional pressure. Another Libya or Kosovo-
style action by U.S.-led forces is what Russia most wants to
prevent in Syria.  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  and Burhan Ghalioun, the leader of the Syrian National Council, have made
clear over the past few days their belief that Russia’s
strategic interests in Syria should be safeguarded in a post-
Assad world. This will be the cost of Russian cooperation. In
his visits to Berlin and Paris over the weekend, Putin showed
little sign of bending. He continued to insist on Russia’s
neutrality in the dispute (despite its arms shipments to the
Syrian government), and on the need for a patient negotiated
solution (even though it’s clear that path is closed so long as
Assad thinks he can survive militarily).  Putin has to decide as he begins his second, less popular
tour as Russian president, whether being cast as defender of a
Syrian regime that executes children advances his interests.
Russia, after all, invaded its neighbor  Georgia  for allegedly
committing far lesser crimes. Gennady Gatilov, Russia’s vice
foreign minister, recently said his country might consider
additional UN measures to strengthen the Annan initiative. Annan
can redeem his mission, but only by acknowledging that his
attempt to broker compromise between Assad and his opponents,
always a long shot, has failed.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights:  Margaret Carlson  on  the Wisconsin recall
election ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  winning the Six-Day War ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on the  wayward Obama campaign ; William Pesek on  India’s
faltering market reforms ; Gary Shilling on  Japan’s misguided
stimulus .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 