-- Apple’s IPhone Copied Samsung Inventions, U.S. Judge Told
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-04T18:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/apple-s-iphone-copied-samsung-inventions-u-s-judge-told.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  introduced its iPhone in
2007 using  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  technology that it didn’t
want to pay for, a lawyer representing the Korean electronics
company told a U.S. trade judge today.  Samsung contends Apple’s devices, including the iPhone,
iPad tablet computer and iPod touch media player have infringed
as many as four patents. All came from two decades of work
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung spent improving mobile phones,
the attorney for the company said.  “All of these things that Samsung built up, Apple was
using when it entered the market,” Samsung lawyer Charles Verhoeven of  Quinn Emanuel  said as a trial began today at the
U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington . “Apple, in
2007, when they decided to enter an industry they’d never been
in before, didn’t even inquire of there was a license they
needed to take.”  The case before ITC Judge James Gildea, and another patent
case by Apple against Samsung that’s in the midst of trial
before a different trade judge, are part of a global battle
between the two companies for increased share of a market that
Bloomberg Industries said was $312 billion last year.  Apple denies infringing the Samsung patents and is
challenging their validity, just as Samsung is doing in regard
to Apple’s allegations.  Four Years  Cupertino, California-based Apple contends Samsung raised
the patent issue in 2010 only after being confronted with claims
it was introducing new products that copied the iPhone and iPad,
Apple lawyer William Lee of WilmerHale said.  Two of the Samsung patents cover industry standards for the
transmission of data and two others are for device features.  “In that three- to four-year period, Samsung never
suggested the patents were infringed by an Apple product,” Lee
said. “For nearly four years, no claims of infringement, and
then an infringement problem arose.”  Together, Samsung and Apple made more than 49 percent of
all smartphones sold worldwide in the first quarter, with
Samsung edging out Apple in that period for the title of world’s
biggest manufacturer of the devices, research analyst Gartner
Inc.  said  May 16.  In the tablet market, Apple had 68 percent of the market in
the first quarter with Samsung a distant second, analyst IDC
said May 3. Apple, in a civil suit it filed against Samsung in
federal court in  California , is seeking to halt sales of
Samsung’s Galaxy Tab until a patent trial can be held.  Complicated Ties  Apple is also Samsung’s biggest customer, as the Korean
company supplies chips and displays for the iPhone, iPad and
iPod Touch devices. Apple accounted for 7.64 percent of
 Samsung’s revenue , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Apple has benefited enormously from the success of the
iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, but Apple hasn’t benefited alone,”
Lee said. “Apple has paid Samsung billions of dollars for these
components.”  Each is vying to have the other company’s products, which
are made in  Asia , blocked from entering the U.S. Gildea is
scheduled to release his findings in September while Judge
Thomas Pender, who is hearing Apple’s claims against Samsung, is
set to issue his determination in October.  Part of Apple’s defense is that Samsung is asserting
patents covering a data-transmission standard developed by
numerous mobile-phone companies.  CEO Meetings  Apple infringes the patents simply by complying with the
standard, Verhoeven, the Samsung lawyer, said. He rejected
Apple’s argument that Samsung breached its obligation to license
standard-essential patents on fair and reasonable terms.  “My client did make an offer and what did Apple do?” he
said before being cut off because the response was considered
confidential. Members of the public were told to leave the room.  The European Union is investigating a complaint by Apple
that Samsung misused its patents related to industry standards.  Meetings over the past two years, most recently ones
involving Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  and Samsung CEO
Choi Gee Sung, have failed to resolve a standoff that spans 10
countries on four continents.  Each side is looking in court for some break, such as an
order blocking the rival’s products from the U.S., that would
give them an advantage in settlement talks, said Paul Berghoff,
a founding partner at McDonnell Boehnen Hulbert & Berghoff in
 Chicago  who’s been watching the cases.  “Certainly there are some bad feelings here,” Berghoff
said before the trials began. “It’s like a wrestling match.
They’re going to roll around and try to choke each other in the
gravel for a while and then, most likely, settle. The settlement
will be driven by the first party that gets into a position
where they have to cry uncle.”  Samsung’s case against Apple is In the Matter of Electronic
Devices, Including Wireless Communication Devices, 337-794, and
Apple’s case against Samsung is In the Matter of Electronic
Digital Media Devices, 337-796, both U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  