-- Marion Sandler, Home Lender Who Made Billions, Dies at 81
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-06-04T14:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/marion-sandler-home-lender-who-made-billions-dies-at-81.html
Marion Sandler, part of a husband-
and-wife team that earned billions from lending during the
housing boom, then fought back against critics of the
adjustable-rate mortgage they helped popularize, has died. She
was 81.  She died on June 1 at her home in San Francisco, according
to an obituary on her  website . No cause was given.  As one of  Wall Street ’s first female securities analysts,
Sandler was drawn to the business model of the savings and loan,
and she went on to make her fortune running one with her
husband, Herbert.  As co-chairmen and co-chief executive officers of Golden
West Financial Corp. -- which became the second-largest thrift
in the U.S., after  Washington Mutual  -- the Sandlers were in the
vanguard of untraditional home lending. The “Pick-A-Pay”
 adjustable-rate mortgage  marketed by Golden West through its
World Savings Bank unit was a so-called payment-option ARM,
which allowed borrowers to make artificially low monthly
payments, increasing the principal they owed.  As Golden West prospered, so did the Sandlers, who became
fixtures on lists of the best-paid CEOs in America. Fortune
magazine surveys in 2003, 2005 and 2006 named Golden West the
most admired mortgage-services company in America;  American
Banker  ranked the Sandlers No. 8 on a  list  of Top 10 CEOs in
2006.  Investigative Journalism  When Wachovia Corp. bought Golden West in 2006 for $24.2
billion, the Sandlers walked away with $2.4 billion for their 10
percent stake. They directed part of their wealth to
philanthropy, including the creation of the nonprofit
investigative journalism website  ProPublica .  The financial crisis of 2008, triggered by the collapse of
the subprime-mortgage market, cast them in a new, harsh light.  Wachovia, Golden West’s purchaser, lost 89 percent of its
market value from a high in February 2007 as a result of
mounting losses on option ARMs, leading to its sale to  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , announced in October 2008.  Time magazine in 2009 named the Sandlers to its list of
“25 people to blame for the financial crisis,”  saying  the
couple introduced the option ARM in the 1980s and then peddled
it “with increasing zeal and misleading advertisements over the
next two decades.” A skit on NBC’s “Saturday Night Live”
parodied the Sandlers as “people who should be shot” for their
roles in the financial meltdown.  ‘High-Quality Mortgages’  The Sandlers insisted they had been careful, responsible
lenders who had tailored their loans to the needs and payment
abilities of clients. In a lengthy  rebuttal  to Time, they said
Golden West under their stewardship had differed from
competitors by keeping its loans on its books, rather than
packaging and selling them as securities.  “In essence, we focused on high-quality mortgages that
would work for borrowers, since our business model depended on
keeping loan losses as low as possible,” they wrote. “While we
maintained our traditional, conservative portfolio business
model, most every major mortgage lender in the country shifted
to a completely different model: mortgage banking.”  In a 2010 interview with the congressionally appointed
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, Herbert Sandler blamed
independent brokers -- “whores of the world,” in his words --
for turning low-interest-rate loans into tools to entice
borrowers, who ended up hurt by hidden fees.  “They took a loan that was borrower-friendly and made it
into a toxic loan, which we warned regulators about again and
again and again,” Sandler said.  ‘Payment Shocks’  The commission, in its  final report , offered some support
to that view.  It said lenders including Countrywide Financial Corp. and
Washington Mutual Inc. had taken the payment-option ARM and
changed it “in ways that made payment shocks more likely,”
such as using lower “teaser” rates, offering loans as high as
100 percent of value and shortening the period of time until
 interest rates  were raised.  The Sandlers pledged to give away their entire net worth
through philanthropy, beginning with a $1.3 billion grant to
their foundation in 2006.  “Passing down fortunes from generation to generation can
do irreparable harm,” they wrote in joining  The Giving Pledge ,
a movement started by  Warren Buffett  with Bill and  Melinda Gates 
in 2010. “In addition, there is no way to spend a fortune. How
many residences, automobiles, airplanes and other luxury items
can one acquire and use?”  Wellesley Graduate  Marion Anna Osher was born on Oct. 17, 1930, and grew up in
Biddeford,  Maine , the only daughter among the five children of
Samuel Osher and the former Leah Lazarovich. Her parents,
Russian Jewish immigrants from Lithuania and  Russia , had settled
in Biddeford, a mill town near  Portland , and ran a hardware
business.  She graduated from  Wellesley College  in 1952 and earned her
master’s in business administration from  New York  University in
1958. She worked for two years as a buyer at Bloomingdale’s
before landing a job on Wall Street, as a securities analyst at
Dominick & Dominick Inc. She was the first woman hired by the
firm who wasn’t a receptionist, according to Douglas Branson’s
2010 book, “The Last Male Bastion: Gender and the CEO Suite in
America’s Public Companies.”  As a summer renter in the Hamptons, on  Long Island , she met
Herbert Sandler through a mutual friend, according to a 2006
profile of the couple in the San Francisco Chronicle. As their
courtship advanced, Herbert moved into her apartment on Fifth
Avenue. They married in  Boston  on March 26, 1961, and went on to
have two children, Susan and James -- who, they said in 2010,
fully agreed with their plan to give away their fortune to
charity.  Buying Lender  In her work at Dominick & Dominick, then at Oppenheimer
Co., Sandler focused on the savings-and-loan industry, and the
couple decided to move to fast-growing  California  to run one.  Backed by Marion’s brother, Bernard Osher -- who would go
on to own fine-art auction house Butterfield & Butterfield --
the Sandlers in 1963 spent $3.8 million to buy Oakland,
California-based Golden West Savings & Loan Association, which
had one branch, in Castro Valley. They took the company public
in 1968.  “We were a small institution, and we were very hands-on,”
Marion Sandler told the  San Francisco  Chronicle in 2006. “It
was such fun.”  In 1975, the Sandlers merged Golden West with World Savings
under a parent company, Golden West Financial Corp. From 1981 --
when deregulation opened the door to option ARMs -- to 2005,
Golden West issued about $274 billion in the Pick-A-Pay option
ARMs, according to the report of the financial crisis
commission.  Philanthropic Beneficiaries  It was only after Wachovia bought Golden West in 2006,
“and the housing market soured,” that the Pick-A-Pay portfolio
produced significant foreclosures, the commission found, with
failed loans jumping to 2.69 percent by September 2008 from 0.04
percent before that.  In their philanthropy, the Sandlers supported social and
political organizations including  Human Rights Watch , the
 American Civil Liberties Union  and Acorn, the anti-poverty group
that had to shut its doors in 2010. They helped establish the
 Center for Responsible Lending  and, in 2003, the Center for
American Progress, the Washington-based group dedicated to
“progressive ideas and action” and led by  John Podesta , who
was White House chief of staff under President  Bill Clinton .  ProPublica, their pioneering foray into nonprofit
investigative journalism, opened in 2008 under the leadership of
Paul Steiger, former managing editor of the Wall Street Journal.
The Sandlers funded the organization with $10 million annually.  ProPublica’s Pulitzer  Its work was featured in outlets including the New York
Times, the Los Angeles Times, CBS’s “60 Minutes” and PBS’s
“Frontline.” A ProPublica investigation of a New Orleans
hospital’s life-and-death decisions after  Hurricane Katrina   won 
a 2010 Pulitzer Prize for investigative reporting.  “Marion participated actively in every ProPublica board
meeting until the most recent one; only her last illness could
keep her away,” the website’s editors wrote in a  tribute .
“Usually in such sessions, she was knitting except when
speaking; always, she was listening carefully, and her points
were as tightly focused as her stitches.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  