-- ARM Plans for 20% of Notebook Processor Market by 2015
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-06-04T07:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/arm-plans-for-20-of-notebook-processor-market-by-2015.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , whose chip designs
power most smartphones, expects its processors to account for as
much as 20 percent of those used in  notebook computers  by 2015,
boosted by the release of Microsoft’s Windows 8 software.  Laptop computers using ARM will be lighter, contain no fan,
and have a battery life that can last “days and days” when
compared to models using the so-called x86 technology used by
 Intel Corp ., Simon Segars, executive vice president of the
Cambridge, U.K.-based company, said in an interview today in
Taipei ahead of the Computex trade show.  ARM, whose designs are used in Apple Inc. and HTC Corp.
smartphones, last week  announced  it will supply chip technology
to Dell Inc. as part of a trend toward lower-power servers. An
industry-wide pickup will start showing benefits in the third-
quarter, the company said April 24.  “It’s an inflection point,” he said. “It’s been Windows
on x86 for ever. This is the first time that Windows PCs have
run on a different architecture.”  A shortage of industry production capacity for 28-nanometer
technology won’t affect company revenue because clients can use
40-nanometer technology instead, Segars said.  Its stock, down 16 percent in London trading, is rated buy
from 32 analyst recommendations  compiled  by Bloomberg. A further
10 say hold and five advise investors to sell the shares.  The company also plans to boost its market share for
processors used in servers from about zero today to as much as
20 percent by 2015, he said.  Microsoft last week said it expects Windows 8 devices to be
in stores by the year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 