-- Marriott Plans to Add Hotels, Workers Amid U.S. Job Concerns
-- B y   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-06-05T04:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/marriott-seeks-brand-acquisitions-as-it-expands-sorenson-says.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. lodging chain, said it plans to
open more hotels and add workers even as growth in its home
market eases and  Europe  struggles with the regional debt crisis.  The Bethesda, Maryland-based company plans to hire as many
as 10,000 workers in the U.S. as it opens 150 hotels in the
country this year, Chairman Bill Marriott said. U.S. employers
added the fewest workers in a year in May and the jobless rate
rose.  “The employment numbers that came out last week were very
disappointing,” Marriott said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Hong Kong. “If people lose faith in the economy
and business confidence goes down in the U.S. because of the
jobs situation, it will go very soft.”  Marriott said the recovery of the  U.S. economy  and the
European crisis are his biggest concerns for his business.
Treasuries rallied yesterday, driving 10-year yields below 1.50
percent for the first time, while the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average   erased  its 2012 gain after last week’s job data.
Marriott’s shares declined to a three-month low.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less than the
most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, after a
revised 77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed last week. The median
projection called for a 150,000 May advance. The jobless rate
rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  More Acquisitions  Marriott, which last week agreed to buy  Gaylord
Entertainment Co. (GET) ’s hotel brand and management company, is still
planning more acquisitions.  “We’ll use capital to add assets and brands to enhance our
platforms,”  Arne Sorenson , Marriott’s chief executive officer,
said yesterday during a panel discussion at a hospitality
conference sponsored by  New York  University.  The $210 million deal with Nashville, Tennessee-based
Gaylord will add four hotels with about 7,800 rooms to
Marriott’s management portfolio. Marriott is particularly
seeking to add brands in  emerging markets , Sorenson said.  “The developing world, including China and India, holds
the greatest promise,” Sorenson said. “It’s where the
economies are growing the most.”  Asia remains the bright spot for the company, Marriott, the
chairman, said in the television interview yesterday, with
markets including China and India driving the company’s growth.
Marriott plans to add 110 hotels in the region.  He estimates growth rates of 7 percent to 8 percent for its
business in China, and between 4 percent and 5 percent for  Hong
Kong , which he said is “not as robust.”  “Asia continues to boom,” Marriott said. “There are soft
spots around the world obviously. I don’t think there will be a
serious recession this time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Li at   sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  