-- Astros Take 17-Year-Old Shortstop With First Pick in MLB Draft
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/astros-take-puerto-rico-s-correa-with-first-pick-in-mlb-draft.html
Two decades after Houston passed on a
high school shortstop named  Derek Jeter  with the first pick in
Major League Baseball’s draft, the Astros made 17-year-old
shortstop Carlos Correa from Puerto Rico the No. 1 selection.  Correa is the Astros’ third No. 1 overall pick, joining
Phil Nevin in 1992 and Floyd Bannister in 1976. The last time
they had the top choice, the Astros were one of five teams to
pass on Jeter, who went sixth to the  New York Yankees  that year
and has helped the franchise win five World Series titles.  The 6-foot-4, 190-pound Correa, who has drawn physical
comparisons to All-Stars  Alex Rodriguez  and  Troy Tulowitzki , is
the highest-drafted Puerto Rican player in major league history.
While he’s signed to play at the University of Miami, the Astros
can offer him a signing bonus of about $7.2 million.  “I suspect Miami will not see him, unless he’s visiting
some friends,” Astros General Manager Jeff Luhnow told  MLB.com .  Houston had the first pick after finishing 56-106 in 2011,
the worst record in the majors, and is seeking to improve a team
that’s moving to the American League West division next season.  The highest a player from  Puerto Rico  had been drafted
previously was Ramon Castro, who went 17th to the Astros in
1994. Castro spent 13 years in the major leagues with three
teams, including the  New York Mets  in 2005-09.  “This means a lot,” Correa, who plays at the Puerto Rican
Baseball Academy, told MLB Network. “I have been working hard.
We have a lot of good players down there.”  Rodriguez, Tulowitzki  Former Cleveland Indians General Manager John Hart likened
Correa’s size to Rodriguez and Tulowitzki. Rodriguez, a former
shortstop who now plays third base for the Yankees, is fifth on
the MLB career home run list with 638. Tulowitzki is a two-time
All-Star shortstop for the  Colorado Rockies .  “The size jumps out to you,” Hart said on the MLB
Network’s draft coverage. “The hitting and the power are both
there, the only thing that’s a question is the run. He’s an
outstanding fielder with plus-plus arm. This guy is light on his
feet. He’s a physical shortstop that has all the tools.”  The  Minnesota Twins  took Georgia high school outfielder
Byron Buxton with the second pick, while the Seattle Mariners
drafted University of Florida catcher Mike Zunino at No. 3.  A pair of right-handed pitchers rounded out the top five,
as the  Baltimore Orioles  selected Kevin Gausman from Louisiana
State University and the Kansas City Royals took Kyle Zimmer
from the  University of San Francisco .  Appel Chosen  Stanford University pitcher Mark Appel, who was projected
by MLB.com to be taken No. 1, went eighth to the Pittsburgh
Pirates. Appel is represented by agent Scott Boras, who
negotiated contracts with the Washington Nationals for 2009 and
2010 top draft picks  Stephen Strasburg  and Bryce Harper. Pirates
General Manager Neal Huntington said he’s optimistic the team
will be able to reach a contract agreement with Appel by the
mid-July deadline.  “We stayed true to our agenda -- best player available,”
Huntington told MLB.com. “We’ve done that.”  The Mets used the 12th pick on 18-year-old high school
shortstop Gavin Cecchini, who hit .532 with 11 home runs in 36
games for Barbe High School in Louisiana. With the 30th
selection, the  New York  Yankees took Ty Hensley, a right-handed
high school pitcher from Oklahoma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  