-- FSA’s Matsushita Pledges to Crack Down on Japan Insider Trading
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-06-04T15:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/matsushita-tapped-to-tackle-insider-trades-as-new-japan-fsa-head.html
Japan ’s newly appointed Financial
Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita pledged to deepen his
agency’s investigation into  insider trading  that has undermined
confidence in the country’s financial markets.  “We just can’t overlook” the issue, Matsushita, 73, said
at a press conference in Tokyo late yesterday after he was named
as part of a Cabinet reshuffle. “We need to strictly deal with
this, while continuing to investigate cases.”  Matsushita will take over examinations by the Financial
Services Agency and its watchdog arm, the Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission, into information leaks ahead
of share sales including Nippon Sheet Glass Co., Inpex Corp.,
Tokyo Electric Power Co. and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  The
SESC is also probing underwriters of the stock offerings.  He will seek to rebuild sentiment also damaged by corporate
scandals including Olympus Corp.’s accounting fraud and AIJ
Investment Advisors Co.’s concealment of more than $1 billion in
pension fund losses. Japan’s Topix Index plunged to the lowest
level since 1983 yesterday, entering a  bear market  after
disappointing U.S. jobs and China services data added to
evidence the global economy is slowing.  Matsushita pledged to avoid a repeat of the AIJ case, which
spurred authorities to conduct checks on 265 Japanese fund
managers in March.  Japan is unlikely to further extend a moratorium on loan
repayments by small businesses that’s set to expire next March,
Matsushita told reporters at the briefing.  The Lower House lawmaker replaces Shozaburo Jimi. Both are
members of the  People’s New Party , a junior member of Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s coalition government. Noda changed his
Cabinet to win backing for a doubling of Japan’s sales tax.  Most recently, Matsushita was senior vice minister for
economy, trade and industry, and vice minister for Japan’s
reconstruction agency formed following the record earthquake and
tsunami on March 11, 2011. He graduated from  Kyoto University 
with a degree in agriculture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  