-- Aussie Dollar Falls as Shares Drop Before RBA Decision
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-06-04T06:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/aussie-dollar-falls-as-shares-drop-before-rba-decision.html
The Australian dollar dropped against
most of its 16 major peers as Asian stocks extended a global
rout, sapping demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The so-called Aussie slid for a second day on speculation
the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will cut  interest rates  tomorrow
and after data showed traders increased bearish bets on the
currency to a record. The  New Zealand dollar  erased a two-day
gain after U.S. figures last week showed employers added the
fewest workers in a year and before Spain auctions bonds this
week amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening.  “There is some potential for some further weakness in both
of them on this whole softening in the U.S. economic environment
and the concerns in Europe,” said  Thomas Averill , managing
director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency and interest-
rate risk-management company, referring to the South Pacific
nations’ currencies. “We are going for a risk-off period of
trading.”  The Australian dollar dropped 0.4 percent to 96.64 U.S.
cents as of 4:20 p.m. in Sydney. It touched 95.82 last week, the
lowest since Oct. 5. The New Zealand currency slid 0.2 percent
to 75.29 U.S. cents, after falling to 74.57 on June 1, matching
the weakest since Nov. 28.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks retreated 2.2
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares slid 2.5
percent on June 1, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 1.9
percent.  U.S. payrolls increased by 69,000 last month, less than the
most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, Labor Department figures showed on June 1. The
median projection was a 150,000 gain.  ‘Proactive’ RBA  The RBA will cut the benchmark rate tomorrow to 3.5 percent
from 3.75 percent, according to a separate poll of economists.
Credit Suisse Group AG forecasts the RBA will reduce the rate by
50 basis points, citing “disappointing” U.S. economic data.  Australia’s bonds climbed, with rates on all maturities of
one year or longer falling to records. Three-year  yields 
declined as much as 14.4 basis points to 1.889 percent. The one-
year rate touched 2.338 percent.  “The RBA has shown itself to be proactive when the
circumstances require, and I think a proactive central bank will
cut rates by 25 or 50 basis points tomorrow,”  Stephen Miller , a
managing director in Sydney at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  Gross operating profits at Australian companies dropped 4
percent in the three months through March after a 6.4 percent
decline the prior quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said today.
Jobs advertised in newspapers and on the Internet fell 2.4
percent last month in the country, according to a report from
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  today.  Inflation Eases  The nation’s  consumer prices  rose 1.8 percent last month
from a year earlier, matching the slowest pace in more than two
years and less than the lower end of the RBA’s inflation target,
according to an index compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the
Melbourne Institute released today.  Futures traders increased their bets that the Australian
dollar will weaken against the U.S. currency, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the Australian dollar compared
with those on a gain was 35,527 on May 29, the most on  record 
going back to 1993.  “There’s a broader bearish sentiment about the Aussie,
reflecting gloom on the global economic outlook,” said Greg Gibbs, a foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in Sydney. “The cyclical upswing in the currency
associated with the resources boom is under a cloud.”  Spain  is scheduled to auction bonds on June 7 maturing in
2014, 2016 and 2022. The nation’s benchmark  10-year bond yield 
climbed to a six-month high of 6.7 percent on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  