-- Australia First-Quarter Company Profits Weaken, Inventories Rise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-06-04T01:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/australia-first-quarter-company-profits-weaken-inventories-rise.html
Australian  business profits  dropped
in the three months through March, the second consecutive
quarterly decline, as  earnings  weakened at mining companies and
manufacturers.  Gross operating profits fell 4 percent from the final three
months of last year, when they slid a revised 6.4 percent, the
Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The result compares
with the median forecast for a 2.5 percent drop in a Bloomberg
survey of 17 economists. Inventories rose 0.9 percent.
Economists had forecast a 0.7 percent gain.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower
the benchmark  interest rate  to 3.5 percent tomorrow, according
to most economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A high currency has
hurt earnings for manufacturers and retailers, helping create
what the RBA has referred to as a multi-speed economy with those
industries lagging behind the performance of companies linked to
the nation’s mining investment boom.  “Manufacturing profits, which are 10 percent of the total
and have fallen for six of the past seven quarters,” are likely
to have “fallen further, in part reflecting the high Australian
dollar,” Justin Fabo, a senior economist at  Australia  & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in a research report before
today’s release. There is likely to be “a further decline in
mining profits due to lower export prices in the quarter,” he
said.  Currency’s Rise  The currency gained 1.3 percent last quarter against its
U.S. counterpart and has risen 37 percent since the start of
2009.  From a year earlier, profits declined 0.5 percent, today’s
report showed.  Profits at mining companies fell 13.3 percent in the first
quarter and manufacturing declined 9.8 percent, according to
today’s report. Profits at financial and insurance services
soared 74 percent, and accommodation and food services advanced
5.3 percent, the report showed.  Transfield Services Ltd., an Australian engineering and
maintenance company, in April cut its full-year profit forecast
as much as 22 percent.  After tax earnings before amortization costs will be A$105
million ($101 million) in the 12 months ending June as floods
and storms hit its mining unit and the company provides for
losses on a construction contract, Sydney-based Transfield said
April 3. The forecast is as much as 22 percent less than a Feb.
22 prediction for profit of A$130 million to A$135 million.  Electronics Sales  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd., Australia’s largest
electrical-goods retailer, said in May that nine-month earnings
dropped 25 percent as a consumer slowdown curbs sales and
discounting crimps profitability.  Unaudited pretax profit fell to A$204.8 million in the nine
months ended March from A$272.3 million a year earlier, the
Sydney-based company said in a statement on May 3. Sales in the
period dropped 6.7 percent.  Myer Holdings Ltd., Australia’s largest department-store
chain, last month cut its profit forecast.  Net income may fall as much as 15 percent in the year
ending July as weak  consumer spending  and uncertainty about the
global economy cuts sales, Myer said May 23. The Melbourne-based
retailer forecast March 15 that earnings would be “no worse
than 10 percent” below the year-earlier profit of A$162.7
million.  Gross operating profit measures earnings before tax,
interest, depreciation and amortization. It excludes asset sales
and foreign-exchange gains or losses.  Stevens last month slashed the overnight cash rate target
to a two-year low of 3.75 percent from 4.25 percent, the deepest
reduction in three years, as inflation cooled and growth slowed.
The nation’s currency declined 6.7 percent last month as concern
about the global economy and Chinese growth worried investors.  Australia’s economy probably grew 0.5 percent in the first
quarter, accelerating from a 0.4 percent pace in the final three
months of last year, a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists
showed before a June 6 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  