-- Australian Industry Must Adapt to High Currency, Hockey Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-06-04T08:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/australian-industry-must-adapt-to-high-local-dollar-hockey-says.html
Australian manufacturers must adapt
and boost productivity to withstand a local currency likely to
stay high for years, said Shadow Treasurer  Joe Hockey , whose
opposition coalition is favored to win elections due in 2013.  The so-called Aussie’s decline in the past five weeks is a
temporary “respite” due to volatility emerging from  Europe ,
Hockey said in an interview in Sydney today. Manufacturers
“should take the opportunity to restructure their business. We
should be doing more to encourage Australian industry to manage
a high Aussie dollar,” he said.  The opposition has criticized the government’s handling of
the economy as the currency’s strength undercuts the
manufacturing sector amid the biggest mining boom in a century.
The local currency has gained 37 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
since the start of 2009 and reached $1.1081 on July 27, the
highest level since it was floated in 1983.  Measures to cope with the strong local currency should
include investing in “tourism businesses offshore or, if you’re
a manufacturer, looking at upgrading plant and equipment to
improve productivity,” Hockey said. The Liberal-National
coalition, which leads Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor
government by 22 percentage points in an opinion poll published
today, would aim to repeal a tax on carbon within 100 days of
winning office, he said.  ‘Positive Thing’  “There’s an emergence of 2.5 billion people in the middle
class in Asia over the next 30 to 40 years, so you’re going to
see further increase in demand for the products of Australia,”
Hockey said. “That’s a positive thing and it’s going to create
a higher long-term dollar.”  Hockey’s views on the currency echo Gillard’s comment Feb.
1 that the Aussie is likely to stay “relatively high for years
to come” and businesses should work harder to overcome the
drawbacks of a stronger currency.  The value of acquisitions overseas by Australian companies
has slumped since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in 2008 triggered a global financial crisis.  Such deals amounted to $28 billion in 2011 and less than
$20 billion in each of the three preceding years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with $87 billion in
2007, the data show.  The Aussie was at 96.70 U.S. cents at 5:46 p.m. in Sydney
and has fallen 5.2 percent in the past month.  Growth Slows  Australia’s economy is struggling to gain traction as
Chinese growth slows and a  European debt crisis  weighs on
 consumer confidence . The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which meets
tomorrow, will likely cut the overnight cash rate target 25
basis points to 3.5 percent, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The nation’s jobless rate probably rose to 5.1 percent in
May from 4.9 percent, according to a separate survey before the
government releases employment data on June 7. Australia’s
economy probably grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter, compared
with a 0.4 percent pace in the final three months of last year,
a survey of 24 economists showed before a June 6 report.  “Australia is in a better position than most other Western
nations,” Hockey said in a separate interview with Bloomberg
Television today. “We have strong demand for our commodities,
and even though they probably won’t get there we have a
government that at least is promising to deliver a surplus.”  Budget Deficit  Ending the budget deficit would give the central bank
“more room to move” on  interest rates , he said.  The opposition coalition leads Labor by 48 percent to 26
percent, according to a Nielsen poll published in the Sydney
Morning Herald. The poll of 1,400 voters was conducted May 31-
June 2.  Gillard,  Australia ’s first female prime minister, has faced
charges by the Tony Abbott-led opposition that she broke a
campaign pledge to oppose the carbon levy, to be introduced July
1, in return for backing from the Greens party to form a
government in August 2010.  “As a massive producer of energy, Australia’s mad to be
going down this path,” Hockey said today of the carbon tax,
pledging to scrap Gillard’s laws should the opposition win
power.  “In the absence of an international agreement or
comparable measures to price carbon, we’ll be going to go with
our direct action plan,” Hockey said. That would include
planting trees and creating a fund to help carbon emitters
reduce pollution by upgrading equipment.  Demand for Australian commodities such as  iron ore , coal
and petroleum will be sustainable over the long term as emerging
nations in  Asia  expand, contrasting with the U.S. and European
economies, Hockey said.  “I can’t see the woes of the  United States  and Europe
changing for 10 or 20 years,” he said. “Don’t underestimate
the enormous growth in Indonesia, Vietnam and  India . Because of
our recent obsession with  China  we forget about all these other
countries that represent a very significant growth
opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  