-- Australian Services Gauge Contracts for Fourth Consecutive Month
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-06-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/australian-services-gauge-contracts-for-fourth-consecutive-month.html
Australia ’s services industry
contracted in May for a fourth straight month as Europe’s debt
crisis and signs of slowing Chinese growth hurt confidence, a
private survey showed.  The performance of services  index  was 43.5 last month
compared with 39.6 in April,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and
the Australian Industry Group said in Sydney today. Fifty is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will lower
the benchmark  interest rate  to 3.5 percent today, according to
most economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The RBA lowered rates
half a percentage point last month after a high currency hurt
prospects for manufacturing, retailing and tourism industries.  “Global uncertainties have further shaken business and
household confidence and this is reflected in slower sales and
falling employment,” Innes Willox, chief executive officer at
AIG, said in a statement. “There is little sign to date of any
respite flowing from the reduction in interest rates or from the
easing in the level of the dollar over recent weeks.”  The local currency has gained 38 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  since the start of 2009 and reached $1.1081 on July 27,
the highest level since it was floated in 1983.  It has since retreated as signs mount that Europe’s debt
crisis will sap global growth. The currency dropped 6.7 percent
last month after the central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
interest rate by half a percentage point and as data from  China ,
Australia’s biggest trading partner, indicates a slower
expansion.  Sales, Orders  Today’s report showed the index’s gauge for sales surged to
46.1 from 33.8, and the reading for new orders advanced to 40.4
from 35.8. The employment indicator fell to 44 from 46.6, the
report showed.  Selling prices dropped to 43.8 from 45.9, while the wages
measure improved to 56.8 from to 53.3, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real-
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  