-- Lawyer Kluger Gets 12 Years, Bauer 9 for Insider Trades
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-06-05T14:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/lawyer-kluger-gets-12-year-sentence-for-insider-trading.html
Attorney  Matthew Kluger  was sentenced
to 12 years in prison for insider trading, the longest term ever
imposed for that crime and one that exceeds the 11 years given
last year to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Trader Garrett Bauer, who joined Kluger in a scheme that
prosecutors said generated $37 million in illegal profit, also
was sentenced yesterday, getting a nine-year term. Kluger, 51,
stole corporate merger tips from four law firms over 17 years
and passed them to middleman Kenneth Robinson, who gave them to
Bauer, 44. Robinson will be sentenced today.  All three men pleaded guilty last year in federal court in
Newark, New Jersey, where U.S. District Judge Katharine Hayden
yesterday said she wanted to send a strong message about the
“radiating effect of the loss of confidence in the market”
caused by  insider trading . She said Kluger stole tips from
“white shoe firms” in a “brazen” scheme that was conducted
in a “thuggish” manner.  “This particular scheme is tremendously clear,” Hayden
said. “People stay out of the stock market, in part, because
they think it’s skewed toward the insiders. This case has given
insight to the lack of credibility for the small investor.”  Lawyers for both Kluger and Bauer, a day trader, said they
would appeal the sentences. Robinson, 46, who cooperated with
authorities and secretly recorded the other men for the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation, is expected to get a shorter sentence.
Prosecutors praised the terms imposed on Kluger and Bauer.  ‘Lengthy Betrayal’  “The length of the sentence reflects Kluger’s enormous and
lengthy betrayal of trust,”  New Jersey  U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in an interview. “This 17-year insider-trading
scheme may well have been the longest of its kind.”  In pleading guilty last December, Kluger admitted to
stealing data on about 30 transactions when he was at law firms
including Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Wilson,
Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati PC. The companies included Sun
Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM)  When deals went
public, Bauer sold shares and paid his partners in cash from
automated teller machines. The men used disposable mobile phones
to escape detection.  Rajaratnam was the most prominent of 66 people charged in
an insider-trading crackdown by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. All but seven pleaded guilty or were convicted at trial
since 2009. Most got far less severe terms than Rajaratnam.  ‘Far Harsher’  Alan Zegas , Kluger’s attorney, argued that his client
deserved far less time because he made less than $1 million.
Outside of court, Zegas said he would appeal, calling the term
“far harsher than what I believed Mr. Kluger deserved.”  Kluger said he was disappointed with the sentence and
doesn’t think his term should be longer than Rajaratnam’s.
Kluger said he cooperated with authorities after his arrest and
pleaded guilty, as opposed to Rajaratnam, who went to trial.  Prosecutors said Bauer made about $32 million in illicit
profits in the scheme’s last four years. Zegas said Kluger
believed the three men were splitting the profit equally, and
his client had no idea that Bauer made 30 times more than he
did. Zegas said Bauer and Robinson “dishonored” Kluger.  “How much honor is there among thieves?” Hayden asked.  Bauer’s lawyer,  Michael Bachner , argued that his client
deserved leniency for his charitable acts and because he has
given 147 speeches to students and traders warning about insider
trading since his arrest.  Harvard Speech  Bauer spoke in person or via Skype at schools including
 Harvard University ,  Yale University , the  University of
California  at Berkeley, the  University of Texas , the  University
of Michigan ,  Duke University  and  New York  University. He
sometimes called his talks “Confessions of an Inside Trader.”  Hayden questioned the value of Bauer’s speeches.  “Mr. Bauer is saying ‘Don’t be a criminal like I am,’ and
I don’t know how much deterrent value there is,” Hayden said.
“These are impressionable young people. There’s almost a
curiosity interest in watching somebody come in and bare their
soul.”  She said both Bauer and Kluger went to great lengths to
persuade Robinson to keep the scheme secret after the FBI raided
his house in March 2011.  “This crime was deliberate,” Hayden said. “It was done
out of greed. Mr. Bauer is the greediest of all in terms of the
amount that he made.”  Both Kluger and Bauer pleaded guilty to  securities fraud ,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, conspiracy to commit
 money laundering  and obstruction of justice. They might have
faced as long as 20 years in prison on all but the conspiracy to
commit securities fraud count, which carried a five-year term.  Trust Abused  Hayden said she judged Kluger more harshly because he
abused his position of trust as a lawyer.  In his plea, Kluger said the scheme started in 1994, when
he first worked as an associate for New York-based Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP. Kluger at first passed tips only on those
deals on which he worked.  As the scheme developed, Kluger stole information about
deals on which he didn’t work that he learned about by searching
the firm’s computers.  The crimes continued when Kluger worked from 1998 to 2001
at  Skadden Arps , another New York-based firm, and when he worked
from 2001 to 2002 at Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP,
Kluger admitted. The scheme began again in December 2005 and ran
until March 2011, when Kluger worked in the Washington office of
 Wilson Sonsini .  Phone Destroyed  Kluger said the men used prepaid mobile phones and pay
phones to discuss the deals and elude detection. After learning
in March 2011 of the probe by the FBI and  Internal Revenue
Service , Kluger destroyed a mobile phone, a computer and an
iPhone he used to look up stock quotes, he said.  Bauer forfeited about $20 million in bank accounts and
trading accounts, as well as a $6.65 million condominium on the
Upper East Side of Manhattan and an $875,000 home in Boca Raton,
Florida.  On May 1, Hayden signed a judgment requiring Kluger to
forfeit $516,510 to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
including $502,500 in illicit profit and interest of $14,010.
The FBI had already seized $175,000 in cash from Robinson’s
house on March 18, 2011. Half of that was intended for Kluger,
which counts toward the amount he must forfeit, according to the
SEC.  Kluger, of Oakton, Virginia, is the son of Richard Kluger,
a Pulitzer Prize-winning social historian.  The case is U.S. v. Bauer, 11-cr-858, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  