-- Bank Critic Goodman Sees Lending Chill in Regulations: Mortgages
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-06-04T14:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/bank-critic-goodman-sees-lending-chill-in-regulations-mortgages.html
Laurie Goodman , who says no analysts
have been more critical of bank mortgage practices than her team
at Amherst Securities Group LP, is siding with lenders when it
comes to a flurry of new rules intended to protect homebuyers.  “We’re piling tighter standards on top of already tight
credit standards, and because you have so many different
entities responsible for making these rules no one is really
looking at the interaction,” said Goodman, who’s based in New
York and is a member of the Fixed Income Analysts Society’s Hall
of Fame. “The combined effects could be devastating.”  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Securities
and Exchange Commission and Department of Housing and Urban
Development are among regulators trying to reshape mortgage
lending after poor underwriting contributed to a  housing crash 
that triggered the worst financial crisis in seven decades. The
proposals include new tests on borrowers’ ability to repay,
guidelines for servicers and rules on origination fees.  Lenders already have been tightening credit standards even
as  borrowing costs  fall to record lows. With the housing market
showing signs of stabilizing, after home prices plunged more
than 35 percent from a 2006 peak, banks are opposing some of the
proposals on the grounds that it will make it harder for them to
extend loans.  The concerns raised by Goodman should be taken seriously
because she’s not overly sympathetic to the banks, said
Representative  Brad Miller , a North Carolina Democrat who’s on
the Financial Services Committee. Regulators should make sure
that requirements intending to protect consumers against abuses
don’t make credit unavailable to people who ought to get a
mortgage and could afford a home, Miller said.  Proposed Piecemeal  “I don’t think we have to go back to Ozzie and Harriet
mortgages of 20 percent down payment, 30-year fixed rate,”
Miller said, referring to a television show that aired in the
1950s and 1960s.  “Everything is being proposed piecemeal and in isolation
of other rule makings, so there’s massive amounts of
uncertainty,” said Rod Alba, senior regulatory counsel for the
mortgage markets division of the  American Bankers Association .
“What we fear is that pushing everything through the door at
once is going to create massive burdens and confusion and is
going to create the need to come back and fix a lot of the
regulations.”  Criticized Lenders  Goodman, the former head of fixed-income research at UBS
AG, joined Amherst in 2008 as the broker dealer specializing in
home loan and commercial property debt expanded with banks
retrenching because of losses on housing debt. She garnered more
top rankings in annual polls of bond investors by Institutional
Investor magazine than any other analyst, Austin, Texas-based
Amherst said in a statement at the time.  While at Amherst, Goodman has criticized lenders for
conflicts of interest, foreclosure and second-lien practices.
“I’m not always a sap for the largest banks, almost never am,”
she said. “On this particular issue I think they’re dead
right.”  Six federal agencies, including the SEC and HUD are jointly
responsible for defining which mortgages will be exempt from
regulations that would require banks to retain portions of
securities created from loans they made, Goodman said in a May
30 report, describing the so-called qualified residential
mortgage rule.  Meanwhile, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
created by the Dodd-Frank financial reform act in July 2010, has
authority under an ability to repay rule and to set guidelines
for mortgage servicing more broadly, said  Michael Barr , a
professor at the  University of Michigan Law School  and former
assistant secretary for financial institutions at the Treasury
Department.  Different Rules  “The government should look at the interaction across the
different rules,” said Barr. “All of those rules have an
influence on the shape and structure of the mortgage market.”  Among the consumer bureau’s proposals are simplified forms
showing mortgage terms, tests to verify borrowers’ ability to
repay, guidelines for servicers and rules on origination fees.  The majority of the mortgage rules the agency is working on
are required by Dodd-Frank and will be finalized in January
2013, Raj Date, deputy director of the bureau said in an e-mail.
They’re intended to make the prices and risks of mortgages
clearer to consumers and simplify information provided when
buying a home, Date said.  ‘Cumulative Impact’  “We’re mindful of the cumulative impact of our reforms,
and we’re mindful of the important initiatives being pursued by
the other federal agencies,” Date said. “All the relevant
agencies are collaborating and coordinating well, and for good
reason. We all have the same fundamental objective: a mortgage
market that actually works, and that doesn’t periodically spiral
out of control and wreck the economy.”  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment. Calls to HUD
and the Federal Housing Finance Agency requesting comment
weren’t returned.  The proposed rules come as record-low  mortgage rates ,
rising rents and bottoming  home prices  spark fresh appetite for
homes and loans to buy them.  Mortgage originations in the first quarter rose 5.3 percent
to $318 billion from the same period last year, according to
 Mortgage Bankers Association  estimates as homeonwers sought to
refinance. Volumes are down from $729 billion in the quarter
ending June 2006, a month before home prices in the U.S. peaked
on their way to a 35.1 percent decline.  Mortgage Rates  The average rate for a  30-year mortgage  fell to 3.75
percent in the week ended May 31 from 3.78 percent,  Freddie Mac 
said in a statement. It was the lowest in the McLean, Virginia-
based mortgage-finance company’s records dating to 1971, as
concern about  Europe ’s intensifying sovereign debt crisis drove
investors to the safety of  government bonds  that guide borrowing
costs.  “It is good news for the housing market, but the problem
for the housing sector isn’t that borrowing costs are high, it’s
that banks are unwilling to lend,” said  Millan Mulraine , a
senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York .  The number of Americans signing contracts to buy previously
owned houses fell in April by the most in a year, the National
Association of Realtors said last month. Pending home resales
dropped 5.5 percent from March. They rose 15 percent from a year
earlier.  Increased Standards  Banks have increased lending standards after costs from
faulty mortgages and shoddy foreclosures topped $72 billion at
the biggest U.S. banks. In the first three months of the year,
5.6 percent of lenders said they had tightened credit standards
for long-term, fixed-rate mortgages, according to an April
Federal Reserve survey of senior loan officers.  Lenders have been forced to pay investors that bought
mortgages and then demanded refunds after finding flaws in the
underwriting, including false data about borrower incomes and
 home values . Such sales to investors typically came with
promises, known as representation and warranties, to buy back
defective loans  Date of the consumer bureau says the new regulations are
also designed to help banks from making loans that people can’t
repay.  “Here’s what should be the least surprising lending advice
you’ve ever heard: If you are going to lend money, you should
probably care about getting paid back,” Date said in a speech
April 20 in  Los Angeles .  In its announcement last month the agency also said it’s
considering rules that would ban the practice of charging
origination fees that vary with the size of the loan, and would
require that lenders deliver on lower  interest rates  when a
borrower pays an up-front fee in exchange for a discount.
Origination fees are charged by lenders and mortgage brokers to
cover the costs of underwriting and loan processing.  The various proposals may already have curbed bank appetite
for lending as they wait for rule makers to complete the
process, according to Amherst’s Goodman.  “You have a very long period of regulatory uncertainty,”
she said. “You aren’t getting resolution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  