-- Basquiat Self-Portrait May Fetch Record $20 Million
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-06-04T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/basquiat-self-portrait-may-fetch-record-20-million-at-auction.html
A trademark self-portrait by Jean- Michel Basquiat is estimated to sell for a record $20 million
when it appears at auction this month.  The 1981 canvas “Untitled,” showing the former graffiti
artist with hands raised beside his mask-like face, is formally
valued at about 13 million pounds in the June 27 Christie’s
International sale of postwar and contemporary art in London.  The vivid acrylic, oilstick and spray-paint canvas will be
offered after another untitled 1981 work sold for an artist-
record $16.3 million at Phillips de Pury & Co. in  New York , on
May 10.  Christie’s painting is being entered by a collector based
on the West Coast of the U.S. who bought it for a record $14.6
million at auction in 2007. The work had been sold by the  Israel
Museum ,  Jerusalem .  At the time, the price was about three times the previous
high for Basquiat, said Brett Gorvy, Christie’s chairman and
international head of postwar and contemporary art.  “It’s one of the big, single-figure paintings from the key
period of 1981-83,” Gorvy said in an interview. “The owner
realizes that if he’s going to sell and maximize the value, this
is the moment.”  A minimum price for the work has been guaranteed by a third
party, Gorvy said.  The 71-lot sale is estimated to raise at least 105 million
pounds, a record minimum valuation for an evening contemporary-
art auction at Christie’s in  London .  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 