-- Bayer Drug Stalls Stomach Tumors After Standard Treatment
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/bayer-drug-stalls-stomach-tumors-after-standard-treatments-fail.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s experimental cancer drug
regorafenib delayed progression of stomach cancer in patients
who weren’t benefiting from standard treatments, potentially
giving doctors a third weapon to battle gastrointestinal tumors.  Patients who got regorafenib gained an average of about
four months longer before their tumors got worse than those who
took a placebo, the Leverkusen, Germany-based drugmaker said
today at the  American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting in
 Chicago . The Bayer-funded trial, called GRID, didn’t prove that
regorafenib helped patients live longer.  Bayer said it plans to ask U.S. and European regulators in
the second half of the year to approve regorafenib for the form
of stomach tumors called gastrointestinal stromal tumors. If
approved, the Bayer treatment could provide another option for
the more than 85 percent of patients whose tumor develops a
resistance to the only approved drugs on the market,  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ’s Sutent and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gleevec.  “By inhibiting abnormal signals we’ve increase survival
from three-to-six months before 2000 to 5 years or more,” said
 George Demetri , an associate professor at Harvard University
Medical School in  Boston , who helped conduct the study. “I’m
still taking care of patients who have been on Gleevec for 12
years, but 9 out of 10 aren’t so lucky.”  Bayer has said regorafenib has the potential to generate
more than 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) in annual sales if it’s
approved in several different types of cancer. The company
agreed last year to pay  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , a South  San
Francisco , California-based biotechnology company, a 20 percent
royalty for the use of regorafenib in oncology.  Bayer Drugs  Until recently, Bayer had few cancer drugs in testing
compared to its competitors, and only one cancer drug, Nexavar,
on the market. That’s starting to change this year after the
company decided in 2000 to start heavily investing in  cancer
research , said Alison Ayers-Ptaszek, head of oncology for Bayer.
The German drugmaker has also filed regorafenib for regulatory
approval in metastatic colorectal cancer.  “We feel like we have really turned a corner,” said
Ayers-Ptaszek. “We aren’t afraid of tackling the difficult
things.”  In the study reported today, researchers looked at 199
patients whose tumors had spread or couldn’t be removed, and
whose cancer didn’t respond to Sutent or Gleevec.  In those being treated with regorafenib, they had 4.8
months before their tumor progressed compared to 0.9 months
among those taking a placebo. The study may not have found an
improvement in survival because patients who failed on placebo
were allowed to switch over to regorafenib, Demetri said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  