-- Biggest Buying Wave Defies Threat to Tax Exemption: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/biggest-buying-wave-defies-threat-to-tax-exemption-muni-credit.html
In more than 30 years of purchasing
municipal debt for his personal portfolio, Jonathan Kahn, a
commercial property investor in New York, says he’s never seen a
bigger threat to the bonds’  tax exemption . Yet he keeps buying.  Yields on local-government bonds are near the lowest in a
 generation  and Congress as soon as this year may revive efforts
to take away or reduce the securities’ tax-free status as part
of efforts to cut the federal deficit. President  Barack Obama 
has also proposed curbing the bonds’ tax break for top earners.  That hasn’t stopped Kahn, 56, from adding tax-exempt New
York state and city debt. He says the bonds offer better returns
than fixed-income assets such as Treasuries. He isn’t alone.
Individuals, who own about two-thirds of the $3.7 trillion
municipal market, are adding the most money in three years to
muni mutual funds. The demand is helping lower borrowing costs
for local governments from  California  to  Maine  as they rebound
from the worst recession since the 1930s.  “I have grave concerns that after the November 2012
election, tax-free municipal bond interest is going to go the
way of the mortgage deduction” and be capped, Kahn said in an
interview. Still, “if you buy them right, one can get in the
short-term a higher rate than any comparable taxable or tax-free
alternative.”  Mutual funds focusing on city and state debt have attracted
about $13 billion this year through May 30, the best annual
start since 2009, Lipper US Fund Flows data show. The funds have
added assets for seven straight weeks.  Alternative Products  Kahn, who buys the debt for the tax-free income, compares
returns to alternatives such as money-market funds,  savings
accounts  and Treasuries.  Taxable money funds pay an average 0.03 percent, while the
typical national savings account yields 0.13 percent, according
to IMoneyNet and Bankrate.com. Twelve-month Treasury bills  yield 
about 0.17 percent, down from a 2011 peak of about 0.31 percent
as investors seek shelter from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  In comparison, a tax-exempt municipal bond with the top
rating and due in one year  yields  0.21 percent on average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. For an investor in the highest tax
bracket, that’s equivalent to 0.32 percent.  “I see no evidence that investments are slowing down from
the household sector,” said  George Friedlander , managing
director and chief municipal strategist at New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  “The hunger for yield keeps growing and the hunt
for yield keeps getting more difficult.”  Default Drop  Individuals’ confidence in muni debt has grown this year as
a wave of local-government defaults predicted in 2010 by
 Meredith Whitney , a banking analyst, hasn’t materialized.  Instead, localities’ fiscal health has gotten a boost from
almost three years of U.S. economic growth. Twenty-eight issuers
have defaulted this year, compared with 52 for the same period
last year, according to Municipal Market Advisors data through
May 22.  Tax-exempts’ 4.3 percent return this year beats the 2.6
percent on Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  The muni market may be vulnerable because buyers haven’t
priced in the risk of tax changes, said Matt Fabian, a managing
director at MMA, which is based in Concord,  Massachusetts .  “More people are gambling that it’s not going to happen
with purchases at this level,” he said. “The tax exemption
will likely be under assault before the end of the year.”  Exemption Cost  Muni interest generally is exempt from federal and state
levies. That holds down borrowing costs for local issuers
because investors accept lower yields for the tax break. The
benefit is estimated to cost  $29 billion  this year, according to
Obama’s most recent budget.  The president has proposed taxing a portion of muni
interest for individuals making more than $200,000 and couples
earning at least $250,000. About half of individual muni holders
earn more than $200,000, according to a May 11 report by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   A reduction or elimination of the exemption for muni
interest is probable in the next three years because of the U.S.
government’s need for revenue and Democrats’ view that the tax
break benefits the wealthy, Fabian said. Republicans’ goal of
lowering income-tax rates also means munis may become
“collateral damage” in a broader debate, he said.  ‘Potential Erosion’  Kahn said he is betting any changes to the treatment of
munis won’t eliminate the tax benefit.  “I believe we are facing a potential erosion,” he said.
Kahn also said a cap on the tax advantage may make existing
bonds more valuable if they aren’t subject to new rules.  He searches for  New York  bonds that may be called within 12
to 18 months and have a 5 percent coupon, which he says gives
him a yield better than any taxable alternative for that period.  Mark Zaenger, an attorney in  Chicago , said he’s betting
that income taxes will rise and make munis more appealing.  Obama has proposed letting tax cuts enacted during the
presidency of  George W. Bush  expire at the end of 2012 for high
earners. That means levies on their income will increase to as
much as 39.6 percent from 35 percent unless Congress acts.  Kahn said he’s trying to maximize returns with yields at
record lows rather than devise a strategy tied to the deficit
debate.  “I’m not trying to handicap the taxes,” he said. “It’s
very political and things can change.”  Following are pending deals:  MICHIGAN FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to sell about $2.7 billion
in bonds as soon as next week on behalf of the state, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds will be used to convert
to a long-term structure debt sold in December to repay federal
unemployment-benefit loans. Moody’s Investors Service gives the
bonds its top grade. (Added June 4)  PUERTO RICO PUBLIC BUILDINGS AUTHORITY is set to sell $500
million of revenue bonds backed by lease payments and the
commonwealth’s guaranty as soon as this week to refund debt,
according to offering documents. (Updated June 4)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  