-- BlackRock’s Doll to Retire as Chief Equity Strategist
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-06-05T02:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/blackrock-s-doll-to-retire-as-chief-equity-strategist-correct-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, is losing its Chief Equity Strategist  Robert Doll 
as Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink advises investors to
put more money in stocks.  Doll, who has worked in the asset-management industry for
34 years, is retiring to devote more time to his family, faith
and philanthropic interests, Bobbie Collins, a spokeswoman for
the New York-based firm said yesterday. Doll, 57, has managed
BlackRock’s series of large-cap funds since they were started by
Merrill Lynch & Co. in 1999.  “I’ve decided that now is the right time for me to shift
my priorities and move to the next chapter of my life,” Doll
said in an internal memo sent to employees yesterday.  Doll, known for his bullish stance on stocks, said in
January that U.S. equities would produce double-digit returns in
2012. The benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.6
percent this year through June 4. Fink, who co-founded BlackRock
in 1988, has been touting equities while warning about the
dangers of staying in cash-like products and focusing on short-
term investing.  Doll joined Merrill Lynch in June 1999 and was named
president of the firm’s investment unit in 2001. He came to
BlackRock in 2006, when the  money manager  purchased the
investment unit from Merrill Lynch, bringing its assets above
the $1 trillion mark. Other top Merrill executives who joined
BlackRock, Robert Fairbairn and Frank Porcelli, are both still
with the firm. Merrill Lynch was acquired by Bank of America
Corp. in 2009.  Doll’s Funds  Chris Leavy, chief investment officer of fundamental
equities for the Americas, and Peter Stournaras, who has co-
managed the funds with Doll since 2010, will take over
management of the funds immediately and Doll will work closely
with them until his departure on June 30. Doll will stay on at
BlackRock, which manages $3.68 trillion in assets, in an
advisory role through the end of this year.  BlackRock in December 2009 acquired the investment unit
from Barclays Plc to add passive products such as exchange-
traded funds to its stable of actively-managed stock and bond
funds. BlackRock manages $1.4 billion in passive stock products
including ETFs and $297 billion in active equities.  Under Doll, BlackRock’s  Large Cap Growth Fund (MDLHX)  has beaten 59
percent of its peers with a 12 percent average annual return
over the past three years, while falling 6 percent over the past
12 months to trail 83 percent of peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Annual Predictions  The Large Cap Core Fund returned an annual 9.1 percent and
trailed 83 percent of peers over a three-year period. It fell 10
percent during the past year to trail 97 percent of peers. The
firm’s Large Cap Value Fund had an average annual return of 6.4
percent over three years, falling behind 95 percent of peers and
declined 13 percent over one year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Doll, who publishes an annual list of 10 market
predictions, said in his 2012 outlook that the  European debt
crisis  would begin to ease, U.S. equities would beat non-U.S.
stocks for the third year in a row and Republicans would capture
the Senate and defeat President  Barack Obama .  He graduated from  Lehigh University  and received his MBA
from the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School of
Business. Doll serves on boards for groups including the Word of
Life Fellowship and Kingdom Advisors, according to their
websites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  