-- Blackstone Said in Talks to Seize CalWest Properties
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-06-04T20:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/blackstone-said-in-talks-to-seize-calwest-properties.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is in talks to
take ownership of about $2 billion of industrial properties from
Walton Street Capital LLC as debt on the assets matures, two
people briefed on the discussions said.  Blackstone, based in  New York , owns about $1 billion of
junior debt on the real estate, putting it in a position to
wrest control if Walton Street defaults, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. That’s
likely because the properties, known as the CalWest portfolio,
are now worth less than the $2.45 billion of loans, which come
due on June 8, the people said.  Walton Street bought the portfolio of 95 industrial
properties, many of them in  California , for about $2.8 billion
five years ago as commercial real estate prices peaked. They are
now worth almost 30 percent less, said one of the people. Walton
Street, based in Chicago, hired  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  late last year
to try to sell the assets before the debt matured.  The properties are about 84 percent leased, down from about
93 percent when Walton Street bought them, one of the people
said.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, declined to
comment. Eric Mogentale, managing principal at Walton Street,
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call and e-mail
requesting comment.  Walton Street’s 2007 purchase of the CalWest portfolio was
financed with $1.1 billion of senior debt and $1.35 billion of
mezzanine loans. Blackstone, the world’s largest private equity
firm, owns almost all of the mezzanine debt and is in talks to
obtain about $1.35 billion of new financing for the assets, one
of the people briefed on the discussions said.  The talks were reported yesterday by Crain’s  Chicago 
Business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  