-- Blankfein Says Gupta Present as Board Discussed Earnings
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/blankfein-says-gupta-present-as-board-discussed-earnings.html
Lloyd Blankfein , chief executive
officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said former director  Rajat Gupta  wasn’t authorized to disclose details of board
discussions, including talks over whether to acquire an insurer.  For the second time in 15 months, Blankfein took the
witness stand at a criminal insider-trading trial in New York
and testified about Goldman Sachs’s policies for safeguarding
confidential information and Gupta’s attendance at board
meetings.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  asked Blankfein
whether Gupta was permitted to disclose details of board talks
at a June 28, 2008, planning session in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia ,
where the board discussed whether to buy a commercial bank or
insurer. Blankfein answered, “No.”  “You’re not supposed to reveal the confidences of what was
discussed in a board meeting,” Blankfein said. “Anything that
was discussed at the board meeting is a confidential fact.”  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is on
trial for allegedly leaking tips to Galleon Group LLC founder
Raj Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,
where Gupta was also a director.  Earnings Information  The alleged Goldman Sachs tips involve earnings in the
first quarter of 2007 and fourth quarter of 2008. Another
involved a $5 billion  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  investment in
Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008.  Gupta is also accused of telling Rajaratnam that Goldman
Sachs was considering buying a commercial bank or insurer,
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Earlier in the trial,
prosecutors played a July 29, 2008, wiretapped recording of a
conversation between the two men in which Gupta details the
talks for Rajaratnam.  The defense says the information was already public.  Gupta, 63, who has pleaded not guilty, is charged with
conspiracy and securities fraud, which carries a maximum 20-year
prison sentence.  Blankfein, 57, gave similar testimony in Rajaratnam’s
insider-trading trial on March 23, 2011. Rajaratnam was
convicted and is serving an 11-year prison sentence. Rajaratnam
and Gupta are the biggest figures caught in a nationwide
insider-trading probe.  ‘Loyalty and Ethics’  Brodsky began his questioning of Blankfein by asking about
the firm’s corporate governance guidelines and its “loyalty and
ethics” section.  “The proceedings and deliberations of the board and its
committees shall be confidential,” Blankfein read aloud.  Blankfein told jurors how board meetings are organized, and
he recounted his practice of briefing the board regularly.  “My thought was just to make sure they were well-informed
and wouldn’t be surprised,” Blankfein testified. “I try to
stay in touch with my board.”  Blankfein also told jurors about the Berkshire Hathaway
investment, saying he learned of it after arriving on a midday
flight in Washington on Sept. 23, 2008. After speaking to others
at his firm, Blankfein said he called Berkshire Hathaway
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Warren Buffett , who wanted
Blankfein’s agreement to various conditions.  Deal Approved  Blankfein briefed his directors on the Buffett investment
beginning at 3:15 p.m., and the board approved the deal,
Blankfein said. Prosecutors say within a minute after the board
call concluded around 3:55 p.m., Gupta tipped Rajaratnam about
the news.  Blankfein said Buffett wanted to resume discussions at 4:15
p.m. about another part of the investment -- the price at which
he had a right to buy Goldman Sachs stock. A press release was
issued at 5:29 p.m. that evening, Blankfein said.  Brodsky also asked Blankfein about a “board posting call”
on Oct. 23, 2008. It was the first time Goldman Sachs would
report a loss in the firm’s history as a public company,
Blankfein said.  “The purpose was to let the board know what our results,
that our results were poor to what the world at large was
thinking,” Blankfein testified. “We were losing money in the
quarter. The analysts still had us making money.”  Much of Blankfein’s testimony was about Goldman Sachs’
earning projections in 2007 and 2008, as he reviewed numerous
investor reports. As he left the witness stand during a break,
Blankfein stopped, looked over at Gupta and nodded to him.  Gupta didn’t show any reaction.  Graduation Lunch  Blankfein is scheduled to resume his testimony on June 6
after attending his daughter’s graduation and a luncheon for
students and their families. The trial is recessed today because
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over the trial,
will give a speech in  Washington .  Blankfein will be cross-examined by Gupta’s lawyers after
he finishes his testimony for the prosecution.  Rakoff took over questioning of Blankfein on several
occasions yesterday, outside the jury’s presence at the end of
the day, even asking Blankfein where the graduation luncheon was
to be held. Blankfein said he thought he’d have difficulty
getting back to the courthouse in lower  Manhattan  because the
meal was being held in Yonkers.  “Yes, I live in Yonkers,” Rakoff said, and asked the name
of the restaurant.  “It’s in Yonkers, I think you know it,” Blankfein said.  “If it’s the one I am thinking of, I can’t afford it,”
Rakoff replied.  Making a Choice  As he left court, Blankfein was asked how he felt about
having to choose between testifying and attending his daughter’s
graduation.  “There’s no one I’m more afraid of than my wife and
daughter,” he said, adding that the path of least resistance
was choosing them over meeting court schedules.  Before Blankfein took the witness stand,  Anil Kumar , a
former McKinsey partner who was a protege of Gupta’s, told
jurors about the relationship between Gupta and Rajaratnam.  Kumar said Gupta had invested $10 million in the Galleon
Voyager Fund in 2008, Rajaratnam invested $40 million, and the
two borrowed $300 million from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. for
the fund.  “He said that the $10 million had almost doubled in size
over the years,” Kumar said of Gupta.  Later, the fund was wiped out in the 2008 stock market
collapse, angering Gupta and prompting him to consider filing a
lawsuit because of what he said was Rajaratnam’s mismanagement
of the fund, Kumar said.  Withdrew Money  Gupta later showed up at Kumar’s apartment in February or
March 2009, Kumar said after learning Rajaratnam had withdrawn
money from the fund without Gupta’s consent or knowledge.  “He said he’d discovered something that was quite
distressing,” Kumar testified. “Rajaratnam had removed some of
the money for the fund for himself,” Kumar said, adding, “Mr.
Gupta said ‘This is plain wrong, this is worse than not managing
the money well, it’s taking money out.’”  Prosecutors noted that the litigation threat didn’t come up
until 2009, which was after Gupta allegedly provided illegal
tips to Rajaratnam as late as January 29, 2009.  On cross-examination of Kumar, defense attorney  Gary Naftalis  sought to show that the relationship between Gupta and
Rajaratnam had deteriorated as early as 2007, suggesting that
Gupta had no motive to leak inside tips to Rajaratnam.  Kumar testified that Gupta hadn’t been invited to
Rajaratnam’s birthday party in  Kenya  in 2007.  The defense also asked Kumar about Gupta’s threat to sue
over the losses in the Voyager Fund as a reason why he wouldn’t
leak inside information to Rajaratnam in 2008.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  