-- LBOs Don’t Diminish Investor Recoveries, Moody’s Report Says
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-06-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/lbos-don-t-diminish-investor-recoveries-moody-s-report-says.html
Leveraged buyouts haven’t led to
lower lender recoveries in the event of default compared with
non-buyout debt, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  In a review of about 200 LBO defaults starting in 1988, the
average so-called family-recovery rate of 54 percent is almost
identical to the 55 percent for the more than 800 non-LBO
defaults, according to the report published yesterday.  “While the LBO sponsors could not spare these companies
from defaulting -- and may have prompted defaults through high
leverage -- the average family-level recovery rate in these
situations was nearly the same as the average rate at defaulted
companies that had not experienced an LBO,” David Keisman,
senior vice president at Moody’s, wrote in the report.  LBOs accounted for about half of the defaults between Jan.
31, 2009 and Aug. 31, 2010, and about half of the companies
rated B3 negative or lower. The LBOs had an average of $871
million of defaulted debt, Keisman wrote, citing data from
Moody’s Ultimate Recovery Database, which tracks recovery rates
for more than 1,000 defaults starting in 1988.  The buyout companies defaulted through distressed-debt
exchanges and pre-packaged bankruptcies more often than non-LBO
defaults, Keisman wrote in the report. These types of defaults
typically lead to higher investor recoveries than a regular
bankruptcy or liquidation. Less than half of LBO defaults in
Moody’s database occurred through a typical bankruptcy filing,
compared with almost two-thirds of non-LBO defaults.  Distressed Exchange  In the last default cycle, between Jan. 31, 2009 and August
31, 2010, LBO debt using a distressed-debt exchange had a 75.9
percent recovery, compared with 49.6 percent for pre-packaged
bankruptcy and 48.7 percent for a regular bankruptcy, Keisman
wrote.  While family recoveries, the weighted average of the
recoveries for all of the individual debt pieces, are almost
equal in the two groups, the bank debt in the buyout defaults
recovered less because it had a smaller cushion of subordinated
debt. Without the implementation of a distressed exchange, where
bank debt usually has a 100 percent recovery, loans would have
had lower recoveries.  “Sponsors use more bank debt than non-LBOs,” Keisman said
in a telephone interview. “Bank debt tends to recover at a
higher rate than unsecured bonds, but the more that bank debt is
a percentage of the deal, it recovers less because the debt
cushion is less.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  