-- Bovespa Rebounds as Valuations Approach Five-Month Low
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-06-04T22:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/bovespa-stock-index-rises-as-valuations-near-5-month-low.html
Most Brazilian stocks fell as signs
of a slowdown in  China  dimmed the outlook for exports to the
South American country’s top trading partner, outweighing
valuations that approached the cheapest level in five months.  Homebuilders  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  and  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  were the
worst performers on the benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV)  index.  PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes  gained after saying it approved
a capital injection of 800 million reais ($389 million) from a
shareholder. Mining company  Vale SA (VALE3) , whose main export market is
China, fell as metal prices slid. Trading in  Banco Cruzeiro do
Sul SA  was suspended after the central bank took over its
management, citing “serious violations” of regulations.  The Bovespa was little changed at 53,416.75 at the close in
Sao Paulo. Forty-one stocks dropped while 25 rose. The gauge
trades at 9.1 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next
four quarters, near the lowest since January. The real weakened
0.9 percent at 2.0585 per  U.S. dollar .  “Some stocks may be cheap considering the companies are in
good situation individually, but the negative macro scenario is
finally overshadowing the micro perspectives,” Rogerio Freitas,
a partner at Teorica Investimentos, said by phone from  Rio de
Janeiro . “We see bad economic indicators everywhere, not only
in some countries, so it seems the slowdown is really global.”  China’s non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index fell
to 55.2 in May from 56.1 in April, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
yesterday in Beijing. In the U.S., order to factories
unexpectedly declined for a second month in April, pointing to a
deceleration in manufacturing as the global economy cools, a
Commerce Department report showed today.  Gafisa Tumbles  Gafisa fell 5.4 percent to 2.27 reais after Valor Economico
reported that the company is having trouble raising the cash to
complete the acquisition of its high-income Alphaville unit,
without saying where it got the information. The homebuilder’s
press office declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg
News.  Rossi lost 5.2 percent to 4.88 reais.  Vale  slid 0.2 percent
to 36.92 reais. PDG Realty advanced 1.8 percent to 3.33 reais,
the steepest advance in a week.  Cruzeiro do Sul, Brazil’s 27th-largest lender by assets,
“violated financial-system rules” and regulators found
“unsubstantiated asset items,” the central bank said in a
statement. Trading of the lender’s shares was suspended after
the stock plunged 40 percent last week.  Cruzeiro do Sul Takeover  Brazil’s deposit insurance fund, known as FGC, will manage
the Sao Paulo-based bank for 180 days, the central bank said.
Cruzeiro do Sul said in a regulatory filing it will only comment
on its potential losses after investigations.  Some other mid-size banks fell.  Banco Industrial e
Comercial SA , the Sao Paulo-based lender known as BicBanco,
tumbled 6.3 percent to 6.23 reais.  Banco do Estado do Rio Grande
do Sul SA  dropped 2.6 percent to 15.48 reais.  “After something like this happens, the natural immediate
reaction is to be more cautious about smaller banks,” Aloisio Lemos, an analyst at Agora Corretora brokerage, said by phone.
“But it’s not something that should last very long. Cruzeiro do
Sul is a fairly small bank. It looks like an isolated problem.”  Some consumer stocks dropped after a central bank survey
showed economists covering  Brazil  lowered their 2012 growth
forecast to 2.72 percent to 2.99 percent.  Cia. de Bebidas das
Americas ,  Latin America ’s largest brewer, lost 1.4 percent to
72.40 reais. Retailer  Companhia Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo
Pao de Acucar  fell 1.2 percent to 75.60 reais.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on May 17 after tumbling
21 percent from this year’s high on March 13 through that day.
Trading volume was 5 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo today,
 data  compiled by Bloomberg shows. That compares with a daily
average of 7.24 billion reais this year through June 1,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  