-- Brambles to Sell New Shares After Pulling Recall Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-06-04T05:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/brambles-cancels-recall-sale-to-sell-new-shares.html
Brambles Ltd. (BXB) , the world’s largest
supplier of warehouse pallets, announced an A$448 million ($432
million) rights offering after scrapping the sale of a document-
storage unit that was expected to raise $2 billion.  Bids for Recall didn’t “reflect its value or offer
sufficient certainty,” Sydney-based Brambles said in a
statement today. The company, which also reiterated its profit
 forecast , will sell the new shares at an 11 percent discount.  Asia-Pacific acquisitions have slumped 32 percent this
year, as concerns about the European financial crisis, the  U.S.
economy  and slower growth in  China  damp confidence and cause
stocks to tumble. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  today fell for a
fourth straight day, reaching the lowest since October.  “The market is still in ‘wait-and-see’ mode,” said Graeme
Browning, Sydney-based head of Ernst & Young LLP’s Oceania
Transaction Advisory Services. “Buyers are looking for
confidence that the U.S. is on a better growth path.”  Brambles spokesman James Hall, speaking by phone from
Sydney, had no immediate comment beyond the official statement.  The company will offer 74 million new shares, equivalent to
about 5 percent of its issued capital. Investors will be able to
buy one share at A$6.05 for every 20 they own. Brambles is
seeking funds to cut  debt  from last year’s purchase of Ifco
Systems NV, which operates a pool of reusable plastic
containers.  The stock, which is halted until June 7, closed at A$6.79
on June 1. It has fallen 5.7 percent over the past year,
compared to a 13 percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index.  Sale Underwriters  The share offering is fully underwritten by  UBS (UBSN)  AG and Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch division.  That support is “a good indication of how desperate
investment banks are” to earn fees from selling shares in the
absence of merger activity, said Peter Esho, chief markets
strategist at City Index Ltd. in Sydney. The offering “isn’t a
bad outcome” for Brambles, he said.  The company reiterated that it expects underlying full-year
earnings before one-time items to be $1.05 billion to $1.08
billion, even as it contends with “challenging trading
conditions” that aren’t expected to improve immediately. The
company’s  Chep unit  operates a pool of about 300 million pallets
for customers including Procter & Gamble Co., Nestle SA and
General Motors Co.  Earnings Expectations  Brambles will probably spend A$987 million on capital
projects this year and A$1.1 billion in each of the next two
years, according to the average of six analyst  estimates 
collected by Bloomberg. Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization will rise from A$1.6 billion this
year to A$2.0 billion in 2014, according to the average of 12
estimates.  Recall drew bids from private-equity firms including
Carlyle Group LP and Apollo Global Management LLC, two people
with knowledge of the matter said in January. The sale was
expected to raise about $2 billion, the people said.  Brambles, which announced plans to sell Recall last August,
extended the deadline for the sale at least once. It was advised
by UBS and Merrill Lynch.  “It is in the best interests of Brambles’ shareholders to
retain Recall, which is a profitable and growing business,”
Chairman Graham Kraehe said in the statement.  The share sale and retention of Recall will raise Brambles’
book value by 19 percent to A$2.8 billion, according to the
company presentation. The raising will help maintain an
investment-grade  credit rating , it said.  Recall Costs  The company will incur costs of $25 million related to the
sale process in the year ending June 30, it said. That includes
$6 million already recorded in first-half results. The company
also said Chief Financial Officer Greg Hayes will retire Oct. 1.  New Hope Corp., an Australian coal miner valued at A$3.4
billion, also canceled plans to sell itself after failing to
draw bids that met its expectations. Clothing company Pacific
Brands Ltd. said May 15 that discussions with KKR & Co. were
unlikely to result in a takeover.  Asia-Pacific companies have made $158 billion of
acquisitions this year, compared with $270 billion a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  