-- Brazil Takes Over Cruzeiro as ‘Serious’ Violations Found
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-06-04T20:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/brazil-central-bank-intervenes-in-cruzeiro-do-sul-for-180-days.html
Brazil ’s central bank took control of
 Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA  and said it found “serious” financial
violations at the payroll lender, 17 months after the bailout of
Banco Panamericano SA.  The country’s privately owned deposit insurance fund, known
as FGC, will manage Sao Paulo-based Cruzeiro do Sul for 180
days, the central bank said in a statement today. Signs of
apparent fraud were found in a 1.3 billion-real ($633 million)
portfolio owed by the bank, which is being prepared for sale,
said the head of FGC, Antonio Carlos Bueno.  Cruzeiro do Sul, Brazil’s 27th-largest lender by assets,
“violated financial-system rules” and regulators found
“unsubstantiated asset items,” according to the statement.  The bank had been searching for a buyer before today’s
announcement, and held talks with Sao Paulo-based Grupo BTG
Pactual SA, Bueno said at a press conference. A transaction fell
through because the credit portfolio lacked proper
documentation, he said, adding that the company has enough
liquidity to meet all its obligations, which include 2.8 billion
reais in foreign debt.  Cruzeiro do Sul is struggling with tighter funding
opportunities, rising competition and slowing loan growth,
Moody’s Investors Service said in March when it lowered the
bank’s  debt rating  to B2, five levels below investment grade.  Cruzeiro do Sul said in an e-mailed statement that it
couldn’t comment. Paycheck loans, known as consignado in Brazil,
represented 96.4 percent of its loan portfolio of 7.58 billion
reais at the end of the first quarter.  Banco Nacional  The central bank said it was the first time regulators had
used the temporary intervention program known as Raet since
1995, when they took control of Banco Nacional SA. Bueno said
FGC didn’t inject any money into Cruzeiro do Sul.  FGC bailed out Banco Panamericano in November 2010 with 3.8
billion reais amid a fraud investigation by the central bank.
BTG Pactual bought about 50 percent of Panamericano from  Silvio Santos , the bank’s former controlling shareholder, in January
2011. Panamericano said a month later that losses related to
“accounting distortions” had reached 4.3 billion reais.  The intervention announced today “means the central bank
will seek to find a possible buyer for Cruzeiro do Sul while FGC
manages the bank,” Ricardo Rocha, a professor of finance at
Insper business school in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview. “The central bank is trying to avoid liquidating the
bank.”  Shares Suspended  Cruzeiro do Sul fell  45 percent  this year through yesterday
in Sao Paulo trading, compared with a decline of 5.6 percent for
the benchmark Bovespa stock index. BM&FBovespa SA, which
operates the  Sao Paulo  stock exchange, suspended trading on the
bank’s shares, and Bueno said they won’t trade again until the
end of an audit that may take 60 to 90 days to complete.  Cruzeiro do Sul ended the first quarter with 12 billion
reais in assets, up from 11.5 billion reais in December and 9.68
billion reais a year earlier, data from the central bank show.
Its assets represent 0.22 percent of Brazil’s total.  The central bank’s intervention, which will seek to
“correct operational procedures,” also applies to other units
of Cruzeiro do Sul, including the securitization firm Cruzeiro
do Sul SA Cia. Securitizadora de Creditos Financeiros and
brokerage Cruzeiro do Sul DTVM.  The company said in March that it planned to pay off $175
million in dollar bonds maturing in September by selling asset-
backed securities to FGC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  