-- California’s Everybody-Into-the-Pool Primary Faces Test
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/california-s-everybody-into-the-pool-primary-faces-test.html
When Californians go to the polls
tomorrow for the state primary election, they won’t find three-
term Senator  Dianne Feinstein  running against just fellow
Democrats.  New rules that may alter the political landscape put
Feinstein head-to-head with 23 challengers of all stripes --
Republican, Libertarian, American Independent, Peace and
Freedom. The two who get the most votes, regardless of party,
will move on to the general election in November.  The so-called  top-two  system is intended to fight partisan
gridlock that has paralyzed lawmakers from Sacramento to
 Washington . In theory, politicians will no longer be forced to
stick to party dogma to avoid being ousted in the primary,
allowing voters more choices.  “The rules of the game have changed,” said Kim Alexander,
president of the California Voter Foundation, a Sacramento-based
nonpartisan group that has advocated for open democracy.
“Democrats and Republicans no longer have a lock on the
process.”  The new procedure, passed in 2009 by the California
Legislature and approved by 54 percent of voters a year later,
was backed by a strange-bedfellow coalition that included then-
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican, and Democrat
Willie Brown, the former San Francisco mayor who was speaker of
the Assembly for 15 years.  Similar systems are in place in  Louisiana  and the state of
Washington, and there are efforts to make it law in  Arizona .
California’s new rules apply to the candidates for the
Legislature, Congress and statewide elected offices.  Democrats Against Democrats  The top-two primary may mean that in heavily Democratic or
Republican districts, two candidates from the same party could
advance to the general election. That may be influenced by
independent voters, who make up 20 percent of the electorate,
and will be new to the system.  That may force Democrats and Republicans toward more
moderate positions, Alexander said.  “Up until now, they have had no say in the primaries,”
she said of the independents. “If some of those folks get
elected we could see an impact in the power struggle in the
Statehouse.”  With the primary looming, California lawmakers have
withheld action on the state’s resurgent $15.7 billion  budget
deficit . Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, blamed legislators
for making the deficit larger by failing to pass some budget
cuts he sought in March.  ‘Just Paralyzes Them’  “They won’t make a budget decision until after June 6,”
the day after the election, California Treasurer Bill Lockyer, a
Democrat, said in an interview. “This is a bad idea. The know
they have to make cuts and the cuts are unpopular and if you are
Democrats, who have to write the budget, this just paralyzes
them.”  Voters will also be asked whether to add $1 to the tax on a
pack of  cigarettes , raising the levy to $1.87, and steer the
extra revenue toward  cancer research  and stop-smoking programs.  Opponents led by  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and  Reynolds American
Inc. (RAI) , the parent of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, the two biggest
sellers in the U.S., raised more than $40.7 million to fight the
measure, compared with about $10 million from supporters
including the  American Cancer Society  and cycling champion  Lance Armstrong , a cancer survivor.  The cigarette-tax measure, known as Proposition 29, was
supported by 50 percent to 42 percent, with 8 percent undecided,
in a  Field Poll  released May 31. The telephone survey of 608
likely voters, conducted May 21-29, had a margin of error of
plus or minus 4.1 percentage points.  Voters also will be asked to reduce the total number of
years a lawmaker can serve, from 14 to 12, in either the Senate
or the Assembly. Currently, a legislator can serve a maximum of
six years in the Assembly and eight years in the Senate. The
proposition would permit all 12 years to be served in either
chamber.  The term-limit proposition was favored 50 percent to 28
percent, with 22 percent undecided, in the same Field Poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  