-- Cam Ranh Bay Lures Panetta Seeking Return to Vietnam Port
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-06-04T11:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/cam-ranh-bay-lures-panetta-seeking-u-s-return-to-vietnam-port.html
Thirty-seven years after the  Vietnam 
War ended in a communist victory, the top U.S. defense official
returned to the old hub of American military activity seeking
greater naval access to the port that greeted most of the more
than 2.5 million Americans who served in Vietnam.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  became the highest-ranking
American official to visit Cam Ranh Bay since the Vietnam War,
after arriving yesterday at the former American and South
Vietnamese air base there in his U.S. Air Force 747 jet.  The visit, a week after Americans commemorated their 58,282
countrymen and women who died in the war, reflected the U.S.’s
expanding relationship with a former enemy and efforts by the
Obama administration to counter the rise of China as a
competitor for influence in  Asia .  “This is a historic trip,” Panetta told the sailors on
the USNS Richard E. Byrd, a U.S. merchant-marine supply ship
undergoing repairs at the Cam Ranh Bay port. “The fact that the
ship is here and being serviced by Vietnamese contractors is a
tremendous indication of how far we have come.”  While the fear of a communist takeover of South Vietnam
propelled the U.S. into war five decades ago, the emergence of
China prompted the Obama administration to rewrite military
strategy with the goal of increasing the American presence in
the Asia-Pacific region and working with countries that express
anxiety about the prospect of Chinese dominance.  Stationing more U.S. forces in the region requires working
with partners such as Vietnam and being “able to use harbors
like this as we move our ships from our ports on the West Coast
towards our stations here in the Pacific,” Panetta told
reporters on the Byrd’s deck.  Non-Combat Ships  So far, Vietnam lets only non-combat ships, such as the
Byrd, dock at Cam Ranh Bay, a U.S. defense official said. Supply
ships operated by the U.S. Military Sealift Command and manned
by merchant marines call at the port for repairs and
maintenance, said the official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss the sensitive Vietnamese restrictions.  Cam Ranh Bay, located about 220 miles (354 kilometers)
north of  Ho Chi Minh City , has been of strategic significance to
the world’s powers for more than 100 years.  The more elderly among the Vietnamese in conical straw hats
who waved at Panetta’s motorcade yesterday had seen the
Americans pass this way before, followed by the Russians. Their
ancestors had watched the French and Japanese come and,
eventually, go.  Built by France  Built by the French in the 19th century and later occupied
by  Japan  during World War II, Cam Ranh Bay was offered to the
U.S. by its ally South Vietnam in 1965. The U.S. upgraded the
air and naval facilities for use in the war. It was handed back
to South Vietnam in 1972 as part of the so-called Vietnamization
effort and captured by the communist forces in 1975.  About four years later, the  Soviet Union  was granted access
to Cam Ranh Bay. It upgraded the war-torn facilities, adding
runways, dry docks, shelters for submarines, weapons-storage
facilities and signals intelligence stations, according to a
history of the port by Ian Storey and Carlyle Thayer, “Cam Ranh
Bay: Past imperfect, Future Conditional,” published in 2001 by
the journal Contemporary Southeast Asia.  While the Soviet presence at Cam Ranh Bay declined at the
end of the  Cold War ,  Russia  held on to the port until 2002,
Storey and Thayer wrote. Since then Vietnam has opened Cam Ranh
Bay to international commerce.  58,282 Dead  The significance of visiting Cam Ranh Bay less than a week
after the U.S. marked Memorial Day was invoked by Panetta.  “Last Monday I stood before the Vietnam Memorial” in
 Washington , “to recognize the 50th anniversary of the  Vietnam
War ,” Panetta said. “Today I stand on a U.S. ship at Cam Ranh
Bay to recognize the 17th anniversary of harmonization of
relationship between U.S. and Vietnam.”  In addition to the deaths of 58,282 U.S. troops in the
Vietnam War, 1,666 Americans are still missing.  Panetta and Vietnamese Defense Minister Phung Quang Thanh
reached an agreement today in  Hanoi  that Vietnam will open three
previously restricted sites to the U.S. for excavation in the
search for American troops missing in action. Vietnam still
restricts eight sites, U.S. Pacific Command Casualty Resolution
Specialist Ron Ward said in a briefing with reporters.  At Cam Ranh Bay, Panetta said the U.S. and Vietnam aren’t
slaves to their history even though a “tremendous amount of
blood was spilled on all sides” during the war.  Vietnam and the U.S. resumed diplomatic relations in 1995,
and since then U.S. ships have called on several Vietnamese
ports. In November 2003, the missile frigate USS Vandegrift
arrived in Ho Chi Minh City, the first U.S. Navy ship to dock in
Vietnam since the end of the war.  Committed to Region  “It’s significant to have a secretary of defense of the
United States visit Cam Ranh Bay,” said former Senator Chuck Hagel, a Vietnam War veteran and one of the founders of the
annual Shangri-La Dialogue, which Panetta addressed in  Singapore 
on June 2.  “It reinforces the belief that America is committed to
that region and to our relationships with the nations in the
region, including those that once were our enemy,” Hagel, a
Nebraska Republican, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Vietnam and  China  have clashed over which country has
rights to the Paracels and Spratly Islands in the  South China
Sea .  Inviting Panetta to visit Cam Ranh Bay is a signal to China
that Vietnam has U.S. backing, Thayer, an emeritus professor at
the University of New South Wales in  Australia , said in an e-
mail.  Message to China  Panetta’s visit is “aimed at sending a strategic message
to Beijing that Chinese assertiveness will be resisted,” even
though the U.S. and Vietnam may deny it, Thayer said.  The U.S. defense secretary’s visit to Cam Ranh Bay wasn’t
publicly announced until the evening before his arrival, and
Vietnam’s deputy defense minister, General Nguyen Chi Vinh,
played down the significance of the stop beforehand.  Vietnam “did not share” the idea that it was attempting
to create a deterrent to China’s military rise, Vinh told the
 South China Morning Post , in an interview published June 2.  “To have peace, stability and security in the region, it
is very important for us to have good relations with China so
that we can enjoy mutual benefit,” the newspaper quoted Vinh as
saying.  Expanding on Relation  Panetta was less reluctant to portray U.S.-Vietnam
relations as gaining momentum. He told reporters on the USNS
Byrd that he had come to Vietnam to make progress on a
memorandum of understanding signed by the two countries in
September and “expand on that relationship.”  “We look forward to working together with the country of
Vietnam and take this relationship to the next level,” Panetta
said. The U.S. would help Vietnam establish rules of conduct in
the South China Sea and deal with “critical maritime issues,”
he said.  Tranh, the defense minister, told Panetta at their meeting
in Hanoi today that Vietnam has plans to develop Cam Ranh Bay,
including expanding ship-repair services.  Panetta said he was impressed with the work being done on
the USNS Byrd and looks forward to doing “more of that” in the
future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Hanoi at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  