-- Can Romney Get Elected? Gail Collins Recalls Dog on Roof
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/can-romney-get-elected-gail-collins-recalls-dog-on-roof.html
As an op-ed columnist for the  New
York  Times, Gail Collins is an unusually funny and sane presence
on the national scene.  Author of books on topics ranging from feminism to
President William Henry Harrison, Collins has now written a
send-up of Texas.  How can you resist the logic of a lawyer who argued that
hiring a hooker to entertain a bank regulator couldn’t be
considered a bribe if said regulator was “unable to rise to the
occasion?”  That’s just one telling story in “ As Texas Goes: How the
Lone Star State Hijacked the American Agenda .”  We spoke at her New York Times office.  Lundborg: When did it occur to you that Texas was having a
baleful influence on the rest of the country?  Collins: When  Rick Perry  made that sort of semi-famous
secession speech, in which he did not call for secession, but
did not leave us feeling loved in the rest of the 49.  Texans feel so persecuted; yet they’ve been running the
country for the last 30 years.  Lundborg: You say Texas is similar to the  Tea Party  in the
mixture of “egomania” and “paranoia.”  Collins: It’s the best possible combination, isn’t it, if
you want to get stuff done?  Energy Talking  Lundborg: Among the things you hold Texans responsible for
-- banking laws, financial deregulation,  energy policy ,
education, starting wars -- which is the worst?  Collins: The refusal to deal about global warming. It is
very important to  Texas  politicians that we never discuss it,
never even acknowledge it.  Lundborg: Is that energy companies talking?  Collins: It’s partly that, and it’s partly oil, and it’s
partly that sense that if you agree that this is happening then
the government will get to do something and, therefore, we don’t
want it to happen.  Lundborg: Why are you not more cynical?  Collins:  I think I’ve got a good cynical thing going here.
But usually if you poke around at the way people are feeling
about things there is some sane reason.  The real division in the country is between people from the
empty places and people from the crowded places.  The people who live in empty places presume that they can
take care of themselves. Of course you need guns -- there is
nobody else around -- and I can do whatever I want to do with my
land. You keep the government away.  Whereas if you live in a crowded place like New York, you
want lots of government sort of making things orderly, and
protecting you from crime, from dog poop on the sidewalk and all
the other stuff. We are responding from our own history.  It’s Sex  Lundborg: Why are Republicans going after  women’s rights ?  Collins: I don’t think it’s a woman issue. It’s a sex issue
to a great degree. The sex thing is just incredibly bizarre, the
fact that we are still fighting about contraception.  It’s about sex and it’s about having control of your own
sexual behavior.  Lundborg: How would you characterize Obama’s presidency?  Collins: I think you would characterize it as pretty
successful if he hadn’t oversold it so much the first time
around.  Lundborg: Can you elect as president a man who drove to
 Canada  with his dog on the roof?  Collins:  If we can bring ourselves to elect somebody who
has completely denounced everything he stood for when he was
governor of  Massachusetts , I guess we could get over the dog
too.  Funny Times  Lundborg: How does it happen that you and Maureen Dowd are
the only funny writers at the Times?  Collins: I can’t speak for Maureen but the reason I use
humor is because I got my start covering the Connecticut State
Legislature. How can you get people to pay attention to this
stuff?  That’s when I started using humor, because you can get
people to stick with you a lot longer when it’s kind of funny.  Lundborg: How has the Times changed since you started in
1995?  Collins: A lot. We went through this enormous web-based
change in which you sense the readers’ exact feelings about
things constantly, and you’re held much more responsible for
what you do.  It makes for weird lives in some ways, but you do have this
sense of responsibility that I think is a lot better than the
old kind of elite sense of paternalism that we had before.  Painful Shoes  Lundborg: You wrote a  book on feminism , so tell me, how did
designers manage to get women into those stilettos?  Collins:  You can hit as many revolutions as you want but
women are always going to wear uncomfortable shoes that look
good. It’s just going to always happen.  Lundborg: When Birgit Nilsson was asked what it took to
sing Isolde, she said, “A comfortable pair of shoes.” What can
you do in 7-inch spikes?  Collins:  If they can walk around in the shoes they wear
today, they can do anything. They are totally capable of taking
over the world.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business books
and  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 