-- Canada Dollar Touches Six-Month Low Before Central Bank Meeting
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-04T21:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/canada-dollar-touches-six-month-low-before-central-bank-meeting.html
Canada ’s dollar touched a six-month
low versus its U.S. counterpart before a central-bank meeting
tomorrow during which policy makers are expected to back away
from signaling higher  interest rates .  The Canadian currency declined against the majority of its
most-traded peers as orders to U.S. factories unexpectedly fell
in April, fanning speculation a worsening European debt crisis
is reducing global growth and demand for Canadian raw-material
exports. Canada’s dollar fluctuated against the greenback before
the Bank of Canada is expected to maintain its benchmark
interest  rate  at 1 percent, where it has been since September
2010, according to all 27 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “It will be interesting to see how the  Bank of Canada 
adjusts to external headwinds from  Europe ,” said Brian Kim, a
currency strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “There’s a risk that the statement is a lot
more dovish.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, closed 0.2 percent higher at
C$1.0394 per  U.S. dollar . It touched C$1.0447, the lowest level
since Nov. 28. One Canadian dollar buys 96.20 U.S. cents.  Yields on the nation’s 10-year government securities gained
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.68 percent.
They reached the lowest level since at least 1950, 1.615
percent, on June 1 as investors sought refuge in top-rated
sovereign debt.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  will lower borrowing
costs by the end of the year for the first time since 2009 as
investors increase odds that the central bank will have to react
to the prospect of a worsening global economy, swap prices show.  BOC Easing  Investors are pricing in as many as 34 basis points of
central-bank easing by December. There’s an 81 percent chance of
at least one quarter-percentage point cut this year, according
to Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps.  Investors will be parsing tomorrow’s statement to discern
whether Carney has shifted his bias toward easing after telling
lawmakers on April 24 interest-rate rises may be necessary to
contain inflation. Policy makers have kept the benchmark rate
steady for the longest unchanged period since the 1950s.  “The market is expecting a substantial change in tone from
previous hawkish announcements,” said Blake Jespersen, director
of foreign exchange at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in Toronto. “There’s a
good chance we test C$105, even as early as tomorrow, if the
statement is as dovish as people expect.”  ‘Weaken Off’  Canada’s economic growth rate stagnated in the January-
March period as business investment rose while  consumer spending 
increased at the slowest pace in three years. Gross domestic
product grew at a  1.9 percent  annualized pace in the first
quarter, matching the revised rate of the prior three months,
Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada  said June 1.  “If it sounds like the international concern is all
encompassing, then expect the Canadian dollar to weaken off with
all other risk-on products,” said Firas Askari, head currency
trader at Bank of Montreal in Toronto.  Orders to U.S. factories unexpectedly fell in April for a
second month, pointing to a deceleration in manufacturing as the
global economy cools. Bookings dropped 0.6 percent after a
revised 2.1 percent decrease in March, the first back-to-back
declines in more than three years, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in  Washington . Economists projected a
0.2 percent gain, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The tone of the communique is likely to be more cautious
than in April,” Charles St-Arnaud, an economist with Nomura
Securities International Inc. in  New York , wrote in a note to
clients. Policy makers are likely to highlight increasing
“uncertainty surrounding the global outlook,” he wrote, and
that the central bank will indicate “willingness to stay on
hold for some time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  