-- Cancer Doctors Push Congress to Help End Drug Shortages
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-06-04T19:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/cancer-doctors-push-congress-to-help-end-drug-shortages.html
U.S. regulators and the country’s top
cancer doctors urged Congress to help end the shortages of more
than a hundred drugs, including those for deadly tumors.  The House and Senate are working to merge bills passed last
week that would require drugmakers to notify the  Food and Drug
Administration  when they expect a disruption to production of
medicines. The number of shortages have tripled since 2006 and
include cisplatin for ovarian cancer and paclitaxel, a therapy
given to women with  breast cancer .  The FDA has prevented more than 150 shortages since October
when President  Barack Obama  directed the agency to gather
information earlier about potential shortfalls to help find
alternate sources of the treatments, Sandra Kweder, an agency
deputy director, said today at the  American Society of Clinical
Oncology  meeting in Chicago. Still, about 90 shortages have
occurred in 2012 and generic drugmakers are still struggling
with limited manufacturing and quality issues, the FDA said.  “Patient care has actually been threatened in many cases
as a result of these drug shortages,” said Richard Schilsky, a
specialist in gastrointestinal cancer at the  University of
Chicago . “There is still unpredictable availability of many
drugs. We are never exactly sure when a generic drug is going to
go out of supply.”  One of the generic medicines ran out for John Mahan, a fire
fighter in Nashville,  Tennessee . In February of 2011 he was
diagnosed with abdominal cancer and put on a three-drug regimen.
He developed an allergic reaction to his initial treatment and
was moved to another combination of medicines with an old
chemotherapy drug 5-FU with another longtime therapy,
leucovorin.  Drug Unavailable  After his first treatment with the new therapy, his
oncologist told him they’d run out of leucovorin.  “My initial reaction was, you have got to be kidding,
right?” said Mahan, who traveled to  Chicago  for the cancer
doctors’ meeting to talk about the shortages. “Until this
impacts you personally, most people aren’t even aware there is a
shortage going on.”  For several months until he switched to a new therapy, his
doctors had to find a pharmacy that could formulate an oral
version of leucovorin. The oral version, though, had more side
effects, giving him an upset stomach, loss of appetite and
fatigue, Mahan said in an interview.  “You go through all this treatment to have hope,” he
said. “It takes away hope when you can’t get your drugs.”  There are 12 cancer drugs where there isn’t enough supply
to meet demand, according to the FDA.  Manufacturing Issues  Driving the surge in shortages are changes in the generic-
drug manufacturing industry, Kweder said. Consolidation means
there are now just a handful of companies that supply most of
the world’s generic medicines. When there is a quality problem
at one plant and manufacturing need to be shut down, it can
cause a shortage of dozens of treatments.  “If one company makes 30 products and they have a problem,
suddenly 30 products are at risk of a shortage,” Kweder said.
“Early notification by a manufacturer of when they are having
production difficulty makes a huge difference in our ability to
prevent the public from bearing the burden of drug shortages.”  The FDA has had to close production because of safety
issues, such as shards of glass and metal particles found in
vials, Kweder said. Some generic drugmakers haven’t kept pace
with the boom in use and need better manufacturing facilities to
avoid production disruptions, she said.  Congressional Action  The separate versions of the legislation passed by the
House and Senate last month would require companies to report
potential drug shortages to give regulators time to find
alternate sources. The requirement is part of a $6.4 billion
bill that would fund FDA reviews of new medicines and devices
through 2017 by charging user fees to companies. A unified
version of the legislation is expected to be sent to the
president before Congress takes its August recess.  The law doesn’t impose fines or other penalties on
companies that don’t notify the FDA, something the cancer
doctors’ group has been pushing for.  “If there is no teeth in that legislation some companies
may not report as required,” said Schilsky, who is chairman of
ASCO’s government relations committee.  The legislation also won’t do anything to address the
current shortages or offer incentives for generic drugmakers to
continue producing older, less-profitable medicines.  To address the shortages, the FDA said it has been going to
drugmakers to request production of medicines in short supply.
New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest pharmaceutical
maker, agreed to re-introduce several treatments, such as
paclitaxel and irinotecan, to help address the lack of supply.  The FDA allowed for temporary importation of unapproved
foreign drugs from  India  in February to give ovarian cancer and
multiple myeloma patients access to the  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
medicine Doxil, which was in short supply after the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based company’s contract manufacturer said
it planned to get out of the business. The FDA only relies on
foreign sources when it can’t resolve a shortage with already
approved treatments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  