-- Celegene, Bristol Drugs No Better Than Cheaper Treatments
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-06-04T20:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/celgene-bristol-drugs-no-better-than-therapy-costing-less-1-.html
Celgene (CELG)  Corp.’s Abraxane and  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co.’s (BMY)  Ixempra breast-cancer drugs worked no better
at delaying tumor growth than a less-expensive chemotherapy
that’s been the backbone of treatment for 20 years.  Newly treated patients taking paclitaxel, a generic drug,
lived a month longer than those given Abraxane, a modified form
of the same medicine, and three months longer than those taking
Ixempra, according to data reported today at the  American
Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting in  Chicago .  Abraxane and Ixempra cost from $4,000 to $5,000 a dose,
according to their manufacturers. The price of paclitaxel varies
though it is significantly less than the newer treatments, said
 Hope Rugo , a breast cancer specialist at the  University of
California ,  San Francisco  and a study researcher. The price
difference may prompt some doctors to reconsider Abraxane as a
first treatment in some patients, said Shanu Modi, an oncologist
at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York.  “As a global issue, it is difficult to justify using a
more expensive drug if an equally active drug is available that
costs less,” Modi said in an interview. “This is not going to
help Abraxane.”  Abraxane is one of top-selling products sold by Summit, New
Jersey-based Celgene, with $386 million in sales last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ixempra generated $100
million in revenue for Bristol-Myers, based on New York.  Expanded Use  Celgene has said it expects Abraxane sales of as much as
$1.2 billion in 2015 as it expands its use in other tumors. The
drugmaker paid $2.9 billion to acquire Abraxane’s maker, Abraxis
BioScience Inc., in 2010. Abraxane’s “nab” technology combines
paclitaxel with the protein albumin, enabling the drug to be
given at a higher dose and breach blood vessel walls more
effectively, according to the company.  Celgene  fell  less than 1 percent to $64.89 at the close in
 New York . Bristol-Myers gained less than 1 percent to $33.66.  Brian Gill, a spokesman for Celgene, said the study looked
at a higher than recommended dose for Abraxane. That dosage,
when used in combination with Avastin, could cause extra
toxicity and cause patients to stop the treatment early. He said
that in previously treated breast cancer patients, Abraxane at a
lower dose was found to extend survival better than paclitaxel.
Bristol-Myers spokeswoman Sarah Koenig said the results from the
study don’t impact the indications for Ixempra.  While neither Abraxane nor Ixempra are approved for
previously untreated patients, doctors said they use them in
certain patients as an initial treatment.  Paclitaxel Reaction  Kimberly Blackwell, a breast cancer specialist at Duke
University Medical Center, said she will still consider giving
Abraxane to some of her patients because it is easier to
administer and doesn’t have the risk of allergic reaction that
paclitaxel carries.  To avoid an allergic reaction to paclitaxel, patients have
to take steroids, which carry their own risks and add an hour to
patients’ weekly treatments. Abraxane doesn’t usually cause an
allergic reaction so steroids aren’t needed.  “If I were a patient, I would prefer not to have to take
the pre-medication associated with paclitaxel,” said Blackburn.
“An extra hour each week to take the pre-meds adds up.”  Abraxane and paclitaxel are both from the same class of
medicines called taxanes, while Ixempra is from a group called
epothilones, which work similarly and given to patients whose
disease is taxane resistant.  Patients given Abraxane with Roche’s Avastin had 9.2 months
before their tumors progressed compared to 10.6 months for those
on paclitaxel and Avastin.  Patients in a third group who took Bristol’s Ixempra with
Avastin had 7.6 months without disease progression. The study
followed 799 patients given Avastin with either paclitaxel,
Abraxane or Ixempra. Serious side effects were lowest in
patients taking Ixempra and highest in the Abraxane group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  