-- Celtics Hold Off Heat in Overtime to Tie NBA Playoff Series 2-2
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-04T05:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/celtics-beat-heat-93-91-in-overtime-to-even-nba-series-2-2.html
The  Boston Celtics  blew an 18-point
first-half lead before pulling out a 93-91 overtime win against
the  Miami Heat  that ties the  National Basketball Association ’s
Eastern Conference finals at two games each.  Paul Pierce  scored 23 points and  Rajon Rondo  added 15
points and 15 assists for the Celtics, who won their second
straight game at Boston’s TD Garden last night after consecutive
losses in Miami. They held on for the win as  Dwyane Wade ’s 3-
point shot for Miami bounced off the rim as time expired.  “I thought it looked good when it left his hands,”
Celtics coach Doc Rivers said at a news conference. “The
avoiding of the foul was as big as anything else. I thought the
defensive possession was really good, we denied Wade as long as
we could. We were ready if he drove.”  The best-of-seven playoff series now shifts back to Miami
for Game 5 tomorrow, with Game 6 two days later in  Boston . The
Eastern Conference winner advances to the NBA Finals against the
 San Antonio Spurs  or Oklahoma City Thunder, who continue the
Western Conference finals tonight in San Antonio tied 2-2.  Home teams have won all eight games so far in the NBA’s
conference finals.  “It’s the top four teams in this league and that’s what
it’s about -- both conferences are protecting home court right
now,” said James, who scored 29 points to lead the Heat before
fouling out in overtime. “We look forward to going back home to
our own fans.”  The Celtics opened a 21-6 first-quarter lead last night at
TD Garden, led by 18 points at one point in the second quarter
and as many as 16 points in the second half.  First Lead  The Heat fought back and took their first lead of the game
at 76-74 with 8:22 remaining. The teams exchanged the lead
several times in the closing minutes before James hit a tying 3-
pointer for Miami with 37 seconds left.  The Heat had a chance to win after  Kevin Garnett  was
whistled for an offensive foul with 21 seconds remaining, though
Udonis Haslem was well short on a contested 18-foot jump shot
off a pass from James as the buzzer sounded.  With the score tied 89-89 after four quarters, each team
managed only one basket in the five-minute overtime period.  While Pierce fouled out for the Celtics 38 seconds into the
extra session, Rondo gave Boston the lead for good at 92-91 on a
2-point shot with 2:32 left. James missed a 9-foot jumper for
the Heat and then was called for an offensive foul on the
following possession, fouling out of a game for the first time
since joining Miami.  Rondo added a free throw with 21 seconds left before Wade
misfired on his 25-foot shot at the buzzer. Wade finished with
20 points, while Haslem and  Mario Chalmers  each scored 12.  “We have to come in with a sense of urgency,” James said.
“We look forward to Game 5. It’s great basketball. We didn’t
come in thinking they were going to sweep them. This is what the
playoffs are all about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  