-- CFTC Said to Plan June Vote on Expanding Reach to Overseas Swaps
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-04T19:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/cftc-said-to-plan-june-vote-on-expanding-reach-to-overseas-swaps.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission may vote June 21 to propose guidelines for extending
the reach of Dodd-Frank Act rules to overseas swaps trading,
according to two people briefed on the matter.  The so-called interpretative guidance is under debate at
the top U.S. derivatives regulator and may change before a vote,
according to the people, who requested anonymity because the
matter isn’t public. Dodd-Frank is designed to reduce risk and
increase transparency in the global swaps market after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s disclosure last month of at least $2
billion in trading losses on  credit derivatives  shows the need
to extend the law’s reach to overseas trades, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said on May 21.  “We’ve had another stark reminder of how trades overseas
can quickly reverberate with losses coming back to the  United
States ,” Gensler said in the remarks.  U.S. banks including JPMorgan and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
have said increased oversight of derivatives markets will hurt
their ability to compete with foreign-based rivals if the rules
are applied to their overseas units.  Imposing Dodd-Frank margin requirements on non-U.S. swaps
would “eviscerate our ability to serve clients overseas and
cede the global market to foreign competitors,” JPMorgan
Associate General Counsel  Don Thompson  said at a House hearing
Feb. 8. “Although this varies from quarter to quarter, we often
derive as much as of our revenues from our global operations as
from those in the United States,” he said.  Under the guidelines, Dodd-Frank clearing and collateral
rules may not apply to trades between overseas affiliates of
U.S. firms and foreign-based companies that don’t have a
guarantee from another U.S. company, Gensler said last month.  Scott O’Malia , one of two Republicans among the CFTC’s five
commissioners, said on May 31 that the guidance should be
subjected to cost-benefit analysis and shouldn’t overreach.  “The commission should ensure that its registrants and
registered entities remain competitive in global financial
markets,” O’Malia said in a speech in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  