-- Chesapeake Bends to Icahn’s Demand for Board Overhaul
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-06-04T20:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/chesapeake-energy-says-4-directors-will-retire.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the U.S.
energy explorer battered by collapsing natural-gas prices and
growing investor mistrust, will replace almost half its board
under pressure from billionaire investor Carl Icahn.  Four of the company’s eight non-executive directors will be
replaced with nominees of the largest shareholders, Southeastern
Asset Management Inc. and Icahn, Chesapeake said in a statement
today. Icahn triggered the overhaul by acquiring a 7.6 percent
stake last month to rein in what he saw as Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s risk-taking and
overspending that led to a $22 billion cash crunch and has
eroded the share price by 26 percent this year.  McClendon has been under a cloud since a series of media
reports in March and April about personal loans he obtained
using minority stakes in company-owned wells that he’d been
allowed to gather for his private portfolio. The company
announced May 1 that he will step down as chairman when a
replacement is chosen.  “ Carl Icahn  and Southeastern got what they wanted,”  Fadel Gheit , a New York-based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. who rates
the stock “outperform” and owns none, said today in a
telephone interview. “They will have four seats, so the non-
executive chairman will become a very important player in this
company’s future.”  Cutting Spending  Southeastern’s 13.6 percent stake in Chesapeake makes it
the largest holder, followed by Icahn. Southeastern will propose
three of the new directors and Icahn will name the fourth, the
company said today. Memphis-based Southeastern on May 7
chastised the management team for failing to focus on operations
and spending too much time meeting with Wall Street analysts.  Icahn now plans to urge “cost savings initiatives” and a
more conservative approach to spending, according to a filing
with the Securities & Exchange Commission today. His efforts may
include pushing for a sale of pipelines and gas-processing
plants, as well as scaling back drilling budgets.  Icahn also said in the filing that he is not averse to an
outright sale of the company should someone offer “a meaningful
premium,” according to the filing.  The new directors and chairman will be announced no later
than June 22, the company said today. McClendon will remain a
director and CEO after a new chairman is named.  Simpson Stays  Chesapeake  rose 6 percent  to $16.52 at the close in New
York, the biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The company didn’t name the four directors that will
resign. A fifth independent director,  Charles Maxwell , is
scheduled to retire after reaching the board’s mandatory
retirement age of 80. Louis Simpson, a former  Warren Buffett 
protege who joined the board a year ago, will remain a director,
the company said.  “We greatly appreciate the substantial contributions of
all our directors but recognize our shareholders’ desire for
change,” Merrill “Pete” Miller, the lead independent
director, said in the statement. “Following implementation of
these initiatives, the Chesapeake board will have been
substantially reconstituted with five new independent directors,
including a new independent chairman, in addition to Lou
Simpson.”  Simpson was appointed to the board last year after he was
suggested by Southeastern, McClendon said in a statement at the
time.  Intense Spotlight  If shareholders at the company’s June 8 annual meeting
adopt a majority-voting standard for directors, the rule will be
immediately applied to that day’s results, the company said. The
company also will seek an exemption from a 2010 Oklahoma law,
for which Chesapeake lobbied, that requires staggered terms for
some corporate boards. The company said it will seek permission
for holders to vote on the entire board in 2013.  McClendon’s role as CEO may be in peril given concerns
about potential conflicts of interest and the company’s
vulnerability to falling commodity prices, Tim Rezvan, a New
York-based analyst for Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. who rates the
shares “neutral” and owns none, said today in a telephone
interview.  “You could make the case that the chance of him losing his
job had increased substantially even before this announcement,"
Rezvan said. ‘‘I don’t think at this point anybody’s going to be
too loyal to Aubrey. The spotlight is pretty intense.”  Chesapeake, which McClendon has led since its 1989
inception in an Oklahoma City strip mall, saw share value
decline this year as scrutiny of McClendon’s personal
transactions was compounded by a glut-driven collapse in gas
prices at a company whose output is more than 80 percent gas.  Well Stakes  Under an executive perk designed to align McClendon’s
personal interests with those of the company, the CEO acquired
stakes as large as 2.5 percent in almost every well Chesapeake
drilled during the past 23 years. McClendon took out loans
backed by his well stakes to fund his portion of costs. As of
Dec. 31, he owed $846 million on those loans, the company
reported on April 26.  Some of the loans came from companies that were involved in
separate financial transactions with Chesapeake. The Internal
Revenue Service and SEC have begun probes.  McClendon, 52, built Chesapeake into the second-largest
U.S. gas producer by amassing fields that cover an area half the
size of New York state. As one of the first explorers to embrace
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, McClendon helped
usher in a renaissance in U.S. gas and oil production with
discoveries such as the Haynesville Shale in  Louisiana  and Utica
Shale in  Ohio .  Gas Glut  As a glut of North American gas drove prices to a 10-year
low in April, Chesapeake warned on May 1 that it may run out of
cash to fund drilling projects as early as next year. Alembic
Global Advisors estimates the company’s cash-flow shortfall may
reach $22 billion by the end of 2013.  McClendon lagged rival U.S. energy producers such as  Devon
Energy Corp. (DVN)  in shifting rigs from gas fields to higher-profit
oil prospects, leaving it more vulnerable to slumping gas
prices. Even after the recent decline in crude prices, oil sells
for almost six times more than gas, on an energy-equivalent
basis.  Exxon Mobil Corp., based in Irving,  Texas , is the largest
U.S. gas producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  