-- Chesapeake Energy May Fare Better Keeping Its Pipeline Unit
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-06-05T04:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/chesapeake-may-fare-better-holding-onto-its-pipeline-subsidiary.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , which is
looking for assets to sell to cut debt and close a funding gap,
may want to hold onto its cash-generating pipeline unit,
 Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP. (CHKM)   Chesapeake, the second-biggest U.S. natural-gas producer,
is seeking to sell as much as $20.5 billion assets through next
year to fill a cash-flow shortfall. Facing gas prices near a 10-
year low and scrutiny of its chief executive officer, the
company has said it may sell part of its midstream assets by the
end of September to help raise cash.  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , who helped pressure the
board into replacing almost half its members, said in a filing
yesterday that he wants to discuss selling the pipelines.  Chesapeake rose 6 percent to $16.52 at the close in  New
York  yesterday.  Selling its stake in Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake
Midstream, which was spun off two years ago, may be the wrong
move because the pipeline partnership offers a steady source of
income, said John Cusick, an analyst with Wunderlich Securities
in New York. Chesapeake Energy’s 45.2 percent share of
Chesapeake Midstream’s common units is worth about $1.6 billion.
It also owns half of Chesapeake Midstream’s general partner.  “It would be in their best interest to try and hold onto
those assets if they can,” said Paul Jacob, an analyst with
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston. He rates Chesapeake
Midstream’s units outperform, meaning investors should buy, and
doesn’t own them.  Chesapeake Energy’s biggest shareholder, Southeastern Asset
Management Inc., also urged the company in a May 7 letter to
shed its pipelines division and other non-core business and
concentrate on drilling for oil and gas.  Asset Sales  Chesapeake needs to sell at least $7 billion of its assets
by year-end to avoid a credit downgrade, Moody’s Investors
Service said May 31.  As a master-limited partnership, Chesapeake Midstream pays
most of its  cash flow  after  capital spending  to unit holders
each quarter, Standard & Poor’s said in a May 16 report.  Chesapeake Energy’s cash flow from the partnership will
probably increase if it keeps the pipeline unit, Jacob said.
Chesapeake Midstream is structured to pay an increasing dividend
to its controlling partners as its profit increases, Jacob said.  Chesapeake Energy stands to gain about $68 million a year
from the midstream business’s investor payouts as well as
continued sale of assets to the former subsidiary, said Cusick,
who has a buy rating on Chesapeake Midstream and doesn’t rate
the parent company.  Payments to Rise  Those payments will increase as Chesapeake Midstream grows,
making it a good long-term investment for the parent company,
Cusick said. Chesapeake Midstream plans to buy $500 million
worth of pipelines a year from Chesapeake Energy annually over
the next 10 years, according to company presentations.  Icahn and Southeastern Asset Management didn’t specify
whether Chesapeake Energy should sell its internally-owned
pipelines, or its interest in Chesapeake Midstream.  Chesapeake Energy declined to comment on any potential
sales, Jim Gipson, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Chesapeake Energy is responsible for about 75 percent of
the pipeline partnership’s revenue, leading S&P to reduce the
outlook on Chesapeake Midstream as its parent company’s shares
slid 29.7 percent this year.  Chesapeake Midstream has fallen 18.5 percent this year, in
part because of its close ties to its parent company. Chesapeake
Midstream has 4,000 miles (6,500 kilometers) of pipelines and is
one of the largest natural-gas gatherers and processors in the
U.S., according to the company website.  Pipeline Independence  The drop in the unit price is because of “overdone fears
and under appreciated upsides,” Curt Launer, a New York-based
analyst for Deutsche Bank AG, said in a May 17 note.  Chesapeake Midstream CEO Mike Stice has sought to reassure
investors by stressing the pipeline company’s independence.  Chesapeake Midstream is trying to reduce the percentage of
revenue it gets from the parent company to 50 percent, Stice
said in a May 16 meeting with analysts. Its transportation
contracts with Chesapeake Energy will produce revenue even if it
sells gas fields, Stice said.  Also, any transactions between the pipeline company and the
parent company have to be reviewed by a committee of independent
directors, Stice said.  Global Infrastructure Partners, a $10 billion private-
equity firm, owns the other half of Chesapeake Midstream’s
controlling partnership, and brings “rigor” to its finances,
Stice said during a May 23 presentation to shareholders. That
system prevents Chesapeake Energy from selling assets to
Chesapeake Midstream at inflated prices, Stice said.  Small Blocks  If it does decide to sell its units, it would have to do so
in “relatively small blocks in order to avoid significant price
discounts,” Moody’s said in a May 31 report.  Stice said it would make more sense for Chesapeake Energy
to sell all its holdings in Chesapeake Midstream, both the
common units and general partner stake, as one package.  Chesapeake Midstream is healthy compared to its peers in
the pipeline industry, Cusick said. “Their balance sheet is
pretty good and there’s not a lot of debt,” he said.  Chesapeake Midstream’s ratio of debt to equity is 48
percent, the third lowest among its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Chesapeake Energy is 10 times more likely
to default on its debt than Chesapeake Midstream, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  It’s “smarter to hold on,” Bernard Colson, an analyst
with Global Hunter Securities LLC, said of the Chesapeake Energy
stake.  Cash Constraints  Other analysts are less enthusiastic about the pipeline
company.  “In a company like Chesapeake that’s cash-constrained,
what’s the best use of that incremental dollar?” said Bob Brackett, who has an “outperform” rating on Chesapeake and
owns none of its stock. “Is it to hold onto Chesapeake
Midstream, or is it to use it on something even better?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  