-- China-Bashing as Campaign Rhetoric Binds Obama to Romney
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-06-13T20:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/china-bashing-binds-obama-to-romney-with-trade-imbalance-as-foil.html
(Corrects spelling of pollster’s name in 15th paragraph of
story published June 5. For more campaign 2012 news, see ELECT.)  Two of  Mitt Romney ’s first three
television ads of the general-election campaign boast of how
he’d stand up to China as soon as he becomes president.  Not to be outdone, President Barack Obama last week capped
off a month during which he imposed or proposed duties on
Chinese goods by warning their leaders to end unfair practices.  The rhetoric on China is escalating as the two candidates
appeal to voters hurt by the decline in U.S. manufacturing.
They’ll also find that translating tough words into action is
harder than buying commercial time. Obama hasn’t carried out
many of the tough-on-China policies he promised four years ago.
Republicans already are expressing concerns that Romney is
locking himself into a too hard-line position.  “Whenever someone goes from campaigning to governing, the
realities of engaging China forces moderation,” said  Charles Kupchan , a professor of international affairs at  Georgetown
University  in Washington and a senior fellow at the Council on
Foreign Relations. “Despite the economic difficulties here and
the deindustrialization in important swing states, neither party
has really gone to the mat once they’re in office.”  Public concern and candidate China-bashing have risen as
U.S. has lost about 31 percent of its  manufacturing jobs  over
the last 12 years. The issue comes up frequently as the
candidates pursue voters in manufacturing-intensive swing states
such as Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan.  Campaign Speeches  On the campaign trail, Romney labels China’s leaders as
“cheaters” and “currency manipulators.” His ads say the
Republican nominee would be a president who “stands up to  China 
on trade and demands they play by the rules.” He has vowed to
issue,on his first day in office, an executive order labeling
China a currency manipulator.  Democrat Obama took a similar stance when he was running
for president in 2008. He called then-President  George W. Bush  a
“patsy” for not standing up to China in trade talks. In 2007
Obama, then a senator from Illinois, asked U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  to reverse a decision not to designate
China as a currency manipulator.  Since winning the White House, Obama’s Treasury Department
also has refused to designate China a currency manipulator.  The U.S. contends that China is keeping the  yuan 
artificially low to make its exports cheaper. The U.S.  trade
deficit  with China was $21.6 billion in March, up from $19.4
billion in February, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The
total deficit in 2011 was $295 billion even as U.S. goods
exports to China have almost doubled in the last five years,
climbing to a record $104 billion, Census figures show.  Currency Policies  Now is not the time to lodge a complaint about China’s
currency policies, Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz
said yesterday in a meeting with Bloomberg reporters and
editors. Since 2005, when a peg to the dollar was ended, the
yuan has appreciated 31 percent, and a further large rise
“would almost surely lead to a more significant slowdown” in
growth of the world’s second-largest economy, he said.  “China is the only real engine of global economic
growth,” said Stiglitz, who teaches at  Columbia University  in
New York. “I’m not sure it’s in our interest to have a major
slowdown in China.”  The country also seems on track to reduce its  trade surplus 
as a proportion of the economy to below 4 percent, a criteria
set forth by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , Stiglitz said.  Two Years  “If it hasn’t done it this year, it will certainly fall
within the next two years,” said Stiglitz, who served as
chairman of President  Bill Clinton ’s Council of Economic
Advisers from 1995 to 1997. “We set a criteria, and they’re
going to be meeting that criteria.”  Still, calls in the U.S. for more action may increase as
economic growth slows in China. The yuan has fallen 1.1 percent
since the end of last year, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. JPMorgan Chase & Co. has cut its full-
year economic growth forecast for China twice in four weeks,
most recently on June 1, and now estimates an expansion of 7.7
percent, down from 9.2 percent in 2011.  “There is obviously a widespread concern that China is an
increasingly important and too often unfair competitor,” said
 Whit Ayres , a Republican pollster who conducted a survey on
China last year for the Alliance of American Manufacturing.
“China is now an integral part of any debate on the economy.”  North Korea  Whoever wins the election in November may not be able to
afford to follow through on campaign rhetoric. The U.S. must
work with China on critical foreign policy issues such as
reining in Iran’s and North Korea’s nuclear ambitions and ending
violence in Syria, Kupchan said.  Obama’s language illustrates the tension.  At a news conference concluding a trade meeting in November
in Hawaii, Obama said, “Enough’s enough,” on the slow
appreciation of the yuan. He announced in his January  State of
the Union  address the creation of a trade enforcement unit
“charged with investigating unfair trading practices in
countries like China.”  Yet in February, when he met with Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping  in the Oval Office, the president had a more nuanced
message of wanting to “work with China” and “ensuring that
there is a balanced trade flow between not only the United
States and China, but around the world.”  Getting Tough  Last month, the administration was highlighting a get-tough
approach. On May 17, the Commerce Department announced tariffs
of 31 to 250 percent on imports of Chinese  solar cells . On May
30 the agency proposed duties as high as 26 percent on imports
of wind-towers from China, and the U.S. International Trade
Commission determined that imports of high-pressure steel
cylinders from China harm American producers.  “We’ve brought trade cases against China at nearly twice
the rate of the previous administration,” Obama said at a May
30 ceremony to sign the reauthorization of the U.S. Export-
Import Bank.  China-bashing was a frequent part of the debate in the
Republican presidential primaries, and Romney, who emerged
victorious, didn’t shy away from the topic.  Jon Huntsman , Obama’s former ambassador to China and a
candidate in the Republican primaries, accused Romney of
promoting policies that would risk a trade war and said he
“doesn’t quite understand this situation.”  Huntsman, who withdrew after failing to gain enough support
in the early contests, said the rhetoric on China is following
“a typical trajectory” during the campaign. “Then you get in
office,” he said in a May 24 CNN interview.  Corporate Interests  Daniel Sneider, the associate director for research at the
Walter H. Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at  Stanford
University  in Palo Alto, California, said he doesn’t take
Romney’s tough talk on China seriously.  “He’s from a party that heavily represents the interests
of corporate America,” Sneider said. “Does corporate America
want to engage in an economic war with China? No.”  Lanhee Chen, policy director for the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee, said while Romney’s plan for “robust”
action to confront China on trade issues may be at odds with
some in his party and Democrats, it is at the core of his
strategy for improving the economy.  “Here’s a place where Governor Romney is really calling
for a different approach,” Chen said in a June 1 interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Hypocritical Stance  White House officials have called Romney’s stance
hypocritical, citing a Romney family blind trust that has
holdings in a Bain Capital fund that purchased a Chinese video
surveillance company. And in his 2010 book, “No Apology,”
Romney criticized Obama for imposing tariffs on tire imports
from China.  China is facing its own challenges.  China’s economy  may
grow in 2012 at its slowest pace in 13 years, a Bloomberg News
survey in May showed, as Europe’s debt crisis curbs exports,
manufacturing shrinks and demand for new homes wanes.  “Ironically, the biggest threat right now to the  U.S.
economy  and to the world economy is not China taking over the
world; it’s China going into a significant economic slowdown,”
Sneider said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  