-- China’s Chongqing Is First City to Offer Car Subsidy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-04T08:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/china-s-chongqing-is-first-city-to-offer-car-subsidy.html
 Chongqing,  China  will subsidize
purchases of vehicles made in the city as the first local
government to offer such incentives since Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said last month the economy faces increasing downward pressure.  Consumers would  get  as much as 3,000  yuan  ($471) toward a 
vehicle, limited to those with engines displacing less than 1.6 
liters, the Chongqing Daily  reported  on the government website 
on June 2. Chongqing, with an area the size of the U.S. state 
of  South Carolina , is one of China’s fastest-growing  regions .  The aid may boost sales for the venture between  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ,  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  and  Chongqing Changan Automobile Co. (200625) , in
the world’s largest auto market. The program, tracking a
national government plan to offer 6 billion yuan in subsidies
nationwide, is expected to boost new car sales by 3 billion
yuan in the municipality this year, the newspaper reported, 
quoting an unidentified government financial official.  “History shows that not only does Chongqing’s government
follow in line with the central government policies, they often
also add an extra oomph into it,” said  Scott Laprise , a
Beijing-based analyst at CLSA Asia Pacific Markets.  Even so, the municipality of 30 million people may be the
only local government to introduce such incentives because some
other cities, including Beijing, discourage growth in the number
of vehicles, said Laprise.  Stimulus Forecast  Chongqing’s car-buying stimulus will last until February
next year, and is in addition to subsidies for trading in
locally made appliances, according to the report, which cited a
teleconference held by local authorities on May 31.  The carmaker’s A  shares  have climbed 38 percent this year,
 compared  with an 8.4 percent advance for the city’s benchmark
Shenzhen Composite Index. Chongqing Changan’s first-quarter net
income fell 80 percent to 146.4 million yuan, it said in a
filing to the Shenzhen stock exchange on April 26.  Chinese Premier Wen said on May 20 the country will
implement a fiscal policy to bolster economic growth, prompting
economists at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to forecast stimulus
spending of as much as 2 trillion yuan.  China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported on May 30 that
the world’s second-largest economy has no plans to introduce
stimulus measures on the scale deployed during the last global
financial crisis. China had in November 2008 announced a 4
trillion yuan stimulus package.  Vehicle sales in China fell 1.3 percent between January and
April from a year ago, according to the state-backed China
Association for Automobile Manufacturers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  