-- China Services Growth Weakens as JPMorgan Cuts: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-04T04:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/china-services-growth-weakens-as-jpmorgan-cuts-economy.html
China ’s non-manufacturing industries
expanded at the slowest pace in more than a year, as export
orders declined and weakness in real estate countered strength
in retailing and leasing, an official survey indicated.  The  purchasing managers’ index  fell to 55.2 in May from
56.1 in April, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday in
Beijing. That’s the lowest reading since March 2011 when the
federation started seasonally adjusting the data.  The report adds to evidence that the world’s second-biggest
economy is weakening as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimps demand and
government curbs on the  property market  feed through to more
industries. JPMorgan Chase & Co. has cut its full-year economic
growth forecast for China twice in a month and now estimates an
expansion of 7.7 percent, down from 9.2 percent in 2011.  “The data reinforce the message that the slowdown has
spread from the manufacturing sector to the services sector,”
said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets
in  Singapore . “The current slowdown is more complicated to read
than the 2008 global financial crisis and is stressing the
authorities’ vaunted fine-tuning skills.”  Asian stocks dropped after the services data and a U.S.
payrolls report that showed fewer jobs added to the American
economy than forecast. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2.2% as
of 12:13 p.m. Tokyo time.  Japan ’s Topix fell below the lowest
level seen during the 2008-2009 financial crisis and headed for
its weakest close since December 1983.  ‘Very Bad Condition’  “The overall external economy is in a very bad condition,
and it is very unlikely to change in the short term,” Hong Kong
Financial Secretary  John Tsang  told lawmakers today. “If  Greece 
exits the euro-zone, it will bring a tremendous impact to the
European, as well as the global economy.”  China retains confidence in the euro even with the large
uncertainties in the region, central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in an interview with China Business News. The 
publication didn’t say when the interview was conducted.  “The uncertainties surrounding the exit of Greece from the
euro area and the sovereign debt crisis in peripheral countries
have intensified substantially,” JPMorgan analysts said in a
note dated June 1. The risk is “a significant drag” on China’s
economic recovery, the bank said.  An index of euro area investor confidence is due to be
released today, along with unemployment figures for  Spain , a
nation at the center of the region's concerns after a jump in 
its borrowing costs.  The U.S. may announce today that orders to factories
increased in April after a decline in March, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Chinese Data  Service industries  now account for 43 percent of the
Chinese economy, the federation said in yesterday’s statement.
That compares with almost 90 percent in the U.S. The government
aims to raise the share to 47 percent by 2015, according to a
Xinhua news agency report on May 28.  The services PMI doesn’t have as much sway with investors
as the manufacturing data, as “it’s a new series, so its
tracking ability is still uncertain,” Condon said.  A Chinese manufacturing index had the weakest reading in
five months in May, statistics bureau and logistics federation
data last week showed, helping push  Brent crude  below $100 a
barrel for the first time in almost eight months.  The 50.4 reading for May was near the 50 mark that divides
expansion from contraction and compared with a 52.0 median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists. A separate
gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics released the
same day showed a seventh straight contraction, the longest
since the global financial crisis.  Weak Momentum  The manufacturing surveys present “clear signs of weak
economic growth momentum,” China International Capital Corp.
analysts led by Beijing-based Peng Wensheng said in a June 1
note. “The National Development and Reform Commission has
recently expedited project approvals but whether this can
effectively stabilize investment and GDP growth still depends on
monetary and credit policies.”  The economists forecast two to three more cuts in banks’
reserve requirements this year and say a reduction in benchmark
lending rates is likely.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  and the State Council, or Cabinet,
warned last month that the economy faces increasing downward
pressure. They pledged to put a greater focus on growth and
“actively” raise domestic demand.  The government announced new subsidies to boost sales of
energy-saving household appliances including refrigerators and
washing machines after the expiry of a previous program last
year.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493) , China’s second-
biggest electronics retailer, said May 25 its first-quarter net
income slumped 88 percent from a year earlier as the end of the
incentives led to a drop in consumer demand.  Growth Slowdown  The government is also stepping up approvals for
infrastructure and corporate investment projects to counter the
economic slowdown that Credit Suisse Group AG estimates will
push growth down to 7 percent or “slightly below” this quarter
compared with a year earlier. Expansion moderated to 8.1 percent
in the first three months of the year, the fifth straight
quarterly slowdown.  The National Development and Reform Commission said on May
25 it gave Baosteel Group Corp., the parent of China’s largest
listed steelmaker, approval for an $11 billion plant more than
seven years after the project was conceived.  Steel industry fundamentals are “likely to deteriorate in
2012,” weighing on the credit quality of Baosteel,  Nippon Steel
Corp. (5401)  and  Posco (005490) , Standard and Poor’s said in a research report
today.  The non-manufacturing PMI is based on a survey of about
1,200 companies covering 27 industries including construction,
transport and telecommunications. The federation and statistics
bureau started publishing a seasonally adjusted index for the
non-manufacturing PMI from the March survey, and revised
readings back to March 2011.  A separate  services industries  gauge will be released by
HSBC and Markit tomorrow.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  