-- China’s Easing Grip on Gas Opening Door to North America Exports
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u   a n d   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2012-06-04T05:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/china-s-easing-grip-on-gas-opening-door-to-north-america-exports.html
Chinese consumers may buy natural gas
at more than five times current U.S. futures prices as the
government eases control over domestic costs, opening the
world’s biggest energy market to more overseas sellers.  Wholesale, or city-gate gas, in  China ’s Guangdong and
Guangxi provinces, where the country is running a pilot program
linking prices to oil, cost as much as 2.74  yuan  (43 cents) a
cubic meter since December, according to the National
Development and Reform Commission. That’s about $12 per million
British thermal units, or five times more expensive than
benchmark U.S. futures in New York.  China plans to extend the pricing nationwide in two to
three years, according to the official Xinhua News Agency,
potentially boosting imports from North America, where Henry Hub
futures contracts fell to a 10-year low in April. While China
seeks to boost the use of cleaner fuels such as gas, retail
price caps are discouraging energy companies from increasing
supplies because they have to pay international rates and sell
at a loss on the domestic market.  “The price reform helps to create an environment that
supports a high cost of gas,”  Gavin Thompson , a manager at Wood
Mackenzie Ltd. in Beijing, said in a telephone interview May 30.
“U.S. pricing will be attractive to the Chinese buyers. Looking
at our view of delivered cost into east coast China and Henry
Hub gas prices, U.S. Gulf Coast exports look competitive.”  Executives from the world’s biggest gas companies including
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon Mobil Corp., OAO Gazprom and
PetroChina Co. are likely to discuss the prospect of rising
North American exports to  Asia  when they meet in Kuala Lumpur
this week for the World Gas Conference. Shell Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Voser  last month called gas “the fuel of the
future.”  U.S. LNG  The U.S. may export about 40 million metric tons of
liquefied natural gas a year by 2022 as low-cost supplies from
shale deposits encourage shipments to Asia, Jen Snyder, a
Boston-based analyst at  Wood Mackenzie , said May 22. LNG is
natural gas chilled to minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 162
degrees Celsius), liquefying it for shipment by tanker.  U.S.  exports  will cost Asia buyers $9.35 per million Btu,
based on a Henry Hub price of $3 and after accounting for
freight rates, according to a May 29 presentation by  Cheniere
Energy Inc. (LNG) , the Houston-based company that’s developing the
nation’s largest LNG export terminal in  Louisiana . That compares
to $11.08 per million Btu that China paid on average in April,
according to customs data.  Price Slump  Gas futures slumped to $1.91 per million Btu on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  on April 19, the lowest price since
September 2001. The contract for July delivery was at $2.348 per
million Btu today in  New York .  “China will be seriously importing gas from North America
as it offers potentially lower prices compared to other
sources,”  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein, said in a telephone interview May 30. “There is a
lot of interest from Asian buyers, but the question is very much
a political one in terms of how much the U.S. will allow to
export.”  If China’s gas pricing reform is rolled out nationwide,
retail gas prices could double to as much as 5 yuan per cubic
meter, from 2.5 yuan currently, Beveridge said in a May 9
report. Wellhead prices would be three times those implied by
U.S. forward price curves, according to Beveridge.  Import Surge  China may purchase an additional 10 million tons of LNG a
year by 2030 from overseas markets, including  North America ,
 South America  and  Africa , on top of a further 10 million tons
from traditional sources in Asia and the  Middle East , Fereidun Fesharaki, the Singapore-based chairman of Facts Global Energy,
said in a report last month.  China, which aims to double gas use in five years by 2015,
increased overseas purchases of LNG by 31 percent to a record
12.2 million tons last year, according to Chinese customs.
Purchases may more than double to 30 million tons by 2015 and
rise fourfold to 50 million tons by 2020, according to
Bernstein.  The nationwide implementation of the pricing system may
make gas too expensive for some industries and reduce China’s
competitiveness, according to Beveridge, who forecasts the
country’s prices may rise by 50 percent in the next two to three
years as the government extends the trial.  Gas in Guangdong and Guangxi is linked to a benchmark price
in  Shanghai  that’s based on the cost of imported fuel oil and
liquefied petroleum gas in the city, the National Development
and Reform Commission said Dec. 27. Transportation costs are
added to the Shanghai price to reach the final price for the
regions, according to NDRC.  Political Sensitivity  While market prices in China may be attractive to overseas
suppliers, exporting low-cost fuel to a strategic competitor may
be politically sensitive for the U.S., said Thompson at  Wood
Mackenzie . China may also view U.S. LNG supplies as relatively
risky because export terminals require government approval,
creating uncertainty, he said.  While future gas demand will be met with supplies from
shale reserves, U.S. exports are likely to remain limited to
keep prices from declining, according to Christophe de Margerie,
chief executive of Total SA,  Europe ’s third-largest energy
company. De Margerie will be in  Kuala Lumpur  this week.  Consideration of licenses to export gas from the U.S. will
have to wait until at least the third quarter, when a study is
completed after a delay of several months, according to the U.S.
Energy Department. The assessments were initiated after
complaints from some U.S. lawmakers, who said sales overseas
might increase prices at home.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
Dinakar Sethuraman in  New Delhi  at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  