-- China May Ease Property Curbs for Growth, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-04T04:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/china-may-relax-property-curbs-to-aid-growth-deutsche-bank-says.html
China  may relax its property curbs to
encourage end users to buy homes as the government seeks to
support economic growth, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  More “fine-tuning” by local governments of real-estate
tightening measures is expected because of continued weakness in
land sales and the resulting financial pressures,  Tony Tsang  and
Jason Ching, Hong Kong-based analysts at Deutsche Bank, said in
a note to clients.  The central government’s tolerance of local authorities’
attempts to loosen property curbs is growing as  home prices 
decline, according to CEBM Group Ltd., an investment-advisory
firm. Housing transactions in Beijing surged 30 percent in May
from the previous month to 23,174 units, the highest since the
Chinese capital imposed property controls in February last year,
after banks lowered  mortgage rates  to support first-home buyers,
Centaline Property Agency Ltd. said in a June 1 report.  “It looks like the Beijing market has broken away from the
wait-and-see attitude,” the Deutsche Bank analysts wrote in the
report, dated June 1, citing the rebound in sales. “We believe
that the policy direction for both the  China economy  and
 property market  is now quite clear - ‘loosening’ to support
economic growth.”  A  gauge  tracking Shanghai-listed developers fell 1.4
percent before the midday break, after the nation’s non-
manufacturing industries expanded at a slower pace for a second
month.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  dropped 0.7 percent in Shenzhen trading,
while  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. (2777)  tumbled 5 percent in Hong
Kong.  Economic Slowdown  The purchasing managers’ index fell to 55.2 in May from
56.1 in April, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement
yesterday in Beijing. That’s the lowest reading since March 2011
when the federation started seasonally adjusting the data. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for “putting stabilizing growth
in a more important position” and didn’t mention concern about
inflation in remarks published May 20 by the official Xinhua
News Agency, spurring speculation the government will step up
efforts to combat a  slowdown  in the world’s second-largest
economy.  Shijiazhuang, the capital city of  Hebei province 
neighboring Beijing, is planning five loosening measures that
include allowing families whose per-capita floor space is below
30.6 square meters (329 square feet) to buy a third home,
Shanghai-based CEBM analyst Shi Qi wrote in an e-mailed report
on June 1.  The city’s attempt to relax property curbs shows local
authorities’ revenues are under growing pressure from slowing
growth, Shi wrote. The central government has kept home-purchase
restrictions to curb speculation.  Some homebuyers were convinced that the market had bottomed
after about 40 cities adjusted local property restrictions to
encourage spending, Centaline, China’s biggest real-estate
brokerage, said in the report.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  