-- China Wall Hit by Global Banks With 2% Market Share
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-05T09:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/china-wall-hit-by-global-banks-with-2-market-share.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  had little trouble
raising money for its $4.4 billion Shanghai theme park after
winning approval in 2009, as a dozen Chinese banks offered $2
billion of loans and promised more.  Foreign lenders, limited in how much funding they can
provide, watched from the sidelines. The deal size was beyond
their reach.  Five years after  China  said it fully met World Trade
Organization obligations to open its economy to global financial
firms,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are among companies
still largely shut out of the world’s third-biggest banking
market as they face government restrictions on adding branches
and offering products. Foreign banks hold less than 2 percent of
assets in China, the lowest share among major  emerging markets ,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “China is a huge market, but it’s also a hard one to
crack,” said  Liu Yuhui , director of financial research at the
government-backed  Chinese Academy of Social Sciences  in Beijing.
“Being huge means that you have to plow in billions and
billions to build the franchise and customer base from scratch,
not to mention that China’s banking market is highly regulated
and well-entrenched by big state-owned players.”  Struggle to Expand  Global banks, long gung-ho on the promise of growth in a
nation of 1.3 billion  people , have struggled to expand retail
and investment-banking businesses after spending $60 billion in
the decade since China joined the WTO and said it would open its
markets. Obstacles to building branch networks have made it
difficult to gather deposits and issue loans. Restrictions on
stock and bond sales have thwarted investment banks, including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and France’s  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   At the same time, state-owned banks such as  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the largest in the world by
market value, have been transformed from almost  insolvent 
institutions into profitable firms with the help of more than
$650 billion in government bailouts. That has forced global
lenders to retool their China strategies.  “Foreign banks have been over-optimistic about their
business outlook in China,” Ivan Li, deputy head of research at
Kim Eng Securities Hong Kong Ltd., said in an interview. “They
can’t make good money in China as the market is dominated by
Chinese lenders.”  Missing Out  Overseas banks have 387 branches in China compared with
about 66,600 operated by the five largest state-owned lenders.
They held just 1.6 percent of the nation’s 83 trillion  yuan  ($13
trillion) of  deposits  and made 1.7 percent of its 58 trillion
yuan in  loans  as of Dec. 31, according to the  China Banking
Regulatory Commission .  Foreign banks typically account for almost 50 percent of
deposits, loans and profits in emerging markets, according to
the IMF. They hold 22 percent of banking assets in Brazil and 5
percent in India. In the U.S., the figure is 18 percent.  Global banks combined have earned about $10 billion in
China over the past decade after spending $27 billion to build
their franchises and $33 billion to buy stakes in local lenders,
 data  compiled by the banking regulator show.  They’ve also missed out on a surge in lending over the past
three years accounting for 45 percent of the nation’s total
outstanding  loans  denominated in yuan. China’s banking system,
with 114 trillion yuan in assets, is larger than the 30 other
emerging markets tracked by  Fitch Ratings  combined and smaller
than only the U.S. and Japan.  “Foreign banks have pretty much sat out a once-in-a-
lifetime expansion opportunity in China,” said Liu, the Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences researcher, who blames their lack of
scale and relationships.  Retail Banking  Among the four largest U.S. banks, Citigroup is the only
one building a retail-banking network.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp.  all have opted to
steer clear of consumer banking in China and focus instead on
treasury and corporate services.  “Retail banking is a scale business, and without scale you
can hardly achieve anything,” said Shao Zili, JPMorgan’s
chairman and chief executive officer for China. “Focusing on
our wholesale-banking business in China at this stage is
consistent with our current global strategy. We figured it’s
neither efficient nor realistic to build a meaningful retail-
banking network of our own at this stage.”  Unfulfilled Promise  HSBC,  Bank of East Asia Ltd. ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Hang
Seng Bank Ltd., Citigroup and  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , the six
biggest foreign banks in China by number of branches, had fewer
than 1 million retail customers combined, compared with 260
million account holders at ICBC alone, according to a June 2011
survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Most of those banks entered China in the 1990s with great
expectations at a time when the country had unlimited needs for
infrastructure financing and an underdeveloped banking system.  “China stands out as a country of unparalleled promise,”
Charles “Chuck” Prince, Citigroup’s CEO at the time, said
during a March 2007 trip to China while announcing a plan to
double the number of branches that year to 30, a goal the New
York-based bank didn’t achieve until 2010.  Citigroup, which opened its first office in China in  1902 ,
has 49  branches  there today. Its goal now is 100 by next year.
By contrast, the bank operates 65 outlets in  Taiwan , which has a
population of 23 million.  Foot-Dragging  China had promised in December 2006, five years after
joining the WTO, to remove geographic restrictions on overseas
banks and allow them to start yuan lending and deposit services,
as well as issue credit cards. Before that, the firms
concentrated primarily on currency-exchange services for
foreigners. The banking regulator then imposed an additional
requirement that global banks, including those based in  Hong
Kong , incorporate locally to take deposits and offer services.  The firms have been permitted to open fewer than 10
branches a year and need approval to sell new products or
appoint executives. It took  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  more than a year to obtain approval in March to
accept yuan deposits from Chinese citizens.  “The problem is their branch expansion is limited by
regulatory approvals,” said  Dominic Chan , an analyst at BNP
Paribas in Hong Kong.  Chinese banks, meanwhile, have been encouraged to expand.
 China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the country’s second-largest
lender, opened 166 outlets on the mainland last year and said in
April it plans to add 2,000 more by mid-2016. Bigger rival ICBC
added 421 locations last year.  Investment Banking  While the securities regulator agreed for the first time in
October to  accept applications  from foreign banks to sell mutual
funds, none has received approval. When China last year allowed
HSBC to become the first overseas bank to underwrite corporate
bonds on the  interbank market , the London-based lender was told
to be low-key about it and didn’t make an announcement, said a
person familiar with the matter who declined to be identified
because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Overseas firms need one license to underwrite stock and
bond sales and another to trade local-currency securities. As a
result, Chinese investment banks are dominant.  UBS AG (UBSN) , among the
few foreign securities firm with a full operating permit, had
3.5 percent of the underwriting market for domestic equities
last year, the most of any non-Chinese bank. That placed it at
No. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs, HSBC  Goldman Sachs executives said in December that the company,
which didn’t do any deals last year, can be a player in China
without leading in the IPO market. It is seizing opportunities
in less risky areas such as institutional brokerage and advising
wealthy Chinese clients, the executives said. The bank’s
brokerage venture in China reported net income of $8 million
last year compared with $4.44 billion earned by the entire
company, according to its  annual report .  Even in a country with a personal savings rate of about 50
percent, retail banking has been the biggest profit drag,
according to data that banks started disclosing in 2009.  HSBC’s
China unit  reported a loss of 112 million yuan on personal
banking and 22 million yuan on private banking last year. At
 Citigroup , the personal-banking losses in its China arm widened
66 percent to 375 million yuan in 2011 from a year earlier.  Standard Chartered , with 85 branches, had a loss of about
$100 million on its China consumer-banking business last year,
according to its annual report. The firm, based in London,
missed an earlier expansion target. Chairman John Peace said in
November 2010 that he expected to add 40 outlets in China by the
end of last year. The company instead opened 19.  Seeking a Niche  HSBC, whose roots in Hong Kong and Shanghai date to  1865 
and which now has 117 branches in China, hasn’t fared much
better. CEO  Stuart Gulliver  said in February that he hopes to
increase the bank’s China branch network to 800. Based on past
speed of approval, it would take HSBC 70 years to reach that
target. ICBC, by contrast, has more than 16,000 outlets.  HSBC, rather than pursue branch expansion, has decided to
target specific businesses for growth, according to Helen Wong,
CEO of the bank’s China operations. For corporate banking, it’s
concentrating on companies with international needs such as
trade financing and foreign expansion, she said. For depositors,
HSBC is focusing on affluent Chinese with at least 500,000 yuan.  “Domestic banks already retain their natural advantage in
their extensive nationwide network, so do you compete on those
terms?” Wong said in an interview. “Probably not. You look at
niche areas and enter where you can offer a good proposition
with a competitive advantage.”  ‘Competitive Market’  Peter Wong, HSBC’s Asia CEO, said five years ago that he
expected the bank’s growth to be “especially brisk” in China’s
retail and  wealth-management  markets, selling Chinese citizens
everything from mortgages to credit cards to mutual funds.  Now, HSBC is no longer “trying to bank 100 million people
in this marketplace,” Helen Wong said.  Foreign banks, which have 33,000 employees in China, also
have struggled to find staff. A minimum of 10 people is needed
to open a branch. As demand for experienced bankers has surged,
companies have had to boost salaries to retain employees.  “It is a very competitive market,” said Mike Smith, CEO
of Melbourne-based ANZ Bank, which announced plans to increase
the number of outlets to 20 over the next decade from six now.
“The issue has always been in the more senior, middle
management. There just wasn’t the experience and expertise.”  Some banks have exited the retail market.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Germany’s biggest lender, stopped taking deposits from most
Chinese customers on April 1 as the Frankfurt-based company
shifted focus to clients with at least 5 million yuan. The bank
will offer only private-banking services, especially wealth
management, along with corporate banking.  Staying Afloat  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in December 2010 abandoned
its Chinese retail and commercial-banking businesses, which had
25,000 clients and $900 million in deposits, giving the
operations to Singapore-based DBS for free. Melvin Teo, DBS’s
China head, said at the time that RBS decided to get out after a
U.K. government bailout and record losses. RBS, based in
Edinburgh, continues to provide banking services to large
companies and institutional clients in China.  That business, known as wholesale banking, has helped
foreign banks stay afloat in China by leveraging global networks
and relationships with multinationals and financial
institutions. Citigroup’s corporate-banking profit more than
covered its retail arm’s loss last year. New York-based JPMorgan
saw its China profit increase more than fourfold last year to
297 million yuan.  Doing It Better  Bank of America in February raised its three-year growth
targets after profit rose faster than forecast, saying that
China would become its largest revenue and profit contributor in
the Asia-Pacific region in two years as the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based lender takes advantage of foreign-expansion plans
by Chinese corporations.  “I’m not a huge fan of the so-called foreign-local-bank
strategy because that means you have to compete against these
strong Chinese banks on all fronts and end up without having any
focus,” Huang Xiaoguang, president of Bank of America in China,
said in a February interview. “As a foreign player, you are the
most welcome only when you can do something that Chinese banks
can’t, or you can do it better than they can. That’s our current
strategy.”  As overseas banks have struggled to find niches, Chinese
firms have catapulted to profitability and sold  shares  to the
public. China’s 3,800 lenders reported net income of $35.4
billion in the last three months of 2011, one-third more than
the total earnings of 7,357 U.S. banks, data from the China
Banking Regulatory Commission and the U.S. Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. show.  Beijing-based ICBC may post a record profit of $36 billion
in 2012, according to the average analyst estimate compiled by
Bloomberg, widening its lead as the world’s most profitable
lender. JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank , may earn $18 billion
this year, according to the  Bloomberg survey .  Lending Capacity  Like Chinese lenders, foreign banks can’t lend more than 75
percent of their deposit base. With regulations barring loans of
more than 10 percent of capital to a single borrower, competing
for financing deals stretches the limits of foreign banks’
capacity. HSBC had 19 billion yuan in capital as of the end of
2011 and a loan portfolio less than that of the smallest of
China’s 17 publicly traded banks,  Bank of Ningbo Co.   That’s what sidelined foreign lenders when Shanghai Shendi
Group Co., Disney’s Chinese partner, sought funding to build a
theme park and resort in Shanghai’s Pudong district. Instead,
the company lined up loans from  Shanghai Pudong Development
Bank (600000) , Bank of Communications Co.,  China Development Bank  Corp.
and nine other local lenders. The project, Disney’s first theme
park on mainland China, is expected to open in 2015 and attract
10.5 million to 15 million visits a year, according to Xinhua
News Agency.  China Eastern  While  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670) , the nation’s second-
biggest carrier, has used foreign banks’ services such as
underwriting bond sales in Hong Kong or financing aircraft
purchases abroad, it relies on local lenders in China.  China Development Bank and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  are among
firms that have offered the airline billions of yuan in credit,
said  Luo Zhuping , board secretary of the Shanghai-based airline
from 1997 until his retirement in April. None of the foreign
banks has enough capital to back up such loans, he said. China
Eastern also uses ICBC to pay salaries to its more than 50,000
employees nationwide.  “They are convenient, simply put,” Luo said. “We have
subsidiaries in over 20 provinces, and deposit and cash
management are the most basic financial services we need, but
there is no foreign bank with that extensive a reach in China to
be able to handle it.”  Bank Stakes  For a time, foreign banks tried to partner with local
counterparts, seeking minority stakes to participate in their
profitability. Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Zurich-based UBS,
Citigroup and RBS were among global financial institutions that
first bought into Chinese lenders and then sold about $24
billion in holdings in the past three years as they replenished
capital to meet global regulatory requirements.  Goldman Sachs and its affiliated funds sold $2.5 billion of
ICBC shares in April in its biggest and fourth divestment of
stock. The U.S. bank has generated $3 billion in gains on ICBC
since purchasing a stake, according to company filings.  Citigroup in March sold its entire holding in Shanghai
Pudong Development Bank nine years after purchasing it for an
after-tax gain of $349 million. Bank of America sold 10.4
billion shares of China Construction Bank in November for a
profit of about $1.8 billion, its fourth sale, leaving it with a
1 percent stake.  Raising the Ceiling  “Some foreign banks may no longer want a stake in Chinese
commercial banks as that doesn’t fit in much to their
strategy,” said Nicholas Yeo, head of China and Hong Kong
equities at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which oversees $295
billion globally. “They may want to focus more on their
securities joint ventures, as that may be more useful to their
investment-banking business.”  China last month raised the ceiling on foreign banks’
investments in such ventures to 49 percent from 33 percent, the
first increase in more than a decade. Wall Street firms and
their local partners have handled less than 4 percent of
domestic corporate bond sales this year, underwriting 44 billion
yuan of the 1.26 trillion yuan total, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. JPMorgan’s China venture has a 0.2 percent market
share, even though the largest U.S. lender has arranged 6.5
percent of $1.8 trillion in global sales, the data show.  BNP Paribas pulled out of its three-year-old securities
venture after a disagreement on strategy in January 2007. Morgan
Stanley in 2010 sold its 34 percent stake in China International
Capital Corp. after a 15-year involvement in the nation’s first
Sino-foreign brokerage venture, to form a partnership with
Shenzhen-based China Fortune Securities Co.  Credit Cards  Global banks say they expect to profit from new products,
such as credit cards, that China is starting to allow. Citigroup
announced in February that it will become the second foreign
bank to issue its own cards in China. Permission came 10 months
after the WTO said it would investigate a U.S. complaint about
Chinese curbs on credit-card payment processing. China requires
foreign banks to execute transactions through Beijing-based
China UnionPay Data Co., a rule the U.S. says contravenes
China’s trade obligations.  “Citi is a global pioneer in the bank-cards arena, and we
believe the cards segment in China has huge growth potential in
coming years,” said Stephen Thomas, a Shanghai-based spokesman
at Citigroup’s China unit.  Bank of East Asia is the only other overseas bank with its
own credit cards in China. It has been losing tens of millions
of yuan a year on the business since it started in 2008 and is
struggling to attract users, said a person familiar with the
matter who declined to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly. The Hong Kong-based lender had
earlier planned to break even in four to five years.  ‘Investment Phase’  “Foreign banks’ China business is still in the investment
phase,” said Aberdeen’s Yeo. “It takes time and one has to be
patient. But if you want to be patient, you need to have the
capital or the resources to hang around.”  In the meantime, global banks are working to make the best
of whatever opportunities to arise.  “China is making good progress toward becoming a more open
market,” said HSBC’s Helen Wong. “You just work within the
realms, seizing on the opportunities available to you.”  As they wait, global banks risk falling further behind.  “Even as some foreign banks are running at full speed, the
gap is too wide for them to catch up in the decades to come,”
said Liu of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  