-- Clemens Loses Bid to Call U.S. Lawmaker Issa as Witness
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-04T22:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/clemens-loses-bid-to-call-u-s-lawmaker-issa-as-witness.html
Former New York Yankees pitcher Roger Clemens, accused of lying to Congress by denying his use of
steroids, lost a bid to call Representative  Darrell Issa  as a
witness at his federal perjury trial in Washington.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton , ruling from the bench
today, said testimony from Issa, a California Republican who
made public comments criticizing the Clemens probe in 2008, was
“too speculative” to be allowed. Walton said Issa later issued
statements backing the perjury prosecution.  “It is extremely, highly speculative what he would say,”
Walton said. “There’s no definitive indication this witness
would provide testimony that would, in fact, exonerate the
defendant.”  Issa asked Walton to block two subpoenas from Clemens
received last month seeking his testimony and documents from the
House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Issa is now
the chairman of the committee, whose leaders in 2008 referred
Clemens to prosecutors based on suspected perjury.  The jurors weren’t present during today’s hearing in the
trial, now in its eighth week. They are scheduled to return
tomorrow as testimony by witnesses resumes.  Denies Use  Clemens has denied drug use since former U.S. Senator
 George Mitchell  released a report on steroids in Major League
Baseball on Dec. 13, 2007. Mitchell named Clemens in the report
as having used drugs on 16 occasions between 1998 and 2001.  The criminal charges stem from statements Clemens made to
the oversight committee in February 2008 during a private
interview with committee staff and later in a public hearing on
ballplayers’ use of performance-enhancing drugs. Under oath,
Clemens denied ever using steroids or human growth hormone,
according to the indictment.  Clemens sought Issa’s testimony to rebut Phil Barnett, a
former chief of staff to the House committee who testified that
the congressional hearing served a legitimate legislative
purpose. Lawyers for Clemens argued that their client has a
right under the U.S. Constitution’s Sixth Amendment to challenge
Barnett’s testimony.  Clemens’s lawyers cited Issa’s statements to the media
before and after the Feb. 13, 2008, hearing that Congress never
prosecuted or pursued users of drugs and that the committee was
seeking publicity by inviting Clemens to testify. Issa, they
argued, was an important voice because he was the only lawmaker
to attend Clemens’s congressional deposition.  ‘Highly Critical’  “We know that now chairman Issa was highly critical and
said there’s no legitimate purpose and said it was a perjury
trap set for  Roger Clemens ,” Joe Roden, a lawyer for Clemens,
told Walton.  Issa’s statements at the time were “opinions” that “are
not relevant to whether the committee had the power to conduct
an investigation,” William Pittard, deputy general counsel to
the  House of Representatives , said during the hearing.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham argued that Issa was
just one of 41 members of the committee. He also read a
statement from Issa’s spokesman from the day Clemens was
indicted, which said, “If there is evidence that someone has
intentionally misled a congressional investigative committee,
they should be prosecuted to the fullest extent possible.”  ‘No Question’  Walton said “there’s no question Congress had a legitimate
investigative purpose” to examine steroid use in baseball,
citing  Major League Baseball ’s antitrust exemption and evidence
of a rise in younger athletes’ using performance-enhancing
drugs.  “I find it difficult to conclude one congressperson’s
statements to the press is competent evidence to undermine the
integrity of the committee to hold these hearings,” Walton
said.  He also said Issa’s testimony could backfire on Clemens.  “You’d take that risk and put this man on stand when he
said he believed your client lied,” Walton said. “That seems
to me to be a death wish.”  Also today, Durham said prosecutors have sought permission
from the U.S. Justice Department to grant immunity to Eileen
McNamee so she can testify for the defense. Durham said he
expected to hear back from the department today.  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, said Eileen McNamee
will discredit the prosecution testimony of her husband,  Brian McNamee . The two are involved in a divorce proceeding in  New
York .  Criminal Exposure  Michael Gold, a lawyer for Eileen McNamee, said during a
May 31 hearing that the possible criminal exposure his client
faces includes mail and wire fraud, insurance fraud tied to the
reimbursement of  prescription drugs , bank fraud and obstruction
of justice.  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to the House panel. He faces
as long as 21 months in prison if convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  