-- Cotton Falls to 31-Month Low as Supplies Outpace Demand
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-06-04T20:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/cotton-falls-to-31-month-low-as-supplies-outpace-demand.html
Cotton futures tumbled to a 31-month
low on signs that a slowing world economy will expand a surplus
of the fiber, reducing costs for clothing retailers including J.
Crew Group Inc. and  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)   China , the world’s biggest cotton buyer, reported yesterday
that non-manufacturing industries grew in May at the slowest
pace in more than a year, while European leaders struggle to
resolve the sovereign debt crisis. On June 1, the  International
Cotton Advisory Committee  cut its forecast for world consumption
by 0.6 percent from a month earlier.  Prices have plunged 69 percent from a record $2.197 a pound
in March 2011 as output grew and demand from textile mills
declined for three of the past four seasons. The prospect of
weakening economic growth made cotton the biggest loser in the
past year among the 24 commodities tracked by the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index, which touched an 18-month low today.  “The outlook for global fiber demand continues to
deteriorate, and prices are following suit,”  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said in
a report.  Cotton for December delivery fell 0.8 percent to settle at
67.06 cents a pound at 2:39 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, after sliding to 64.61 cents, the lowest for a most-active
contract since Oct. 13, 2009. The commodity has plunged 52
percent in the past 12 months.  Reducing Costs  Cheaper fiber may trim costs for clothing makers hurt by
high cotton prices that last year were the highest ever on
average.  “The commodity pressures that we’re seeing in cotton are
beginning to ease,” J. Crew Group Inc. Chief Financial Officer
Stuart Haselden said May 31 in a conference call with analysts.
New York-based J. Crew operates 250 retail stores and 85 factory
outlet locations, as well as a catalog business.  “The pressure from cotton was less in the fourth quarter
as we continue to sell through higher-cost product” from
inventories purchased when textile prices were higher, Scott Hurd, the comptroller of the Pittsburgh-based company, said in a
May 23 conference call with analysts. American Eagle, the teen-
apparel retailer with more than 1,000 stores in  North America ,
expects lower cotton costs in the second half of the year, he
said.  Declining demand may boost the global surplus to 14.46
million metric tons in the year that starts Aug. 1, 1.2 percent
more than last month’s forecast and 9 percent higher than a year
earlier, the International Cotton Advisory Committee said.
Imports by China may drop to 3.3 million tons from a record 4.6
million tons, the Washington-based group said.  Speculators Bearish  “Cotton still has a lot of problems,”  Mike Stevens , an
independent trader in Mandeville,  Louisiana , said in a telephone
interview. “You are not going to have any bulls when there’s
this surplus.”  Hedge funds  and money managers have been betting prices
would fall for five straight weeks, and their net-short
positions on May 15 reached 13,068 futures and options, the most
bearish in five years, data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed.  “Demand for exports has been very weak, mainly because of
the entire world situation, with the European crisis the most
obvious problem,” Alan Underwood, the president of Underwood
Cotton Co., an exporter in Lubbock,  Texas , said in a telephone
interview. The U.S. is the world’s top shipper.  Lower prices may discourage farmers from planting in the
next year.  “Prices may have gone beyond the realm of fundamentals,”
 Keith Brown , the president of Keith Brown & Co., a broker in
Moultrie,  Georgia , said in a telephone interview. “This is
going to affect production next year, because farmers will
probably decide to plant less cotton.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  