-- Crude Rises for First Time in Five Days as Euro Gains
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-06-04T19:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/crude-fluctuates-on-chinese-economic-data-strengthening-euro.html
Oil rose for the first time in five
days as the euro strengthened against the dollar after European
leaders agreed to discuss closer banking cooperation in the euro
bloc to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  Prices climbed 0.9 percent as the euro advanced from the
lowest level in almost two years. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said systemic banks may need supervision at the European
level. Prices touched an eight-month low today and tumbled 8.4
percent last week on economic data from the U.S. and China.  “We are rebounding after last week’s historic selloff,”
said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price Futures
Group in  Chicago . “There are hopes that talks in Europe will
result in a solution to the crisis.”  Oil for July delivery rose 75 cents to settle at $83.98 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in the first increase
since May 25. Prices touched $81.21, the lowest intraday level
since Oct. 6. Futures dropped in 17 trading sessions in May, or
the most days in a single month since January 1997.  Brent futures for July settlement gained 42 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $98.85 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London . The European benchmark closed June 1 at the lowest
level since January 2011 and fell below $100 for the first time
since October.  Market ‘Breather’  “We’re taking a breather after taking a wallop last
week,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc.,
an energy consultant in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  The euro strengthened 0.5 percent today after falling to
$1.2288 on June 1, the lowest level since July 1, 2010. A
stronger euro and declining dollar increase oil’s appeal as an
alternative investment.  “It’s all about dollar weakness,” said Phil Streible, a
Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures. “We are seeing
commodity prices rebounding as a result of the strengthening
euro.”  Merkel spoke before a meeting with European Union
Commission President  Jose Barroso  in Berlin to prepare for a
June 28 to June 29 EU summit that is  Europe ’s latest effort to
combat the euro-area debt crisis now in its third year and to
discuss more common economic policies.  “The fiscal pact is one step, but it’s not sufficient
yet,” she said before the meeting. “So we will also talk about
to what degree one has to bring the systemic banks under
specific European supervision to keep national interests from
playing too large a role.”  Banking Union  The commission, the European Union’s executive, last week
called for a “banking union” that would integrate supervision
of lenders more tightly and create a pool of EU funds to clean
up banks with cross-border exposure.  The Brussels-based commission also proposed that the euro’s
permanent bailout fund inject cash to banks instead of
channeling the money through national governments.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities rose 0.6
percent, increasing for the first time in five days.  Oil dropped earlier as  China ’s non-manufacturing industries
expanded at the slowest pace in more than a year in May in a
report from the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing yesterday in Beijing.
Prices also fell on a Commerce Department report that orders to
U.S. factories unexpectedly decreased in April.  “When you start getting weak economic data in the U.S. and
China consistently, that’s definitely keeping the market
nervous,” said Jacob Correll, a commodity analyst at Summit
Energy Inc. in Louisville,  Kentucky . “The stronger euro
alleviated losses in oil.”  ‘Economic Armageddon’  Crude dropped 3.8 percent on June 1 after the U.S. Labor
Department reported that American employers added the fewest
workers in a year in May. The U.S. is the world’s largest oil-
consuming country.  “We priced in economic Armageddon last week,” Flynn said.
“We’re now pricing in the prospect for stimulus in Europe, in
the U.S. and in China.”  The  Federal Reserve  bought a total of $2.3 trillion in
bonds from December 2008 to June 2011 to stimulate the economy.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 517,176
contracts as of 3:55 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 734,370
contracts on June 1, 31 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.44 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  