-- Cuomo Seeks Decriminalization of Small Amounts of Marijuana
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-06-04T19:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/cuomo-said-to-seek-decriminalization-of-small-amounts-of-pot.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  proposed a
measure meant to reduce the number of people arrested for
marijuana possession after they’ve been detained under the  New
York City  Police Department’s so-called stop-and-frisk policy.  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, said today at a news
conference in  Albany  that he wants legislators to decriminalize
possession of 25 grams or less of marijuana that’s in public
view. Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said he supports the change.  About 94 percent of the more than 50,000 arrests last year
in the state for 25 or fewer grams of marijuana were in  New York 
City, and 82 percent of those arrested were black or Hispanic,
the governor said.  “This is about creating fairness and consistency in our
laws,” Cuomo said. “The problem is the law, and the solution
is to change the law.”  Cuomo’s initiative would put New York among more than a
dozen states that have taken similar action, including
California and  Connecticut . A bill that would decriminalize
possession of 15 grams (0.5 ounces) or less of marijuana was
approved by a New Jersey Assembly committee last month.  New York’s Legislature in 1977 reduced the penalty for
possessing 25 grams or less of pot to a violation that carries a
fine of as much as $100 for first-time offenders. It’s still a
misdemeanor if the drug is viewed in public, which happens when
someone is asked to empty his or her pockets during a police
stop.  The governor’s decriminalization plans were first reported
today by the  New York Times. (NYT)   ‘Right Balance’  Bloomberg backed the governor’s proposal, citing a Police
Commissioner Raymond Kelly’s order in September that officers
issue violations to people with small amounts of marijuana
rather than make arrests.  Cuomo’s initiative “strikes the right balance by ensuring
that the NYPD will continue to have the tools it needs to
maintain public safety -- including making arrests for selling
or smoking marijuana,” Bloomberg said in a statement.  Under Cuomo’s proposal, smoking marijuana in public would
remain a misdemeanor.  City police have made stopping residents on the street and
searching them a cornerstone of crime prevention.  Searching Citizens  Last year, the New York Police Department stopped and
interrogated people 685,724 times, an increase in street stops
of more than 600 percent since Bloomberg’s first year in office,
according a report by the New York Civil Liberties Union. Nine
out of 10 people stopped were innocent, meaning they were
neither arrested nor ticketed. About 87 percent were black or
Latino, according to the organization.  Cuomo’s proposal would reduce the effect of those stops on
people whose records are scarred by the convictions, Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York Civil Liberties
Union, said today in a telephone interview.  “We hope this would reduce the incentive for NYPD to
continue its out-of-control stop-and-frisk campaign,” Lieberman
said. “We will continue to call for major reform until stop-
and-frisk is reined in.”  Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, said
he supports the law change.  Scott Reif , a spokesman for Senate
Majority Leader Dean Skelos, a Long Island Republican, declined
to comment.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  