-- Defending French Open Champion Li Na Is Ousted as Nadal Wins
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-04T19:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/david-ferrer-beats-granollers-to-reach-french-open-quarterfinals.html
Defending French Open women’s
champion  Li Na  was knocked out in the fourth round by qualifier
Yaroslava Shvedova. Men’s six-time champion  Rafael Nadal  dropped
two games in reaching the quarterfinals.  Li, the first Asian to win a tennis Grand Slam singles
title, was beaten by the 142nd-ranked Shvedova of  Kazakhstan ,
3-6, 6-2, 6-0 on a windy day at Roland Garros. Li lost when she
hit a backhand return into the net, her 41st error. Her opponent
made 20 fewer mistakes.  “I have to find the reason why I lost the match,” Li told
reporters. “I have to try working harder the next day and even
come working harder next week.”  Second-seed Nadal of  Spain  eased past  Juan Monaco  of
 Argentina , 6-2, 6-0, 6-0. The Spaniard, who is trying to become
the first man to win seven Roland Garros titles, won 17 games in
a row from 2-1 down in the opening set. He’s conceded 19 games
on his way to the quarterfinals this year.  “I’m very sorry for my friend,” Nadal said in a televised
interview. “He suffered at the end of the match. I saw it on
his face. But that’s the sport.”  The left-hander hasn’t won a major since he equaled  Bjorn Borg  of Sweden last year with his sixth title in Paris. The
victory against Monaco was Nadal’s 251st clay-court win.  He’ll next play countryman  Nicolas Almagro , who beat Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia 6-4, 6-4, 6-4, in the quarterfinals.  Murray Wins  Britain’s  Andy Murray , the fourth seed, defeated  France ’s
 Richard Gasquet  after falling behind. Murray, who has come back
from two sets down in two of their three previous Grand Slam
meetings, won 1-6, 6-4, 6-1, 6-2. Murray, who next will play 30-
year-old Spaniard David Ferrer, is the only non-Spaniard
remaining in his half of the draw.  Second-seeded Maria Sharapova overcame Klara Zakopalova,
6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2, to reach the last eight. There were 21
breaks of serve in the match, which ended with a double fault by
the Czech. Sharapova, who has had a fractious relationship with
the Parisian crowd, was booed by some spectators after the
match.  “The conditions were difficult, so it was a good test for
me,” Sharapova said in a news conference. “I had chances to
finish it in two sets, and I didn’t. But I came out strong in
the third set, and that’s really what matters.”  Sharapova, who has to reach the final to become the new No.
1, will next play Estonia’s  Kaia Kanepi , who defeated Arantxa
Rus of the Netherlands in three sets.  Fourth seed Petra Kvitova beat the final American in the
tournament, Varvara Lepchenko, 6-2, 6-1. The Czech player, who
won last year’s Wimbledon title, made the quarterfinals for the
first time at  Roland Garros .  New Champion  Li’s exit means there will be a new women’s title holder
because no former Roland Garros champions are left in the draw.
Sharapova, a Russian who has won the U.S. and Australian opens
and Wimbledon, hasn’t reached a final in Paris. Sam Stosur of
 Australia  won last year’s U.S. Open and is a former French Open
finalist.  Li has struggled since last year’s French Open win, which
turned her into the highest earner in tennis after Sharapova.
She lost in the second round of Wimbledon last June, the opening
round of the U.S. Open in August and the fourth round of the
Australian Open in January.  While Chinese women had won Olympic gold and Grand Slam
titles in doubles, Li’s defeat of  Italy ’s Francesca Schiavone in
last year’s French Open final broke the country’s singles
drought. Her win in the final was watched by 116 million viewers
in  China , and her third-round match two days ago by 50 million,
according to French Open organizers.  Olympics Spot  Shvedova also made the quarterfinals in 2010. Her win means
she’ll climb about 80 places in the rankings, putting her in
contention for a spot on her country’s Olympic team. The 24-
year-old, a former Wimbledon doubles champion, missed most of
last year because of injury.  “I knew also before the match she’s defending champion,
and she has pressure to hold on to her title,” Shvedova said in
a news conference. “I was relaxed. I’ve come through qualifying
and it was my seventh match in singles.”  Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France beat  Switzerland ’s Stanislas Wawrinka to reach the quarterfinals for the first time, and
ninth-seeded Juan Martin del Potro, the winner of the 2009  U.S.
Open , defeated Tomas Berdych in matches that were suspended last
night because of darkness.  Tsonga was leading Wawrinka 4-2 in the final set last night
when play was halted. Wawrinka won the first two games today to
even the score. Tsonga was able to break serve again, and won
6-4, 7-6 (8-6), 3-6, 3-6, 6-4.  ‘Very Intense’  “It was very intense,” Tsonga said. “All night and this
morning I thought about how I will do, how I will play, and if I
will win or not. When I won the last point I felt free. That’s
why there is a lot of emotion.”  Tsonga will take on world No. 1 Novak Djokovic tomorrow.
Serbia’s Djokovic, 25, is trying to win his fourth straight
major title to complete a non-calendar Grand Slam.  Del Potro beat Berdych, the No. 7 seed, 7-6 (8-6), 1-6,
6-3, 7-5 and moved on to face No. 3  Roger Federer  of
Switzerland.  Sixth-seeded  David Ferrer  defeated fellow Spaniard Marcel Granollers in straight sets in their fourth-round match.  Ferrer won 6-3, 6-2, 6-0. The 26-year-old Granollers hasn’t
taken a set from Ferrer in four meetings.  “I am in a good moment,” Ferrer said. “I am playing very
good at this tournament.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  