-- Debevoise, Pepper, Bingham, Eversheds: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-04T15:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/debevoise-pepper-bingham-dewey-eversheds-business-of-law.html
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP advised
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which said it will buy  Hughes
Telematics Inc. (HUTC)  for $612 million in cash, vaulting the telephone
company deeper into the automotive-technology market.  Hughes was represented by Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   UBS AG (UBSN)  advised Verizon on the
financial aspects of the deal.  The Debevoise team was led by partners Jeffrey J. Rosen,
chairman of the firm’s corporate department, and William D. Regner, co-chairman of the firm’s mergers and acquisitions
group. New York partner Lawrence K. Cagney, chairman of the
firm’s executive compensation and employee benefits group also
worked on the deal.  Skadden New York partners included Jeffrey Brill, mergers
and acquisitions; Gregory Fernicola, corporate finance; Stuart Finkelstein, tax; Neil Leff, executive compensation and
benefits; and Wilmington corporate partner Robert Pincus.  Verizon will pay $12 a share in the acquisition, which is
expected to close in the third quarter, the New York-based
company said in a statement June 1.  Hughes, based in Atlanta, sells products that offer GPS
tracking, communications and safety features in cars. The deal
gives Verizon a new source of growth as it faces saturation in
the U.S. market for mobile phones and land lines. Verizon is
competing with carriers like  AT&T Inc. (T)  and other companies such
as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which sells both devices and services.  “Connected devices are expected to be another leg of
growth,”  Walter Piecyk , a New York-based analyst with BTIG LLC,
said in a telephone interview. Verizon is betting that the more
they can operate in your car “the better they can integrate
with what’s in your hand or at home,” he said.  Hughes offers voice and data connections to vehicles that
are monitored through  call centers , according to company
filings. The system provides  emergency services , location-based
features and vehicle diagnostics.  News  Dewey Creditors Represented by Legal Recruiter, Car Service  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s unsecured creditors will be
represented by individuals from a legal recruiting and placement
firm, a car service company and an equipment leasing company,
according to a list of the three committee members appointed by
the U.S. Trustee.  Tracy Hope Davis, who oversees bankruptcies in the  New York 
region, listed HireCounsel, Inta Boro Acres Inc. and Fidelity
National Capital Inc. in a notice of the appointments filed in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan May 31. The defunct law firm
will also have a four-person committee of former partners,
including two whose addresses are care of Duane Morris LLP,
according to a separate filing.  Dewey’s Memorial Day bankruptcy filing indicated it might
not be able to pay all of its secured debts, which it must do
before giving anything to unsecured creditors. The firm
disclosed $225 million of secured loans from banks and
bondholders, to be paid mostly by collecting $255 million of
bills to clients. Analysts value those bills at as little as 40
cents on the dollar.  Topping a list of Dewey’s unsecured creditors is the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., claiming $80 million for
underfunded pensions. Second is Dewey’s landlord, Paramount
Group, claiming $3.8 million for property taxes and May rent,
followed by  Thomson Reuters , owed $2.4 million for legal
research. Former Dewey partners, including those with an
estimated $100 million of guarantees, may rank equal to, or
below trade creditors under bankruptcy law.  Dewey unwound fast this year as at least 250 of its 304
partners quit to join rivals. Now it faces a long fight to
collect money for secured lenders led by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Dewey had more than 1,300 attorneys in 12 countries after
the 2007 merger of Dewey Ballantine LLP and LeBoeuf, Lamb,
Greene & McRae LLP, making it the biggest bankruptcy in its
business. It now has 150 employees in the U.S. to wind it down
and pay creditors.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Firm News  Pepper Hamilton Appoints Thomas Cole Managing Partner  Thomas J. Cole Jr. was appointed managing partner of Pepper
Hamilton LLP effective Jan. 1. Cole will succeed Robert E. Heideck, who will have held the role for 10 years when he steps
down to resume his practice.  Cole, a partner in the firm’s labor and employment group in
Philadelphia, joined Pepper Hamilton in 1996 and was elected
partner in 2000.  “Tom Cole is an outstanding choice as managing partner,”
Nina Gussack, chairwoman of the firm’s executive committee, said
in a statement. “He has served as a member of the executive
committee for six years, held the post of vice chair of that
committee, and has chaired Pepper’s associates committee. He has
a deep knowledge of and familiarity with the firm.”  Cole will report to Pepper’s recently appointed chief
executive officer, Scott Green. The firm appointed Green, a non-
lawyer, as CEO in February.  Heideck will return to full-time practice in Pepper’s
construction litigation practice. He has represented owners,
contractors, sureties, subcontractors and others in all aspects
of construction litigation.  Pepper Hamilton has more than 500 attorneys in 12 offices
nationwide.  Guy Rutherfurd, Lawyer With Family Tie to FDR Affair, Dies at 96  Guy G. Rutherfurd, former  managing partner  of one of New
York City’s oldest law firms whose lineage included a colonial
governor of New York, a U.S. vice president and the mistress of
President  Franklin Delano Roosevelt , has died. He was 96.  He died on May 27 at his home in  Manhattan  after suffering
from respiratory ailments, according to his son, Alec
Rutherfurd.  Rutherfurd worked more than 50 years at  Morris & McVeigh
LLP , a Manhattan-based firm founded in 1862 to represent some of
New York’s founding families, from which he descended. Among
them were the Morris family, owner of large parts of Morrisania
(today’s South Bronx), and the Stuyvesants, whose holdings
included what is now the 80-acre Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper
Village, Manhattan’s biggest apartment complex.  Rutherfurd, who counted Peter Stuyvesant, the last Dutch
governor of what became New York, and John Winthrop, the first
governor of Massachusetts, among his ancestors, wasn’t one to
brag about his family’s history and connections, said  Macdonald
Budd , who succeeded Rutherfurd as managing partner at Morris &
McVeigh in the mid-1990s.  Like the firm, Rutherfurd specialized in trusts and
estates. His work included establishing the New York City-based
 Achelis and Bodman Foundations , of which he was a former
chairman. He also played a key role in deciding to relocate the
firm in the 1960s from 60 Wall St. to midtown Manhattan.  Rutherfurd’s mother, the former Alice Morton, who died when
he was 4, was a daughter of Levi P. Morton, who served from 1889
to 1893 as vice president under Benjamin Harrison and from 1895
to 1897 as governor of New York.  After the vice presidency,  Levi Morton  returned to banking
and, in 1909, merged his Morton Trust Co. into Morgan Guaranty
Trust Co., now  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Rutherfurd’s father, Winthrop, remarried in 1920, and the
former Lucy Page Mercer became Rutherfurd’s stepmother. She
would become a historical figure herself, through her
association with Eleanor Roosevelt and subsequent romantic
affair with  Franklin Roosevelt .  Rutherfurd graduated in 1938 from  Princeton University  and
in 1942 from the  University of Virginia   School of Law , where he
was a member of the law review and, according to Persico’s book,
a shooting partner of Franklin Roosevelt Jr.  For more, click here.  Moves  Two Senior SEC Investigators to Leave Agency for Private Firms  Two senior U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
investigators are stepping down this month to join private law
firms, leaving vacancies atop two units formed in 2010 in an
overhaul of the enforcement division.  Robert Kaplan , co-chief of a 75-person unit that
investigates misconduct at hedge funds and private-equity firms,
will join Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in  Washington  as a partner on
June 5, the firm said in a statement May 31. Thomas Sporkin, who
heads an SEC group responsible for vetting and handling tips, is
moving to BuckleySandler LLP in the coming weeks, according to a
statement by that firm.  SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  enlisted Kaplan and
Sporkin two years ago as part of an effort to develop
specialized expertise and catch frauds earlier. Khuzami hasn’t
publicly announced who will fill the vacant posts.  Kaplan, who holds degrees from  New York University  and
 Columbia University , joined the SEC in 1995 as a staff attorney
and later became a litigator in the trial unit. At Debevoise, he
will advise investment adviser clients on enforcement and
compliance matters, the firm said.  Sporkin, a 20-year veteran of the SEC’s enforcement
division, helped create the Office of Market Intelligence and
the Whistleblower Office mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. He will
join BuckleySandler June 18, the firm said.  Edwards Wildman Adds New Litigation Partner in London  Edwards Wildman Palmer UK LLP announced that Mark Deem, a
commercial litigation lawyer, has joined the firm as a partner
in its  London  office. He was previously at Addleshaw Goddard
LLP, the firm said.  Deem has experience in domestic and cross-border commercial
litigation, as well as international arbitration and regulatory
matters. He focuses his practice on disputes involving data,
technology, telecommunications, and outsourcing, among other
areas.  Deem is the third partner to join Edwards Wildman’s London
office in 2012, following the addition of eight new partners in
2011.  The partnerships of Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge LLP and
Wildman, Harrold, Allen & Dixon LLP merged last October. The new
firm is known as Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP. The firm has 650
lawyers in 14 offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Corporate Partner Joins Bingham McCutchen in Boston  Bingham McCutchen LLP expanded its technology, life
sciences and emerging growth company capabilities in Boston with
the addition of former DLA Piper LLP’s Michael Barron as a
partner in the corporate practice group.  Barron, who joins the Boston office, represents technology
and life sciences companies and advises companies, entrepreneurs
and investors in the areas of formation and governance, early-
and later-stage debt and equity financings, mergers and
acquisitions, and intellectual property matters.  Bingham has more than 1,000 lawyers in 14 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Dewey Moves  Dewey Insurance Regulatory Lawyer Joins Manatt Phelps  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP, announced that Jay B.
Martin has joined the firm’s Albany office as a partner in the
insurance regulatory practice. Martin was previously at Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP.  Martin’s insurance regulatory practice involves strategic
advice, product design and approval, regulatory compliance,
market conduct and financial examination advice to reinsurance
transactions, among other things.  Manatt, Phelps has eight offices in California, New York
and Washington. Two Former Dewey Partners Join Kaye Scholer in
New York  Two New York transactional attorneys, formerly with Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP, joined Kaye Scholer LLP’s New York office.  Christopher P. Peterson joins the firm as a corporate
partner today. George M. Williams Jr., joined as finance special
counsel last week.  Peterson focuses primarily on corporate finance, mergers
and acquisitions and other capital markets matters, with an
emphasis on acquisition finance, high-yield debt, cross-border
financing and other complex securities transactions, the firm
said.  He recently represented Spartan Capital Holdings Sp.
z.o.o., Eileme 1 AB and Eileme 2 AG in three Senior Notes and
PIK Notes offerings to refinance loans incurred in the clients’
PLN 18.1B acquisition of Polkomtel, Poland’s second-largest
mobile network operator, among other matters.  Williams advises clients with regard to banking, corporate
and securities law questions, including matters relating to the
regulation of U.S. and non-U.S. banks and other lending
institutions, bank lending documentation, the law of secured
transactions, the regulation of broker-dealers and investment
companies, corporate governance and periodic reporting under the
securities laws, the firm said.  These two lateral additions bring the number of former
Dewey attorneys who have or plan to join Kaye Scholer to a total
of eight.  Kaye Scholer has 450 lawyers in nine offices the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  Antitrust Partner Hired by Paul Hastings in Washington  Paul Hastings  LLP hired antitrust lawyer MJ Moltenbrey,
formerly of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, as a partner in the Washington
office.  She joins the firm’s antitrust and competition practice.
Her practice focuses on representing clients before the  Justice
Department  and Federal Trade Commission, state attorneys
general, and in federal courts in connection with mergers, civil
and criminal conduct cases, and administrative proceedings.  Moltenbrey was formerly the director of civil non-merger
enforcement in the department’s Antitrust Division. In that
position, she was the division’s senior career official
responsible for civil conduct investigations and litigation.
During her 17-year Justice Department career, Moltenbrey also
served as chief of the civil  task force  and as trial attorney in
the transportation section, the firm said in a statement.  Paul Hastings has added three partners in Washington and
 San Francisco  to the antitrust practice in a little more than a
year, the firm said.  Paul Hastings has more than 1,000 lawyers in offices in
Asia, Europe and the U.S.  Moves Round-Up  Firms Announce Hires in Frankfurt, London, Saudi Arabia  The Frankfurt office of K&L Gates LLP hired Julia Karen
Mueller as a partner in its finance practice. Mueller joins the
firm from White & Case LLP, the firm said in a statement.  David Reed has joined  Arnold & Porter  (UK) LLP in the
London office. Reed is an international arbitration lawyer and
was previously a partner and head of the London international
arbitration practice at Shearman & Sterling LLP, the firm said.  Locke Lord LLP has expanded its global insurance and
reinsurance practice in London with the addition of two lawyers
in the insurance and reinsurance industry. Partners Damian
Cleary and Gavin Coull have experience in dispute and coverage-
related aspects of non-marine and non-life property and casualty
underwriting and claims. They joined from Steptoe & Johnson LLP,
according to Locke Lord.  Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP announced that Sean D.
Jordan, previously the principal deputy solicitor general in the
Office of the Attorney General of Texas joined the firm as a
partner in Sutherland’s office in Austin and will co-lead the
firm’s appellate practice.  Cross-border mergers and acquisitions attorney David Gitlin
has joined Greenberg Traurig LLP’s Philadelphia office in the
corporate and securities practice as a shareholder. He was
previously a partner at Blank Rome, LLP, and the head of its
Israel Practice, the firm said.  Greenberg also announced that Alais L. M. Griffin has
joined its Chicago office as a shareholder in the litigation,
transportation and governmental affairs practices. Prior to
joining the firm, Griffin served as a political appointee in the
U.S. Department of Transportation for three years.  Winston & Strawn LLP hired Justin McClelland as a partner
in its commercial litigation practice in London. McClelland
joins the firm from Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP,
according to Winston.  Eversheds LLP, in association with Mohammad Al Dhabaan, has
appointed Muhammad Arif Saeed, as a partner in its  Saudi Arabia 
office. Muhammad joins the firm from Al Tamimi & Company where
he was a partner responsible for corporate and commercial
practice for over four years, according to Eversheds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 