-- Default Swaps in U.S. Rise as Factory Orders Unexpectedly Slip
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-06-04T21:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/default-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-factory-orders-unexpectedly-slip.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk rose
as factory orders in the U.S. declined in April for a second
month, pointing to signs of a slowing economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, added 1 basis point to a mid-price of 127.5
basis points at 4:54 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts linked to  Lexmark International
Inc. (LXK)  also increased.  The swaps measure increased as  factory bookings  fell 0.6
percent after a revised 2.1 percent decrease in March, the first
back-to-back declines in more than three years, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . The data follows
reports from last week that showed hiring slowed and that the
 unemployment rate  climbed to 8.2 percent, as the economic
recovery loses steam.  “Investors think they need to pull back a little bit when
they see the domestic economy start to slow down,” said Matthew Duch, a fixed-income  money manager  at Calvert Investments, which
oversees more than $12 billion in assets. “There’s not a strong
desire to take risk off, as much as not put risk on.”  Growth Forecast  Moody’s Investors Service’s Liquidity-Stress Index fell to
a low of 3.3 percent in May from 3.9 percent in April, the
ratings company said today in a statement. The gauge measures
the percentage of speculative-grade borrowers with the lowest
liquidity rating. JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its U.S. economy
growth forecast to 2.2 percent for the year from 2.4 percent.  “Company fundamentals are still very strong,” Duch said.
“But companies just don’t see the opportunity for growth in a
meaningful way in the near term.”  The cost to protect against losses on the debt of Lexmark
rose to the highest level in more than three years as the maker
of laser and inkjet printers for businesses struggles to sell
its equipment.  Credit-default swaps on the Lexington, Kentucky-based
company increased by 15.2 basis points to a mid-price of 340.6
basis points at 4:33 p.m., Bloomberg prices show. That’s the
most since it closed at 356.4 basis points on April 15, 2009.  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  