-- Defending French Open Champion Li Na Is Ousted by Qualifier
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-04T15:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/defending-french-open-champion-li-na-is-ousted-by-qualifier.html
Defending French Open champion  Li Na 
was knocked out in the fourth round by qualifier Yaroslava
Shvedova.  Li, the first Asian to win a tennis Grand Slam singles
title, lost to the 142nd-ranked Shvedova of Kazakhstan, 3-6, 6-
2, 6-0 on a windy day at  Roland Garros .  Li has struggled since last year’s French Open win, which
turned her into the highest earner in tennis after  Maria Sharapova . She lost in the second round of Wimbledon last June,
the opening round of the  U.S. Open  in August and the fourth
round of the Australian Open in January.  In an interview in Rome last month, Li said it had taken
her six months to get used to her new status.  While Chinese women had won Olympic gold and Grand Slam
titles in doubles, Li Na’s defeat of  Italy ’s Francesca Schiavone
in last year’s French Open final broke the country’s singles
drought. Her victory was watched by 116 million viewers in
China.  Li Na’s third round match two days was watched by 50
million people in China, according to French Open organizers.  Shvedova also made the quarterfinals in 2010. Her win means
she’ll rise to around No. 62 in the rankings, putting her in
contention for a spot on her country’s Olympic team. The 24-
year-old, a former doubles Wimbledon champion, missed most of
last year because of injury.  Li’s exit comes after a week of upsets in the women’s draw.
Thirteen-time major singles champion  Serena Williams  lost in the
first round to France’s Virginie Razzano, the American’s first
defeat at that stage of a major in her career.  Third seed Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland was knocked out in
the third round by former champion Svetlana Kuznetsova of
Russia. And yesterday, women’s top seed  Victoria Azarenka  of
Belarus was ousted from the tournament in the fourth round by
No. 15 seed Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  