-- DIFC Investments Gets $1 Billion Facility to Repay Sukuk
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-06-04T12:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/difc-investments-gets-1-billion-facility-to-repay-sukuk.html
DIFC Investments LLC, which owns
properties in Dubai’s tax-free financial center, obtained a
$1.035 billion syndicated facility from a group of banks to help
pay a $1.25 billion Islamic bond due this month.  The dual-tranche Islamic financing includes both a
commodity murabaha and an ijarah part, DIFC Investments said in
a  statement to Nasdaq Dubai  today. Two thirds of the facility is
in United Arab Emirates dirhams and the remaining in dollars, a
spokesman for DIFC Investments said, declining to be identified
because of company policy. The five-year facility is priced at
380 basis points, or 3.8 percentage points, above the
Emirates/London interbank offered rates and is backed by DIFCI’s
prime property portfolio, according to the statement.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  Dubai Islamic
Bank PJSC (DIB)  and Noor Islamic Bank PJSC arranged DIFC’s facility,
while Moelis & Co. acted as the company’s financial adviser.
“The presence of regional and international banks in the
transaction is an indication of the confidence and support that
key stakeholders have in the success of the DIFC,” Abdullah
Saleh, chairman of DIFC Investments, said in the statement.  DIFC opened in 2004 to attract international banks, asset
managers and insurers and is home to the regional offices of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Standard Chartered Plc. Investors
in DIFC’s sukuk and in Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE, another Dubai
state-owned company, have been concerned about the entities’
ability to repay their maturing bonds after property prices in
Dubai slumped more than 65 percent from a peak in 2008. Jebel
Ali, a business park operator, has a 7.5 billion-dirham ($2
billion) sukuk maturing in November.  Arrangers  DIFC Investments sukuk tumbled to as low as 56 cents on the
dollar in December 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The floating rate sukuk has risen 6.2 percent this
year and was trading at 98.95 cents to the dollar at 4:16 p.m.
in Dubai today, Bloomberg data shows. The sale of the debt in
2007 was managed by Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank AG.  Dubai, the second-biggest of seven states that makes up the
 United Arab Emirates , was on the brink of default in 2009 but
has since completed several debt restructuring deals. Jebel Ali
Free Zone last month received approval from sukukholders to
repay the sukuk ahead of schedule and will hold meetings with
fixed-income investors this week before a possible sale of
securities to help repay the bond, a banker familiar with the
transaction said June 1.  DIFC Investments posted  profit  from continuing operations
of $185.4 million last year after a loss of $285.9 million in
2010. Revenue rose 8 percent to $157.5 million and it booked a
fair value gain of $180.8 million on property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  