-- Dish’s ‘Mad Men’ Blackout Threatens to Cost AMC Millions
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-06-05T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/dish-s-mad-men-blackout-threatens-to-cost-amc-millions.html
AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) ’s escalating feud
with Dish Network Corp. is increasing the risk of a prolonged
blackout of its shows on the satellite provider’s network,
potentially costing AMC tens of millions of dollars.  Dish, founded by billionaire Charlie Ergen, said last month
that it wouldn’t renew its contract with AMC, which runs out at
the end of June, because the company’s four stations -- AMC, We
TV, IFC and the Sundance Channel -- had “very limited popular
programming.” While talks continue between the two sides, Dish
demoted the location of AMC’s channels on the dial early
yesterday morning, increasing tensions between the companies.  Losing Dish’s 14 million subscribers for several months or
more would be “a big deal” for AMC shareholders, said Brett Harriss, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York. AMC,
whose chairman is cable magnate Charles Dolan, probably charges
every Dish subscriber about 50 cents for its networks per month,
Harriss said. That’s about $21 million of “high margin”
revenue if a blackout lasts three months, he said.  “This is material,” said Harriss, who has a hold rating
on AMC stock. “Both  Charlie Ergen  and the Dolans are litigious,
and AMC is caught in the middle.”  AMC began running advertisements two days ago during new
episodes of its TV shows, including “Mad Men,” that urge Dish
customers to call a toll-free phone number connecting them with
Dish salespeople. AMC claims Dish is dropping the networks as a
response to a court ruling that denied the satellite-TV company
the right to appeal an outstanding lawsuit. That case stemmed
from the failure of high-definition stations that aired on Dish.  In Retaliation?  “It is unfortunate that, in retaliation for an unrelated
lawsuit, Dish is punishing its customers by threatening to drop
the AMC Networks,” said Georgia Juvelis, a spokeswoman for New
York-based AMC.  Dish pushed down the location of AMC’s networks from the
100s to 9600s around 2 a.m. yesterday morning, Juvelis said. The
satellite service also eliminated AMC’s Sundance channel in May.  “We chose to move AMC, IFC and We TV to an area that
reflects their ratings,” said Bob Toevs, a spokesman for the
Englewood, Colorado-based company, which ranks second to DirecTV
in U.S. satellite customers. HDNet replaces the AMC channel on
the dial. The Style channel will be in We’s position, and
 Indieplex  replaces IFC.  Ongoing Discussion  Talks between the companies are continuing and Dish hopes
for a resolution, Toevs said. Dish sees the lawsuit as a
separate matter than the channels’ low viewership, he said.  Dish also is waging a legal fight over its Auto Hop
technology, which lets customers skip ads in programs on their
digital video recorders. News Corp.’s Fox Broadcasting Co.,
Comcast Corp.’s NBCUniversal and CBS Corp. have sued Dish,
alleging that their copyrights are infringed by the service. The
satellite provider has sued the companies as well, seeking a
ruling that Auto Hop doesn’t infringe copyrights or breach
license agreements with the broadcasters.  AMC was watched by an average of 1.23 million people in
prime time this season, according to Nielsen Holdings NV. That
puts it behind cable networks such as News Corp.’s FX and A&E
Television Networks’ History Channel.  AMC is also running pop-up ads on its “Mad Men” website
warning that  Dish (DISH)  customers won’t be able to watch new episodes
of the show. “Mad Men” and AMC’s “The Killing” have their
season finales this month. AMC’s most popular show, “The
Walking Dead,” concluded its season earlier this year.  Season Finales  Dish customers will be able to see this season’s final
episodes before the contract runs out, Toevs said. The signal is
set to go off the air around midnight on July 1.  About 20 percent of AMC’s earnings before taxes, interest,
depreciation and amortization “could go away” if Dish is
blacked out for an entire year, said Harriss, and that doesn’t
account for additional losses in advertising sales.  Dish rose less than 1 percent to $27.09 at the close in  New
York . AMC gained 0.3 percent to $38.23.  AMC Chief Executive Officer Josh Sapan said during a
presentation last month that Dish’s decision to drop the
channels was “litigation motivated.”  AMC, then a unit of  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , had filed a
breach-of-contract lawsuit against Dish seeking $2.5 billion
over the removal of AMC’s Voom collection of high-definition
channels in 2008. A judge ruled that Dish destroyed evidence in
the case, a finding Dish appealed. The suit is now set for
trial, AMC said in a statement last month.  The Voom litigation has “impacted our relationship with
Dish,” Sapan said.  Dish says the issue is ratings, not the lawsuit. AMC
programming has a “very, very, very low viewership” outside of
a few popular shows, which are already available through Apple
Inc.’s iTunes and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , Ergen said during a conference
call last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  