-- Dodger Stadium Facelift, Sponsors Top New Owners’ Agenda
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/dodger-stadium-facelift-sponsors-top-new-owners-agenda.html
The  Los Angeles  Dodgers’ new owners
plan to spend $100 million or more to modernize the baseball
club’s 50-year-old stadium after paying a record $2.15 billion
for the team.  The Guggenheim Partners-led investors, who took over in
April, will start work on electrical, water and information
systems when the season ends, team president  Stan Kasten  said in
an interview in his office overlooking the field. Expanded
visitor and home-team clubhouses, Wi-Fi areas and possibly a
museum are on the list for the next three years, he said.  “I would like to do even more, add features like all
modern stadium structures have,” said Kasten, 60, a member of
the investor group, who says he wouldn’t be surprised if the
cost exceeds “nine figures.” “It’s a sizable project.”  After spending the most ever for a professional sports
team, the owners are working to revive a franchise that hasn’t
won the  World Series  in 24 years. They have taken some first
steps to shore up fan support, after the previous owner put the
team in bankruptcy, by lowering parking prices and cutting wait
times for hot dogs and beer with additional staff.  “We will be investing in players, we will be investing in
infrastructure,” Kasten said. “We do believe the return on
investment will be very respectable.”  Attendance is up 5.5 percent to an average 38,244 a game
from last season, according to data from ESPN, as the team
compiled the best record in baseball through June 1. The Dodgers
drew a league-leading 46,000-plus as recently as 2009.  Urgent Needs  Updating the hidden infrastructure is a priority, Kasten
said. The stadium, the largest in baseball by seating capacity,
is the third-oldest in Major League Baseball after Fenway Park
in  Boston  and Wrigley Field in  Chicago . Kasten said some of the
56,000 seats could be removed in a makeover.  Further out, the owners are considering features found at
newer buildings, including kids areas, bars and restaurants,
Kasten said. None of the changes will interfere with the
postcard view of the San Gabriel Mountains. The hillside
location would involve some tunneling in a renovation, costly in
quake-prone Los Angeles, he said.  Dodger Stadium, nestled in Chavez Ravine north of downtown,
opened in 1962 and sits on more than 300 acres, mostly parking
lots. Near-term development opportunities include retail and a
larger entrance plaza, Kasten said. The previous owners also
spoke of developing the area before running out of money.  Corporate Sponsorships  To increase revenue, the Dodgers plan to solicit premium
sponsorships that will let participating companies showcase
products in unique ways, Kasten said.  The Dodgers would consider sponsorships similar to those
Kasten negotiated in Atlanta as part of the two stadiums and one
arena he built during his sports career. At Philips Arena, home
of basketball’s  Atlanta Hawks ,  Philips Electronics BV (PHIA)  displays
its consumer products for fans. At Turner Field, home of the
Braves baseball team,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  built an 80-foot soda bottle
and kids amusement park.  “Many times the best ideas don’t come from us, they come
from the companies interested in a sponsorship ,” Kasten said.  For now, selling naming rights to Dodger Stadium, one of
only 11 in Major League Baseball without such an agreement,
isn’t part of the owners’ plans. It remains a possibility when
renovations are done, Kasten said.  “When we complete the project, we will be in a different
type of proposition,” Kasten said.  Programming Rights  The team’s most valuable asset is television rights, which
former CBS Sports President  Neal Pilson  said could be worth $4
billion over at least 15 years. The club’s existing contract
with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports expires after the 2013 season.
Talks with a rival to Fox aren’t permitted until after November,
according to bankruptcy court documents.  Among the team’s options are to re-sign with Fox, partner
with another cable provider like  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  or, like
the  New York  Yankees, establish their own regional sports
network.  Competition for live sports programming is driving up the
price companies are willing to pay for media rights. In the past
two years, baseball’s  Texas Rangers  and  Los Angeles Angels  of
Anaheim, who play 31 miles away, have each signed 20-year, $3
billion contracts with Fox. The Dodgers have more leverage
because they’re in a bigger market, own a bigger brand and have
a greater legacy than those clubs, former Rangers Chief
Executive  Chuck Greenberg  has said.  The Dodgers maintain a link to former owner  Frank McCourt ,
who kept a 50 percent interest in land surrounding the stadium
as part of the sale. The team went into bankruptcy under
McCourt, leading to the court-supervised auction that brought in
the Guggenheim group.  McCourt Probe  A federal grand jury is investigating the finances of the
Dodgers under McCourt, including the possibility of  tax evasion ,
said a person familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified because the probe isn’t public. The Los Angeles Times
reported the probe last week.  In a bankruptcy filing,  Major League Baseball  alleged
McCourt “looted” $189 million from the Dodgers for personal
use, a claim his lawyers said couldn’t be supported.  “Frank McCourt is not the target or subject of any
investigation, and neither he nor any of his businesses has
received any subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney’s Office or anyone
else,” his attorney, Ryan C. Kirkpatrick at Susman Godfrey LLP
in Los Angeles, said in an e-mail.  Patient on Profit  The matter doesn’t involve the team’s new owners, Kasten
said. He wouldn’t say whether the club has been asked to provide
documents or testimony to the grand jury.  “It has nothing to do with the current Dodger ownership,”
Kasten said. “We are not involved.”  Richard Robinson, head of the major fraud section at the
U.S. Attorney’s office in Los Angeles, didn’t return a call to
his office outside of business hours yesterday seeking comment.  Kasten said there’s little pressure to make the Dodgers
profitable quickly. In addition to cutting general parking by a
third to $10, they plan to keep lower ticket prices that took
effect at the start of the season.  “I do not worry about this fiscal year or next fiscal
year,” Kasten said. “We have a long-term horizon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  