-- Ex-UBS Prosecutor to Join Miller & Chevalier
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/downing-said-to-resign-from-justice-department-tax-post.html
Kevin Downing, the Justice Department
prosecutor who directed the U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax
evasion  including  UBS AG (UBSN) , agreed to join Miller & Chevalier, a
Washington-based tax law firm.  Downing will join the firm June 11, Miller & Chevalier said
today in an e-mailed statement. Downing resigned from the
Justice Department effective today, according to a person
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified and
wasn’t authorized to speak about the resignation.  “The focus of the federal government on criminal tax
enforcement is going to continue at an aggressive pace,”
Patricia Sweeney, chairwoman of Miller & Chevalier’s tax
department, said in the statement. Downing’s “understanding of
both civil and criminal enforcement issues unique to
international financial institutions will be of great benefit.”  Downing was the lead prosecutor in the U.S. probe of UBS,
 Switzerland ’s largest bank. In February 2009, UBS avoided
prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting it helped
thousands of Americans evade taxes and turning over the names of
250 American clients to U.S. authorities. UBS later revealed
another 4,450 accounts.  Downing also helped to lead the prosecution of former KPMG
executives. The 2005 case began as the largest tax-shelter
prosecution in U.S. history with 17 former KPMG executives,
including former Deputy Chairman Jeffrey Stein, accused of
selling shelters that cost the Treasury $2 billion.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan , who presided over the
case, dismissed charges against many of the former executives
saying prosecutors violated their right to counsel. Stein was
among them.  Record Fine  A trial resulted in the acquittal of a former KPMG tax
partner, David Greenberg. Charges against New York-based KPMG,
one of the Big Four U.S. accounting firms, were dismissed in
January 2007 after it paid a $456 million fine.  “It is clear that U.S. and international enforcement
activity is going to continue to intensify,” Thomas Zehnle, a
member in Miller & Chevalier’s criminal tax practice, said in
the statement, citing the pending implementation of the Foreign
Accounts Tax Compliance Act, which will require financial
institutions based outside the U.S. to obtain and record
information about income and interest payments accrued in
accounts of American clients. The law is scheduled to take
effect in phases beginning Jan. 1, 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net 
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 