-- Duke Energy Lawsuit Over Ohio Rate Increase Bid Reinstated
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-04T21:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/duke-energy-lawsuit-in-rate-fairness-case-reinstated-1-.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  must face a lawsuit
alleging the power company used unfair tactics in seeking a rate
increase in Ohio, a federal appeals court ruled.  Ohio consumers can proceed with a suit alleging that Duke
officials gave large electricity customers kickbacks for
“withdrawing their opposition to a major rate increase,” a
federal appeals court in Cincinnati ruled today. A lower court
had thrown out the case.  “We are disappointed with the decision,” Tim Pettit, a
spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke said in a
telephone interview. “We continue to believe there is no merit
or basis for this lawsuit and will continue to vigorously defend
the company.”  Some of Duke’s southern Ohio customers sued the power
company in 2008 in federal court in Cincinnati saying they were
using improper tactics, such as rebates to large electricity
users such as  General Motors Co. (GM) , to win support for a rate
increase. Duke denied the kickback allegations in court filings.  Alan Adler , a GM spokesman, declined comment in a telephone
interview today on the appeals court’s ruling reinstating the
case. GM is named as a defendant in the consumers’ suit.  A judge concluded in 2009 that he lacked jurisdiction to
hear the suit, and that the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
had exclusive control over the case, according to court papers.  “No circumstances exist here that would deprive the
district court of jurisdiction,” a three-judge panel of the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati wrote in a 22-page decision
reinstating the suit.  The panel also found consumers “have adequately alleged
injury and competitive disadvantage” because of the rebates to
large electricity users and they can press claims for violations
of  Ohio ’s Corrupt Practices Act.  The case is Williams v. Duke Energy International Inc., 08-
cv-046, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio
(Cincinnati).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  