-- The Retirement Savings Move Tax Pros Love
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-06-04T20:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/the-retirement-savings-move-tax-pros-love.html
     When it comes to saving for his own retirement, certified
public accountant Barry Picker takes advantage of a tax
strategy ignored by most Americans. Each year he stashes some
of his retirement savings in a Roth 401(k), rather than
putting all his savings into a traditional 401(k).  While that means he misses out on the immediate tax break
that comes from contributing to a traditional 401(k), Picker
has something else in mind -- a less taxing retirement. By
paying taxes now, he won’t have to worry about paying taxes
when he withdraws money from his Roth 401(k) later. Money
withdrawn from a traditional 401(k), of course, will be taxed
as ordinary income.  The big question investors have to grapple with, of
course, is why they would rather pay taxes now instead of
later -- especially when there is no way to know where tax
rates will be in the future. “It’s a compromise,” says
Picker, who is also a certified financial planner. “I am
giving up some control over managing my tax bracket today for
being able to manage it in retirement. That’s going to be
valuable to me later.”  Social Security and Medicare   While Picker is thinking about keeping his taxes down in
retirement, a Roth 401(k) also provides more flexibility when
it comes to managing income and some less obvious payoffs as
well. A traditional 401(k) requires you to begin taking
distributions in the year your turn age 70½ (or if later, the
year you retire) -- and then you pay taxes on that income.
With the Roth 401(k), there is no required minimum
distribution (if you roll the Roth 401(k) into a Roth IRA).
That means you can choose to leave your funds invested and
reduce your gross income.  Maria Bruno, a senior investment analyst at Vanguard’s
Investment Counseling & Research group, says regardless of
what happens to tax rates, if you have to take a distribution
from a traditional 401(k) that could bump you into a higher
marginal tax bracket as well as reduce the net value of your
Social Security benefit and increase your Medicare costs.  Consider this. For a married couple filing a joint tax
return in 2012, up to half their Social Security benefit will
be taxed if the sum of their adjusted gross income plus half
of their Social Security payout and any nontaxable interest
income is between $32,000 and $44,000. If their adjusted gross
income rises above $44,000, up to 85 percent of the Social
Security benefit becomes taxable. The distribution
requirements of a traditional 401(k) could push their income
over the edge. If it's in a Roth 401(k) it doesn’t need to.  While the Social Security benefit isn’t that practical
for many people, given the low-income thresholds, leaving your
money in a Roth 401(k) can have a more significant impact on
your Medicare premiums during retirement.  This year, the standard monthly premium for Medicare Part
B, which covers outpatient doctor and medical services and
equipment, is $99.90. If a couple’s joint modified adjusted
gross income is above $170,000, the per-person monthly premium
can rise by $40, to $220. The highest premiums go to couples
with a joint income above $428,000 ($214,000 for individuals).
For those with joint incomes above $170,000 who are enrolled
in Medicare Part D, which covers expenses for prescription
medications, there is an additional per-person monthly premium
ranging from $11.60 to $66.40.  Investors Still Not Convinced  Despite the benefits, few people are switching from
traditional 401(k) plans to Roth 401(k) plans. One reason is
that Roth 401(k) plans are still a relatively new option
(since 2006) in employer retirement plans, and only about 40
percent of 401(k) plans offer a Roth option. Among those that
do offer a Roth 401(k), fewer than 10 percent of employees are
choosing them, according to a study by Vanguard. Many people
also believe the Roth 401(k) is for younger workers who have
yet to hit their peak earnings (and marginal tax brackets).
For them, the logic goes, losing out on the upfront tax break
isn’t such a big deal.  Something to keep in mind if you do opt for a Roth 401(k)
is to not rush to convert an existing traditional 401(k) to a
Roth. If you do, you’ll pay taxes now on the conversion. A
better strategy may be to shift new 401(k) contributions to
the Roth and start building savings that will be tax-free when
you retire.  Also, you should know that money saved in a Roth 401(k)
can be withdrawn tax-free once the account is at least five
years old and you have made it to the IRS’s awkward 59½ age
threshold for penalty-free retirement withdrawals. If you
leave your job at age 55 or later, you can take distributions
from the Roth 401 (k) with no penalty, assuming the account is
at least five years old.  Ed Slott, an expert in taxes, IRAs and preparing for
retirement, points out that once you invest in a Roth
401(k), there’s no do-over provision -- those funds can’t be
converted to a traditional 401(k). That limitation doesn’t dim
Slott's enthusiasm for the Roth. “You lose your upfront tax
break today, but you can't beat a zero tax rate in the
future,” he says.  (Carla Fried is a freelance writer based in California.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nikhil
Hutheesing at  nhutheesing@bloomberg.net  