-- Edwards Verdict Shows Clemens Need Not Fear Taint of Reputation
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/edwards-verdict-shows-clemens-need-not-fear-taint-of-reputation.html
Jurors tend to look past a criminal
defendant’s reputation, no matter how odious, to render verdicts
based on fact and law, lawyers said after former presidential
candidate John Edwards won an acquittal and mistrial last week.  Federal jurors in Greensboro, North Carolina, on May 31
acquitted Edwards of one charge of using illegal campaign
contributions to hide an extramarital affair and couldn’t decide
about five other counts. They did so after hearing evidence that
Edwards cheated on his dying wife and lied to the public about
fathering a child with his paramour.  The verdict sends an encouraging signal to  Roger Clemens ,
the former Major League Baseball pitcher now on trial in
Washington for lying to Congress about his use of steroids, said
Douglas Godfrey, a professor who teaches criminal law at
Chicago-Kent College of Law.  “While we would all acknowledge that Edwards and Clemens
are not nice guys and they behaved in very bad ways, that’s not
the same as violating the law,” Godfrey said in a telephone
interview. “Just because you’re an arrogant SOB or philanderer,
that’s not the same as committing a crime.”  Edwards’s acquittal and mistrial came 11 months after a
Florida jury acquitted  Casey Anthony , an Orlando mother accused
of killing her 2-year-old daughter, and 22 years after a New
York City jury rendered a not guilty verdict in the racketeering
case of Imelda Marcos, the former Philippines first lady
ridiculed for owning more than 1,000 pair of shoes. In those
cases and others, public opinion had turned so harshly against
the defendants that a conviction seemed almost an afterthought.  Then the jury weighed in.  Jury Speaks  “It’s a great affirmation of our jury system that people
like Casey Anthony and John Edwards, who are personally
unlikable and in many ways despicable, can still sit in front of
a jury of 12 people and have those 12 people judge them based on
the evidence,” said  Marc Mukasey , a former federal prosecutor
who is now in private practice at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP.  Edwards, a former Democratic U.S. senator from  North
Carolina  and presidential contender in 2008, was accused of
violating campaign finance laws by accepting almost $1 million
from multimillionaire heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon and Fred
Baron, a now-deceased trial attorney, to conceal an affair. The
case marked the first time the government prosecuted someone for
campaign violations when money was paid to a third party.  Jurors deliberated for nine days before reaching their
partial verdict. They couldn’t agree on counts that included a
claim that Edwards conspired to protect his candidacy by
secretly soliciting and accepting the funds and causing his
campaign to file false reports with the  Federal Election
Commission .  He’s unlikely to be retried, a person familiar with the
matter said last week.  Adultery, Arrogance  Except for the defendants’ notoriety -- Edwards for
adultery and Clemens for arrogance -- the two cases have few
similarities, said  Stefan Passantino , who heads the political
law team at McKenna Long & Aldridge in Washington. Lying to
Congress, which Clemens is accused of, is a far more established
crime than the conduct for which Edwards was on trial, he said.  Still, both defendants have had to confront the prospect
that jurors would convict because of their reputations. The
Edwards jury didn’t, in part because defense lawyers shifted the
focus to ex-campaign aide Andrew Young, who acted as a go-
between on transactions involving Mellon and Baron and used some
of their money to build his own $1.5 million home.  Defense attorney Abbe Lowell also addressed the character
issue head-on.  ‘Moral Wrongs’  “ John Edwards  may have committed many moral wrongs but he
did not commit a legal one,” Lowell told jurors during his
closing argument. “He was a bad husband and lied to his family
but there is not a remote chance that he violated campaign
finance laws or committed a felony.”  Marcellus McRae, a former federal prosecutor who is now at
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Los Angeles, said jurors were
attentive enough to the case’s nuances to see past Edwards’s
reputation.  “Perceptions about personalities don’t govern verdicts,”
he said. “In Edwards, personality didn’t rule.”  While Clemens is a seven-time Cy Young Award winner as the
best pitcher in his league, he also ranks 14th in  Major League
Baseball  for hitting 159 batters with pitches during his career.  Hurled Bat  Lawyers for Clemens, whose reputation for abrasiveness grew
after he hurled a bat at an opposing player and because of his
performance before Congress, have been taking a page from
Edwards’s book. The ex-pitcher’s defense has been focused on
tearing down the credibility of the government’s only
eyewitness,  Brian McNamee , Clemens’s former trainer.  McNamee testified he gave Clemens injections of steroids
and human-growth hormone. Clemens’s lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , got
McNamee to admit he’d lied to federal investigators and accused
him of alcohol abuse and engaging in a fraudulent scheme to
obtain diet pills.  “The facts are very different, the personalities are
different,”  Robert Mintz , a former federal prosecutor who’s now
a partner with McCarter & English LLP in Newark,  New Jersey ,
said of the Clemens and Edwards cases.  ‘Positive Message’  “But if there’s any positive message that Clemens can draw
out of the Edwards verdict, it’s that jurors will look beyond
whatever antipathy they may feel regarding their personal
conduct and do their best to make a decision based solely on the
facts and law presented to them at the trial,” Mintz said in a
telephone interview.  Jacob Frenkel , a former Securities and Exchange Commission
lawyer who is now with Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in
Potomac, Maryland, said it’s proven lying, and not reputation,
that puts many celebrity defendants behind bars. He pointed to
 Martha Stewart , who was sentenced to six months in prison in
2004 for obstructing justice by lying to prosecutors, and
baseball player  Barry Bonds , the career home-run record-holder
who was convicted last year of obstructing justice for deceiving
a grand jury.  Clemens is accused of obstructing justice and perjury.  “It is the acts of lying or obstruction that often are the
downfall,” Frankel said in a telephone interview.  It’s not only Clemens who may take comfort in the Edwards
verdict, said Michael Kendall, a partner at  McDermott Will &
Emery  in Boston and a former federal prosecutor. In New York,
 Rajat Gupta , who was once a director of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is defending
against charges that he leaked inside information to hedge fund
co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam .  Public Hostility  If Edwards could win an acquittal, so might Gupta, even
amid public hostility to bankers and  Wall Street  in the wake of
the 2007 financial crisis, he said.  “There are a thousand ways to derail a prosecution,”
Kendall said in a telephone interview. “There’s an incredible
common sense in collective good judgment in the jury system.”  The Edwards case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-cr-161, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).
The Clemens case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The Gupta case is U.S.
v. Gupta, 11-cr-907, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  