-- Megan Hilty at Bark Ball, Rubenstein at Opera: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/megan-hilty-at-bark-ball-rubenstein-at-opera-d-c-scene.html
“Smash” star Megan Hilty wore an
animal print  Roberto Cavalli  dress Saturday night for the  25th
Annual Bark Ball  at the Washington Hilton.  Hilty, the owner of two Jack Russell terriers, said she is
always willing to help other furry creatures.  “This is the kind of event I live for,” she said,
referring to the 750 guests and the 350 doggie dates filling the
ballroom who helped raise a record $500,000 for the Washington
 Humane Society .  Management consultant James Hargrave had his Labradoodle,
Axl, “who’s never been around a spectacle like this.”  The four-legged companions, many in black-tie collars and
pearl chokers, frolicked in the VIP reception sponsored by
 Airlines for America  where special dog-edible cupcakes were
served before the humans sat for a vegetarian meal.  A few canines crawled under the tables, some sat on laps,
but most were content to stand at attention just in case a scrap
fell their way.  Water bowls were scattered throughout the ballroom.  Lisa LaFontaine, the president and chief executive officer
of the  Washington  Humane Society, color-coordinated her purple
dress and nail polish to match the purple bow worn by her
“grand-dog,” Lila.  LaFontaine introduced Adopt Force One, a new mobile animal
shelter that will go to company picnics, community centers and
neighborhoods to encourage animal adoption and dispel myths
about shelter dogs.  She explained it will be “a fun, celebratory vehicle”
that will “make people smile” like an ice-cream truck.  Opera Ball  Yoriko Fujisaki, wife of Japanese Ambassador Ichiro Fujisaki, showed off her new tattoo to Supreme Court Chief
Justice  John Roberts  and his wife, Jane.  Fujisaki and Chief of Protocol Capricia Marshall got henna
tattoos in an exotic lantern-lit tent at the Opera Ball Saturday
night hosted by the Embassy of the  United Arab Emirates  for the
Kennedy Center’s Washington National Opera.  Ambassador  Yousef Al Otaiba  explained he ceded control of
the event to his wife, Abeer. “She knows what she wants.”  Michael Kaiser, the president of the Kennedy Center, said
he thought the embassy’s use of indoor and outdoor features,
like a 20-foot water wall, gazebos and Arab pergolas, made this
year’s party special for him.  David Rubenstein , the co-founder of the  Carlyle (CG)  Group and
Kennedy Center chairman, and Mexican Ambassador Arturo Sarukhan
took home goody bags from the candy bar provided by Jacqueline Mars of Mars Inc.  The evening, which began with small dinner parties hosted
at ambassadorial residences, raised more than $1 million for the
Washington National Opera.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Zinta
Lundborg  on Gail Collins.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 Jburke21@bloomberg.net . 