-- Egyptians Build Momentum to Push Shafik from Presidential Race
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-04T15:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/egyptians-build-momentum-to-push-shafik-from-presidential-race.html
An Egyptian presidential hopeful who
failed to qualify for a runoff vote will sue to halt the
upcoming ballot, his spokeswoman said, as the Muslim
Brotherhood’s candidate teamed up with others for a mass rally
to push a former premier out of the race.  The announcements, ahead of planned protests tomorrow, mark
a further escalation of the crisis confronting Egypt as it
struggles to transition to civilian rule. A June 2 court ruling
that left ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  with a life sentence
has enraged youth groups and others who believe it opens the
door for his acquittal on appeal.  The rally tomorrow, which will bring together the
Brotherhood and youth groups behind last year’s uprising against
Mubarak, is also aimed at pushing his last premier, Ahmed Shafik, from a runoff vote in less than two weeks.  “We really feel that the revolution has been stolen from
us,” Hoda Abdel-Baset, the media coordinator for the campaign
of Hamdeen Sabahi, who came third in the earlier vote, said by
phone. “There were violations that occurred in the first round
and, based on that, we will file our suit tomorrow.”  “What we hope is that they listen to the voices of the
people,” Abdel-Baset said, referring to calls by some groups to
halt elections and put in place a temporary presidential council
that would take over from the military. The Muslim Brotherhood
has rejected the idea.  Third Contender  Sabahi came narrowly behind the two frontrunners in the May
23 and 24 race, in which the Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi and
Shafik, who briefly served as Mubarak’s last prime minister,
advanced to a runoff vote scheduled to begin on June 16.  Sabahi and other candidates, including Islamist Abdel- Moneim Aboul-Fotouh and Khaled Ali, have decried the results
that left the two most divisive contenders vying for the
country’s top office. Mursi met with Sabahi and Aboul-Fotouh and
they agreed to join forces to push Shafik from the race, Aboul-
Fotouh’s campaign said in a statement on its Facebook page.  The agreement is an uneasy alliance. Mursi is accused by
secularists of planning to impose Islamic law in the country,
and Sabahi’s spokeswoman said the Brotherhood’s reversal on its
earlier decision to not field a candidate has contributed to the
lack of political clarity in the country.  At the same time, both groups have found common ground in
their opposition to Shafik, who is seen by the revolutionary
groups and the Brotherhood as seeking to reinvent Mubarak’s
regime -- an accusation he has repeatedly denied.  Battered Economy  The unrest that has persisted for months and increased
since the first round of the elections has battered the economy.
The instability of the past 16 months has driven up  Egypt ’s
domestic borrowing costs by about 50 percent, leaving the
current government facing a fiscal crisis as debt servicing
costs are slated to eat up about 25 percent of the coming fiscal
year’s budget, Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said in
parliament today.  “Egypt faces a very critical phase on the economic front,
and we must work with all resources to address the social
demands” even as the government tackles a “difficult balance
between what is possible and what is demanded,” el-Saieed said.  El-Saieed said that wages, debt servicing and subsidies are
projected to consume about 79 percent of the 533.7 billion
Egyptian pound ($88.4 billion) budget for fiscal year 2012-2013,
which begins on 1 July.  Galvanizing outrage among the youth groups and the families
of those killed in the January 2011 uprising was the acquittal
on June 2 of six senior police officers who were tried alongside
Mubarak, his two sons and his former security chief. While
Mubarak and former Interior Minister Habib el-Adly received life
sentences for failing to stop the killings, the officers were
cleared of wrongdoing, with the judge citing a lack of evidence.
That was interpreted by many as giving the ousted leader a legal
basis for acquittal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  