-- Emerging Stocks Drop to 6-Month Low on China, U.S. Data
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-04T21:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/emerging-stocks-drop-to-6-month-low-on-china-u-s-data.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, dragging
the benchmark index to a six-month low, after  China ’s non-
manufacturing sector grew at the slowest pace in more than a
year and orders at U.S. factories unexpectedly fell.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 1.3 percent to 882.46,
extending its decline over the past month to 13 percent. The
index earlier touched 877.44, the lowest intraday price since
Nov. 25.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng China Enterprises Index slumped
2.6 percent, trading 21 percent below its peak this year.
 Brazil’s Bovespa Index (IBOV)  was little changed near a seven-month low
as trading in  Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA  was suspended after the
central bank took over its management, citing “grave
violations” of regulations.  China’s non-manufacturing  purchasing managers’ index  fell
to 55.2 in May from 56.1 in April, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
yesterday.  U.S. factory orders  dropped 0.6 percent in April,
following a 2.1 percent decrease in March, the first back-to-
back declines in more than three years, the Commerce Department
said. In  Europe , leaders remain divided on solutions for the
region’s debt crisis.  ‘Perfect Storm’  “Elements of a perfect storm are emerging in the market,
driving investors to take money off the table and raise cash,”
said Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps manage about $17 billion at
BPI Asset Management Inc. “Data from the U.S. and China
combined with Europe’s debt crisis are feeding fears of a global
slowdown.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has retreated 3.7 percent
this year, compared with a 2.7 percent drop in the MSCI World
Index. Shares in the emerging-markets gauge are trading at 9.7
times estimated earnings, cheaper than the MSCI World’s multiple
of 11.4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on May 17 after tumbling
21 percent from this year’s high on March 13. The gauge trades
at 9.1 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four
quarters, near the lowest since January, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘Violated Rules’  Banco Cruzeiro, the payroll lender based in Sao Paulo, was
suspended after plunging 40 percent last week.  Brazil ’s deposit
insurance fund, known as FGC, will manage the bank for 180 days,
the central bank said in a statement today. Cruzeiro “violated
financial-system rules” and a central-bank review found
insufficient assets, according to the statement.  Mexico’s benchmark  IPC index  fell 0.3 percent to a two-week
low.  Grupo Elektra SA (ELEKTRA*)  , the retail and banking company
controlled by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , fell 5.6 percent to
451.73 pesos. Shares have lost 30 percent since MSCI Inc. said
May 15 that it would remove Elektra from its indexes effective
May 31.  A measure tracking  technology stocks  on MSCI’s emerging-
markets index sank 3.4 percent today, the most among 10 industry
groups.  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Ltd. fell 3 percent in  Seoul , while
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the world’s largest
custom maker of chips, slid 4.3 percent in Taipei, capping a
two-day, 10 percent loss that’s the biggest since July 2008.  Hungary’s forint lead a gain of emerging market currencies
today after a vote on a central bank law was delayed for more
time to reach a consensus with the  International Monetary Fund 
on its content. The forint rose 1.5 percent to 241.74 per
dollar.  Fall Short  The government delayed the vote after the IMF and the
 European Central Bank  last week said the amendments fall short
of ensuring central bank independence. The failure to change the
disputed law has blocked talks on a bailout which Hungary
requested in November.  The lira strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.8516 per dollar
after Turkey’s  inflation  slowed in May the most since January
2003.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries declined 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, to 431, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Index.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, which tracks the
largest mainland companies listed in Hong Kong, traded at 7.2
times estimated earnings, compared with 8.8 times on Feb. 22.
 Lonking Holdings Ltd. (3339) , a Chinese construction machinery maker,
plunged 10 percent in Hong Kong after forecasting lower profit.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut China’s 2012 growth forecast to
7.7 percent from its previous estimate of 8 percent, citing
increasing downside risks in the euro area. Europe is China’s
biggest export market, making up about 18 percent of the
nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  