-- Employment Index in U.S. Declines by Most in a Year
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-07-09T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/employment-index-in-u-s-rose-in-may-as-dismissals-decreased.html
Job prospects in the U.S. weakened in
June by the most in more than a year, a sign the labor market
will continue to struggle.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index decreased
0.7 percent to 107.47, the first drop in three months and the
biggest since April 2011, the New York-based private research
group said today. The measure was up 5.6 percent from June 2011.  The report follows Labor Department data last week showing
employers took on 80,000 workers in June, fewer than forecast
and not enough to reduce a jobless rate that’s exceeded 8
percent for more than three years. Absent a jump in hiring that
reinvigorates  consumer spending , the  U.S. economy  may be more
vulnerable to a global slowdown.  “Slow employment growth is likely to continue,”  Gad Levanon , director of macroeconomic research at the Conference
Board, said today in a statement. “Since there is little hope
of acceleration in the pace of economic activity any time soon,
these weak labor-market conditions are likely to persist for the
coming months.”  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, it
can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months before
the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months in
advance, the Conference Board said.  Four of the index’s eight components deteriorated last
month, led by a decrease in the number of companies unable to
find qualified help, and more part-time workers who would rather
be employed full-time. Projected gains in industrial production
and sales limited the drop.  Jobless Rate  Payrolls climbed in June from a revised 77,000 gain in May
that was larger than initially estimated, the Labor Department
said on July 6. The  unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent, while
hours worked increased.  Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies,
expanded by 84,000 employees, the least in 10 months, the report
showed. The June figures crowned the weakest quarter for
business hiring since the first three months of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  