-- Lenzing Falls as Cotton Declines to 31-Month Low
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-06-04T16:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/lenzing-falls-as-cotton-declines-to-31-month-low.html
Lenzing AG (LNZ) , an Austrian maker of
cellulose fibers, dropped to an almost five-month low as cotton
futures slumped to the weakest in more than 31 months on concern
that a global economic slowdown may cut demand.  Lenzing, whose fibers compete with cotton,  fell  5.5 percent
to 65.61 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close of Vienna trading, be
lowest level since Jan. 11.  Cotton for December delivery fell 0.6 percent to 67.23
cents a pound at 11:47 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York ,
after sliding to 64.61 cents, the lowest price for a most-active
contract since Oct. 13, 2009. Before today, the commodity
plunged 51 percent in the past 12 months.  Global use of cotton may reach 23.9 million metric tons in
the year starting Aug. 1, 0.6 percent smaller than the forecast
last month, according to the  International Cotton Advisory
Committee .  “As long as this weakness remains in cotton, there will be
negative implications on Lenzing’s sentiment,” Gerald Walek, a
Vienna-based analyst at Erste Group Bank AG who has a buy
recommendation on Lenzing’s stock, said by phone.  The cellulose fiber maker can sell its products, made
mostly from wood, at higher prices when cotton rises. Lenzing,
based in the town of the same name, expects to benefit from high
cotton prices as farmers switch to other more profitable crops,
reducing cotton supply.  “One can’t forget that prices for special fibers aren’t as
volatile as cotton and that Lenzing will also profit from
falling raw-material prices,” said Walek. “In the longer term
falling cotton prices are likely to make this crop less
desirable for farmers, which in turn reduces the acreage for
cotton and should have positive effects on the price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  