-- EU-Bank Network, Swiss Bank Capital, Mexico: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-04T11:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/eu-bank-network-swiss-bank-capital-mexico-pensions-compliance.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission approved two proposals to alter trading curbs meant
to curtail volatility in the U.S. stock market.  The regulator approved a system known as limit-up/limit-
down that prevents trades at prices outside a specified band,
according to a statement on the SEC website June. It also backed
changes to broader circuit breakers instituted after the 1987
market crash that halt exchange-listed securities in U.S.
markets during periods of volatility. Both programs will be
implemented on Feb. 4 for a one-year pilot period.  U.S. stock exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees more than 4,400 brokers, introduced
curbs for individual stocks after the May 2010 rout known as the
flash crash to halt shares when they rise or fall at least 10
percent in five minutes. Exchanges asked for permission 13
months ago to test the limit-up/limit-down system and updated
their proposal on May 24.  By the time the updated programs are in place, almost three
years will have passed since the flash crash.  Under the limit-up/limit-down system, which will replace
the current practice of immediate halts when prices for
individual securities become volatile, trades won’t be allowed
to take place more than a specified percentage above or below
the average price over the preceding five-minute period. If
trading isn’t able to occur within the price band for more than
15 seconds, a five-minute halt will ensue,  the SEC said .  Each stock will be allowed to move a certain percentage
from its five-minute average, with the amount varying based on
its closing price the prior day.  The price band will be 5 percent above and below for stocks
higher than $3 in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and Russell
1000 Index and a group of about 430 exchange-traded products,
the SEC said. It will be 10 percent for other securities higher
than $3. Those between 75 cents and $3 can move up to 20
percent, while those less than 75 cents can move the lesser of
75 percent or 15 cents.  The limit-up/limit-down plan will also give the market that
lists a security the discretion to declare a trading pause when
a stock has “deviated from its normal trading characteristics”
and the exchange decides that a halt would curtail excessive
volatility, the SEC said. This will ensure a company’s shares
don’t “remain impaired” indefinitely, it said.  The commission said it expects exchanges will eliminate the
volatility curbs that apply only on their own venues.  An advisory committee to the SEC and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission recommended changing the marketwide system.
The advisers included Joseph Stiglitz, an economist who won the
 Nobel Prize ; David Ruder, a former SEC chairman; Brooksley E.
Born, who was chairman of the CFTC; and John J. Brennan,
chairman emeritus and senior adviser at Vanguard Group Inc.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU’s Barnier Seeks National Funds to Stabilize Failing Banks  A network of national funds to stabilize failing lenders
will be proposed by European Union regulators this week in a bid
to take taxpayers off the hook for bank rescues.  There should be “good coherence and cooperation between
these national financing arrangements,” EU Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier  told reporters in Amsterdam June 1.
The so-called resolution funds “should be able to borrow from
each other in case of difficulties,” he said.  The measures, to be presented in a draft law on June 6, may
serve as a stepping stone for a longer-term project to create a
single EU-level fund to deal with crisis-hit lenders, Barnier
said.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi May 31 called
for a “further centralization” of banking supervision in the
17-nation euro area, citing the rescue of Spain’s Bankia group
as an example of the perils of nations trying to regulate banks
by themselves.  The euro area needs a so-called banking union combining a
single “deposit guarantee scheme with a resolution fund and the
centralization of banking supervision,” Draghi said.  The commission is also calling for national bank deposit
guarantee programs to have the right to borrow from each other,
Barnier said.  Separately, Andreas Treichl, the chief executive officer of
Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , said the European Union should
consolidate bank regulation and  deposit insurance  as part of a
unification of its fiscal policies.  “This is part of a good plan,” Treichl said in an
interview  broadcast by Austrian state radio ORF  June 1, when
asked about the “banking union” proposed by the European
Commission May 30. “If we want to keep the common currency, we
need a fiscal union in Europe,” he said. “And that must also
mean that the states are prepared to subordinate their banking
supervision to a European regulator.”  Swiss Government Adopts Stricter Bank Capital, Leverage Rules  The Swiss government June 1 adopted stricter capital and
leverage rules for banks, including UBS AG and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s biggest.  UBS and Credit Suisse will have to hold equity amounting to
at least 4.56 percent of their total assets on the balance sheet
and certain off-balance sheet items, the government said in a
statement June 1. The banking regulator in 2008 gave the two
banks until 2013 to boost their capital as proportion of assets
excluding domestic lending to at least 3 percent at the group
level and at least 4 percent for individual institutions.  The government June 1 also adopted rules that will allow it
in the future to raise  capital requirements  for all banks by as
much as 2.5 percent of their risk-weighted assets to counter
excess credit growth.  Mexico’s Pension Funds to Disclose Benchmarks, Ordorica Says  Mexico’s pension funds will have to disclose more details
about their investment strategies, including listing a
benchmark, under rules taking effect in August, the industry’s
top regulator said.  Pedro Ordorica, president of the pension fund regulatory
agency known as Consar, said that agency is asking funds to
“clearly define their investment policy in their
prospectuses.”  Ordorica made the remarks in an interview June 1 at a
conference in Cancun.  The changes go into effect on Aug. 24 and the new
information will have to be published on the pension funds’
websites, according to Ordorica. It will also appear on the
Consar website after Sept. 1, he said.  Swiss to Discuss Changes to Corporate Tax Regime With EU  The Swiss government will discuss the country’s corporate
tax regime with the European Union as it wants to find a
framework that is “internationally accepted and yet strengthens
Switzerland as a business location.”  “The European Union considers that certain tax regimes in
Swiss cantons are discriminatory, as the profits of domestic and
foreign companies are sometimes taxed differently,” the
government said in a  statement  from Bern June 1.  Compliance Action  U.S. Audit Cites OCC Lapses in Oversight of Foreclosure Process  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
underestimated the risks in bank foreclosure practices from 2008
to 2010 and gave examiners a 13-year-old handbook that didn’t
address how securitization affects loan documentation, a
Treasury Department audit found.  Treasury’s inspector general’s office reviewed the OCC’s
work in the years following the onset of the credit crisis. The
period was later found to be rife with abusive foreclosure
practices including use of fraudulent documentation by
servicers. Five major banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Bank of America Corp.  and Wells Fargo & Co., settled claims from
49 states and the federal government for $25 billion on Feb. 9.  “During this time OCC did not consider foreclosure
documentation and processing to be an area of significant risk
and, as a result, did not focus examination resources on this
function,” Jeffrey Dye, the inspector general’s director of
banking audits, wrote in the May 31  report .  The inspector general also faulted the OCC, the primary
federal supervisor for national banks, for failing to update its
handbook on mortgage banking examinations for 13 years.  OCC spokesman Robert Garsson declined to comment on the
Treasury report.  SEC Said to Select Postal Inspector General for Watchdog Probe  The U.S. Postal Service’s inspector general has been asked
by the Securities and Exchange Commission to oversee a probe of
possible misconduct in the SEC’s watchdog office, according to
two people briefed on the matter.  David Williams , who has been at the Postal Service since
2003, will use his investigators to review allegations against
former SEC inspector general H.  David Kotz , said the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the decision hasn’t been
announced.  The SEC inspector’s office has been in flux since the end
of March when the unit’s chief investigator,  David Weber ,
alleged that Kotz may have had a personal relationship that
tainted reports on the agency’s failure to catch the Bernard
Madoff and R. Allen Stanford Ponzi schemes, according to a copy
of a March 23 complaint from Weber to the Council of the
Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency.  Williams, who was a special agent with the U.S. Secret
Service, has been an inspector general at five agencies,
including the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Treasury
Department and the  Social Security Administration , according to
his official biography.  For more, click here.  Swedish Banks Can Withstand Euro Crisis Fallout, Riksbank Says  Sweden’s central bank said lenders in the largest Nordic
economy can withstand a deepening of the euro-zone’s debt crisis
as speculation mounts the currency bloc may splinter.  Loan losses will remain limited and earnings increase, the
Riksbank said in its twice-yearly financial stability report
June 1. Banks are “well-capitalized” and have limited exposure
to Europe’s most indebted countries, it said.  “According to the Riksbank’s stress tests, the major banks
would be able to cope with much weaker economic development in
the period ahead,” the Riksbank said  Sweden is imposing tougher capital standards for its four
biggest lenders than the minimum set by the European Union and
those recommended by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and  SEB AB (SEBA) 
will need to meet common equity Tier 1 capital ratios of at
least 10 percent from 2013, and 12 percent two years later.  The prospect of a euro-zone breakup has risen following
inclusive May 6 elections in Greece in which bailout-hostile
parties won the most votes. The risk of the currency bloc
disintegrating is “significant” if further reforms aren’t
carried out, Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli
Rehn said in Helsinki June 1.  For more, click here.  Russian Regulator Limits More Banks on Deposits, Vedomosti Says  Russia’s central bank is more frequently preventing problem
banks from raising deposits after First Deputy Chairman Alexei
Simanovsky became the body’s top regulator, Vedomosti  reported .  About 60 Russian banks are under orders from the central
bank not to increase their deposits above a certain level, the
Moscow-based newspaper reported, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the central bank’s statistics.  The orders, which most often last for half a year, have
been handed down more often in the past three months, the
newspaper said, citing the unidentified person.  Courts  Hontex Seeks to Halt Hong Kong Regulator’s IPO Compensation Case  Hontex International Holdings Co. (946)  sought to halt a lawsuit
seeking compensation for investors who, Hong Kong’s securities
regulator said, were misled by the Chinese fabric maker in its
listing prospectus.  The Securities and Futures Commission’s fraud case against
the company should be tried under a criminal and not civil
burden of proof if it proceeds, Hontex’s lawyer Charles Manzoni
told the city’s High Court yesterday.  The Securities and Futures Commission wants to use
HK$997 million ($128 million) of Hontex’s frozen assets to
compensate investors in its 2009 share sale, after saying the
company is criminally liable for misstatements in its
prospectus. In April the SFC revoked the license of an arranger
of the sale and last year a KPMG accountant was cleared of
taking a bribe for his work on the Fujian province-based
company’s prospectus.  SFC Chief Executive Officer Ashley Alder said the case will
be a test of whether Hong Kong investors have recourse when a
listed company’s business, directors and legal incorporation all
exist outside of Hong Kong’s legal jurisdiction.  Alder made the remarks on May 22, two weeks after the
regulator proposed more stringent due diligence requirements for
bankers as well as extending civil and criminal liability to
them for prospectus information.  Hontex manufactures goods in mainland China. Its directors
are in Taiwan and the company is incorporated in the Cayman
Islands.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Hontex
International Holdings Co., HCMP630/2010 in the Hong Kong Court
of First Instance.  Interviews  Westaway Says Spanish Banks Need EFSF Recapitalization  Peter Westaway, chief European economist at  Vanguard Asset
Management , discussed the outlook for Spain and Greece, the
future of the euro and Bank of England monetary policy.  He spoke with Francine Lacqua and Guy Johnson on Bloomberg
Television’s “City Central.”  For the video, click here.  Wal-Mart CEO Mike Duke Defends Retailer Amid Bribery Probe  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  told
employees and shareholders at the company’s annual meeting June
1 that the retailer, whose executives are accused of bribing
Mexican officials, is committed to ethical behavior.  Speaking before 14,000 people in Fayetteville, Arkansas,
Duke addressed an ongoing bribery investigation by the U.S.
Justice Department and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
He said the world’s largest retailer was built by founder  Sam
Walton  on a foundation of ethics and trust and will continue to
behave that way. His comments followed similar statements by Rob
Walton, the company’s chairman and son of the founder.  For the first time since acknowledging an investigation
into bribery allegations in April, Duke spoke about the
accusations and demanded ethical behavior from his company. He
said Wal-Mart is investigating the allegations and will get to
the bottom of the matter.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Matsushita Named to Tackle Insider Trades as Japan FSA Chief  Tadahiro Matsushita, a Japanese Lower House lawmaker, was
named to helm the country’s financial watchdog, replacing
Shozaburo Jimi as the government intensifies probes into insider
trading and accounting fraud.  Matsushita, 73, who like Jimi is a member of the  People’s
New Party , was appointed minister for the Financial Services
Agency as part of changes to the Cabinet that were announced in
a government statement in Tokyo today.  He will take responsibility for rebuilding confidence in
Japanese financial markets following corporate scandals
including insider trading, Olympus Corp.’s accounting fraud, and
more than $1 billion in pension fund investment losses.
Matsushita will take over investigations spearheaded by the FSA
and its watchdog arm, the Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission, into information leaks ahead of share sales
including Nippon Sheet Glass Co., Inpex Corp. Tokyo Electric
Power Co. and Mizuho Financial Group Inc. The SESC is also
probing underwriters responsible for the stock offerings.  BOE Says Bailey to Replace Sants on Financial Policy Committee  The Bank of England said Andrew Bailey will replace
Financial Services Authority Chief Executive Officer Hector
Sants as a member of the interim Financial Policy Committee when
he leaves in June.  Bailey, who had already been announced as Sants’
replacement as the Head of the Prudential Business Unit, will be
a voting member of the interim FPC, the London-based central
bank said in an e-mailed statement released June 1. The FSA
announced the resignation of Sants in March.  Bailey’s appointment will be on an interim basis until a
Chief Executive of the  Prudential Regulation Authority  and
Deputy Governor of the Bank of England for Prudential Regulation
has been named and taken up their position, the Bank of England
said.  JPMorgan Names Bacon Deputy Risk Chief After $2 Billion Loss  JPMorgan Chase & Co. named Ashley Bacon deputy chief risk
officer as the firm overhauls risk management following a
$2 billion trading loss in its chief investment office.  Bacon will retain his role as head of firmwide market risk,
according to a memo June 1 to employees from Chief Risk Officer
John Hogan. Bacon has been helping the New York-based company
unwind the money-losing positions.  Stephen Eichenberger was appointed wholesale chief credit
officer, in addition to his role as chief credit officer for the
investment bank, the memo shows. Sam Ramsey will take an
expanded role overseeing risks for all consumer businesses.
Marge Hannum will head consumer practices for cards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 