-- EU Too Complex for Debt Fix, Blanchflower Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-04T16:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/eu-too-complex-for-debt-fix-blanchflower-says-tom-keene.html
The European Union may have missed
its best chance to stem the region’s debt crisis and its complex
institutional structure will complicate future efforts,
according to Dartmouth College’s  David Blanchflower .  Any relief attempts will require working around existing
legislation and cooperation across governments, which is time-
consuming and inefficient, Blanchflower said.  “This contagion is spreading faster than we can stop
now,” Blanchflower, an economics professor at Dartmouth and
former  Bank of England  policy maker, said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“You need to do something in a week, and it would take these
guys a year to work it out.”  With markets bracing for further deterioration in Spain’s
finance sector and a possible Greek departure from the 17-member
euro area, Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  on June 2 added
his voice to calls for a “banking union” in  Europe  involving a
centralized system to re-capitalize lenders.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  shut off another crisis-
fighting avenue the same day as she toughened her opposition to
euro-area debt sharing, saying that “under no circumstances”
would she agree to euro bonds.  Paul De Grauwe, a professor at the London School of
Economics & Political Science, has proposed a blanket  bond
markdown  across Europe. European nations lack the cooperation
required to execute such a plan, Blanchflower said.  ‘Done Nothing’  “The problem is you can’t do it fast enough,” he said.
“We’ve had 18 meetings that have absolutely done nothing. The
institutional structure in Europe is such that it just takes so
long to actually do anything.”  Yields on German two-year notes fell below zero for the
first time ever last week as investors fled riskier sovereign
debt. Spanish bonds dropped for a fourth week, pushing the
country’s  10-year yields  above 6.5 percent -- nearing the 7
percent threshold which triggered the three earlier bailouts.  Spain plans to sell bonds maturing in 2014, 2016 and 2022
on June 7. The amount hasn’t yet been set. Blanchflower
estimates that the nation will need to raise about 500 billion
euros ($625 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  