-- Europe Should Use Bloc’s Rescue Fund to Save Banks, Borg Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-06-04T10:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/europe-should-use-bloc-s-rescue-fund-to-save-banks-borg-says.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said euro-area members should “seriously” consider tapping the
region’s rescue fund to help troubled banks as the debt crisis
worsens.  “It would be good if they from the European side could
provide slightly more clarity about how these firewalls should
be used so that they perhaps could have a little bit more of a
flexible view on the banks,” he told reporters today in
 Stockholm . “It would be a measure they should think about;
whether the European Stability Mechanism should get a slightly
more flexible role.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  on June 2 called for a
more robust “banking union” in  Europe , lending his support for a
centralized system to re-capitalize struggling lenders. Concern
over the future of the euro was rekindled last month as Spain’s
bank industry showed signs of further deterioration and
speculation grows over a Greek exit from the 17-member bloc.  Any bank help should have “significant haircuts” and be
done through common equity, Borg said. “Then there is a
possibility to get the money back.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on June 2 toughened her
opposition to euro-area debt sharing, telling members of her
party in Berlin that “under no circumstances” would she agree to
German-backed euro bonds. The European Union is targeting July 9
as the start date for its permanent euro-area rescue fund, the
500 billion-euro ($620 billion) ESM, an EU official said last
week.  Difficult See  “It’s difficult to see how we can sort things out without
dealing with crisis banks,” said Borg, whose country isn’t a
member of the euro bloc. “If they leave Spain to its own
devices, then there is a big risk that this crisis just
continues and that, in the end, Spain will be forced into a
bailout package.”  The  European debt crisis  has so far pushed Ireland, Greece
and Portugal to resort to bailouts as it has entered its third
year. Europe’s economy is struggling to escape recession as
euro-area unemployment has reached a record, manufacturing
output contracted for a 10th straight month in May and the
currency plunged close to a two-year low against the  U.S.
dollar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  