-- Euro-Area Producer-Price Inflation Slows for Seventh Month
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-06-04T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/euro-area-producer-price-inflation-slows-for-seventh-month.html
Euro-area  producer-price inflation 
slowed for a seventh month in April, led by lower energy costs,
as the deepening economic slump curbed price pressures.  Factory-gate prices  in the 17-nation euro region rose 2.6
percent from a year earlier, the weakest annual gain since March
2010, after rising a revised 3.5 percent in March, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists
had forecast an increase of 2.7 percent, the median of 18
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed. April producer
prices were unchanged compared with the prior month.  Crude-oil prices have retreated about 19 percent over the
past two months, easing cost pressure on companies as the euro
area’s economic slump worsens. With  economic confidence  at the
lowest in 2 1/2 years and unemployment currently at a record 11
percent, the  European Central Bank  may have to lower  interest
rates  as soon as July, according to economists such as at IHS
Global Insight and ING Bank.  Declining oil prices are among indicators suggesting that
“inflation risks are easing appreciably and the ECB has
increasing scope to take interest rates lower,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS in  London , in an e-
mailed note ahead of today’s report. “We now expect the ECB to
trim interest rates in the third quarter, with July a very real
possibility.”  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, prices rose 2.4
percent from a year earlier, after increasing 3.4 percent in
March, today’s data showed. France, Spain and Italy all reported
slowing price growth.  Energy Costs  Energy costs on the producer level advanced 6.8 percent in
April from a year earlier after rising 9 percent in the previous
month, the report showed. Annual price growth of intermediate
goods was 0.6 percent, down from 0.9 percent, and costs of
capital goods rose 1.1 percent in the year.  Euro-area inflation at the consumer level slowed to 2.4
percent in May, the weakest since February 2011, and households
grew more pessimistic about their ability to save over the
coming year. European unemployment reached 11 percent in March
and April, the highest since euro-area records began in 1995.  The ECB, which cut its  benchmark rate  in the fourth quarter
to 1 percent, matching a record low, will hold its next monetary
assessment on June 6. It will also publish its latest inflation
projections for this year and next.  ING said in an e-mailed note on June 1 that the ECB has
room to lower borrowing costs given the latest economic data.  “Lower inflation, collapsing confidence indicators and
weak monetary data have once again illustrated the  dire state  of
the euro-zone economy,” it said. Still, the ECB “will wait at
least another month.”  The annual producer-price inflation rate for March in the 
euro area was revised higher to 3.5 percent from 3.3 percent
estimated earlier, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  