-- Ex-Blackwater Guards Lose Bid to End Iraq Shooting Cases
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-06-04T14:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/ex-blackwater-guards-lose-bid-to-end-iraq-shooting-cases.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  refused to
consider throwing out manslaughter and weapons charges against
four former Blackwater Worldwide security guards stemming from
2007 shootings in  Baghdad  that killed 14 Iraqi civilians.  The former guards, who were working as U.S. government
contractors in  Iraq , said in their appeal to the high court the
cases against them were based on information from post-shooting
interviews with State Department officials. Because they were
threatened with firing if they refused to give statements, the
use of that information by prosecutors violates their
constitutional rights against self-incrimination, the men said.  A federal judge in Washington dismissed the charges,
agreeing that prosecutors violated the Constitution’s Fifth
Amendment by using the guards’ statements to help guide their
investigation, identify individuals to prosecute and gather
evidence.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the District of Columbia
Circuit last year reinstated the cases and sent them back to the
trial court. The court ordered the judge to conduct a more
thorough review to separate information the prosecutors obtained
independently from material based on self-incriminating
interviews.  The Supreme Court today left the appeals court order
intact. The guards had asked the justices to restrict the
government’s ability to rely on compelled, self-incriminating
testimony as a guide to further investigation and to prevent
prosecutors from directly using the information as evidence.
Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in today’s action.  Name Change  The security firm formerly known as Blackwater has changed
its name to Academi LLC and is based in the  Washington  suburb of
Arlington, Virginia.  The guards, who were hired to protect State Department
personnel, are accused of shooting at unarmed civilians near
Nisur Square in Baghdad after a car bomb exploded in September
2007.  The men say members of their unit shot in self-defense
after coming under fire from insurgents. Prosecutors allege that
they opened fire “recklessly and unjustifiably,” according to
the government’s Supreme Court filing.  The case is Slough v. U.S., 11-591.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  