-- MF Global Trustee May Bring Corzine Negligence Claims
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-05T03:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/mf-global-trustee-believes-claims-may-be-made-against-corzine.html
Jon Corzine , the former chairman of
bankrupt MF Global Holdings Ltd., may face claims for breach of
fiduciary duty and negligence for his role in the company’s
downfall, according to a report by the trustee liquidating the
firm’s brokerage.  “Liquidity had been a cause for concern before and
throughout Mr. Corzine’s tenure at MF Global, yet systems and
tools that would enable accurate real time monitoring of
liquidity were never implemented,” James Giddens, the trustee
for MF Global Inc., said in a 275-page report issued today on
how the brokerage failed, leaving a $1.6 billion shortfall in
what should have been protected customer accounts.  Giddens found that though a “liquidity asphyxiation” led
directly to MF Global’s demise in the week leading up to Oct.
31, Corzine’s efforts to make the company more profitable
resulted in liquidity problems much earlier. Corzine also
instructed MF Global’s former assistant treasurer, Edith O’Brien, to make a $175 million transfer on Oct. 28 to pay down
an overdraft balance with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in London, even
though there was a lack of information that day about the firm’s
liquidity, Giddens said.  That transaction was one of many that left customers short
when MF Global Holdings filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy. Before the filing, a $6.3 billion trade on its own
behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most indebted nations led to
credit downgrades and margin calls.  Alternative Accounting  The trustee’s report, which relies on interviews with more
than 100 people and a forensic investigation by Ernst & Young
LLP accountants, describes how company employees used
alternative accounting methods for foreign customer accounts and
loose wording in regulations to borrow more than prudent from
customer funds -- resulting in a $1.6 billion shortfall to what
customers of the former futures merchant are owed.  Giddens didn’t make specific recommendations on potential
criminal liability, saying those are beyond the scope of the
report. Corzine, the former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., told lawmakers in December that he “never gave any
instruction to misuse customer funds.”  John Moscow, a former prosecutor in the office of Robert Morgenthau, now with Baker Hostetler LLP in  New York , sees
criminal implications in the actions of executives who,
according to Giddens, tapped segregated customer accounts when
they needed extra liquidity for proprietary trading, returning
the money before the end of the day.  Crime Completed  “The crime of wrongful taking has been completed, if there
is an obligation to hold onto money for a customer, and the
money is withdrawn to be used to cover other positions, and is
then returned,” Moscow said.  While CFTC rules require regulatory compliance at all
times, “some MFGI employees did not consider the transfers to
have any regulatory implications,” as long as the funds were
returned before the end of each day, Giddens said in his report.  Also facing claims are O’Brien and Henri Steenkamp, the
firm’s chief financial officer. O’Brien invoked her
constitutional right against self-incrimination at a
congressional hearing in March, disappointing lawmakers seeking
answers to questions about frantic money transfers during the
company’s final days in October.  ‘Valid Claims’  Giddens said he will pursue claims through litigation and
negotiation, starting to sue within 60 days.  “I have determined there may be valid claims against
individuals and entities,” Giddens said in the report. “In my
capacity as trustee, I will make every effort to ensure that
such claims result in the greatest possible returns to
customers.”  Giddens also said he’s in discussions with JPMorgan Chase,
MF Global’s largest lender and the repository of its customer
accounts, regarding money transfers that may be “voidable or
otherwise recoverable.” In the days leading up to MF Global’s
collapse, the bank increased margin requirements, reduced
intraday and overnight loans to the company and took other steps
to limit its exposure to the company’s troubles.  Giddens said JPMorgan has returned about $89.2 million in
customer property and $518.4 million in non-segregated
unallocated MF Global Inc. assets. He may sue the New York-based
bank if he can’t reach an agreement on further returns of money,
he said.  Safe Harbors  Giddens found that any lawsuits against JPMorgan and other
counterparties to transfers made in the bank’s final weeks may
be complicated by the “safe harbor” provision of the
 bankruptcy code , which protects parties who claim they had no
knowledge of fraud. JPMorgan may argue that it simply acted as a
custodial bank for some intercompany transfers, Giddens said.
Other companies that received MF Global customer funds in its
final days may also qualify for safe harbor protections, his
report found.  The same “safe harbor” rules likely apply to customers,
the trustee said. That means that customers who took money out
of their accounts before the collapse probably can’t be sued to
recover money for distribution to all creditors, the trustee
said.  Criminal cases would be hard to bring nonetheless, because
prosecutors would have to prove MF Global managers “willfully”
broke CFTC and SEC rules, said  Peter Henning , a former
Securities and Exchange Commission lawyer who teaches at  Wayne
State University  in  Detroit .  “I can see a civil enforcement act, but I think criminal
is a stretch on this type of technical violation,” he said in
an e-mail. “It does show that (like Icarus) MF Global
intentionally flew close to the sun, willing to push the rules.
And it also shows how odd the commodities rules are, because you
can’t ‘‘temporarily borrow’’ funds like that in a securities
firm.”  ‘Management Actions’  Mary Sedarat, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, and  Reid Weingarten ,
a lawyer for O’Brien, declined to comment on Giddens’s report.  “The trustee’s report is consistent with Mr. Corzine’s
congressional testimony that he did not direct or intend to
direct the misuse of customer funds,” Steven Goldberg, a
Corzine spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We simply do not agree
with the trustee’s suggestion that Mr. Corzine was negligent or
there is any other basis to sue him.”  Giddens found that “contrary to some public reports, the
shortfall of customer property at MFGI was not caused by direct
investment of customer funds in sovereign debt or even by losses
on proprietary investments such as the sovereign debt,” but
rather “the actions of management and other employees, along
with lack of sufficient monitoring and systems,” which led to
customer property being used to fund margin calls on the
European sovereign debt investments.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the
company’s regulator, requires customer funds to be segregated.
It also allows futures merchants to withdraw customer funds for
their own use, within certain limits. They also can put the
company’s own funds into customer accounts to keep them from
being “under-segregated.”  Perceived ‘Excess’  Giddens found that MF Global employees looked at how they
could use customer funds amid increasing liquidity troubles
during the spring and summer, drawing on two sources of
perceived “excess.”  There was a perceived $1 billion in what the company called
“regulatory excess” -- an amount based on a so-called
alternative accounting method the CFTC allowed for foreign
customer accounts. The method, which differed from the
accounting method for domestic accounts, allows less than the
total amount of customer funds to be secured in segregated
accounts, Giddens said in his report.  There was also a perceived excess at domestic accounts,
which the company called “Firm Invested in Excess.” It was the
amount which MF Global put into customer accounts that helped to
keep the funds from becoming “under-segregated” by providing a
cushion to prevent a shortfall in customer funds if there was a
change in margin requirements from daily market movements.  Borrowing Rejected  As the company’s liquidity needs intensified, senior
management looked to those excess amounts to fund its own
trading, Giddens found. For example, on July 12, 2011, senior
management proposed that the cash-starved proprietary securities
business borrow $250 million on a regular overnight basis from
the “Regulatory Excess.” After consulting with outside
lawyers, the proposal was rejected on the grounds it would
create a risk to customer funds.  Some of the “Regulatory Excess” was used for intraday
funding of the firm’s proprietary activities, though, through
what the company called an intraday “loan” from the Treasury
Department in  Chicago . As long as the funds were returned by the
end of the trading day, “some MFGI employees” didn’t consider
this a regulatory violation, Giddens wrote.  Some employees interpreted the wording of CFTC rules, which
required that segregation calculations be done “as of the close
of each business day,” to mean that customer funds could be
used intraday, Giddens said. He didn’t identify the employees.  Customer Withdrawals  At the same time, MF Global changed how it funded customer
withdrawals. In the spring and summer of 2011, it started
drawing on foreign customer accounts, instead of money generated
by its proprietary trading business. This wasn’t a problem
before October, when typical withdrawals were less than $60
million a week -- an amount covered by the “Firm Invested in
Excess.”  When credit downgrades and concerns about MF Global’s large
sovereign debt portfolio sparked a run on the bank in late
October, the rush of customer withdrawals and increases in
collateral and margin requirements led to “liquidity
asphyxiation,” Giddens wrote.  For example, on Oct. 26,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
which provided clearing services to MF Global, “drastically
increased” its collateral requirement for overnight financing
of an $85 million loan by the brokerage unit.  ‘Negative Balance’  The bank also debited MF Global $500 million on Oct. 26 and
$1 billion on Oct. 27, causing its transactions through the
bank’s clearing system to be delayed as they required  BNY
Mellon ’s approval. Giddens found there was no transaction or
event tied to the debits and they were “arbitrary and were
entered to artificially create a negative balance with the bank
and delay transactions.”  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York Mellon,
declined to comment.  In MF Global’s final days, several large transfers led to
the shortfall in customer funds, Giddens said. On Oct. 26, $615
million was moved from customer accounts to fund proprietary
trading. The money wasn’t returned by the end of the business
day, throwing the company out of regulatory compliance, he said.  JPMorgan Transfer  A $175 million transfer to clear an overdraft balance at
JPMorgan Chase in  London  on Oct. 28 made matters worse, Giddens
found.  In his conclusion, Giddens proposes measures that could
prevent future disasters like MF Global, such as abolishing the
alternative calculation method for foreign accounts and
requiring that more than 100 percent of the value of customer
funds be segregated as a “cushion” for customer funds.  He also suggests a rule by Congress that would make
directors and officers of a company personally and civilly
liable for any shortfall in customer funds without allowing them
to defend themselves on the basis that they delegated essential
duties.  The MF Global trustee indicated he may be hampered in his
lawsuit by current limitations on his powers to recover customer
money. He wants Congress to clarify a trustee’s rights to take
the necessary actions in the future, he said.  “I am pleased the Trustee has shed light on the chaos
between October 26 and Halloween,” said U.S. Senator Pat Roberts, a Republican from  Kansas , in a statement today. He said
that after all investigations into the brokerage’s failure are
complete, he will work with regulators and customers to
strengthen safeguards around customer accounts.  U.K. Accounts  The brokerage customer shortfall consists of $900 million
that should be in U.S. customers’ commodity and brokerage
accounts, and about $700 million owed to customers who traded on
foreign exchanges, which Giddens is seeking through U.K.
proceedings.  Restoring all of customers’ money will depend on success in
those proceedings, as well as through lawsuits and negotiations
with other parties, Giddens said. He also needs to transfer non-
segregated funds to customer accounts to erase the shortfall
completely, he said.  The company’s general unsecured creditors have a “low”
chance of getting substantial returns, he said.  Giddens is also talking with MF Global’s insurers about
coverage for the lawsuits he may file against former managers,
he said.  Giddens has been liquidating the former brokerage under the
Securities Investor Protection Act to repay customers. At the
same time, parent company  MF Global Holdings (MFGLQ)  is unwinding in
bankruptcy to repay creditors. The parent’s trustee,  Louis Freeh , is expected to issue his own report today on a separate
probe into how the company failed.  Trustee Disputes  In prior progress reports, the two trustees have disputed
whether certain assets belong to customers or creditors.
Distributions set in motion by Giddens so far are predicted to
return about 80 percent of what U.S. customers are owed.  Firms buying MF Global customer claims in the  debt market ,
based on what they think the customers will eventually be
repaid, have been buying claims for as much as 95 cents on the
dollar for U.S. accounts, while customers trading on foreign
exchanges have been getting around 70 cents for selling their
claims, according to a group, Commmodity Customer Coalition.  Giddens’s firm is charging $20.1 million for its work
liquidating the defunct brokerage in the period from Oct. 31 to
Feb. 29, with $17.1 million to be paid first and another $3
million subject to a second court order, according to a filing
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan  today.  MF Global Holdings’ Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing listed
assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7 billion.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  