-- Facebook’s CEO Pressed by Lawmakers on Users Under Age 13
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/facebook-is-said-to-explore-giving-access-to-children-under-13.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is taking heat from
U.S. lawmakers after reports that the company is exploring ways
to let children under 13 onto its social network.  The co-chairmen of the Bi-Partisan Congressional Privacy
Caucus, Texas Republican  Joe Barton  and Massachusetts Democrat
 Edward Markey , sent a letter to Facebook Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Zuckerberg  yesterday asking him to provide details on the
company’s plans for allowing access to children under age 13,
who fall under stricter regulations around online privacy.  Facebook is looking at ways to let younger children use its
website, though the company hasn’t made a final decision on
whether or how to give them access, said a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private. While the move would expand Facebook’s
user base, it would also invite further scrutiny over privacy
and security on the world’s largest social network.  “We strongly believe that children and their personal
information should not be viewed as a source of revenue,” the
representatives wrote in the letter. “We are deeply concerned
that the changes discussed by Facebook could potentially have a
harmful impact on our children.”  Children 12 and younger are protected by the 1998
 Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act , which requires
websites to notify parents and obtain their consent before
collecting personal data from minors.  Complying with this law while opening Facebook’s service to
younger users could create technical challenges, said  Jeff Chester , executive director of the  Center for Digital Democracy ,
a Washington-based privacy group.  Privacy Protection  “Facebook can’t simply get a parent to say OK and have
children face a slew of viral marketing and ad campaigns,”
Chester said. “If Facebook is to serve children, they have to
create a state-the-art system to protect their privacy.”  Still, many children are already accessing the site, and
 Menlo Park , California-based Facebook said in a statement that
it’s looking for ways to help keep young kids safe while on
social networks.  In May 2011,  Consumer Reports  said a survey showed that
Facebook had 7.5 million users who were younger than 13 in the
prior year, in violation of the website’s policies. More than 5
million of the users were under age 11, the watchdog group said.  “Many recent reports have highlighted just how difficult
it is to enforce age restrictions on the Internet, especially
when parents want their children to access online content and
services,” Facebook said in an e-mailed statement. “We are in
continuous dialogue with stakeholders, regulators and other
policymakers about how best to help parents keep their kids safe
in an evolving online environment.”  New Technology  The company is seeking ways to expand its user base and
find new sources of revenue as concerns mount about its sales
growth. Since its initial public offering May 18, Facebook
shares have tumbled 29 percent. The social network has swelled
to more than 900 million members worldwide, yet growth in
advertising revenue has failed to keep pace as more users access
the site from mobile devices.  Facebook -- already accused by regulators of failing to
protect members’ privacy -- must be careful to shield young
users and keep them safe online, said U.S. Representative Mary Bono Mack, a California Republican.  ‘Abundance of Caution’  “In developing this new technology, Facebook needs to
proceed with an abundance of caution,” said Bono Mack, who
heads a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee that has looked
at online privacy issues, in an e-mailed statement. “Very
strict privacy protocols must be in place before younger
children are allowed on social-networking sites. Before this
happens, Facebook also has a responsibility to expand its
efforts to educate parents and preteens about the dangers of
cyberspace and how to use the Internet and social networking in
a safe way.”  The  Wall Street Journal  reported earlier that Facebook was
developing technology to let younger children use its website
under parental supervision.  Allowing children to access Facebook at a younger age could
help the company educate a new generation of users about its
service, much as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has introduced children to its
product line through the iPod music player, said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in  San Francisco .  “Maybe there is a way to engage kids with a free service
with no advertising, but with strict policies which protect
children -- that might be smart of them,” Sebastian said.  Any attempt to court children at a young age to build
loyalty with them is likely to meet still more criticism, said
James Steyer, CEO of  Common Sense Media .  “What Facebook is proposing is similar to the strategies
used by Big Tobacco in appealing to young people -- try to hook
kids early, build your brand, and you have a customer for
life,” Steyer said in a statement. “What’s next? Facebook for
toddlers?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 