-- Facebook Hits Record Low After Bernstein Questions Stock
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-06-04T20:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/facebook-drops-after-bernstein-sets-25-target-price.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s biggest
social-networking company, tumbled to a record low after Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. initiated coverage with an underperform
rating and a $25 target price.  The  shares  fell 3 percent to $26.90 at the close in New
York, the lowest price since the stock began trading at $38 on
May 18. The stock has lost 29 percent since the IPO.  “It is difficult to argue for owning the stock today,”
said Carlos Kirjner, an analyst at Bernstein in New York, in a
research report today.  At the time of its initial public offering, underwriters
led by Morgan Stanley set a price that valued Facebook at 107
times reported earnings in the past 12 months, more than every
 Standard & Poor’s  500 stock except two. Facebook and Morgan
Stanley have faced criticism for increasing the number of shares
to be sold in the IPO by 25 percent to 421.2 million days before
the offering and pushing up the asking price.  Facebook’s gains in advertising, which drives a majority of
its revenue, aren’t keeping pace with growth in its user base as
more members access the site through handheld devices. The Menlo
Park, California-based company only recently introduced an
advertising service for mobile users, and the platform hasn’t
yet generated meaningful revenue, Facebook said last month.  ‘Temporary Setback’  A near-term slowdown in sales growth will fuel investor
concerns about full-year 2013 sales, Kirjner said. The
deceleration may “prove to be a temporary setback if, over
time, Facebook manages to improve monetization of its inventory,
both PC- and mobile-based, and maximize the value of social
advertising,” Kirjner said.  Facebook is exploring ways to let children under 13 onto
its social network, a person with knowledge of the matter said,
a move that would expand its user base while inviting more
scrutiny over privacy and security.  The  Menlo Park , California-based company hasn’t made a
final decision on whether or how to give access to children
younger than 13 years old, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private.  “Facebook is trying to use children to desperately boost
its ad revenues now that it’s gone public,” said  Jeff Chester ,
executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a
Washington-based privacy group.  Children’s Access  Many children are already accessing the site, and Facebook
said in a statement that it’s looking for ways to help keep
young kids safe while on social networks.  “Many recent reports have highlighted just how difficult
it is to enforce age restrictions on the Internet, especially
when parents want their children to access online content and
services,” Facebook said in an e-mailed statement. “We are in
continuous dialogue with stakeholders, regulators and other
policymakers about how best to help parents keep their kids safe
in an evolving online environment.”  The Wall Street Journal reported on the plans earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  