-- Factory Orders in U.S. Unexpectedly Dropped in April
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-04T19:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/factory-orders-in-u-s-unexpectedly-decline-for-second-month.html
Orders to U.S. factories unexpectedly
fell in April for a second month, pointing to a deceleration in
manufacturing as the global economy cools.  Bookings dropped 0.6 percent after a revised 2.1 percent
decrease in March, the first back-to-back declines in more than
three years, figures from the Commerce Department showed today
in Washington. Economists projected a 0.2 percent gain,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Slowdowns in  Europe  and parts of  Asia  combined with a
cooling in business spending in the U.S. following a reduction
in a government tax credit may limit manufacturing this year. A
falloff in hiring may also be causing American households to
curb spending on big-ticket items like autos, eliminating
another source of strength.  “We’re in a period now where the economy is cooling,”
said Robert Dye , chief economist at Comerica Inc. in  Dallas ,
who projected orders would drop. “Businesses are getting more
defensive as they think about the uncertainty they face the rest
of this year.”  Stocks dropped, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
down more than 10 percent from this year’s high. The 500 Index
fell 0.3 percent to 1,274.74 at 3:43 p.m. in  New York .  Estimates for total factory orders in the Bloomberg survey
of 61 economists ranged from a decline of 1 percent to an
increase of 1.1 percent. The Commerce Department revised the
March figure from a previously estimated 1.9 percent decrease.  Consecutive Declines  The last time bookings decreased in consecutive months was
in February and March 2009.  Excluding transportation equipment, factory orders fell 1.1
percent in April after a 0.7 percent decrease the prior month.  Bookings for durable goods, those meant to least at least
three years, were unchanged in April, less than the 0.2 percent
gain the government reported on May 24. Demand for non-durable
goods, including petroleum, dropped 1.1 percent.  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, decreased
2.1 percent after falling 2.3 percent in March, bigger declines
than the government reported last month.  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, dropped 1.5 percent after a 1.8 percent
gain the prior month.  Business investment has cooled in recent months, offering
less of a lift to the expansion. The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.9
percent annual rate in the first quarter after advancing at a 3
percent pace in the last three months of 2011. Spending on
equipment and software added 0.3 point to growth, smaller than
any contribution last year.  Tax Credit  The expiration at the end of 2011 of a tax incentive
allowing 100 percent depreciation on equipment purchases may
have prompted a slowdown in investments this year. The allowance
for 2012 is 50 percent.  Foreign demand will also probably weaken as economies
elsewhere lose momentum. Growth in the 17-nation euro region
stagnated in the first quarter from the same time in 2011.
 China’s economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first three months
of 2012 from a year earlier, the slowest pace in 11 quarters.  Motor vehicles and parts orders decreased 0.5 percent in
April after a 2 percent gain, today’s report showed.  Sales of cars and light trucks slowed to a 13.7 million
annual rate in May, the weakest so far this year, industry data
from Ward’s Automotive Group showed last week. Purchases in the
first four months of 2012 ran at the fastest pace in four years.  Hiring Slows  The labor market stumbled in May as employers added the
fewest workers in a year and the  unemployment rate  rose, figures
from the Labor Department showed last week.  Payrolls climbed by 69,000 last month, less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey, after a revised
77,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated.
The jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.  Factory inventories were little changed in April, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.28 months at
the current sales pace, the same as in March.  Other reports indicate manufacturing is still plugging
ahead, albeit more slowly than last year. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s factory index  cooled  to 53.5 in May from
54.8 in April, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said last week.
Readings above 50 signal growth. In April, the barometer hit a
10-month high.  A Federal Reserve measure showed manufacturing output,
which makes up about 75 percent of industrial production,
 rebounded  in April.  “The U.S. industrial economy remains pointed in a very
positive direction,” Timothy Tevens, president and chief
executive officer of Columbus McKinnon Corp. said in a May 24
earnings call. The Amherst, New York-based maker of hoists,
cranes and rigging tools is seeing “huge projects” from Deere
& Co., a benefit from oil and gas extraction and basic
manufacturing that’s doing well, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  