-- Fed May Buy More Mortgage Bonds on Weak Jobs, Banks Say
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-06-04T19:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/fed-may-buy-more-mortgage-bonds-on-weak-jobs-banks-say.html
The  Federal Reserve  is more likely to
buy additional government-backed mortgage securities after the
pace of U.S. job creation slowed, underscoring the economy’s
 fragility , according to Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Analysts at the banks joined researchers at Bank of America
Corp., Barclays Plc and Nomura Securities International in
saying the odds are greater that Fed will add to its current
program of reinvesting in the $5.4 trillion market with proceeds
from past buying in reports published June 1. That day,
benchmark Treasury yields fell to record lows after data showed
the U.S. added 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year and less
than the most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  With Morgan Stanley’s economists and interest-rate
strategists now assigning 80 percent odds to a third round of
so-called quantitative easing from the Fed, its mortgage-bond
analysts including Vipul Jain and Janaki Rao wrote that QE3 may
involve about $200 billion in additional purchases of home-loan
debt over nine months, almost doubling the current program.  The Fed is already buying a “fairly significant portion”
of agency mortgage-bond issuance and will be focused on “smooth
market functioning,” limiting how much it more can buy, the New
York-based analysts wrote.  The amount could be about twice as big if the Fed decides
to acquire larger amounts of 15-year securities and Ginnie Mae
debt, which it’s been buying a smaller share of than 30-year and
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac securities because the notes aren’t
“as directly supportive of the policy goals,” they said. The
analysts recommended a “modest overweight” on Fannie Mae 3
percent and 3.5 percent notes relative to benchmark debt.  Operation Twist?  The Fed may choose to make a new round of its so-called
Operation Twist involving acquisitions of mortgage securities,
rather than Treasuries, instead of embarking on QE3, JPMorgan
mortgage-bond analysts led by Matt Jozoff wrote. The size may be
as much $100 billion to $200 billion, said the analysts, whose
bank’s economists now see 50 percent odds of QE3 in mortgages.
The analysts said they remained “overweight” agency mortgage
bonds for several reasons.  The difference between yields on a Bloomberg index for
Fannie Mae current-coupon bonds and an average of five- and 10-
year Treasuries was 0.02 percentage point more than the 2012
average at 1.46 percentage point as of 3 p.m. in  New York , down
from an average of 1.58 percent last year. That’s a spread
metric often used by investors.  ‘Unprecedented Environment’  Bloomberg current-coupon indexes usually represent the
average of yields for the two groups of mortgage bonds with
prices just above and below face value; the ones that lenders
typically package new loans into.  Currently, Fannie Mae 2.5 percent securities aren’t trading
actively, reducing the effectiveness of this market gauge.  “We are in an unprecedented environment and the standard
analytical tools for the mortgage market are facing significant
challenges,” the Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.  Nomura Securities International analysts including Ohmsatya Ravi and Ankur Mehta said they do not believe QE3 is the “most
likely outcome,” though the odds have increased. They recommend
a “neutral stance” on agency mortgage securities with the
lowest coupons.  “We maintain a modest overweight stance on agency MBS with
a down-in-coupon bias,” Bank of America’s mortgage-bond
analysts led by  Chris Flanagan  wrote.  Barclays analysts led by Ajay Rajadhyaksha said Fannie Mae
3 percent securities represent a “strong candidate for QE3.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 