-- Ferdinand’s Agent Slams ‘Disgraceful’ England Treatment: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-04T06:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/ferdinand-s-agent-slams-disgraceful-england-treatment-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Ferdinand Overlooked  England’s reluctance to pick Rio Ferdinand in its European
Championship squad was denounced as “disgraceful” by the
defender’s agent after manager  Roy Hodgson  again overlooked
Ferdinand following Gary Cahill’s injury, the  Guardian reported .  “To treat a player that has captained and served his
country 81 times in this manner is nothing short of
disgraceful,” the Guardian cited Jamie Moralee, Ferdinand’s
agent, as saying. “Total lack of respect from Hodgson and the
F.A. as far as I am concerned.”  Bale’s Future  Tottenham Hotspur winger Gareth Bale has gone on vacation
to consider his Spurs future amid doubts about manager Harry Redknapp’s position at the club, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Spurs are trying to sign Bale to a new long-term contract
and Manchester City and Barcelona are watching developments
after Bale said that he wanted to be playing in the  Champions
League  next season, the Mirror added.  Green to Go  Queens Park Rangers, West Bromwich Albion and Spanish club
Malaga are interested in signing West Ham’s  Robert Green  after
Hammers chairman  David Gold  said the goalkeeper has decided to
leave, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “Robert Green is a free agent he has chosen to move on,”
Gold said on his Twitter account. “Nobody wants Rob to leave
but nothing is forever, he must do what is best for him and we
must do what is best for us.”  Anelka Interest  West Ham, QPR and Tottenham are among the clubs showing an
interest in bringing former Chelsea striker Nicolas Anelka back
to the Premier League from China, the  Daily Mail reported .  Anelka, 33, is keen to return after a stint with Shanghai
Shenhua, though such a move may depend on whether the Chinese
Super League team asks for a transfer fee, the Mail added.  Bellamy’s Olympics Spot  Liverpool forward  Craig Bellamy  revealed he’ll be one of
the three over-age players in the Great Britain soccer squad for
the London Olympics, the  Sun reported .  “I am in the Olympic squad, but I was supposed to keep it
quiet,” the Sun cited the Welsh striker as saying.  Team GB manager Stuart Pearce is scheduled to name his 18-
man roster later this week with  Ryan Giggs ,  Joe Cole  and  David Beckham  all vying to join Bellamy, the Sun added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  