-- Ford Rejected Offloading Pension to Spend on Growth: CFO
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-06-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/ford-rejected-offloading-pension-to-spend-on-growth-cfo.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , which has a $15.4
billion unfunded pension liability, rejected offloading its
retiree obligations as  General Motors Co. (GM)  is doing in favor of
investing on global expansion, new models and paying dividends.  The second-largest U.S. automaker considered shifting its
salaried pension plan to an outside company as GM is doing by
purchasing an annuity with a  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  unit, Bob Shanks, Ford’s chief financial officer, said yesterday. GM said
it will spend $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion to purchase the group
annuity and offer pension buyouts to 42,000 salaried retirees.  “That’s a huge outlay,” Shanks said in an interview in
his office on the 11th floor of Ford’s Dearborn, Michigan,
headquarters. “When we look at our spending plans, look at our
plans for  dividends , look at our plans for pension
contributions, when we think about our growth plans, product
plans. As we do all that, we don’t think we have excess cash.”  Ford is offering lump-sum pension payments to about 98,000
U.S. salaried retirees and former employees. Shanks can’t say
how much that may lower Ford’s global $74 billion pension
liability because it’s unclear how many retirees will take the
buyout. GM said it aims to cut its pension obligation by $26
billion through offering buyouts and creating the annuity.  “We’ve looked at all sorts of options,” Shanks said.
“It’s not like it’s rocket science, there’s only so many things
you can do to de-risk a pension plan. We are comfortable with
what we’ve done thus far.”  ‘Very Personal’  Ford is contributing $3.5 billion to its global pension
plans this year and will begin making buyout offers to salaried
retirees in August, Shanks said. GM’s move to also offer lump-
sum payments to retirees isn’t likely to have any impact on the
take-rate at Ford, Shanks said.  “If it were me, it would be very personal,” Shanks said.
“I’d have my own point of view about how I felt from a
financial perspective. I’d have my point of view about how I
felt about the health of the company because, obviously, by not
taking a lump sum you’re assuming and depending on Ford
continuing as an ongoing operation for the balance of your
lifetime.”  The multi-billion dollar size of the annuity makes GM’s
move a “wow,” Shanks said. No annuity transaction has exceeded
$1 billion since the 1980s, according to insurance broker  Aon
Plc. (AON)   GM’s Plans  “The market has been thin, relatively speaking, in terms
of these types of deals, maybe a billion a year,” Shanks said.
“So to do billions and billions and billions of dollars,
they’ve clearly had to do some really good work with Prudential
to put together a market big enough to accommodate.”  The creation of the annuity gives GM assurance that it can
lower its pension liability by $26 billion, CFO Dan Ammann said
June 1. GM’s global pension obligation of $134 billion was
underfunded by $25.4 billion at the end of last year, up from
$22.2 billion a year earlier, according to a company regulatory
filing.  “We’re offering lump sums similar to what Ford has
proposed,” Ammann said. “For all of the remaining liability
that is left, i.e. what doesn’t get taken up from lump sums,
that is what we are going to transfer to Prudential through the
annuity contract. So one way or another, we know we will move
the entire $26 billion off of our balance sheet.”  Ford fell 0.8 percent to $10.04 at the close in  New York .
The automaker’s shares are down 6.7 percent this year. GM slid
 4.1 percent  to $21.11, the lowest since Jan. 3. The shares are
up 4.1 percent this year.  Ford’s Investments  Ford has earmarked “quite a substantial amount” to fully
fund its pension plans by mid-decade, Shanks said.  The automaker also is spending $4.9 billion to build eight
factories and introduce 15 new models by 2015 in  China , where it
has less than 3 percent of the world’s largest auto market. Ford
this year is boosting factory capacity in  North America  to build
400,000 additional vehicles a year.  Ford resumed paying a dividend in March following a five-
year suspension. The automaker would eventually like to increase
its 5 cents-a-share quarterly payout, Shanks said, without
giving a timetable.  “We’ve got more we’d like to do with dividends down the
road as we continue to grow,” Shanks said. “Clearly, at 5-
cents-a-share, we wouldn’t expect to stay there forever.”  Though Ford continues to look for additional ways to reduce
its pension obligation, Shanks said he doesn’t see any
additional options.  “We’ve looked at everything, at least everything I think
we can think of,” Shanks said. “If someone comes up with
something else, I’m sure we’ll look at that, too. But I think
we’re comfortable with where we are at.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  