-- Fortress Seeks Japan Properties as Sales Loom: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-06-05T06:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/fortress-seeks-japan-properties-as-sales-loom-mortgages.html
Fortress Investment Group (FIG)  and Nomura
Real Estate Holdings Inc. are buying Japanese property as a
record 700 billion yen ($9 billion) of commercial buildings are
set to be sold over the next three years to repay debt.  About 364.6 billion yen worth of properties will be offered
by next year with the rest sold through 2014 as special
servicers that oversee properties tied to defaulted loans sell
buildings to repay lenders, according to Moody’s Investors
Service.  Morgan Stanley Real Estate funds and K.K. DaVinci Holdings,
which ran Japan’s biggest private real estate fund, are among
landlords that defaulted on loans taken on prior to the 2008
global financial crisis, as easy credit inflated values.
Property prices in  Tokyo , which have declined about 40 percent
from their peak in 2007, have been flat this year, signaling the
market is stabilizing, according to CBRE Group Inc.  “The current market has a lack of office building
supply,” said Hirokazu Anai, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Tokyo. “Sales of CMBS-related assets will be a positive for
the market that has enough capital to buy these assets.”  Bonds backed by commercial mortgages linked to everything
from shopping malls to office towers were used to finance $66
billion of property acquisitions in the three years ended 2007,
according to data compiled by Deutsche Bank AG. The annual
volume dropped about 70 percent in 2008 after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy that year and investors
shunned securities that bundle property debt.  The 46-member Topix Real Estate Index gained the most in
more than a month, rising 3 percent at the close in Tokyo today,
while the Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index increased 0.7 percent.  Raising Funds  Fortress, the New York-based asset manager with $46.4
billion, had raised about $650 million as of March 31 for its
second  Japan  fund that will invest in real estate-related debt
and other assets, according to the company’s earnings statement
on May 3. Gordon Runte, a spokesman for Fortress, declined to
comment.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to start as early as July a
private real estate investment trust with as much as 50 billion
yen to invest in office buildings, and some residential and
retail properties mainly in the Tokyo metropolitan area, two
people familiar with the situation said last month, asking not
to be identified because the information is private.  Nomura Real Estate Asset Management Co. (3231) , which set up
Japan’s first private REIT, is acquiring more buildings that
will double the size of the trust.  Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) , the
nation’s biggest developer by sales, has also set up a private
REIT with 72.7 billion yen.  ‘Positive Signs’  “We have seen some positive signs in Japan’s property
market,” said Atsushi Ogata, senior managing director and head
of the fund management division at Nomura Real Estate Asset.
“The office market may be near the bottom if it hasn’t already
bottomed. Investors are finding it a good time to invest and
that is why Goldman also plans to start a private REIT.”  About 507.6 billion yen of loans will mature this year,
with more than half backed by offices, and the rest by
residential, retail and hotel properties, according to the
Moody’s report by Takahiro Okubo, a senior analyst in the
structured finance group.  About 600 billion yen to 700 billion yen of defaulted debt
will have to be redeemed by 2014, according to an estimate by
Koji Kumamaru, managing director in the structured finance group
at Moody’s in Tokyo, who spoke in an interview.  Special Servicers  Commercial mortgage backed securities, or CMBS, parcel
bonds tied to property loans. The so-called tail period begins
when the last loan in a CMBS reaches maturity and ends in about
two to three years in Japan when the securities reach so-called
legal maturity, the time when underlying assets of defaulted
loans must be sold.  So-called special servicers are firms that handle troubled
property loans and are in charge of selling properties after
defaults.  The first default in Japan on loans included in CMBS rated
by  Standard & Poor’s  took place in the second quarter of 2008
and increased to 137 cases with loans totaling 950 billion yen
as of March, according to a May 14 report led by Yuji Hashimoto,
a director at the rating company. Lenders have recovered about
501 billion yen after the underlying properties were sold, the
report showed.  Ichigo Group Holdings Co., a real estate asset manager, has
bought properties from defaulted CMBS and will continue to 
consider them because of a lack of buildings for sale, according
to Wataru Orii, president of  Ichigo REIT Management Co. (8975) , a unit 
of Ichigo.  Vacancy Rate  The office vacancy rate for grade A, or prime, office
buildings in the first quarter rose to 7.3 percent from 6.7
percent in the previous three months, according to DTZ Research.
The transaction volume for buildings of all grades fell 45
percent in the first three months of this year from a year
earlier, signaling a lack of supply of buildings for sale, said
Kayoko Hirao, the head of Japan research at DTZ.  “Banks and other property owners are keeping the assets as
they expect property values to increase,” said Hirao. “This
has led to a low supply of buildings for sale.”  Values of grade A office buildings are about 60 percent of
their peak five years ago, said Andy Hurfurt, an  executive
director  at CBRE in Tokyo.  “It’s this correction that is now making properties in
Tokyo look attractive to investors,” said Hurfurt.  Investment Yield  The capitalization rate, a measure of investment yield for
properties, has declined to 5.57 percent in the first three
months this year from an average of 5.74 percent in the past 12
months, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a  New York- 
based research and consulting company. A drop in the cap rate, a
property’s net income divided by purchase price, usually signals
an increase in property prices.  Japanese Reits, known as J-REITs, that are publicly traded
are also set to double the amount of capital they raise through
share sales this year amid signs of a recovery in the nation’s
property market, according to Deutsche Bank. J-REITs may sell as
much as 500 billion yen worth of shares through public and
secondary offerings in 2012, said  Yoji Otani , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank in Tokyo. A total of 216.3 billion yen of share
sales have been announced this year, compared with 223.8 billion
yen sold in all of 2011, based on data compiled by the bank.  The REIT Index, tracking the country’s 34 trusts, has
gained 6.6 percent this year, helped by the Bank of Japan’s
asset-purchase program aimed at boosting the economy. The
central bank has acquired 90.4 billion yen of J-REITs since it
first began in December 2010.  Buyer Demand  There is a lot of demand from the buyers, said Kiyokazu Ishinabe, executive officer and the head of CMBS Servicing
Headquarters at Orix Asset Management & Loan Services Corp.,
which has sold more than 300 buildings since 2008.  “Residential properties have been the most popular among
investors based on its stable return,” said Ishinabe. “Since
last year, investors have expanded their interest into other
types of properties such as office buildings and commercial
facilities.”  In Japan, 194.6 billion yen of CMBS has been arranged this
year, about 10 percent of the issuance in 2007, according to
data compiled by Deutsche Bank.  “The real estate market as a whole is moving to the next
phase but the CMBS market is pretty much gone,” said Junichi Shimizu, a credit analyst at Deutsche Bank in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  