-- G-7 Leaders Pledge to Cooperate in Tackling Spain, Greece
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-06-05T15:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/g-7-officials-to-speak-on-europe-tomorrow-ahead-of-summit.html
Finance ministers and central bank
governors from the world’s leading economies agreed to
coordinate their response to Europe’s financial crisis on a
conference call that dealt with Spain and Greece.  Group of Seven officials said they will work together to
help both euro-area countries place their public finances on a
sustainable footing, Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told
reporters in Tokyo following the call today. Azumi said he urged
European leaders to do more to address investors’ concerns about
the region’s finances.  European representatives “said they will speed up their
efforts to resolve those problems, which was encouraging to
us,” Azumi said. “ Japan  is ready to provide support if there
is anything we can do.” The officials didn’t discuss a possible
Greek exit from the euro, he said.  Less than two weeks before a Group of 20 summit in Mexico
that will take place as Greece holds its second round of
elections in as many months, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
facing increasing pressure inside and outside the 17-nation euro
area to to do more to stem the crisis. With the impact spilling
over into the global economy,  Spain  for the first time today
appealed for external funding for its banking system.  “The G-7 ministers and governors reviewed developments in
the global economy and financial markets and the policy response
under consideration, including the progress towards financial
and fiscal union in Europe,” the  U.S. Treasury  said in a e-
mail.  European ‘Cloud’  President  Barack Obama  said June 1 Europe’s recession is
weakening U.S. growth in the run-up to the presidential election
in November after payrolls increased by the smallest amount in a
year in May. Obama toughened his language on Europe saying the
bloc’s leaders haven’t done enough to dispel the “cloud that’s
coming over from the Atlantic.” Last month he spoke of
“significant steps” that Europe has taken.  Unemployment in the single currency area is at a record
while the European Commission forecasts the euro-region economy
will shrink 0.3 percent this year.  As the turmoil that began in  Greece  in late 2009 spreads to
Spain, Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro today urged the
EU to provide new funds for the country’s banks. Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  said June 1 he’s prepared to give up some control
of Spain’s public finances and its banking system so that they
can take shelter in a European framework.  “Progress toward real fiscal union is crucial for
resolving the euro-region crisis,” a Bundesbank official said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
debt instead of benchmark German bunds reached a record 548
basis points on June 1, raising doubts about the Spanish
government’s ability to fund itself. Montoro said the Treasury
is struggling to sell bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  