-- Gasoline in U.S. Northwest Tumbles to Month-Low on Plant Startup
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-06-04T21:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/gasoline-in-u-s-northwest-tumbles-to-month-low-on-plant-startup.html
Spot gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
tumbled to the lowest level against futures in more than a month
after  BP Plc (BP/)  brought the Cherry Point oil refinery in  Washington 
to normal rates following a three-month shutdown.  BP’s 266,000-barrel-a-day plant increased operating rates
last week, a person familiar with operations at the plant said
May 29. BP, based in  London , shut the refinery for repairs after
a fire broke out Feb. 17.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Portland, Oregon, a
benchmark for the U.S. Northwest, dropped 16 cents to 9 cents a
gallon above gasoline futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange at 4:39 p.m. East Coast time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the fuel’s fourth straight day of
declines and its lowest premium since April 24.  Low-sulfur diesel in Portland slipped 1 cent to an 11-cent-
a-gallon premium over Nymex heating oil futures.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles was
unchanged at a 2.5-cent premium to gasoline futures. A state
Energy Commission report released May 30 showed Carbob
inventories rose 12 percent, or 550,000 barrels, to 5.13 million
in the week ended May 25.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is shutting some units at the Torrance
oil refinery in Southern  California  for “several weeks” of
planned work, Gesuina Paras, a company spokeswoman at the plant,
said in an e-mailed statement. The 150,000-barrel-a-day plant
shut a hydrogen unit and will also be performing work on a coker
and a pretreater, she said.  Exxon Plant  “Although we anticipate impact to production, Exxon Mobil
expects to be able to meet its contractual commitments,” Paras
said.  San Francisco  Carbob climbed 0.5 cent to 4 cents a gallon
above gasoline futures.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  reported a coker shutdown at the
158,000-barrel-a-day Martinez refinery in Northern California
May 30, according to a filing with Contra Costa County
regulators. Emily Oberton, a company spokeswoman in Houston,
didn’t immediately respond an e-mailed request for comment on
the shutdown.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  also reported a “small fire” outside the
acid plant at the 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle refinery
near Martinez, California, May 30, a separate county filing
shows. Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at the company’s headquarters
in  San Antonio , didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment on the incident.  Rodeo Refinery  Phillips 66 (PSX)  finished planned maintenance at the San
Francisco complex, consisting of the 76,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo
refinery in Northern California and the 44,000-barrel-a-day
Santa Maria plant that delivers feedstock to Rodeo,  Rich Johnson , a spokesman at the company’s headquarters in Houston,
said in an e-mail.  The Rodeo refinery was starting a hydrocracker May 24
following about four weeks of planned work, two people with
direct knowledge of the work said. The unit was shut in April
for repairs on exchanger bundles, they said.  CARB diesel in  Los Angeles  fell 0.87 cent to a premium of
4.63 cents a gallon versus heating oil futures. The same fuel in
San Francisco was unchanged at a 6-cent premium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  