-- Gasoline Gains as Dollar Decline Boosts Appeal of Commodities
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-06-04T20:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/gasoline-falls-to-five-month-low-on-europe-china-growth-concern.html
Gasoline rose, reversing an earlier
loss, as the dollar fell against the euro after European leaders
agreed to discuss more cooperation among banks using the
European benchmark currency.  Futures advanced as a weaker dollar boosted the investment
appeal of commodities. The euro was up 0.6 percent against the
U.S. benchmark after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
systemic banks may need supervision at the European level as the
European Union weighs possible steps toward “political union.”  “I think the market is taking its cues from the dollar
today,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options
Inc. in New York. “I don’t think there’s a shift in overall
sentiment. The market has been overextended and we’re just
seeing people taking some money out.”  Gasoline for July delivery rose 1.39 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to settle at $2.6707 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Futures rebounded from an earlier decline amid speculation
that the Federal Reserve may take further steps to boost the
 U.S. economy .  Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate strategy at Barclays
Plc, says it is “increasingly likely that the  Federal Reserve 
will come with another round of stimulus as early as the June 20
meeting.” Pond spoke with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene 
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  Further Easing  “The odds of another round of quantitative easing have
gone up quite a bit in the U.S. and there’s the sense that
governments around the world will be forced into major stimulus
to stop the bleeding,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst
at Price Futures Group in Chicago.  Prices fluctuated earlier, touching $2.5971, the lowest
intraday price since Dec. 21, as Europe’s debt crisis and slower
growth in China indicated the global economic recovery is
stalling, curbing fuel demand.  China ’s  non-manufacturing  industries expanded at the
slowest pace in more than a year. Bookings to U.S. factories
dropped 0.6 percent after a revised 2.1 percent decrease in
March, the first back-to-back declines in more than three years,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington.  “There’s a lot of global economic uncertainty, with the
Chinese PMI the lowest in a year and Merkel’s announcement she’s
not in favor of euro-zone bonds,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  July-delivery heating oil fell 0.1 cent to $2.6269 a gallon
on the exchange, the lowest settlement since Jan. 25, 2011.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,  fell  0.5
cent to $3.585 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. It was the
lowest level since Feb. 21. Gasoline is down 8.9 percent since
reaching a 2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  