-- Genting Falls After New York Project Talks Collapse
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-06-04T09:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/genting-falls-after-new-york-project-talks-collapse.html
Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM)  dropped the
most in almost four months in  Kuala Lumpur  trading after talks
to build a $4 billion convention center next to its New York
City casino fell through.  The  stock  declined 4.1 percent to close at 3.54 ringgit,
its largest fall since Feb. 8. It was today’s second-worst
performer on the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index, which
fell 1.2 percent. Its parent  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  dropped 3 percent to
9.70 ringgit, the lowest close since Oct. 11.  Genting Malaysia wanted to build a 3.8 million-square-foot
convention center at Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens where it
opened Resorts World Casino New York City last year.
Negotiations fell through after weeks of discussion,  New York 
Governor Andrew Cuomo said in an interview on the WOR-AM radio
station on June 1. This follows a delay in the group’s plan to
build a $3 billion hotel and casino in Miami after a Florida
House of Representatives committee postponed a vote on a bill to
expand casino gambling.  “This news gave Genting Malaysia a double whammy,
experiencing failure in two of the group’s expansion plans in
the U.S.,” Low Yee Huap, an analyst at  Hong Leong Financial
Group Bhd. (HLFG) , wrote in a report today. He kept his hold rating
with a price estimate of 4.10 ringgit.  Conversations with Genting “haven’t worked out,” said
Cuomo, who added that he’s now discussing building a similar
project with other companies. Genting may still bid on a
convention center project in the city, said Stefan Friedman, a
Genting spokesman.  Genting operates the only gaming resort on a hilltop in
Muslim-majority Malaysia. Unable to open more casinos on home
turf, it’s been expanding abroad. The group is already the
U.K.’s biggest casino-operator and opened one of two gambling
resorts in  Singapore (GENS)  in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  