-- Georgia Won't Use $386 Million IMF Loan
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-06-04T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/georgia-won-t-use-386-million-imf-loan.html
Georgia  won’t use funds from a $386
million International Monetary Fund stand-by facility as the
economy remains resilient to the effects of the euro region’s
sovereign-debt crisis, Prime Minister Nika Gilauri said.  Georgia will weather the turmoil better than many eastern
European and central Asian nations, Gilauri said yesterday in an
interview in Istanbul. The $11.7 billion economy will grow 6
percent to 7 percent this year, after expanding 7 percent in
2011 and 6.5 percent in 2010, Gilauri said.  “We won’t draw down” from the facility, Gilauri, 37, said.
“There is no need whatsoever. These are funds which are
precautionary.”  A previous IMF loan of $750 million for Georgia awarded in
September 2008, which was later raised to $1.2 billion and
expired in June 2011, helped cushion the Black Sea nation’s
economy from the global financial crisis that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. International aid of
more than $5 billion received after a five-day war with  Russia 
in 2008 also supported the recovery.  The two-year IMF loan to which Georgia agreed in April will
help reassure foreign investors and other international lenders
such as the  World Bank (NKWGRAU)  “because of this volatile political and
economic situation” in the euro region, Gilauri said.  The euro region’s debt crisis “does have negative effects
on everybody,” he said, adding that Georgia has diversified its
exports, which gives its more resilience. China,  India ,  Turkey ,
 Azerbaijan  and Ukraine as well as the EU are among its main
trading partners, he said.  “We don’t expect the European debt crisis to significantly
affect the Georgian economy,” Gilauri said.  Parliamentary elections in October and a presidential vote
next year won’t change the government’s plans to reduce the
 budget deficit  as planned, Gilauri said.  Georgia has reduced the shortfall to 3.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 9.5 percent in 2010 and plans to
further lower it to 3 percent or less next year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  