-- German Energy Concerns Prevail as Merkel Maps Out Vote Themes
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-06-04T13:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/german-energy-concerns-prevail-as-merkel-maps-out-vote-themes.html
A majority of German companies said
they’re concerned they’ll lose their competitive edge because of
higher electricity costs linked to government plans to exit
nuclear energy and power  Europe ’s biggest economy on renewables.  The results of the study commissioned by German state-owned
energy researcher Dena, released in Berlin today, underscore the
challenges Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government faces 15 months
before national elections.  Struggling with sinking popularity and public unwillingness
to shoulder more costs to resolve the euro-area crisis, Merkel
hosted talks with her coalition leaders in the Chancellery today
to map a course for the rest of the legislative term. Highway
tolls, child-care subsidies, minimum wages and computer data
storage join the energy overhaul as the main areas of dispute
that need to be resolved before elections due in September 2013.  “The aim must be to lay down the guidelines until the next
federal election,” Transport Minister Peter Ramsauer, a member
of the CSU Bavarian sister party to Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats , was cited as saying in today’s edition of Bild
newspaper.  Merkel hosted the coalition negotiations with CSU chief
Horst Seehofer and Philipp Roesler, who heads her Free
Democratic coalition partner, after Dena said that 60 percent of
the companies polled said they expected higher production costs
due to rising power prices. More than 40 percent said supply
security would deteriorate “significantly.”  “We’re very concerned at how companies see the next 12
months of the energy overhaul,” Stephan Kohler, the head of
Dena, said in Berlin as he unveiled the study conducted by Ernst
& Young GmbH. “While the current mood is neutral, the future
trend is clearly developing negatively.”  The German government must improve investment conditions
for new coal- and gas-fired  power plants , overhaul the country’s
renewable energy subsidy system and better coordinate expanding
 wind turbines  and solar panels with the need for energy storage
facilities and new  power lines , Kohler said. Ernst & Young
polled 235 companies, municipalities and industry associations,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  