-- Spanish Bonds Rise as Rajoy Bank Plan Garners Support
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-04T15:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/german-2-year-yield-drops-below-zero-as-crisis-deepens.html
Spanish bonds rose for a third day as
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s call to boost efforts to protect
the region’s banks gathered support among European leaders.  German securities fell, pushing up yields from record lows,
as a report showed unemployment in Spain declined for a second
month, damping demand for the safest fixed-income assets. The
top European Union and French finance officials today pressed to
allow direct euro-area aid for troubled banks after Rajoy called
for a centralized system to recapitalize lenders. Spanish and
Italian 10-year bonds jumped even as German government spokesman
Steffen Seibert said jointly issued bonds in the euro area are
unsuitable at this time.  “Spanish bond yields are stabilizing a bit because people
in the market are expecting some kind of policy response to the
problem,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist
at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “The situation has worsened to the
point that it’s reasonable for the market to expect policy
makers to do something. But it’s hard to predict what that will
be and when it will happen.”  The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds slid 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, to 6.38 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time.
The 5.85 percent security due in January 2022 climbed 1, or 10
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,250) face amount, to 96.2.  The last time Spanish 10-year bond yields fell for three
consecutive days was in the period through March 9. Italian 10-
year bond yields tumbled 21 basis points to 5.66 percent, also
declining for a third straight day.  Common Architecture  Spanish  government bonds  lost 4.5 percent in May, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. The nation’s borrowing costs
surged as investors weighed the consequences of bailing out the
Bankia group, Spain’s third-biggest lender, which has asked for
19 billion euros in government support.  The EU “needs to reinforce its common institutional
architecture so that investors regain confidence in the single
currency,” Rajoy said two days ago in Sitges, near Barcelona.
“Spain will emerge from the storm through its own efforts and
with the support of our European partners.”  EU Economy Commissioner  Olli Rehn  and French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said today that letting the euro
area’s permanent rescue fund inject cash into banks instead of
channeling the money through national governments would help
stem the debt crisis in  Europe . The step would move the 17-
nation euro area toward a “banking union,” they said.  G-7 Meeting  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will discuss proposals on
closer banking coordination when she meets today in Berlin with
European Commission President  Jose Barroso , Commission
spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde-Hansen said today. The Canadian
government said that finance ministers and central bank
governors from the Group of Seven countries will hold a
conference call tomorrow to discuss the  European debt crisis .  The extra yield that investors demand for holding 10-year
Spanish debt instead of benchmark German bunds narrowed to 517
basis points from 536 basis points last week.  Spanish bonds stayed higher even after a report showed the
 European Central Bank  refrained from buying bonds for a 12th
straight week.  Spanish registered unemployment fell in May as the start of
the country’s peak tourism season boosted hiring. The number of
people claiming  unemployment benefits  fell by 30,113 from April,
or 0.6 percent, to 4.71 million, the Labor Ministry in  Madrid 
said in a statement today.  Spain ’s benchmark stock index, the IBEX 35, jumped 3.1
percent, snapping a five-day decline, while the euro
strengthened 0.5 percent to $1.25499.  Record Yields  Germany ’s 10-year yield climbed four basis points to 1.22
percent, after falling to 1.127 percent at the end of last week,
the lowest since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1989.
The two-year rate was little changed at 0.015 percent. The yield
declined to as low as minus 0.012 percent on June 1, the first
day the rate turned negative, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The 10-year debt yields of  Austria ,  Belgium ,  Finland ,
France and the Netherlands also dropped to all-time lows last
week amid signs the debt crisis was deteriorating. The
Netherlands sold 86- and 204-day bills today at an average rate
of zero and 0.014 percent, respectively.  Dutch and Irish bonds were the most volatile in euro-area
markets, as measured by 10-year yields, the two-, 10-year yield
spread and credit-default swaps.  Merkel said two days ago that “under no circumstances”
would she agree to German-backed euro bonds. It’s up to the
Spanish government to decide whether it wants to seek
international aid to help recapitalize the country’s banks, her
spokesman Seibert told reporters in Berlin today.  Bond Returns  German bonds have returned 5 percent this year, according
to the Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes, as investors sought the safest
assets.  The average yield on 1,294 government debt securities in
Merrill Lynch’s Global Sovereign Broad Market Plus Index dropped
to 1.474 percent on June 1, the lowest rate since at least 1997,
and down from 2.2 percent a year earlier. The five-year average
is 2.47 percent. The index returned 30 percent in the past five
years and 3.1 percent in 2012. The MSCI All-Country World Index
of shares  lost  about 16 percent since June 2007 and 1.4 percent
this year on a total return basis.  Portuguese bonds rose as Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said
today the nation is meeting goals of its bailout program.
 Portugal  agreed in May 2011 on a European Union-led bailout that
will provide as much as 78 billion euros in financial aid.  The fourth quarterly review of the aid plan was completed
today, Gaspar told reporters in Lisbon. The government now
forecasts gross domestic product will rise 0.2 percent in 2013,
he said.  The yield on 10-year Portuguese securities declined six
basis points to 11.91 percent. That’s still more than 5
percentage points above its five-year average of 6.43 percent.  France  sold 7.86 billion euros of bills maturing in 84, 175
and 357 days, including three-month debt at an average yield of
0.082 percent, compared with 0.084 percent at a sale of similar-
maturity securities on May 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  