-- Giant Prehistoric Insects Shrank to Escape Developing Birds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-06-04T19:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/giant-prehistoric-insects-shrank-to-escape-developing-birds.html
Insects with wingspans of more than
two feet ruled the skies until 150 million years ago, when
predatory birds evolved into skilled flying bug-zappers,
according to a study.  The insects originally grew in tandem with rising oxygen
levels until birds developed, the research found. The study,
published in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences , suggests the bugs then got smaller as a way to
maneuver away from the avian predators.  Oxygen levels before birds became a factor surged as high
as 30 percent, compared with today’s 21 percent. After fast-
flying birds evolved in the  early Cretaceous period , about 55
million years ago, the bugs began to shrink even though oxygen
levels continued to rise. While there’s no direct evidence
linking cause and effect, the birds must be considered an
obvious culprit, said  Matthew Clapham , a study author from the
 University of California ,  Santa Cruz .  “It was really surprising how well oxygen and body size
follow each other until birds evolve,” Clapham, who is an
assistant professor of Earth and planetary sciences at the
school, said by telephone. “If you look at the oxygen levels
today, it’s about the same as the mid-Triassic, and the largest
insects then had wings that were almost three times as big.”  The study looked at maximum body sizes from fossils,
Clapham said. The average insect remained small. And although
bats may have eaten some of the bigger insects, they seem less
likely to have had a greater effect than birds. That’s because
the larger insects were dragonflies, which are active during the
day, and bats are active at night, he said.  Flight Agility  “Big things are less maneuverable,” Clapham said. “So as
the birds got more agile at flying and moving at low speeds,
they got better at catching insects.”  The researchers found a weak link between body size and the
evolution of the  pterosaurs , flying reptiles which appeared
about 230 million years ago, during the Triassic period. The
smaller pterosaurs may have dined on insects, Clapham said.  However, the link between the two isn’t clear because
there’s a 20 million year gap in the record after the
pterosaurs, and a drop in oxygen levels complicates the
analysis.  The data was compiled from over 10,500 wing lengths from
insect fossils. The researchers used oxygen levels from the
“Geocarbsulf” model developed at  Yale University  in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , by Robert Berner that uses known factors of oxygen,
carbon and sulfur in considering the atmospheres of each
prehistoric period.  The study was funded by the  National Science Foundation  and
UC Santa Cruz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 