-- Glaxo Melanoma Drugs Beat Standard Chemotherapy in Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/glaxo-gene-blocking-melanoma-drugs-beat-chemotherapy-in-studies.html
Two experimental  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
drugs that block genes tied to lethal skin cancer worked better
than chemotherapy in studies that tested them individually,
paving the way for final-phase trials on their use together.  About 80 percent of patients with advanced melanoma given
Glaxo’s trametinib were alive after six months, compared with 67
percent on chemotherapy used as a standard treatment. Separately,
Glaxo’s  dabrafenib  delayed disease progression by 5.1 months,
compared with 2.7 months for chemotherapy. The Glaxo-funded
research is being reported today at the American Society of
Clinical Oncology meeting in  Chicago .  The individual research followed an early-stage study in 77
patients that found the drugs used together resulted in fewer
skin lesions than previously reported with  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
Zelboraf, a therapy cleared last year that targets a mutant gene
found in half of advanced melanoma cases. Glaxo has begun two
final-stage trials on the combo therapy, the company said.  The combination “is where we have the most enthusiasm
right now,” said Keith Flaherty, director for developmental
cancer therapeutics at  Massachusetts General Hospital  in Boston,
and an author on the trametinib study. It “looks better in
terms of efficacy, and better in terms of safety.”  The U.S. will have an estimated 76,250 new cases of
melanoma this year, with 9,180 deaths, according to the  National
Cancer Institute . While patients with early-stage disease
respond well to treatment, the five-year survival rate for those
with cancer that has spread is 15 percent, according to the
 American Cancer Society .  Billion-Dollar Drugs  Approval of the two Glaxo drugs could generate as much as
1.5 billion pounds ($2.35 billion) in 2020, said  Andrew Baum , a
London-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a note to
investors last week. The company will seek regulatory approval
of both compounds individually later this year.  In an interview, Paolo Paoletti, president of the oncology
unit for London-based Glaxo, said his company has begun two
late-stage trials of the combination therapy in advanced skin
cancer. One will compare the combination to dabrafenib alone;
the other compares the combo to Roche’s Zelboraf.  “We are rolling; the interest is so great the enrollment
will be very quick,” said Paoletti. If the benefits of teaming
the two drugs hold up, “it is a transformation. It will be a
new standard of care.”  Zelboraf and Glaxo’s dabrafenib work by blocking BRAF, a
mutant gene that spurs cancer cell growth in about half of
melanoma patients. Zelboraf was approved in the U.S. in August
2011. Trametinib is designed to thwart a related protein called
MEK that helps tumors resist an assault on BRAF.  ‘Gold Standard’  With few side effects, the combination therapy could become
the industry “gold standard” in treating melanoma patients
with the BRAF mutation as early as 2014, CitiGroup’s Baum said.  One downside of the BRAF-blocking drugs is that using them
may activate certain growth pathways in healthy cells, leading
to non-melanoma skin cancers. Adding the MEK drug can block the
formation of these skin lesions, it turns out, Flaherty said.  Finding out that a second drug can cancel out the side
effects of the first “was the cool part,” Glaxo’s Paoletti
said. “Usually, when you combine two drugs they increase
toxicity.”  Glaxo’s move into combination trials was “so gutsy,” said
George Demetri, an oncologist at Dana Farber Cancer-Institute in
 Boston . “Glaxo did a spectacular job.” Demetri said he was a
scientific adviser for one of Roche’s partners in the
development of Zelboraf.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in Chicago via 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  