-- Goldman Chairman Blankfein Will Testify Today, Judge Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-04T16:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/goldman-chairman-blankfein-will-testify-today-judge-says.html
The friendship between  Rajat Gupta , a
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director, and Galleon Group LLC
founder  Raj Rajaratnam  took center stage this morning at Gupta’s
insider-trading trial, as prosecutors prepared to summon Goldman
Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  to testify.  Blankfein will testify as a government witness today, U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff said during a break in the testimony.
Blankfein, who was scheduled to testify on June 6, will take the
stand this afternoon because of a scheduling conflict with his
daughter’s graduation.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on Blankfein’s testimony or his schedule.  Prosecutors concluded their questioning of  Anil Kumar , a
former McKinsey & Co. partner, who told jurors in Manhattan
federal court about the friendship between Gupta and Rajaratnam.
Kumar said Gupta had invested $10 million in the Galleon Voyager
Fund in 2008, Rajaratnam invested $40 million, and the two
borrowed $300 million from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. for the
fund.  “He said that the $10 million had almost doubled in size
over the years,” Kumar said of Gupta.  Later, the fund was wiped out in the 2008 stock market
collapse, angering Gupta and prompting him to consider filing a
lawsuit because of what he said was Rajaratnam’s mismanagement
of the fund, Kumar said. The litigation threat didn’t come up
until 2009, which was after Gupta allegedly provided illegal
tips to Rajaratman, Kumar said.  ‘Moral’ Responsibility  “Mr. Gupta said Mr. Rajaratnam had an ethical and moral
responsibility to Mr. Gupta because he had not held up to his
side of the management of the fund,” Kumar said of Gupta’s
comments to him in 2009. “Since Mr. Rajaratnam had lost all the
money, Mr. Rajaratnam had a moral and ethical responsibility to
make Mr. Gupta whole.”  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is on
trial for leaking tips about Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) , where he was also a director. One of the alleged tips
involved a  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  investment in Goldman Sachs.
Prosecutors say Gupta tipped Rajaratnam after learning about the
deal in a Goldman Sachs board meeting at 3:55 p.m. on Sept. 23,
2008.  Rajaratnam and Gupta are the biggest figures caught in a
nationwide insider-trading probe. Gupta, who has pleaded not
guilty, is charged with conspiracy and securities fraud, which
carries a maximum 20-year prison sentence.  No Motive  On cross-examination of Kumar, defense attorney  Gary Naftalis  sought to show that there wasn’t a close relationship
between the two men, suggesting that Gupta had no motive to leak
inside tips to Rajaratnam.  Kumar testified, under questioning from Naftalis, that
Gupta didn’t attend Rajaratnam’s 50th birthday celebration in
 Kenya  and that Gupta’s attention was focused primarily on the
Indian School of Business, which Gupta and Kumar co-founded.  The defense has pointed to Gupta’s threat to sue over the
losses in the Voyager Fund as a reason why he wouldn’t leak
inside information to Rajaratnam in 2008. In cross-examination,
Kumar testified that Gupta had complained in 2008, before the
2009 lawsuit threat, that Rajaratnam had “dropped the ball” in
managing the fund.  “He’s generally a calm guy,” Kumar said of Gupta. “That’s
quite a bit of money to lose.”  Gupta eventually concluded that Rajaratnam had taken money
out of the Voyager account without telling him, Kumar said.  “He was very annoyed,” Kumar testified. “He told me he
was about to sue Mr. Rajaratnam.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  