-- Google, Cisco, Amazon, RIM, Weinstein: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-04T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/google-cisco-amazon-rim-weinstein-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. filed an antitrust
complaint with the European Commission against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , saying the companies are using patents to thwart
competition.  The complaint focuses on a transfer Nokia and Microsoft
made last year of some 2,000 patents and patent applications to
Mosaid Technologies Inc., a Canadian company known for its
patent litigation, said Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Google.
Most of the patents relate to industry standards for wireless
technology, and Microsoft has publicly pledged it wouldn’t use
such patents to block competitors from the market.  “Nokia and Microsoft are colluding to raise the costs of
mobile devices for consumers, creating patent trolls that side-
step promises both companies have made,”  Mountain View ,
California-based Google said in an e-mailed statement, using a
pejorative term for companies that use patents only to demand
royalties rather than to make products.  Microsoft and Nokia get a share of any proceeds Mosaid
raises from licensing the patents.  Google’s complaint may prompt an investigation by the same
European Union antitrust authority that is probing Google’s
Motorola Mobility over its use of so-called standard-essential
patents in litigation against Microsoft and Apple Inc. The EU
investigations were triggered by complaints by those two
companies.  A copy of Google’s complaint wasn’t available.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, confirmed that regulators had received the filing
and said they would examine it.  Nokia hasn’t yet seen the “frivolous” complaint, Mark
Durrant, a spokesman for Nokia, said in an e-mailed statement.  Companies get together to establish standards so that
products can work together, such as for Wi-Fi, video compression
or digital transmissions. Those that help establish the
standards pledge to license their patents on fair and reasonable
terms.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft has criticized Motorola
Mobility, which Google acquired earlier this month, for its use
of standard-essential patents to seek orders that would block
sales of Microsoft’s products. The software maker is awaiting a
judge’s ruling on claims Motorola Mobility breached its
obligations.  Mosaid hasn’t seen Google’s complaint and so couldn’t
comment, said Michael Salter, a Mosaid spokesman. The company
was taken private in December in a transaction led by Chicago-
based Sterling Partners.  Mosaid’s Core Wireless unit, which holds the patents
obtained from Microsoft and Nokia, filed a patent suit in
February against Apple over some of the standard-essential
patents.  Mosaid sold five patent families for $11 million in
September. Google was later identified as the buyer.  Cisco Seeks Court Ruling DVRs Don’t Infringe TiVo’s Patents  Cisco Systems Inc. sued  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  seeking a court order
declaring it hasn’t infringed patents relating to digital video
recorders.  TiVo, maker of set-top boxes that can record and play back
television programs, has sued companies that purchase DVRs made
by Cisco alleging they infringe TiVo patents, Cisco said in a
complaint filed in federal court in San Jose,  California .  Cisco, a maker of computer-networking equipment, said the
companies have had discussions in which TiVo indicated “that it
did not want to broadly license TiVo technology to Cisco because
providing any such license to a DVR manufacturer such as Cisco
would interfere with TiVo’s” patent lawsuits against Cisco
customers.  Cisco, based in San Jose, is seeking a court order that its
DVR technology doesn’t infringe TiVo’s patents to halt the set-
top maker from continuing to sue Cisco customers, according to
the complaint  Jessica Loebig, a spokeswoman for Alviso, California-based
TiVo, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking
comment about the lawsuit.  AT&T Inc., a Cisco customer, agreed to pay at least $215
million in January to settle a TiVo patent lawsuit over DVRs.
TiVo has cases pending against Microsoft Corp. and Verizon
Communications Inc., according to the Cisco complaint filed May
30.  The case is Cisco v. TiVo, 12-2766, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  Amazon Gets ‘Electronic Gifting’ Patent for Downloadable Media  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest online retailer,
received a patent on a technology that may help put an end to
unused gift cards and gift certificates.  According to a March 2011 Bloomberg report, as many as 20
percent of plastic gift cards are never or only partially used,
and the average U.S. household has about five such cards on hand
with a total value of more than $100.  Amazon’s patent 8,190,519, issued May 29, covers what the
Seattle-based retailer calls “electronic gifting.” The patent
notes that it “is not unusual for a gift certificate not to be
redeemed by a recipient, wasting the money the giver spent.”  Electronic gifting covers a method of giving electronically
transferrable items such as music, games, movies, ring tones,
magazines or books. Recipients of such gifts can select and
transfer items within minutes, without leaving their homes or
waiting for physical delivery through the mail.  Amazon applied for the patent in September 2008 with the
assistance of  Irvine , California’s Knobbe, Martens, Olson & Bear
LLP.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  RIM Can Continue to Use ‘BBM’ for BlackBerry Messenger Service  Research In Motion (RIM) , the Waterloo, Ontario-based maker of
the BlackBerry mobile device, can continue to use “BBM” as an
acronym for its BlackBerry Messenger Service, the Toronto Star
 reported .  A Canadian federal court dismissed the trademark-
infringement case brought by BBM Canada, an organization based
in North York, Ontario, which provides radio broadcast rankings,
according to the Star.  The court said that the two entities’ operations were in
sufficiently distinct segments of the economy that no
infringement occurred, the newspaper reported.  BBM Chief Executive Officer Jim MacLeod told the Star his
company hadn’t decided whether to review the decision, and that
BBM Canada could be forced to change its name.  Weinstein Co. Wins Dismissal of ‘Soul Men’ Trademark Suit  Soul singer  Sam Moore ’s trademark-infringement case against
the Weinstein Co. was dismissed by a federal judge in  Tennessee .  Moore sued the New York-based Weinstein Co. motion picture
production company in 2009, claiming its 2008 “ Soul Men ” film
starring Samuel L. Jackson infringed his trademarks and
publicity rights.  In court papers accompanying her order dismissing the case,
U.S. District Judge Aleta A. Trauger said Moore -- best known as
a member of the Sam & Dave singing duo -- presented witnesses
whose testimony didn’t meet federal standards for admissibility,
and that the marks he claimed were infringed were weak at best.  Additionally, she found the film to which Moore objected is
fictional, so the performer’s privacy rights weren’t violated.  The case is Moore V. Weinstein Co., 3:09-cv-00166, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Tennessee (Nashville).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Loses Bid to Dismiss Claims in Digital Book Case  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s bid to dismiss claims by groups including the
Author’s Guild and the American Society of Media Photographers
in two lawsuits over electronic books was denied by a judge in
 New York .  U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin , sitting as a federal trial
judge in the case, rejected Google’s arguments that the groups
lacked standing to sue over claims the search engine company’s
digital scanning of millions of books infringed the copyright
owners’ rights.  Chin also granted a request for three individual plaintiffs
to represent a nationwide class of copyright holders in the
Author’s Guild suit.  “Given the sweeping and undiscriminating nature of
Google’s unauthorized copying, it would be unjust to require
that each affected association member litigate his claim
individually,” the judge said.  The suits stem from Google’s plan, announced in 2004, to
digitally scan books from public and university libraries to
provide short snippets of text to people who use its Internet
search engine. The Authors Guild, individual authors and
publishing companies sued in 2005, claiming the Mountain View,
California-based company hadn’t sought authorization from the
owners of the works.  “As we’ve said all along, we are confident that  Google
Books  is fully compliant with copyright law,” Maggie Shiels, a
Google spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. The decision
“ doesn’t determine the underlying merits of the case, nor does
it resolve the lawsuit.”  Google has argued that the display of snippets of text is
fair use under copyright law. Chin asked Google June 1 why it
was important at this stage of the case to determine the
ownership of the copyrights.  Google said in a February court filing that it has scanned
more than 20 million books, and that Web users can see excerpts
in English from more than 4 million of them. The project began
with the digitizing of books from the libraries of the
 University of Michigan ,  Harvard University ,  Stanford University ,
Oxford University and the  New York Public Library .  The judge last year declined to approve a proposed
settlement, saying it was “an attempt to use the class action
mechanism to implement forward-looking business arrangements
that go far beyond the dispute before the court.”      The
authors’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-08136; the visual
artists’ case is American Society of Media Photographers v.
Google, 10-02977; U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  Wiley Sues Doe Defendants Over BitTorrent Book Downloading  John Wiley & Sons Ltd. (JW/A) , a publisher of technical and
scientific texts, filed two copyright-infringement suits in
federal court in Manhattan on May 30.  The two cases are against unnamed defendants who allegedly
used the BitTorrent file-sharing protocol to download and
distribute copies of two Wiley books without authorization. Most
of the other unauthorized-downloading cases in the past have
involved music or films instead of books.  One suit claims 22 unnamed defendants used BitTorrent to
share Wiley’s “Windows 7 Secrets.” The other suit was filed
with regard to Wiley’s “The Six-Figure Second Income,” and
lists 24 unnamed defendants.  In both cases, the Hoboken, New Jersey-based publisher says
the defendants’ actions threaten its profitability, and a
decline in sales, should the unauthorized distribution continue
unchecked, could cause some of its authors “to stop writing
books altogether.”  Wiley asked the court to order the defendants to halt their
infringing activities, and for awards of money damages,
including extra damages to punish the defendants for their
actions.  The publisher is represented by William Irvin Dinnegan and
Benjamin Daniel Liebowitz of Dinnegan & Scileppi LLC of New
York.  The cases are Wiley v. John Doe, 1:12-cv-04231-PAC and
1:12-cv-04232-PAC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 