-- Growth Slowdown Seen in U.S. as Recession Dodged
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-04T21:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/growth-slowdown-seen-for-third-year-in-u-s-dodging-a-recession.html
The  U.S. economy  looks set to deliver
a repeat performance in 2012: for the third straight year, it
may suffer a swoon yet not slip into a recession.  “I don’t think the slowdown will be any more consequential
than the past two years,” said  John Ryding , a former Federal
Reserve researcher who is chief economist at RDQ Economics LLC
in New York. “There are positives out there in the economy.
We’ll avoid a recession.”  Household balance sheets are in better shape, with
indebtedness down about $100 billion in the first quarter,
according to the New York Fed. Banks are more profitable:
Earnings have risen for 11 straight quarters, based on data
compiled by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Even the housing
market is reviving, with starts through the first four months of
this year 24 percent higher than the comparable 2011 period.  Stocks plunged on Friday on news that American employers
last month added the fewest workers to their payrolls in a year
while the jobless rate rose. Treasuries gained, sending yields
to record lows, as investors sought refuge from rising financial
strains in Europe and slowing growth in the U.S. and  China .
German and U.K. yields fell to all-time lows after Spanish
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the future of the euro is
at stake.  Orders to U.S. factories unexpectedly declined for a second
month in April, pointing to a deceleration in manufacturing as
the global economy cools, a Commerce Department report showed
today. Bookings dropped 0.6 percent after a revised 2.1 percent
slump in March, the first back-to-back decreases in more than
three years.  Stocks Fall  Stocks reversed losses late today as the cheapest price-to-
earnings valuation for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in sixth
months overshadowed the drop in factory orders. The S&P 500 rose
less than 0.1 percent to 1,278.18 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York.  Following the jobs report,  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, lowered his
forecast for third-quarter economic growth to 2 percent from 3
percent. He sees the economy expanding 2.5 percent this quarter.  Allen Sinai , chief executive officer of Decision Economics
in New York, bumped up his odds of a recession next year to 15
percent from 10 percent.  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican nominee in
November’s presidential election, seized on the jobs figures to
attack  Barack Obama . “It is now clear to everyone that
President Obama’s policies have failed to achieve their goals,”
he said in a statement.  Obama Administration  The administration, seeking to blunt the political impact,
highlighted private payroll gains over the past 27 months while
promoting measures Obama has proposed to boost hiring.  The decline in jobs growth to 69,000 last month from a high
this year of 275,000 in January was reminiscent of the labor-
market cooling that occurred in both 2010 and 2011. Then as now,
employers turned skittish as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt woes
worsened.  Repeating the pattern of the last two years, Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow central bankers are likely to
respond to the job-market weakness by announcing further steps
to stimulate growth. The moves could come when the Fed meets on
June 19-20 to decide monetary strategy, Feroli said in a note to
clients. Bernanke may give a hint of the Fed’s plans when he
testifies to Congress on June 7.  Central Banks  Policy makers elsewhere face even more pressure to come up
with ways to boost their economies. The  European Central Bank 
may cut its benchmark interest rate from 1 percent as soon as
this week,  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank
in London, said in a June 1 report. China will respond with a 2
trillion  yuan  ($314 billion) fiscal stimulus this year and next,
according to  Donald Straszheim , senior managing director of New
York-based ISI Group.  Sinai said the U.S. is in “better shape” to weather the
global economic tremors than it was in the past, and in
comparison with other countries today, provided the euro
region’s currency compact doesn’t collapse completely. He sees
U.S. growth picking up to 2.5 to 3 percent in the second half of
this year as  consumer spending  expands, encouraging employers to
take on more workers.  Household purchases rose 0.3 percent in April, the Commerce
Department reported on June 1. That followed a 2.7 percent
annualized increase in the first quarter, the most since the
final three months of 2010.  Chain-Store Sales  Demand is holding up at store chains. Retailers’ same-store
sales topped analysts’ estimates in May. Sales at Minneapolis-
based  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
climbed 4.4 percent. Framingham, Massachusetts-based TJX Cos.,
the owner of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls, posted an 8 percent
increase, reports showed last week.  While automobile sales slipped in May from April, they were
still up 17 percent from a year earlier, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group.  Consumers are benefitting from easier  credit  terms as
financial institutions seek to put the money they’ve earned to
work. U.S. banks “eased standards on credit card, auto and
other consumer loans,” according to the Fed’s quarterly survey
of senior loan officers, released on April 30.  Investor nervousness over the world economy has pluses and
minuses for U.S. households. On the negative side, it has pushed
down stock prices, reducing household net worth. On the positive
side, it has helped bring down  gasoline  prices and  mortgage
rates .  The average price of regular unleaded gasoline fell to
$3.61 a gallon on May 31 from a 2012 high of $3.94 on April 5,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring group, as oil
demand ebbed with the slowing world economy.  Commodity Prices  “We’re benefitting from a global drop-off in commodity
prices,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP
LLC in  Jersey City , New Jersey.  Rates for 30-year U.S. mortgages fell to a record as
concern about Europe’s financial crisis drove investors to the
safety of the government bonds that guide borrowing costs. The
average rate for a  30-year mortgage  dropped to 3.75 percent in
the week ended May 31 from 3.78 percent, according to  Freddie
Mac , the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage financier.  The drop in loan rates is aiding housing, the trigger for
the worst recession since the Great Depression. Confidence among
U.S. homebuilders jumped to a five-year high in May, the
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index showed.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  is among builders benefiting from the
revival in demand. Second-quarter profit at the Horsham,
Pennsylvania-based company exceeded analysts’ estimates as
orders surged 47 percent from a year earlier.  “While domestic and global headline risk remains a
concern,” Chairman Robert Toll said on a May 23 earnings call,
“we are feeling better than we have at any time in the past
five years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  