-- GSA Paid $1 Million in Bonuses to Staff Under Investigation
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-06-04T22:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/gsa-paid-1-million-in-bonuses-to-staff-under-investigation-1-.html
The  General Services Administration 
paid more than $1 million in bonuses to employees while they
were being investigated for wrongdoing by the agency’s inspector
general, a U.S. lawmaker said.  The GSA made the awards to 84 individuals since 2008,
according to a press release today from Senator  Claire McCaskill ’s office. The employees each received an average of
eight bonuses.  “It doesn’t pass the smell test to be awarding huge
bonuses in taxpayer dollars to officials who are being
investigated, or have already been found responsible, for fraud
and waste of those very taxpayer dollars,” McCaskill, a
Missouri Democrat, said in the statement.  “GSA is conducting a top-down review of our agency’s
operations,” Adam Elkington, an agency spokesman, said today in
an e-mail. “This comprehensive review of our agency operations
includes all bonus payouts in recent years -- especially for
those individuals under investigation by GSA’s Inspector
General.”  Lawmakers have been scrutinizing the agency’s spending at
an $823,000 Las Vegas conference in October 2010. The fallout so
far includes the resignation of GSA Administrator Martha Johnson, who left after the agency’s inspector general released
an April 2 report on the event.  The inspector general has referred the matter to the
 Department of Justice .  Neely’s Bonus  Jeff Neely, a former GSA regional commissioner who was
behind the Las Vegas conference, was granted a $9,000 bonus even
after Johnson was presented in May 2011 with a draft of the
report.  The bonus for Neely, who is no longer working for the
agency, was revealed during congressional hearings on the GSA
scandal. McCaskill’s data on GSA bonuses doesn’t include awards
to employees currently under investigation, such as those
involved in the Las Vegas conference, because that information
isn’t yet available, the senator said.  McCaskill’s probe of bonuses showed that a GSA program
officer reassigned after an inspector general investigation on
“abuse of authority” received $38,664 in bonuses since 2008.  The senator started the investigation more than a year ago
when she learned that a GSA official had received a bonus
despite “adverse findings” about the employee’s conduct by the
agency’s inspector general, according to a May letter McCaskill
sent to the  Office of Personnel Management , which oversees
compensation for federal workers.  The senator has expanded the scope of her inquiry to
include employees at all federal agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  