-- Li Na’s French Open Reign Ends as Surprise Losses Continue
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/li-na-s-french-open-reign-ends-as-surprise-losses-continue.html
A backhand into the net ended Li Na’s
reign as  China ’s first  French Open  champion, ensuring that a
newcomer will win the women’s tennis title at Roland Garros.  A year after the 30-year-old Li became the first Asian to
win a Grand Slam singles title, she lost her fourth-round match
to qualifier Yaroslava Shvedova, 3-6, 6-2, 6-0. Li made 41
unforced errors as the wind swirled around the Court Suzanne
Lenglen, 20 more than her 142nd-ranked opponent from  Kazakhstan .  “This is tennis,” the seventh-seeded Li said in a news
conference. “I was sad when I lost. Right now, I want to
totally relax the mind and body. I need some time to recover.
I’m not a machine.”  No woman left in the draw has won the title at  Roland
Garros , with second-seeded  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  the
highest-ranked player remaining. The French is the only Grand
Slam tournament Sharapova hasn’t won.  In the men’s quarterfinals today, Frenchman Jo-Wilfried Tsonga plays top-ranked Novak Djokovic of Serbia, who’s trying
to win his fourth straight major title to complete a non-
calendar Grand Slam.  Roger Federer  of Switzerland, who holds the
men’s record with 16 Grand Slam singles titles, faces 2009 U.S.
Open winner Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina.  U.S. Open champion Samantha Stosur of Australia meets
Slovakia’s Dominika Cibulkova in the women’s quarterfinals
today, while Italy’s Sara Errani plays Germany’s Angelique
Kerber.  Women’s Upsets  Li’s departure comes after a week of upsets in the women’s
draw. Thirteen-time major singles champion  Serena Williams  lost
in the first round to France’s Virginie Razzano. The American,
the champion a decade ago, had never before lost in the opening
round of a major. Third seed Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland was
knocked out in the third round by former champion  Svetlana Kuznetsova  of Russia, while women’s top seed  Victoria Azarenka 
of Belarus was ousted in the fourth round by Cibulkova.  Sharapova yesterday overcame Klara Zakopalova 6-4, 6-7
(5-7), 6-2. There were 21 breaks of serve in the match, which
ended with a double fault by the unseeded Czech.  “I have no control of who wins and loses except in my
matches,” Sharapova said in a news conference, when asked about
the upsets. “Those are just things I can see and hear about and
those are just results.”  The Russian, who won a clay-court tournament in  Rome  the
week before the  French Open , will reclaim the No. 1 world
ranking if she reaches the final.  Li’s Pressure  In an interview at the Rome Masters shortly before Roland
Garros, Li said it took her six months to adjust to her new
status as a Grand Slam champion. She has signed $42 million in
endorsement deals since winning the title in Paris, in a final
that was watched by 116 million viewers in China alone. This
week at Roland Garros, some of her matches were watched by 50
million Chinese viewers, organizers said.  “I knew before the match that she’s defending champion,
and she has pressure to hold on to the title,” Shvedova said in
a news conference.  Li has struggled in the majors since last year’s French
title. She was knocked out in the second round of Wimbledon last
June, the opening round of the  U.S. Open  in August and the
fourth round of the Australian Open in January.  Li said she’ll take some time off after her defeat in
Paris.  “I can’t pick up the racket the next day to train as hard
as I can,” she said. “So of course I will take some days off
to totally forget tennis. Then try to come back in next week. My
next tournament is Wimbledon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  