-- Li Na Wants Data Privacy as Electronic Tennis Racket Looms
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-06-04T16:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/li-na-asks-for-data-privacy-as-electronic-tennis-racket-looms.html
Babolat , a French family-owned
company which made the first racket strings out of animal gut in
1875, is working on another tennis novelty: a racket that
records shot data.  The racket is aimed at club players and professionals and
will go on sale next year, according to Chief Executive Officer
Eric Babolat. Sensors in the handle will be able send data such
as ball spin and shot power to a computer.  “The only precise data you have as a tennis player now is
the score at the end of the game or your ranking,” Babolat said
in an interview at the  French Open . “That’s quite limited if
you want to try and improve your game and really look at your
game in some detail.”  Babolat will post a 10 percent gain in revenue to 135
million euros ($169 million) by the end of its fiscal year in
June, Babolat said. It’s targeting an increase in sales of
“between 12 and 14 percent,” in the next three years, he
added.  The company, which is competing with Amer Sports Oyj, the
maker of Wilson tennis rackets, and Head NV, is forecasting
growth, “even though the tennis market is not growing,” in the
U.S., Europe or Japan.  Sales of tennis rackets in the U.S. have dropped to close
to $100 million last year, compared with $121 million in 2007,
according to the Tennis Industry Association.  The Future  “Technology is the future, and this type of stuff will
sell and become common over time,”  Paul Swinand , an analyst
with Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago .  “But unless the new racket allows you to adjust your serve
so you don’t hit the net, I’m not sure it gets people to play
more tennis rather than just shift market share,” he added.
“And other companies will follow with their own technologies.”  Shortly before the start of the tournament, defending
champions  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  and China’s  Li Na  tested the so-
called ’Play & Connect’ racket at  Roland Garros . Babolat has an
endorsement agreement with both players. Li Na lost today in the
fourth round against Yaroslava Shvedova of  Kazakhstan  in three
sets.  “Li Na said when she had tested it ‘this is really
interesting for me, but I don’t want the other players to see my
data,”’ Babolat said. “I want to have it for me and not to
share it.”  No price has been set for the new racket because it’s still
in the development stage.  Coaching Issue  Toni Nadal , Nadal’s uncle and coach, said the innovation
may blur the line between player and coach.  “It’s good for the coach at first but after that maybe
some players can think they don’t need a coach because they see
their performance and they think they’re very good player,”
Nadal said in an interview.  Babolat is aiming for “double-digit” growth in  China , the
world’s fastest-growing major economy, where it has been present
for two decades. Li Na became the first Asian to win a major
tennis title last year in Paris.  “China is building tennis academies, it is building tennis
courts and Li Na is a hero there,” Babolat said. “We estimate
that a little over 1 million people play tennis in China.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk   drossingh@bloomberg.net ; Caroline
Connan in Paris at  cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at the London sports desk 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 