-- Tiananmen Protesters Gather in Hong Kong in Remembrance
-- B y   C r y s t a l   C h u i   a n d   P a t r i c k   B o e h l e r
-- 2012-06-04T16:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/tiananmen-security-normal-as-anniversary-held-amid-party-turmoil.html
Tens of thousands of people gathered
for a candlelight vigil on a humid night in  Hong Kong  to
remember victims of the government crackdown at  Tiananmen Square 
23 years ago and demand freedom to protest in mainland China.  Demonstrators with megaphones competed with each other for
the attention of the crowds who swirled around them in  Victoria
Park , vowing not to forget the crackdown, in which hundreds of
protesters were killed. Some wore shirts bearing the image of
jailed Nobel Peace Prize winner  Liu Xiaobo  while others chanted
demands that the Chinese leaders who sent troops to break up the
protests in 1989 be held accountable.  “This is my first time to see so many people commemorate
the dead in Tiananmen,” said Ben Liu, a 32-year-old software
engineer from  Shanghai  who attended yesterday evening’s protest
on the last day of a business trip to Hong Kong. “I wish
someday we could do the same in China to voice our emotions.”  China doesn’t allow mainland events to commemorate the
crackdown and is trying to ensure a smooth leadership transition
at the 18th Communist Party Congress later this year. The party
is seeking to maintain stability after the suspension of
Politburo member Bo Xilai amid murder allegations surrounding
his wife.  Tiananmen Square itself bustled with tourists yesterday,
and there was no sign of increased security or protests. Dozens
of police vehicles were stationed at the eastern and western
approaches to the square, as they are on most days, and traffic
crawled along Chang’an Avenue, the main route taken by the army
tanks that flooded into the square in 1989. Tourist groups
followed flag-toting guides around the area.  Collective Action  “The current stability-maintaining force, including the
police, has effectively stopped people from doing anything on
the anniversary,” said Ding Xueliang, a professor of social
sciences at the  Hong Kong University  of Science and Technology.
“The cost of organizing any collective action is too large, the
pressure and risks on individuals too great.”  A search for “Shanghai composite” was blocked on Sina
Corp.’s Weibo microblog platform, after the Shanghai Composite
Index  closed down  64.89 points yesterday. The crackdown began
overnight on June 4, 1989.  Organizers of the Hong Kong protest estimated attendance at
a record 180,000 people, Lee Cheuk-yan, chairman of the Alliance
in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China, said from
the platform. Local police estimated turnout at 85,000,
according to an unidentified spokeswoman for the force.  This year’s anniversary is drawing more scrutiny after Bo’s
ousting, legal activist  Chen Guangcheng ’s flight to the U.S. and
the suicide last month of a man whose son was killed at
Tiananmen Square.  Bo’s Ouster  Bo, once considered a candidate for the Politburo’s all-
powerful Standing Committee, was stripped of his post as party
secretary of the municipality of Chongqing in March. A month
after that, following accusations that his wife was involved in
the murder of a British businessman, he was removed from the
Politburo.  In the crackdown 23 years ago, Chinese troops fired on
demonstrators who had massed in the square for weeks. The U.S.
Embassy in Beijing estimated a death toll exceeding 1,000, and
in Hong Kong, which would return to China in 1997, about one
million people marched in protest at the time.  U.S. State Department spokesman Mark Toner issued a
statement on June 3 saying the U.S. encourages China to publicly
account for all those who died, protect its citizens’ human
rights and “end the continued harassment of demonstration
participants and their families.”  ‘Resolute Objection’  China “expresses strong dissatisfaction and resolute
objection” to the “unfounded criticism of China’s
government,” Foreign Ministry spokesman  Liu Weimin  told a
briefing in Beijing yesterday in response to the statement. He
said it “deviated from the truth and interfered with China’s
internal affairs.”  The Dui Hua Foundation, which advocates for prisoners in
China, estimates that the government is holding less than 12 of
the thousands of people detained in the crackdown, according to
a May 31 statement. The group said it hadn’t gotten a response
from the government about such prisoners since September 2009.
It listed the names of seven people it believes are still held.  Organizers of this year’s Hong Kong protests pressed for
more people from mainland China to join the event, Lee said.
Streets adjacent to the park were lined with police vans and
crowds climbed on planters to get a view of screens set up on
the main stage where people spoke.  “Hopefully by encouraging mainlanders and the younger
generation to join the vigil, we could give the Chinese
government pressure to recognize the crackdown amid  China ’s
upcoming leadership handover,” he said.  About 77,000 people joined last year’s vigil in Hong Kong,
according to police estimates. Public discontent earlier this
year was credited with derailing a leadership bid by the city’s
former top civil servant, while demonstrations by hundreds of
thousands of people in 2003 and 2004 were credited with leading
to the eventual resignation of Tung Chee-hwa as chief executive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crystal Chui in Hong Kong at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Boehler in Hong Kong at 
 pboehler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  