-- Tiananmen Date Match Bars Searches for China Stock Index
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-04T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/tiananmen-date-match-bars-searches-for-china-stock-index.html
Searches for “Shanghai Composite”
were blocked from  China ’s most-used microblogging service after
the stock index’s drop on the 23rd anniversary of the Tiananmen
Square crackdown corresponded to the date of the event.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index dropped by  64.89 (SHCOMP) 
points yesterday, matching the date on which Chinese authorities
crushed student-led protests on June 4, 1989. Queries for
“Shanghai Composite” on Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo
service returned a message that said results can’t be displayed
“in accordance with relevant laws, regulations and policies.”  China strictly prohibits references to the crackdown, in
which hundreds of protesters were killed by troops, as part of
the government’s censorship of websites, newspapers and
television that bars criticism of the ruling Communist Party.
This year, authorities are also trying to ensure a smooth
leadership transition scheduled for later in 2012 and seeking
stability after the suspension of Politburo member Bo Xilai.  “It’s difficult to orchestrate but the coincidence is just
mind-boggling,” Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of
history at the Chinese University of  Hong Kong , said in a phone
interview yesterday.  Queries for “Shanghai Composite” on the website of  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU) , China’s most-used Internet search engine, returned results
that showed the index’s decline. Other websites including Sina’s
financial news portal and that of China Finance Online Co. also
carried stock market reports with the index’s drop in points.  “We didn’t see anything abnormal in the market,” said
Chen Ji, spokesman for the  Shanghai Stock Exchange . “We don’t
have any further comment.”  Weibo Scrutiny  Sina’s Weibo service, with more than 300 million registered
users, has been subject to increased scrutiny. The company,
along with rival  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , were ordered to disable
the comment function on their microblog services for 72 hours in
March after authorities detained six people accused of spreading
rumors of a coup attempt in Beijing.  Cathy Peng, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Sina, didn’t
immediately answer calls to her office after normal work hours.  In December, China began requiring microblog users in
cities including Beijing, Guangzhou and Shenzhen to register
their real names. That rule will be expanded to other regions,
 Wang Chen , minister of the State Council Information Office,
said in January.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  