-- Tibco Says Corporate Social Networks `Hot' for Efficiency
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-06-04T14:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/tibco-says-corporate-social-networks-hot-for-efficiency.html
Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX) , a U.S. software
maker expanding in social-networking services for businesses,
said it’s “very positive” companies will adopt internal tools
similar to Facebook and Twitter to streamline work.  Tibco has gained 1 million users for its  Tibbr  workplace
application, which lets employees interact with colleagues and
share information in microblogs from fixed or mobile terminals.
 Palo Alto , California-based Tibco charges $12 a month per user,
giving discounts to large clients such as department-store chain
 Macy’s Inc. (M)  Customers of the social-enterprise platform,
introduced in January 2011, include the  World Economic Forum .  “Employers and employees are re-imaging the way in which
they communicate,” Ram Menon, Tibco’s president of social
computing, said today in an interview in Milan before speaking
at an industry conference. “Companies think social enterprise
is hot, and they’re investing on it.”  Increasing demand for employee productivity and shorter
time spans in processes such as supply chains is fueling the
development of social-enterprise software, whose layouts
resemble the social networks of  Facebook (FB)  Inc. and Twitter Inc.
The market for the software for corporate customers is forecast
to reach $6.4 billion by 2016, according to Forrester Research.  “Social enterprise is replacing phone calls, e-mails,
face-to-face meetings and hard-copy documents” as companies
need to combine all those means of communicating, Menon said.
“For companies, the value of their network is not just in the
technology behind it but in the content posted on it.”  Revenue Rises  Tibco, whose main business is producing claims- and trade-
processing software, posted a 22 percent jump revenue in its
first quarter through March 4 to $225.7 million, while net
income increased 29 percent to $20.6 million.  About 85 corporate customers use Tibbr, 60 percent of which
are new clients to Tibco, Menon said. Tibco added geo-location
functions to the application to allow businesses in industries
such as retail and airports to create data hubs around important
sites.  Tibco  has dropped  23 percent to $25.36 in the past month in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading in  New York , cutting the company’s
market value to $4.16 billion.  Tibbr allows a “very solid” approach to security,
enabling people to exchange private and strategic information,
Menon said. The platform supports a range of mobile operating
systems and can offer services both through cloud computing or
on premises, addressing regulatory demands by some countries
that want data to be stored “on their own soil,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  