-- Microsoft Add Football, Cartoons to Expand Xbox Platform
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-06-04T20:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/microsoft-add-football-cartoons-to-expand-xbox-platform.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  expanded the sports
and entertainment content offered through the Xbox, adding shows
like “Monday Night Football” to extend the life of its gaming
console and step up competition with  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Nintendo Co.  The Xbox 360’s online service will gain 35 entertainment
providers, Yusuf Mehdi, chief marketing officer for Microsoft’s
Interactive Entertainment division, said today at the E3 trade
show in Los Angeles. Microsoft also introduced an application
called Xbox SmartGlass that will link the console to phones,
tablets and personal computers from Microsoft and rivals.  Microsoft is seeking to turn Xbox into a home-entertainment
system that lets consumers share programs and information with
all their devices, both competing with and connecting to gadgets
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Microsoft doesn’t plan to unveil
a new console until next year at the earliest, people familiar
with the matter said in March, so SmartGlass and the added
programming will help refresh the Xbox amid competition from
Sony’s PlayStation 3 and a new Nintendo console.  “It’s a smart move,” said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst
at Gartner Inc. “It positions Xbox as the center of a personal
cloud ecosystem while allowing consumers to preserve the value
in their current hardware.” Customers will probably be able to
use the SmartGlass app on existing iPads and iPhones, for
example, Gartenberg said, citing a briefing from Microsoft.  SmartGlass App  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, will release
SmartGlass this year, allowing content makers to create uses for
the app. For example,  HBO  could use it to provide “Game of
Thrones” information to a viewer’s tablet while he or she is
watching, or Electronic Arts Inc. could let “Madden NFL”
video-game players draw a new play for their running back on
their phone and have the player execute it in the game, Mehdi
said in an interview before the speech.  The app will also serve to provide additional uses for
Windows Phones and Windows 8 tablets and PCs, scheduled to go on
sale later this year.  The new content, games and programs serve to round out
Microsoft’s vision of Xbox as entertainment hub, as Google and
Apple try to market television products and Sony and Nintendo
approach the market through their game consoles. Nintendo has
already announced a new machine, the Wii U, set to go on sale
later this year. Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said today
that Xbox is now the best-selling video-game machine worldwide.  Console Market  Microsoft has made market-share gains in a slumping U.S.
video-game and console market. The company racked up more than
40 percent of U.S. console sales for 14 months straight through
April, according to market researcher NPD Group Inc.  In that month, U.S. sales of video-game hardware, software
and accessories tumbled 32 percent as consumer buying shifts to
downloads and games on social sites, said  Port Washington , New
York-based NPD.  “At a time when entertainment is becoming more
interactive, more fun, we are bringing together games, movies
and television shows on every screen in our lives,” said Don Mattrick, president of Microsoft’s Interactive Entertainment
division, in a speech at E3.  Microsoft rose less than 1 percent to $28.55 at the close
in  New York . The  shares  have gained 10 percent this year.  Viacom, Univision  New content for  Xbox Live , which has 40 million
subscribers, will include Paramount films and Nickelodeon
cartoons from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , shows from Spanish-language
broadcaster Univision Communications Inc., 24-hour ESPN
programming and National Basketball Association games.  NBA League Pass will be available on Xbox Live for a fee,
giving customers more than 2,400 games, Mehdi said. A National
Hockey League subscription package offers more than 40 games a
week, he said.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  will release a fitness game that uses Xbox and
its Kinect sensor to scan a customer’s body -- it can even tell
if the user has had knee surgery -- and recommends a workout
plan. The Kinect will then track whether the user is doing the
exercises correctly.  Microsoft today also demonstrated “Halo 4,” the next
installment in best-selling Xbox-only game franchise, which is
due to be available this fall.  In addition, the company showed an Xbox Music service that
is a revamped version of its Zune offering. The service will
offer 30 million tracks that can be accessed on any Microsoft
device. The company will also offer an Internet Explorer browser
for Xbox.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  