-- Billionaire Morse Behind Curtain at Villages
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2012-06-05T01:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/hidden-billionaire-morse-a-man-behind-curtain-at-villages.html
Billionaire H. Gary Morse, 75,
controls almost every facet of life at the Villages, one of the
world’s largest retirement communities.  On a 33-square-mile parcel 15 miles south of Ocala,
 Florida , halfway between Jacksonville and Tampa, he’s built and
sold more than 44,000 homes since 1983. He’s created 39 golf
courses and developed 4.5 million square feet of commercial
space, including two hotels, 60 restaurants and two movie
theaters.  Morse owns the local newspaper, a television channel and an
AM radio station. His realty company controls 60 percent of the
re-sale market in the  Villages , whose commercials have been
fixtures on the Golf Channel. His bank lends to retirees fleeing
south; his insurance company provides them coverage. He even
gets paid to pick up the trash and organize tee times. For all
his ubiquity, most outside of Florida have never heard of him.  “He’s kind of like the Wizard of Oz,” Andrew D. Blechman,
author of “Leisureville,” a book on retirement communities,
said in a phone interview from his office in Great Barrington,
 Massachusetts . “He’s the man behind the curtain. No one really
knows him at the Villages.”  In 2011, the Holding Company of the Villages Ltd., which is
owned by Morse and his family, generated at least $550 million
in revenue, according to regulatory filings. Based on the value
of his various businesses and real estate -- plus the almost $1
billion in estimated profits the closely held company has earned
over 29 years -- Morse and his family are worth more than $2.5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He has never
appeared on an international rich list, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its July issue.  Morse, who owns at least four jet planes and a 147-foot
yacht, has become one of America’s wealthiest real estate
tycoons with the help of tax-exempt municipal bonds issued by
special government entities he’s created to fund the expansion
of the Villages. He plans to use more bonds, which have drawn
scrutiny from Florida’s governor and the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service, to help fund another 11,000 homes and 4.2 million
square feet of commercial space, according to recent bond
offering  statements .  Gary Lester, a spokesman for the Villages, said in an e-
mail that Morse declined to comment for this account.  Special Taxing Districts  Since 1992, Morse has raised at least $1.16 billion through
41 tax-exempt bond and note offerings in 11 special taxing
districts, according to documents filed with the offerings. The
districts use the proceeds to buy assets and services -- such as
golf courses and water utilities -- from Morse, who has earned
more than $900 million from the transactions.  Florida state law allows for the special taxing districts,
including entities known as community development districts, to
issue bonds exempt from federal income tax so long as they
perform a “wholly public purpose,” according to IRS
guidelines.  Suspecting millions of taxpayer dollars were wrongfully
flowing to developers, Florida Governor Richard Scott issued an
executive order in January 2012, seeking a review of the state’s
1,600 special taxing districts.  “They aren’t elected officials,” Lane Wright, Scott’s
press secretary, said in a phone interview when asked about
developers requiring homeowner fees to back munis. “They are
not accountable to the taxpayer.”  On March 28, 2012, Morse donated $50,000 to Let’s Get to
Work, Governor Scott’s 2014 election fund, according to a  donor
list  posted on its website. His three children each donated
$10,000 the same day; the Villages made a $100,000 corporate
donation as well. Morse is a  co-chairman  of the Florida finance
committee for Republican  Mitt Romney ’s presidential campaign.  Developer’s Alter Ego  One person in the state’s Office of Policy and Budget has
been gathering information on the special districts, Wright
said. Scott, a Republican, should have an estimate as to how
long a thorough review will take by the end of June.  Morse’s community districts have also drawn the ire of the
IRS, which has investigated whether $426.6 million of bonds
issued between 1993 and 2004 by the Village Center Community
Development District should have been tax-exempt, according to
letters the agency sent the district’s board of supervisors.  “There is nothing about the establishment or operation of
the Center District that indicates it has a wholly public
purpose,” the IRS said in a  memorandum  to the district’s board
dated April 26, 2012. “The Center District has in effect been
operated as the alter ego of the Developer.”  The IRS memo was in response to the district’s request for
“technical advice” into their bonds’s compliance with the tax
exemption laws.  Dean Patterson , an IRS spokesman, said in a
phone interview the agency couldn’t comment on anything having
to do with a taxpayer, including special government districts.
As of May 17, 2012, the investigation was active, according to a
brief sent to the district’s board.  ‘Perfect Issuer’  A Freedom of Information Act request to the U.S. Treasury
Department made by Bloomberg News for more of the correspondence
between the district and the IRS was denied April 13, 2012,
because tax records are confidential.  The coupon and principal payments for Morse’s district
bonds are made using assessments and amenities fees paid by the
Villages’s 84,000 residents who shell out as much as $1,740 a
year to enjoy their clubhouses, pools and golf courses. None of
the Villages’s special districts have ever defaulted on their
bonds.  “That’s your perfect issuer,” Andrew Sanford, an analyst
at ITG Holdings LLC, a Naples, Florida-based hedge fund
specializing in municipal bonds, said in a phone interview.
“They issue bonds. Things get built out very quickly. They have
good debt service coverage.”  ITG owns two Village Center bonds with a combined face
value of $200,000. The company owns $30 million in municipal
securities.  Real Estate by Mail  Gary Morse was born to Mary Louise and Harold Schwartz. The
couple divorced around 1947, when Morse was about 10 years old.
Mary Louise remarried Clifford Morse, according to Blechman. The
duo raised Gary in Central Lake,  Michigan , where the family ran
a restaurant and entertainment complex called  Brownwood ,
according to a Jan. 8, 2012,  account  in Morse’s Villages Daily
Sun newspaper.  Schwartz moved south and eventually purchased a few
thousand acres of scrub land 15 miles south of Ocala, Florida.
In 1959, he started selling lots by mail. When federal law
banned such sales a few years later, Schwartz sold plots to
mobile home owners.  By 1983, only 400 lots had trailers on them. At his
father’s urging, Morse moved to Florida that year to take over
the business. Rather than hawk vacant lots, Morse decided to
build homes -- plus pools, restaurants and lots of golf courses
-- on speculation, hoping to sell them to retiring northerners.  By 1986, Morse was selling more than 500 homes a year. A
decade later, annual revenue crested $100 million. Between 1986
and the first quarter of 2012, the Holding Company of the
Villages generated $8.23 billion in total new home sales
revenue.  Based on the average annual profit margin of four publicly
traded homebuilders with Florida operations, the company has
probably made almost $1 billion in profit from those sales.  Colony Villa  Morse’s fortune was built by owning almost every aspect of
the Villages. The Villages builds the homes through
subcontractors; a 1,648-square-foot Colony Villa starts at
$120,000, while an upgraded 5,139-square-foot Grandview home
sells for $1 million.  When Morse sells the homes, loans to buyers are often made
via his $1.4 billion (assets) Villages Bancorporation. A
subsidiary, Citizens First Bank, provides consumer-banking
services to residents. According to a regulatory filing, the
bank was worth $96 million in 2011. Morse and his family own 61
percent of the bank, according to a reply to a  IRS questionnaire 
in 2011.  Morse is the landlord of the Villages’s 4.5 million square-
feet of commercial space which houses dozens of restaurants,
retailers and doctors offices. A few commercial lots have been
sold to retailers such as  Target Corp. (TGT)  The remainder is owned by
Morse and his children, according to bond offering documents.  The value of these properties is about $400 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The calculation is
based on comparable market data -- vacancy rates, rents, and
capitalization rates -- supplied by research firm CB Richard
Ellis.  In 2006, Morse transferred most of the direct ownership in
the holding company to his three children: Mark Morse serves as
President of the company; Tracy Mathews oversees Villages
design; and Jennifer L. Parr is a director. Gary Morse retained
the largest block of voting shares, and is credited with the
family’s fortune, according to the methodology used to compile
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Cracker Bay  Property records show Morse owns a $1 million house in the
Villages. He has four jet planes -- including a 21-seat Dassault
Falcon 900 and two 22-seat Dassault Mystere-Falcon 50s, which
can fly 3,623 miles without refueling -- owned through the
Villages Equipment Co.  He also has a 147-foot yacht,  Cracker Bay , according to the
Orlando Sentinel and Tampa Bay Times newspapers. The Cayman
Islands-flagged vessel can accommodate 12 guests and a full-time
crew of nine, according to Charterworld Ltd.  Morse and his family own 40 percent of Lazy B Cattle
Ventures LLC. Current and former employees own the rest of the
cattle farm, which uses some of the Florida land near the
Villages that Morse plans to develop, according to the IRS.  One-third of Morse’s estimated fortune comes from proceeds
from selling assets to the Villages with bondholder money. In
1992, Morse created the Village Community Development District
No. 1, the first of 11 entities that have issued $1.16 billion
in munis, at least $900 million of which has been paid to Morse
for assets and services.  Pickleball, Golf  Each time he created a district to issue bonds, Morse
created a five-member board to run the community in lieu of a
municipal government. The boards that approved 38 of the bond
offerings were staffed almost entirely with his employees at the
time the bonds were sold. Three of the Villages’s 41 bond
offering statements are not available through the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board database.  In 1993, the Village Center Community Development District
issued $26 million in bonds. It used $20.2 million to acquire
Sunbelt Utilities Inc., a water utility servicing 5,249 Villages
residences, according to the  bond offering  statement. The
district’s board was comprised of Morse and four other Villages
employees. Not disclosed in the bond offering statement: the
fact that Morse and his father owned Sunbelt, according to
Florida state records.  The bond offering included a clause providing $3.69 million
in post-sale fees to Morse and his father to connect another
3,351 homes to the system.  Other bond issues show there is no operation at the
Villages too small to profit from. In 1996, Village Center CDD
raised $17 million to buy assets from Morse, including seven
lakes, 12 pickleball courts and 36 holes of golf. The offering
included a provision to pay Morse $26,000 annually for taking
tee times at those four executive courses.  ‘Government by Developer’  The IRS began looking into Morse’s bonds in 2009. Details
of the agency’s investigation were revealed when a website
critical of Florida development districts posted a letter dated
May 4, 2009, from the agency to the Villages.  According to the  letter , the IRS said it believed 2003
Village Center Community Development District bonds overpaid
Morse for golf courses and other structures. The bonds paid
Morse $60 million for amenities that only cost him $7.5 million
to build, the letter said.  The IRS also believed some of the assets the district
bought from Morse in the 2003 offering were ineligible to be
purchased with a tax-exempt bond. One such asset: guardhouses
that prevented public access to the Villages even though its
roads are public property. At the time, all five members of the
district supervisory board were employees of Morse.  The district defended its appraisal methodology, telling
the IRS in a subsequent letter that it was buying forward
revenues derived from amenities fees in addition to the assets
themselves.  The IRS said it also believed Morse violated the intent of
the law allowing special government districts by structuring a
district with no residents at all and suggested other bonds may
be taxable. Florida law indicates developers can create
districts -- and appoint their supervisors -- as long as they
are 1,000 acres and will eventually reach 250 voters who can
independently elect a district board.  The districts were used “to perpetuate this ‘government by
developer’ phase indefinitely,” wrote IRS examiner, Dominick
Servadio Jr., in a 2009 letter to the Village’s CCD chairman.
The May 2012, IRS brief said the agency believed that the 167-
acre Village Center CDD and the 432-acre Sumter Landing CDD both
failed to meet state requirements to be a district.  Settlement Talks  In 2009, the IRS requested a settlement requiring the
Village Center and Sumter Landing districts to pay $16.5 million
tax on the then-outstanding bonds, refinance $355 million of the
bonds through taxable bonds, and to refrain from issuing
municipal bonds in the future. The settlement was probably
declined given the continuing investigation.  Since 2011 another Morse district, the Village Community
Development District Number 9, has issued two muni bond
offerings. More than $95 million of the $109 million raised went
to buy water management assets from Morse.  “The IRS isn’t going to waste its time with the
Villages,”  Dan Carter , President of hedge fund ITG Holdings
said in a phone interview. “There are going to be a lot of
others that the IRS will have an easier time proving their point
with. The Villages is more gray.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  