-- High-Yield ETFs Lure Investors Bypassing Dealers: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-06-04T15:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/high-yield-etfs-lure-investors-bypassing-dealers-credit-markets.html
Exchange-traded funds that own  junk
bonds  are attracting unprecedented sums of cash from
institutional investors seeking to slip in and out of the market
as dealer inventories decline.  Institutional holders own 51 percent of BlackRock Inc.’s
high-yield ETF, up 11 percentage points this year, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. The portion at  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s
fund has  grown  to 60 percent, a rise of 18 percentage points.  The two funds, which allow individual investors access to
the junk-bond market for as little as $37.59 a share, are
attracting buyers from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to Northern Trust
Corp. as primary dealers gut corporate bond holdings by 81
percent since 2007. The market shift was underscored last month,
when an investor redeemed as much as $780 million shares in
State Street’s  fund  for the equivalent amount of bonds.  “Liquidity is the main reason that we’re using high-yield
ETFs right now rather than high-yield bonds,”  Tim Anderson ,
chief fixed-income officer at RiverFront Investment Group LLC in
Richmond, Virginia said in a telephone interview.  “In the good old days you could call up one of the major
firms and there’d be a halfway decent shot you could sell $15
million, $30 million of bonds to them on the line,” said
Anderson, whose firm is the sixth-biggest institutional
shareholder in State Street’s fund. “They’re not keeping the
same inventories anymore.”  Shrinking Inventories  Dealer  holdings  of corporate bonds that mature in more than
a year have dropped to $44.8 billion from as high as $235
billion in October 2007, according to data from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York .  Bank of America  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are among the five
biggest shareholders of both BlackRock and State Street’s ETFs,
accounting for $1.7 billion of the securities in both funds,
Bloomberg data show. The banks are two of the 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed.  “ETFs have increasingly become a more viable way to
express credit views,” said Eric Gross, a credit strategist at
Barclays Plc in  New York . “We’ve seen corporate bond liquidity
go down across both investment grade and high yield.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Moody’s Investors Service said
its Liquidity-Stress Index fell to an unprecedented 3.3 percent
in May from 3.9 percent in April, the previous record low, the
ratings company said today in a statement. The gauge measures
the percentage of speculative-grade borrowers with the lowest
liquidity rating.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  Bondholder Protection  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. rose for a fourth day, with the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbing 1.1 basis
point to a mid-price of 127.1 basis points as of 11:23 a.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, rose 0.06 basis point to 37.5 basis points
as of 11:24 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Goldman Sachs  Bonds of General Electric Co. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
31 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:24 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ETFs typically allow individual investors to speculate on
securities without directly owning them. Unlike mutual funds,
whose shares are priced once daily, ETFs are listed on exchanges
and are bought and sold like stocks.  The funds generally don’t buy securities directly when they
receive inflows or sell them to meet outflow requests. Instead,
an authorized participant receives cash from investors and uses
it to buy securities in exchange for fund shares. With
redemption requests, the approved participant returns shares to
an ETF’s manager and receives securities.  An investor used State Street’s ETF to anonymously obtain
almost $780 million of speculative-grade bonds on May 10 without
moving prices in the secondary market.  ‘Relatively Liquid’  The investor exchanged as much as 19.7 million shares in
the fund for the equivalent of about $779.3 million in
speculative-grade bonds held by the ETF, Bloomberg data show.
The redemption, the biggest in the fund’s history, came after
the investor accumulated shares over several weeks, according to
Knight Capital Group Inc., which brokered the trade.  Debt holdings of BlackRock’s  iShares iBoxx High Yield
Corporate Bond Fund , whose ticker symbol is HYG, have soared to
$14.2 billion since its inception in April 2007. State Street’s
 SPDR Barclays Capital High Yield Bond ETF (JNK) , which trades as JNK,
has amassed $10.5 billion since opening in November 2007.  Banks are reducing inventories as lawmakers worldwide set
limits on risk-taking after the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression led to $2 trillion of losses and writedowns.  “As long as something like JNK or HYG is easy to trade and
relatively liquid, I’m not sure why anyone would go through the
hassle of chasing down all the bonds, unless they were very good
at doing it,” said Chris Hempstead, director of ETF execution
at WallachBeth Capital LLC in New York. “It may be an
affordable way to get exposure to the bonds.”  Performance Diverges  ETFs have been “aggressively marketed” to individual
investors on the Internet, according to Moody’s.  “The rising use of ETFs as rapid trading vehicles by
institutional block-traders and hedgers seems to be increasing
investors’ risk,” Neal Epstein, a senior credit officer at
Moody’s in New York, wrote in a May 28 report.  The State Street and BlackRock high-yield ETFs  trailed 
benchmark indexes by 1.3 percentage points in May, Bloomberg
 data  show. State Street’s lost 3.5 percent compared with a
decline of 2.2 percent for the Barclays Capital High Yield Very
Liquid Bond Index. BlackRock’s dropped 3.2 percent versus a 2
percent loss on the  iBoxx Liquid High Yield Index .  “Even though ETFs were perceived as more liquid, we must
remember that they ultimately have to go through our market,”
Gross at Barclays said. “They’re only as liquid as the
underlying” securities, he said.  While using high-yield ETFs can be “frustrating” when
performance diverges from benchmark indexes, the funds offer a
chance to buy bonds in sizes that investors might otherwise be
unable to get, Anderson said. Also, he said, over a longer term,
the tracking error tends to be less.  “We have a very high degree of certainty that the ETF
trade will go through,” he said. “It enables us to take a
little bit larger exposure than we would otherwise because the
liquidity is better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  