-- IMF Says Vietnam Should Focus on Inflation Over Rate Reductions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-04T11:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/imf-says-vietnam-should-focus-on-inflation-over-rate-reductions.html
Vietnam ’s central bank should
prioritize containing inflation and be cautious about lowering
 interest rates  further after reductions in the past three months,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The government should focus on economic stability even if
it means accepting “somewhat slower growth,” Sanjay Kalra, the
IMF’s resident representative for the country, said in a
statement today. Vietnam has a history of loosening monetary
policy prematurely, and the rate cuts may cause price pressures
to re-emerge in as little as three months, the  World Bank  said
separately today.  Vietnam cut interest rates last week for the third straight
month as policy makers stepped up efforts to bolster a
struggling economy after inflation eased to the lowest since
2010. The  economy  expanded 4 percent in the first quarter, the
slowest since 2009, and growth in the current three-month period
may be as low as 4.4 percent, Deputy Minister of Planning &
Investment Cao Viet Sinh said today.  “Risks to the outlook for 2012 include a loss of market
confidence in the government’s policy orientation,” Kalra said
at a conference in the central Vietnamese town of Dong Ha.
“Government policies need to credibly prioritize stability.”  The central bank cut its  refinancing rate  to 12 percent
from 15 percent between March and May and reduced its repurchase
rate to 11 percent from 14 percent over the same period.
Inflation slowed to 8.34 percent in May after reaching 23
percent last year, the fastest in  Asia .  Inflation may ease to as low as 5 percent next quarter and
range between 6 percent and 8 percent by the end of the year,
according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. report today. The central
bank’s policy rates may be cut by as much as 300 basis points by
the end of the third quarter, JPMorgan economists estimate.  While the three rate cuts came “earlier than expected for
most market participants,” inflation has also slowed more
rapidly than had been anticipated, the IMF said.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam will “steer interest rates on a
declining path,” and may eliminate a rate cap on dong deposits,
central bank Deputy Governor Le Minh Hung said in a statement
distributed at the conference today. Inflation is “expected to
be under control,” he said.  --Jason Folkmanis and Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Dong Ha, Vietnam.
Editors: Shamim Adam, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Dong Ha, Vietnam at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Dong Ha, Vietnam at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  