-- In Wisconsin, All Politics Is Presidential
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-06-04T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/in-wisconsin-all-politics-is-presidential.html
Wisconsin  is one of those states that
time forgot.  It’s a place where you can still find a coffee shop called
Have a Nice Day proudly displaying  Elsie the Cow  in the window.
The  Republican Party  (the moderate one) was founded there, as
was the  first kindergarten  in the U.S. Its state religion, the
Green Bay Packers, is collectively owned, and for several months
during the fall, adults willingly wear giant foam wedges of
cheese atop their heads. The state constitution is  the oldest 
outside of New England. It prides itself on capital-G Good
Government.  In short, it hardly seems the place for relatives and
neighbors to stop speaking to one another. Yet that’s what has
happened as the recall election for Republican Governor  Scott Walker , scheduled for Tuesday, approaches. The outcome is
supposed to tell us not only about the power of the labor
movement within the  Democratic Party  and of the Tea Party among
Republicans, but also about who will win the White House in
November.  That’s a lot of meaning to invest in one election, and it
underestimates the extent to which that old cliche -- all
politics is local -- holds true.  Total Recall  There are many factors at play in Wisconsin, including the
candidates themselves. Shortly after taking office in January
2011, Walker ended most of the collective bargaining rights of
public unions, and the Capitol became a round-the-clock protest
site. About a year later, more than twice as many signatures as
needed had been collected to recall him, and last month
Democrats selected Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett to oppose him.  The recall movement would have preferred a candidate other
than Barrett, a genial, white-haired pol who oozes
reasonableness, more Harry Reid than  Tom Harkin . He harps on  job
creation  and how much Walker’s attack on labor has hobbled
unions. His rhetoric doesn’t necessarily resonate in Wisconsin,
a relatively prosperous state with a lower-than-average
unemployment rate of  6.7 percent .  In Barrett’s favor is a scandal that hangs over Walker from
his days as Milwaukee County executive. Several of Walker’s
former aides face criminal charges for conducting campaigning
and fundraising on government time. Walker’s deputy chief of
staff at the time, Tim Russell, is charged with embezzling more
than $20,000 from a veterans charity. Walker hasn’t been
fingered, but in May he  transferred $100,000  from his campaign
funds to his legal defense fund.  Walker’s local hero is Reince Priebus, his close friend and
political confidante, who moved up to the Big Show as chairman
of the  Republican National Committee . Priebus used to lead the
state party, and was elevated to the national job the same month
as Walker became governor. A Walker win would be the crown jewel
of Priebus’s term. After all, as Representative  Paul Ryan  says,
“the whole world is watching” what happens Tuesday in Wisconsin.  All Wisconsin politicians are rooting for the state to
become a battleground. And why not? Where would you rather
practice the dark arts -- in a solid, uncontested state like
Wyoming, where a candidate might drop in to  Jackson Hole  to pick
up some campaign cash but never shake a hand? Or in, say,
Florida, where for three months you have presidential candidates
wooing you and spending millions trying to get your vote? To
live in a solid blue or red state is to be taken for granted --
and to be politically impoverished.  Wisconsin is already feeling the love, with $62 million
being spent on the campaign, much of it coming from outside the
state. Estimates are that Walker is outspending Barrett by an 8-
to-1 ratio, with ads blanketing the state. Barrett is getting
out-of-state money from labor. Walker is getting much more from
the Koch brothers, who want to cripple unions across the
country, and a few famous names from the Republican presidential
primaries:  Sheldon Adelson  (the casino owner who supported  Newt Gingrich ) and Foster Friess (the hedge funder who bankrolled
 Rick Santorum ).  Still Blue  Another reason not to grant Tuesday’s election too much
weight is evidence that, in presidential elections at least,
Wisconsin tends to stay blue. Yes, in 2010 Walker won and
Democratic Senator  Russ Feingold  lost. But Wisconsin is
relatively stable presidentially. A Republican hasn’t won there
since  Ronald Reagan  in 1984.  A Walker victory isn’t likely to end that streak. The  same
polls  that show Walker running ahead of Barrett by as much as
seven points show President  Barack Obama  winning the state
again.  At the same time, if Barrett becomes governor, it won’t
necessarily change the national outlook for Democrats in general
or Obama in particular. Especially if there are more job reports
like the one that came out Friday, or a collapse of the economy
across the euro area, or blowups in Iran or Syria.  Each side would have you believe the election means
everything -- until late Tuesday night, when one side will
abruptly change tack and say it means absolutely nothing. As  Tip O’Neill  famously said, all politics is local. Every four years,
however, all politics is presidential.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  pressuring Russia to
pressure Syria ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  winning the Six-Day War ;
Ramesh Ponnuru on the  wayward Obama campaign ; William Pesek on
 India’s faltering market reforms ; Gary Shilling on  Japan’s
misguided stimulus .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 