-- Israel Army’s Cyber-Knowhow Aids Firms Hiring Hackers
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-06-05T20:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/israel-army-s-cyber-knowhow-aids-companies-hiring-hackers.html
As the Flame virus wreaks havoc with
Iranian computer systems, Israeli software companies say their
country’s expertise with such cyber weapons has created a pool
of army-trained hacking talent to hire from.  Billionaire Gil Shwed, who served in an elite intelligence
unit, says he has recruited from the military for his  Check
Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) , the world’s second-largest
maker of security networks. Cyber-Ark Software Ltd., another
specialist in cyber-defense that sold a stake to  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  in December, finds top programmers in units that
include the army’s nine-year program for exceptional math and
science students, Chief Executive Officer Udi Mokady said.  Israel is among the leaders in a global growth industry as
governments seek to defend financial systems,  power plants  and
other public resources against cyber threats. The ingenuity of
hackers, long regarded as pests bent on penetrating computers
for mischief and profit, has become a critical resource with
military and commercial payoffs, as Israeli companies seek a
share of an $18 billion market.  Israel  hasn’t said whether it created Flame. Vice Prime
Minister Moshe Yaalon said it would be “reasonable” for anyone
threatened by Iran to use cyber weapons.  Rated one of three countries best prepared to withstand
digital attacks in a  McAfee study , Israel is pouring resources
into cyber warfare. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and
Defense Minister Ehud Barak are scheduled to speak tomorrow at
an international conference on  cyber security  at  Tel Aviv 
University.  Societies ‘Paralyzed’  “This is an era that we’re entering into where entire
societies can be paralyzed by cyber attack, and Israel is no
different,” Netanyahu said on Feb. 19. “We are committed to
being one of the three leading cyber powers of the world.”  Israeli companies are benefiting.  Check Point ’s  shares ,
traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, have jumped more than 70
percent in the past two years. Both its two main competitors,
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , have fallen about
30 percent in that period. Check Point  rose  1.5 percent to
$51.92 at the close today in  New York .  “Today we have a lot more research on specific attacks, on
methods used by hackers and a lot more understanding of the
world of the hacker in order to build a better tool,” its
founder Shwed, 45, said in an interview in Tel Aviv.  Check Point had a 10.7 percent share of the world cyber
security market by revenue in 2009, according to a November 2010
study by market researcher IDC. Israeli companies earned about
$4.2 billion from information technology products in 2010, with
more than half of that coming from security, said Yafit Katz-
Rubin, business development manager for the industry at the
Israel Export Institute in Tel Aviv.  ‘Need to Keep Up’  The Tel Aviv Stock Exchange and  El Al Israel Airlines Ltd. (ELAL) 
were targets of cyber attacks in January, leaving their websites
hobbled. Israeli security services are working with other
governments to trace the source.  “We’re in pretty good shape with current threats, but the
threats next year and two years from now are just going to get
higher and we need to keep up,” said Yitzhak Ben Israel, who
was chosen last year by Netanyahu to build Israel’s National
Cyber Directorate, announced in May 2011 and allotted an
undisclosed budget. “Our biggest worry is damage to our major
life systems that are all controlled by computers.”  Israel’s expertise is drawing investors. Goldman joined
Jerusalem Venture Partners in a $40 million investment in Cyber-
Ark, which has its research and development facilities in Petach
Tikva, Israel.  ‘Significant Disruption’  “The information security market is really going through a
major disruption,”  Cyber-Ark ’s CEO Mokady said.
“Organizations, governments had this ‘aha!’ moment in the last
18 months, where despite massive investment -- millions of
dollars invested in security technologies -- the bad guys are
coming in and, actually, they’re coming in very easily.”  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT) , Israel’s biggest non-government defense
contractor, said today in a press release that it will sell a
new cyber-security simulator, designed to train government,
military and civilian infrastructure agencies in handling
digital attacks.  Iran blamed Israel when its nuclear facilities were
attacked by the Stuxnet worm last year and attributed Flame to
what a spokesman called “illegitimate regimes,” a term it
commonly uses for Israel. Iran’s Information Technology
Organization said on its website that it has produced a tool to
identify and remove Flame.  Israel Speculation  Israel, along with the U.S. and other allies, has said Iran
may be seeking to build a nuclear weapon, and warned that it may
bomb Iranian atomic development sites to halt the program.  Iran 
says its nuclear work is for peaceful purposes.  Israel and the U.S. were partners in creating Stuxnet, the
New York Times reported on June 1, citing participants in the
program. President  Barack Obama  has since accelerated cyber
attacks on Iran, the Times reported.  After Flame emerged, “most of the speculation has centered
around Israel and I can understand why,” said Gabi Weimann,
author of the book “Terror on the Internet,” who teaches at
Haifa University. “Israelis are certainly in the top league of
computer sciences especially in the field of computer warfare.”  Flame, discovered by Internet security companies on May 28,
has the ability to steal documents, take desktop screenshots and
spread through external drives.  ‘Cyber Menaces’  “The complexity and functionality of the newly discovered
malicious program exceed those of all cyber menaces known to
date,” Russian-based Kaspersky Lab said in a statement on its
website. It called Flame a “super-cyberweapon” and said it’s
likely that a government is behind it. Founder Eugene Kaspersky
will speak at tomorrow’s conference.  Erel Margalit, founder of JVP and chairman of Cyber-Ark,
said the government needs to bolster ties between the military
and technology companies to encourage more innovation in
Internet security products.  “What we want to do is turn one of the world’s biggest
problems into an Israeli economic opportunity,” Margalit said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 