-- Hitler’s Hucksters; ‘Zoloft’ Toasts Joyless 40th: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-06-04T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/hitler-s-hucksters-zoloft-toasts-joyless-40th-review.html
I expected to see protesters outside
 Theater for the New City  the night I went down to  Manhattan ’s
East Village for “Hoaxocaust!”  With that title and a website that says, “Written and
Performed by Barry Levey With the Generous Assistance of the
 Institute for Political & International Studies , Tehran,” I
anticipated a show about what has been derisively and ignorantly
labeled “Holocaust, Inc.”  In fact, this is a stab at satire.  The Institute in Tehran does exist, every bit as much as
its sponsor, the Iranian president and lunatic Holocaust denier
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  He shows up in “Hoaxocaust!” -- along with fellow
travelers Arthur Butz, David Irving and Robert Faurisson, the
academy-protected patron saints of Holocaust denial.  With all due respect to Mel Brooks and the goose-stepping
storm-troopers of “The Producers,” the Holocaust generally
makes for lousy entertainment.  Levey, a gay Jewish man, becomes curious about the facts of
the Final Solution and finagles meetings with Butz at
 Northwestern University , Irving in  London  and Faurisson in Paris
before landing an unexpected audience with the Iranian leader.
Mahmoud comes off as warm and rational.  Numbers Game  They dispute everything from the number of Jewish dead to
the efficacy of Zyklon B gas and Hitler’s intentions regarding
the Jewish problem. Levey plays all of them.  You may figure out the gimmick before it is revealed, and I
won’t ruin it here. Levey and the producers of “Hoaxocaust!”
are earnest. Every performance is followed by a talkback with
the producers and guest experts.  There is help from actor Adam Green, playing an
ingratiating role with verve. The modest production is staged by
Jeremy Gold Kronenberg.  But Levey, author and character, is foolish and beyond our
empathy. Too late, we get a secret password to decode the
“Hoaxocaust!” website and the “facts” that have been tossed
out during the 70-minute show. Lacking the acid bite of
committed satire, the show risks promoting what it condemns.  Through June 17 at Theater for the New City, 155 First Ave.
near East 9th St. Information: +1-212-254-1109;
 http://www.theaterforthenewcity.net . Rating: *1/2  ‘Chimichangas, Zoloft’  Mexican food and anti-depressants are getting Sonia
Martinez through her 40th birthday, celebrated alone and on the
lam from her bartender husband and teenage daughter in
“Chimichangas and Zoloft,” at the  Atlantic  Theater Company’s
Stage 2.  The diet leaves her flatulent and bloated, no laughing
matter (not for her, anyway), and we think she’s just having a
midlife crisis over gravity’s impact on her body and the sudden
appearance of unruly hairs on various parts of her husband’s
body.  Then we get the picture of home life, and it’s no wonder
Sonia (played with appealing deadpan bewilderment by Zabryna
Guevara) has split.  Daughter Jackie (Carmen Zilles) and her best friend
Penelope (Xochitl Romero) are discovering sex and can’t shut up
about it. Every other word is “Dude.” Or “Dude!” Or
“Duuuuude!!!”  Their macho fathers (Alfredo Narciso, Teddy Canez) work a
little too hard at being rude and antagonistic with each other
when the kids are around.  The girls wonder why the doors are locked when the dads go
off to watch soccer in the den. We, on the other hand, are privy
to the truth, thanks a lot.  Fernanda Coppel has written a series of acting exercises
that reveal an ear for youthful dialogue. There’s no play yet  Through June 24 at 330 W. 16th St. Information: +1-279-
4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com . Rating: *  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Zinta
Lundborg  on Gail Collins.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 