-- J&J Tells Judge It Will Stop Sales of Vaginal Implants
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-05T20:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/j-j-tells-judge-it-will-stop-selling-vaginal-mesh-implant.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Ethicon unit told
a federal judge in  West Virginia  it intends to stop selling four
vaginal mesh implants after being sued by more than 600 women
who say the products caused internal injuries.  Johnson & Johnson said it has requested approval from the
 Food and Drug Administration  to stop “commercializing” the
devices, in a letter filed yesterday with U.S. District Judge
Joseph R. Goodwin in Charleston, West Virginia, who is
overseeing the litigation. An Ethicon spokesman said in an e-
mail that the unit would halt sales of the devices worldwide.  The FDA in March said  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J
had sold one of the implants, the Gynecare Prolift, for three
years without proper regulatory approval. That followed the
agency’s order in January that J&J and 30 other makers of
vaginal mesh implants study organ damage and other health
complications blamed on the products, which are used to treat
incontinence and shore up weakened pelvic muscles.  Ethicon has asked the FDA for 120 days to end sales so it
can “notify its customers and provide those hospitals and
surgeons with sufficient time to select alternative treatment
options for their patients,” the J&J subsidiary said in its
letter. “Ethicon will also discontinue or revise, as
appropriate, all marketing materials during this time.”  The FDA hadn’t responded to the request, according to the
letter. The move covers the Prolift, Prolift+ M, TVT Secur and
Prosima surgical meshes. Ethicon said it’s asked the agency to
let it continue selling a fifth product, the Gyencare Gynemesh,
with a change to the labeling that restricts its use.  Hundreds of Lawsuits  Hundreds of women say the meshes, threaded into place
through incisions in the vagina, have eroded and shrank over
time, causing pain and injuries. Patients have filed suits
against J&J,  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR)  of  Murray Hill ,  New Jersey ; and Endo
Health Solutions Inc. of  Chadds Ford ,  Pennsylvania , along with
other manufacturers.  “We are happy to see that Ethicon finally decided to do
the right thing and stop selling these products,” Bryan
Aylstock, a Pensacola, Florida-based lawyer for mesh patients
who are suing J&J, said in a telephone interview.  Ethicon is discontinuing sales of the products worldwide,
 Matthew Johnson , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. It’s
not recalling meshes already sold or implanted and its decision
isn’t based on any safety concerns, he said.  ‘Carefully Considering’  “We came to this decision after carefully considering
numerous factors” including “the commercial viability of these
products in competitive and declining worldwide markets, the
complexities of the regulatory environments in which we operate,
and the availability of other treatment options for women,”
Johnson said.  “We continue to have confidence in the safety and efficacy
of these products,” he said.  Sales will be ended on a region-by-region basis, with the
entire process to be completed by the first quarter of 2013,
Johnson said. The Gynemesh will remain on the market only for
abdominal implantations, he said.  An FDA spokeswoman, Erica Jefferson, said in an e-mail that
she couldn’t comment on Johnson & Johnson’s plan regarding the
vaginal mesh implants.  An agency report last year found a fivefold jump in deaths,
injuries or malfunctions tied to vaginal mesh for organs that
slump, or “prolapse,” because of weakened support. Two months
later, an advisory panel urged the FDA to reclassify the devices
as “high-risk” products needing human testing.  Endo ‘Committed’  Endo (ENDP)  will continue selling incontinence and prolapse mesh,
the company’s senior vice-president for corporate affairs,
Blaine Davis, said today in a telephone interview. While
publicity about the products’ safety has hurt sales, Endo sees
the devices as a “very beneficial treatment option” when
doctors choose the right patients, he said.  The company, which sold about  $85.5 million  in women’s
health meshes in the past fiscal year, is putting more money
into training doctors about how to use the products and plans to
conduct studies to prove their safety, he said. The scope of the
studies is being discussed with the FDA, Davis said.  “As a company, we’re very committed to these categories,”
he said. “We are actually investing behind these products.”  Scott Lowry, a C.R. Bard spokesman, didn’t return messages
today seeking comment.  Prolift Approval  J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health-care products,
fell less than 1 percent to $62.21 at the close of  New York 
 trading . C.R. Bard rose 1 percent to $96.41. Endo, which sells
mesh through its American Medical Systems unit, fell less than 1
percent to $30.81.  Ethicon introduced its Gynecare Prolift mesh in March 2005,
touting it in an annual report as an “innovative and effective
surgical option” for weakened muscles. The FDA said it learned
of the Prolift only in 2007, when J&J sought approval for a
related product.  The company said it could market the Prolift without
approval because it was so similar to the already approved
Gynecare Gynemesh, Morgan Liscinsky, an FDA spokeswoman, said in
March. “FDA disagreed with this assertion,” concluding
distribution began “without appropriate” clearance, she said.  The FDA cleared the Prolift in May 2008.  The case is In Re Ethicon Inc. Pelvic Repair System Product
Liability Litigation, MDL No. 2327, U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of West Virginia (Charleston).  Pfizer Inc (PFE) , based in New York, is the world’s biggest
health-care company by sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  