-- Juror Lies Trigger New Trial for Three in Tax-Fraud Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-06-04T23:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/juror-lies-trigger-new-trial-for-three-in-tax-fraud-case.html
Paul Daugerdas, a former Jenkens &
Gilchrist lawyer, and two other defendants in what a judge
called the biggest U.S. tax-fraud prosecution in history won a
new trial after a juror disclosed she had lied about her past,
including that she was an alcoholic and a suspended attorney.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in  Manhattan  today
overturned the convictions, ruling that the presence of
Catherine Conrad, who was Juror No. 1, denied the three a fair
trial.  “While Conrad claimed that she was a ‘fair and unbiased’
juror, this court cannot credit that assertion,” Pauley said in
an opinion today. “Conrad is a pathological liar and utterly
untrustworthy.”  Pauley upheld the conviction of a fourth defendant, David Parse, ruling that his lawyers, from the New York firm Brune &
Richard LLP, had facts about Conrad’s background that they
failed to tell the court before the case went to the jury.  “At a minimum, Parse’s attorneys had a suspicion that
Juror No. 1 was not the person she represented herself to be
during voir dire,” Pauley said, referring to the process of
asking potential jurors questions to determine their fitness to
serve on a panel. “That suspicion leavened into tangible
evidence that Conrad was a monstrous liar.”  Guilty Verdict  Susan Brune , the lead lawyer for Parse at the trial and a
founding partner of Brune & Richard, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling. Bobbi
Sternheim, a lawyer appointed by the court in December to
represent Conrad, didn’t immediately return messages seeking
comment on today’s ruling.  Jurors in May 2011 convicted Daugerdas of more than 20
criminal counts stemming from an alleged 10-year tax shelter
scheme. He faced more than 20 years in prison. The defendants
claimed Conrad wouldn’t have been permitted to serve on the jury
if she had told the truth about her background. Her presence on
the panel deprived them of a fair trial, they said.  Pauley said the government should have “a strong
incentive” to prosecute her for perjury. Federal prosecutors in
Manhattan have removed themselves from considering whether to
prosecute Conrad, according to  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for
the U.S. attorney’s office there. Federal prosecutors in
 Brooklyn  will handle Conrad’s case, Davis said.  ‘Conrad Lied’  “Conrad lied about her educational, professional and
personal background,” Pauley said in his opinion.  Conrad told the court her highest level of education was a
bachelor’s degree, when she had actually received a law degree
from Brooklyn Law School in 1997. She was admitted to practice
in 2000 and was later suspended, which she also failed to tell
the court.  Conrad lied about her residence, telling the court she
lived in Westchester County rather than the Bronx. And she hid
the fact that she had been arrested at least five times and that
her husband is a career criminal.  In a hearing in February, Conrad admitted she had once
stolen a bag of shrimp from a convenience store while drunk.
Another time she punched a police officer in the stomach as he
arrested her for drunk driving. At the time of the Daugerdas
trial, there was an outstanding warrant for her arrest issued in
Winslow,  Arizona , after she was arrested for an altercation with
her husband and failed to appear in court.  In the hearing, Conrad said she covered up her past to be
“more marketable” as a juror.  Ten-Week Trial  The 10-week tax fraud trial included 9,200 pages of
testimony from 41 witnesses, according to Pauley. Lawyers
introduced 1,300 pieces of evidence, Pauley said.  In addition to convicting Daugerdas and Parse, who worked
for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit Alex. Brown Inc., the jury returned
guilty verdicts for Denis Field, the former chief executive
officer at accounting firm BDO Seidman LLP; and Donna Guerin, a
Jenkens & Gilchrist lawyer. A fifth defendant, former Alex.
Brown accountant Robert Craig Brubaker, was acquitted.  Pauley said that one of Parse’s lawyers, Theresa Trzaskoma,
knew during the trial that Juror No. 1 was a suspended lawyer,
in spite of Conrad’s answers during voir dire. Pauley quoted e-
mail exchanges among the Brune & Richard trial team on May 12,
2011, the day jury deliberations began in the case.  “What we found before voir dire was that maybe she was a
suspended lawyer,” Trzaskoma told a paralegal on the trial
team. Later in the day, she told the same paralegal, “Jesus, I
do think that it’s her.”  Trzaskoma didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  