-- Kenyan Shilling Gains for Third Day as Central Bank Curbs Supply
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-06-04T11:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/kenyan-shilling-gains-for-third-day-as-central-bank-curbs-supply.html
Kenya’s shilling gained for the third
day, the longest winning streak in more than a month, as the
central bank removed liquidity in the money market.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.6 percent to 85.55 per dollar and was trading 0.1
percent to 85.95 at 1:31 p.m. in Nairobi. This is the longest
series of gains since April 27, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The central bank accepted all 9.27 billion shillings ($108
million) in bids for seven-day  repurchase agreements , less than
the 19 billion shillings on offer, at a weighted average rate of
17.624 percent, a Central Bank of Kenya official, who declined
to be named in line with policy, commented by phone from
Nairobi, the capital.  The  Finance Ministry  is encouraging the central bank to
intervene whenever necessary to smooth volatility in the
exchange rate and support “genuine dollar demand” from the
market, Permanent Secretary  Joseph Kinyua  said in an interview
on May 31 in the capital.  “After reaching a four and a half-month low of 86.75 last
week, the Kenyan shilling has reversed most losses, as the local
unit receives support from foreign exchange inflows from non-
governmental organisations which have helped meet the persistent
demand from  oil companies ,”  Leon Myburgh , a foreign-exchange
strategist at  South Africa  based CitiGroup Inc., said in a note
to clients.  Interest Rate  The central bank holds its monthly monetary policy
committee meeting tomorrow, according to its website. Five out
of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the committee to
main the benchmark  interest rate  at 18 percent.  “Uncertainty about tomorrow’s MPC decision is also keeping
many participants out of the market as not sure about direction,
though we expect the rate likely to be left at 18 percent
providing support for the shilling,” Myburgh said.  Kenya  expects to receive $240 million this week, part of a
syndicated loan, which will help support the currency, Kinyua
said.  Kenya’s trade deficit widened in March as fuel imports rose
to the highest in seven months, the  Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics  said on May 30 on its website. The gap increased 22
percent from a year earlier to 80.3 billion shillings. The
 inflation  rate fell to the lowest for more than a year in May,
slowing for a sixth month, to 12.2 percent from 13.1 percent a
month earlier, the Nairobi-based Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics said in an e-mailed statement on May 30.  The pressure on the shilling has been caused by increased
imports to support infrastructure projects, and that should ease
soon, Kinyua said.  The Ugandan shilling weakened 0.5 percent to 2,487.50 per
dollar while Tanzania’s shilling appreciated 0.3 percent to
1,587 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  