-- Kenyan Central Bank May Keep Record Rate to Stabilize Currency
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-06-04T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/kenyan-central-bank-may-keep-record-rate-to-stabilize-currency.html
Kenya ’s central bank will probably
keep its policy rate unchanged at a record high to shore up its
currency.  Kenya will maintain its  benchmark   interest rate  at 18
percent, where it’s been since December, according to five out
of six economists in a Bloomberg survey. One analyst predicted a
one percentage point cut, which would be the first reduction in
a year and a half. The decision will be announced later today.  “The bank will rather err on the cautious side with the
possibility that global sentiment could weigh on the shilling,”
Thalma Corbett, chief economist with NKC Independent Economists
in Paarl,  South Africa , said in an e-mail. The bank is “wary of
the impact cutting rates would have on the currency, and
concerned about the effect high international  oil prices  could
have on inflation.”  Kenya’s central bank is struggling to support the shilling,
which fell 3.3 percent against the dollar since May 1 to 85.95 
yesterday. A plunge in the currency last year helped push 
 inflation  close to 20 percent, prompting the central bank to 
raise its key rate 11 percentage points.  The increase helped the shilling rebound from a record low
in October, while inflation eased to 12.2 percent last month,
the lowest for more than a year. The government’s target for the
end of this month is 9 percent.  Kenya removed at least 76 billion shillings ($884 million)
in liquidity last month through  repurchase agreements  and sold
an unspecified amount of U.S. dollars in a bid to stabilize the
currency.  The central bank may change focus to spurring economic
growth rather than curbing inflation as the financial turmoil in
 Europe  persists,  Razia Khan , head of Africa research at Standard
Chartered Bank Plc in London, said on May 30. She was the only
analyst surveyed by Bloomberg to predict a cut.  In neighboring Uganda, the central bank reduced its policy
rate by one percentage point to 20 percent on June 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  