-- Flint Hills Using Edeniq Gear to Boost Ethanol Yields
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-06-04T22:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/koch-s-flint-hills-installs-edeniq-gear-to-boost-ethanol-yields.html
(Corrects company location in third paragraph.)  Flint Hills Resources LLC, the unit
of Koch Industries Inc. that invested in Edeniq Inc. last month,
is using the company’s equipment at one of its four corn-based
ethanol plants to boost production.  Flint Hills will test the company’s process for making
cellulosic ethanol from non-food plant material, and may order
additional “bolt-on technologies” to outfit its other three
plants with similar capabilities, closely held Edeniq said today
in a statement.  Edeniq, based in Visalia,  California , is installing its
Cellunator milling equipment, which will make more corn starch
available for ethanol fermentation, at Flint Hills’ plant in
Fairbank,  Iowa . It also will provide systems for extracting oils
that can be sold to biodiesel producers.  “With Cellunators, we typically see between three to five
percent improvement in yield,” Brian Thome, Edeniq’s chief
executive officer, said today by telephone. The corn oil “adds
another high-value co-product to the revenue stream” in
addition to cattle feed that plants typically produce, Thome
said.  Flint Hills also operates plants in Iowa Falls, Menlo and
Shell, Iowa, and its four facilities have a combined production
capacity of 440 million gallons a year.  Edeniq earlier this year started up a cellulosic ethanol
pilot plant at its headquarters that was partially funded by the
U.S. Department of Energy. The enzymes and mechanical equipment
developed there will be tested by Flint Hills initially and may
be sold to other U.S. ethanol producers beginning next year,
Thome said.  His company plans to partner with Brazilian sugar cane
ethanol producers to improve the yields of their facilities,
with the first deal expected later this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  