-- KV Pharmaceutical Must Face Suit Over Quality Assurances
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-04T21:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/kv-pharmaceutical-must-face-suit-over-quality-assurances.html
KV Pharmaceutical Co. (KV/A)  must face an
investor lawsuit claiming the company and its executives made
misleading statements about its compliance with federal quality-
control standards, a U.S. appeals court ruled.  Led by public employee pension plans of  Boston  and Norfolk
County,  Massachusetts , investors sued the Bridgeton, Missouri-
based drugmaker in 2008, alleging it and top executives made
misleading statements about compliance with U.S. quality-control
regulations.  A unanimous three-judge appellate panel in  St. Louis  today
reversed U.S. District Judge Carol E. Jackson’s 2010 order
dismissing the case and directed her to let investors file a
revised complaint. The appeals panel pointed to a guilty plea by
a unit of the company after the original lawsuit was filed.  “The district court abused its discretion in denying the
motion to amend the complaint,” the appellate panel said. “The
new allegations supported the investors’ contention that KV made
false and misleading statements during the class period.”  In an amended complaint filed in May 2009, KV and its
officers were accused of making misleading statements between
June 2004 and January 2009 in reports filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, during which time federal
Food and Drug Administration inspectors had observed
manufacturing, packing and labeling without making express
findings of violations, according to today’s ruling.  Suspended Shipments  In December 2008, the company issued a press release
stating it was suspending shipments of FDA-approved drugs in
tablet form, after which shares fell from $5.39 on Dec. 22 to 51
cents on Jan. 26, 2009.  Former Chief Executive Officer Mark Hermelin in March 2011
pleaded guilty to violating drug labeling laws and was sentenced
to 30 days in prison. A year earlier, KV’s Ethex unit pleaded
guilty to failing to tell the FDA about pill manufacturing
problems.  Brad Edwards, a spokesman for KV with Brainerd
Communicators in  New York , said in an e-mail that the company
“does not comment on legal matters.”  The case is Public Pension Fund Group v. KV Pharmaceutical
Co., 10-3402,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Eighth Circuit (St.
Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  