-- Nasty Hack Takes on Fake Terrorists in ‘New Republic’: Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-06-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/nasty-hack-takes-on-fake-terrorists-in-new-republic-review.html
“Barba” is Portuguese for
“beard.” If you look at  Portugal  as a west-gazing face,
with Lisbon at the nostril, you can see where the Barban
Peninsula, in the south, got its name.  Actually, if you look at a real map, you’ll see the
face but no beard, because Barba doesn’t exist. Lionel
Shriver invented it for her novel “ The New Republic ,” and
she doesn’t make it sound like anyplace you would ever want
to visit:  “During a Barban Wind Watch, cars had been known to
roll like tumbleweed.”  “Barbans had subscribed wholesale to the aesthetic
tradition of the suburban bank.”  “In Barba, corn oil was a sauce.”  Shriver is a novelist who likes bitter, gummy
subjects. “We Need to Talk About Kevin” was narrated by the
mother of a Columbine-style killer; “So Much for That”
dealt with how expensive it is to die of cancer.  “The New Republic” is about the toxic symbiosis of
terrorism and journalism. As Shriver explains in an opening
note, when she completed it in 1998, she couldn’t find a
publisher. At the time, her novels weren’t selling and
Americans didn’t care about terrorism.  Both things changed, but the book’s jaded political
satire clearly belongs to another era. The Barban
terrorists are a fiction, invented by Barrington Saddler, a
feckless reporter who’s stuck in the Portuguese backwater
and needs something to write about. The rest of the press
corps laps it up.  Blow Up  But as Shriver says, “Be careful what you make up.”
Barban independence has only minority backing until Barbans
begin to think someone is taking the trouble to blow things
up on their behalf.  The book’s nasty protagonist, a novice reporter named
Edgar Kellogg, is a former fat kid -- now a trim runner --
who’s never gotten over high school. I don’t think I’ve met
a character I more disliked spending time with, and seen
through his eyes, everyone else is just as repulsive.  With one exception: The novel’s sole beautiful woman
is also its single nice person, and Edgar’s devotion to her
is pure corn. The other women in the book are described in
such appalling locker-room terms that a male writer would
be assailed for it.  Relentlessly Mean  “Loathing,” Shriver declares, “was an addictive
emotion.” I would guess she’s speaking from the heart: She
is a relentlessly mean writer with a fixation on ugliness.
(“Sweat drizzling from his upper lip stung his tongue with
such distilled acridity that he might have been licking a
urinal.”)  She’s verbose, too -- she never slows down enough to
edit her characters, who are so talky they could be arguing
the morals of terrorism in a Shaw play. And forget nuance.
Her prose is like a fist hitting a table.  Yet she bulldogs through on some witch’s brew of
adrenalin, intelligence and bile. I could go on finding
fault with Shriver’s plotting, her world view, her style,
her taste; by the time I finished, she’d probably have
another disturbing book in the stores.  This one I found so upsetting that I read it in short
snatches -- I wanted to stop, but I couldn’t. She had me.
She’s a woman who was born to write.  “The New Republic” is published by Harper in the U.S.
and HarperCollins in the U.K. (373 pages, $26.99, 14.99
pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on business books
and  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 