-- Nero Morphs Into Foulmouthed Rocker in Paris ‘Pop’pea’
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-06-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/nero-morphs-into-foulmouthed-rocker-in-paris-pop-pea-review.html
“I don’t give a shit for the
people or the senate! And Ottavia is a frigid, barren bitch!”  That’s how Nero lets his teacher, the philosopher Seneca,
in on his plan to divorce his wife and marry Poppea, the
ambitious wife of his friend Ottone.  Opera fans familiar with “L’Incoronazione di Poppea”
will recall the Roman emperor, though lecherous, as a more
refined conversationalist. What the  Theatre du Chatelet  in
Paris presents is a drastically updated version of Claudio Monteverdi’s 1643 masterpiece.  “Pop’pea,” the title of the new work, indicates that
the music, too, is no longer what it used to be: Monteverdi’s
score has been larded with pop ingredients.  Michael Torke, the U.S. composer responsible for the
adaptation, is not the first to tamper with the original.  When the opera was dusted off, in the 1960s, after three
centuries of neglect, conductors routinely fleshed out the
sparsely sketched orchestra parts. Most of the vocal parts,
scored almost entirely for high voices, were transposed down
to make the male characters more believable.  Recent productions have followed the two surviving scores
-- one from Naples, the other from  Venice  -- more faithfully,
replacing the extinct castrati with sopranos and
countertenors.  Claudio Rocks  In an interview on the Chatelet’s website, Torke, who is
known for a jazzy “post-minimalist” style, says rock and
roll is the natural heir of Monteverdi’s simple bass line.  While more or less respecting the older composer’s
melodies, he has reworked the accompaniment which then was
transformed by the drummer Peter Howard into the idiom of a
six-member  rock band  -- including himself -- in the pit.  The U.K. playwright and director Ian Burton, who rewrote
the libretto, has simplified the story by eliminating the gods
and most of the minor characters.  The key difference between the old and the new is the
vocabulary. Monteverdi’s characters may be cynical,
calculating and cruel, yet they’re also courtiers.  In the updated version, they’re crude and vulgar.  Four-letter words abound, and even wise old Seneca’s
ruminations about his pupil Nero rarely rise above banalities:
“Before the Great Fire,/ Before he murdered his mother,/
Although megalomaniac,/ His intentions were higher!”  Strangled Love  This is one of the scenes not found in the original
libretto. Another is the finale: After their ecstatic love
duet, Nero strangles Poppea. (In reality, he killed his
pregnant wife by kicking her in the belly.)  Giorgio Barberio Corsetti and Pierrick Sorin, the
directorial team, have made the transfer of images from
miniature sets to huge video screens their speciality. In
2007, they scored a success at the Chatelet with a technically
brilliant production of Rossini’s “La Pietra del Paragone.”  In “Pop’pea,” they repeat the trick, placing the
characters in landscapes of ice cream, cold cuts and dancing
skeletons. It’s the most inspired part of the show.  Among the vocalists, Valerie Gabail, in the title role,
is the only professional opera singer. For the others, opera
is new territory: Carl Barat (Nero) played guitar in various
U.K. rock bands, including the Libertines. Marc Almond,
formerly of Soft Cell, (Seneca), Benjamin Biolay (Ottone) and
Fredrika Stahl (Ottavia) are rock and pop singers.  The result proves what you’d suspect: Without proper
voices, opera, albeit in a diluted form, is a non-starter.
Even the extravagant costumes, designed by Nicola Formichetti
who also works for Lady Gaga, can’t save the show.  The best that can be hoped for is that this hybrid whets
the appetite of pop fans for the real thing.  Rating: **.  “Pop’pea,” which is supported by  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , is
in repertory at the Theatre du Chatelet, Paris, through June
7. Information:  http://www.chatelet-theatre.com  or 
+33-1-4028-2828.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and 
 Peter Rainer  on movies.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 