-- Nestle Selling New Coffee Machines as Recipe for Growth
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-06-04T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/nestle-selling-new-coffee-machines-as-recipe-for-growth.html
Even as coffee culture goes ever-more
upscale, with java aficionados demanding novelties such as
micro-lot brews (from beans grown on a single plot of land),
 Nestle SA (NESN)  says it can help restaurateurs boost profits with a
new twist on an old product: instant coffee.  The Swiss company’s Professional division, which supplies
 Nescafe  soluble coffee to restaurants and offices, has
introduced three ranges of machines since 2009. This year it
plans to roll out its latest model in 16 markets in  Europe ,
which executives say will help companies reduce costs and
wastage as the economy suffers.  “This crisis has brought a focus on the inefficiencies
that in the past were tolerated,” said Marc Caira, the head of
Nestle Professional.  Until now, Nestle Professional had focused on sales of
soluble coffee and powdered milk for use in other companies’
machines. By selling its own equipment, Nestle can improve
efficiency and the quality of the coffee, Caira said in an
interview in Orbe,  Switzerland , the site of the factory where
the company first made Nescafe, the instant brew it introduced
in 1938.  While the economic downturn is prompting Europeans to eat
out less in the short term, overall consumption of food and
beverages outside the home is increasing as incomes in  emerging
markets  rise and people migrate to urban areas. Revenue from
coffee in the food service industry is expected to increase 19
percent by volume between 2011 and 2016, outpacing 12 percent
growth for retail sales of java over the same period, according
to  Euromonitor  International. Both markets expanded 3 percent
last year.  Selling Coffee  Nestle’s goal is machines that are easy to operate, serve a
greater variety of drinks and require less training to use. One
entry-level model, the Alegria 510, sells for about 129 euros
($160), with others provided free of charge. Nestle generates
revenue from sales of ingredients and maintenance and service
contracts.  “For Nestle it’s all about selling coffee,” said  Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam. “The
machines make a lot of sense because when you expand your
installed base of machines you can be sure people will buy your
coffee as well.”  While Nestle Professional doesn’t provide revenue figures,
its coffee and machine business is expanding at a “significant
double-digit” pace, according to Caira. With the rollout of new
machines, he expects long-term sales growth to exceed Nestle’s
overall corporate target of 5 percent to 6 percent.  Competing on Taste  The expansion pits Nestle Professional’s products against
traditional espresso makers. To compete on taste, the top-end
machines -- called Viaggi -- use soluble coffee that’s extracted
only from the best part of the bean, according to Caira.  For some machines in the Alegria range, which typically
dispense free coffee in offices and businesses such as
hairdressers, the company boosts the flavor by combining soluble
grains with microgrinds, or beans that have been crushed finely.
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  uses microgrinds for its Via instant coffee.
Some models use powdered milk, while others use liquid milk
thanks to technology developed for Nestle’s nutrition unit.  A caffe latte from a Viaggi machine typically sells for
about 4 euros and up. The same drink from a Milano machine, the
mid-range of the lineup, is between 2.50 and 4 euros, or about
the price for a similar offering in a typical European cafe.  New Territory  “Prior to this, we were competing with other soluble
coffee,” said Michiel Kernkamp, the head of beverages at  Nestle
Professional . “Now we’re competing with roast-and-ground. It’s
completely new territory for us and we’re seeing massive
growth.”  Instant coffee, though, isn’t to everyone’s taste.
“Soluble coffee has a cheap image in Europe and  North America ,
so it could be hard sell there, but selling to food service is
not only about the product itself,” said Hope Lee, an analyst
at Euromonitor in  London . “It’s also about the whole service.”  Restaurant owner John Grisetti in December swapped a
barista-operated espresso machine he’d used for 18 years for a
Nescafe  Milano  model. He’s already seeing cost benefits and
finds the convenience of the new machine to be a plus as more
customers try specialty drinks such as banana- or vanilla-
flavored iced coffee at 4.50 francs per cup.  Consistent Quality  “The quality of the coffee is the same all year, but with
the previous machine it was up and down” because of the skill
needed to operate it, Grisetti said at his Chez John restaurant,
about 10 minutes’ walk from Nestle’s headquarters along the
shores of Lake Geneva.  Switching to the Nestle machine will probably save about
1,300 Swiss francs ($1,346) a year in coffee costs, Grisetti
said. With powdered milk, he’ll save another 600 francs on milk.  The growth in the professional coffee machine business is
also being driven by consumers demanding a greater variety of
drinks, according to Kernkamp. While coffee-drinking used to
begin at home where it was usually taken black, younger people
are increasingly acquiring a taste for java through milk-based
beverages in cafes, he said.  “Youth are getting into coffee through latte macchiatos,
cappuccinos or iced frappuccinos, so white is the entry point
and it’s actually growing much faster than black,” Kernkamp
said. “The long Americano black is still important but it’s
being replaced by much higher-value beverages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  