-- Nigerian Deadliest Crash in Decades Dents Industry Image
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-06-05T14:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/nigerian-deadliest-crash-in-decades-dents-industry-image.html
Nigeria ’s deadliest airline crash in
almost 40 years casts a shadow over an industry that gained a
U.S. safety rating upgrade two years ago, as investigators focus
on possible engine failure as the cause of the accident.  The Dana Airlines Ltd. crash on June 3 was the worst since
1973 in the West African nation and the first fatal one in
Nigeria in more than four years, according to the Aviation
Safety Network’s database. Since an ADC Airlines plane went down
in October 2006, killing 97 people, the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration gave Nigeria a Category 1 rating in August 2010,
allowing domestic carriers to fly to the U.S.  “The government has been working hard to improve  aviation
security , but it has faced an uphill battle and flaws persist,”
Roddy Barclay, a London-based analyst at Control Risks, said in
an e-mail. “Following a lull in major aviation disasters in
Nigeria, the incident will provide a setback for the
authorities, prompting a review of existing regulations and
enforcement.”  The crash is a blow to President Goodluck Jonathan’s
government, which is battling a violent campaign by the Boko
Haram Islamist group, an electricity gap that is hindering
industrial growth and corruption in the oil industry that is
costing the nation billions of dollars in revenue annually.  National Setback  “This incident is a major setback for the country,”
Jonathan said at the crash site yesterday. “We will make sure
this doesn’t repeat itself.”  Nigeria suspended Dana Airlines’ operating license
“indefinitely” for “safety and precautionary reasons,” Joel
Obi, an Aviation Ministry spokesman, said today by phone from
Abuja, the capital. Tony Usidamen, a spokesman for Lagos-based
 Dana Group , didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone seeking
comment.  Dana Airlines has been operating since November 2008 in
Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation. The carrier ran 27
flights a day, according to a company press statement in
December.  Rescue workers have removed at least 140 bodies from the
crash site, said Yushau Shuaib, spokesman for the National
Emergency Management Agency. Search and rescue operations
resumed after they were suspended earlier due to heavy rains, he
said by phone.  Nigeria’s Accident Investigation Bureau recovered the
cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder, known as
the black box, of the  Boeing Co. (BA)  MD-83 aircraft yesterday, said
Tunji Oketunbi, spokesman for the agency. The devices will be
sent to the U.S. or U.K. for analysis, he said.  Engine Trouble  The flight from Abuja was carrying 146 passengers and seven
crew members when it crashed into the Agege suburb as it was
approaching Murtala Muhammed Airport. At least 10 people on the
ground were killed, Hakeem Bello, a spokesman for Lagos state
governor Babatunde Fashola, said in an e-mailed statement. The
pilot was a U.S. citizen and the co-pilot was an Indian, the
airline said.  The pilot told the Lagos airport control tower that the
aircraft was having engine trouble, Harold Demuren, director
general of the Nigerian  Civil Aviation Authority , said in a
phone interview yesterday.  “I saw it hit the mango tree with its wing and after that
it came lower towards the buildings,” said Olatunji Akinfenwa,
a retired teacher. “The pilot tried hard to avoid the
buildings, but the plane couldn’t rise; it was as if something
was pulling it down.”  Mayday Call  The crash was the worst civilian air disaster in Africa’s
top oil producer since Jan. 22, 1973, when a plane carrying 176
passengers and crew went down in the northern city of Kano,
killing all on board. It was the fourth accident in the country
in 10 years that claimed the lives of more than 100 people. A
military transport plane crashed in September 1992 shortly after
takeoff from Lagos, killing 163 soldiers and crew aboard.  U.S. National Transportation Safety Board investigators are
helping the Civil Aviation Authority to probe the cause of the
crash, Dana said in a  statement  on its website.  A team from the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation has
arrived in Lagos to help with the investigatation, state-owned
Radio Nigeria reported, without saying where it got the
information.  “No aircraft would go if not in perfect condition,”
Dana’s director of flight operations, Captain Oscar Wilson, told
reporters yesterday. “We don’t take risks with people’s lives.
Accidents can happen at anytime.”  Safety Records  Nigeria’s aviation industry, which had one of the world’s
worst safety records before 2006, worked to improve it after the
ADC Airlines crash, Harro Ranter, president of the  Flight Safety
Foundation’s Aviation Safety Network , said in a telephone
interview from Roosendaal,  Netherlands .  The plane that crashed June 3 was forced to carry out an
emergency landing in Lagos on April 20, 2010, after it hit a
bird on takeoff, according to the Aviation Safety Network
database. It also experienced emergencies, including electrical
smoke in the cabin, in 2002 and 2006.  The aircraft, built in 1990, was delivered to Dana in
February 2009, according to the Aviation Safety Network
database. It was previously operated by Alaska Airlines.  The pilot had a record of 18,500 flight hours and 7,100
hours on MD-83 aircraft, Dana said in a statement late
yesterday. The plane’s last 400-hourly check took place on May
30, it said.  Age Factor  “With proper maintenance, a plane of that vintage could
fly quite well and quite safely,” Todd Curtis, founder of
Airsafe.com and former airline safety analyst with Boeing, said
by phone from  Boston . “Age is not a factor, so long as
maintenance is maintained.”  It’s possible that some type of human failure combined with
a mechanical problem could have led to the crash, said John Cox,
a safety consultant at  Washington , D.C.-based Safety Operating
Systems and a former airline pilot.  Pilots have inadvertently drained fuel from planes or
accidentally shut down working engines while dealing with an
emergency, he said in an interview.  A failure of a planes’ engines has been a rare cause of
accidents, according to Boeing’s statistical analysis of crash
causes from 2001-2010. Out of 5,005 fatalities in airline
disasters during that period, only two were attributed to engine
failures, according to the Boeing report. Another 23 deaths were
caused by the related issue of a fuel failure.  Accident Rate  “Jet engines are relatively reliable pieces of hardware if
you maintain them properly,” Bill Waldock, a professor at
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott,  Arizona , said
in a phone interview. “They are not very tolerant of improper
maintenance.”  Africa  had the highest airline accident rate in the world
in 2010, accounting for 17 percent of cases, even though it has
the world’s lowest traffic rate, with only 3 percent of the
population traveling by plane, according to the Montreal-based
 International Civil Aviation Organization .  In Nigeria, 12.5 million passengers flew on domestic and
international carriers in 2009, the latest figures available,
according to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  