-- Nike Expands Digital Push with Training Game for Xbox
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-06-04T17:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/nike-expands-digital-push-with-training-game-for-xbox.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods maker, will enter the  video-game  business through
a partnership with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to expand its brand beyond
shoes and shirts.  Nike+ Kinect Training will be released this  holiday
shopping season  exclusively on Microsoft’s Xbox 360 Kinect,
according to Stefan Olander, Nike’s vice president of digital
sport. The Kinect, a motion-camera add-on for Xbox, will enable
users to receive feedback from on-screen personal trainers and
have a workout designed for them, he said.  The Beaverton, Oregon-based maker of Air Jordans created
the Nike+ brand in 2006 as a way for people to measure their
workouts. It also helped Nike increase the time customers spend
with the Nike brand and gain a foothold in social media by
offering users the ability to post results online and compare
with friends.  “We’ve moved from being a product company to a services
and product company,” Olander said today in an interview.  Nike+ products have included shoe sensors and a wristband
that records workouts and movement to applications on digital
devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  The video game begins by taking players through a series of
physical tests, including stretching and push-ups, to make a
fitness assessment. The program uses that data to create a
personalized training regimen. Activity is then recorded and
another evaluation is made four weeks later to measure progress,
much as a personal trainer would.  Facebook Integration  Facebook will be integrated into the experience, enabling
people to post results to the social network. Users can also
work out with a friend by viewing his or her video feed through
the Xbox Live network, Olander said.  These features tie into people’s desire to get “credit for
what they are doing,” Olander said. “It gives you this
immediate feedback” that will help keep you more motivated, he
said.  Olander, who introduced the game today at the Electronic
Entertainment Expo in  Los Angeles , declined to comment on how
much it will sell for, or where it will be sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  