-- Nintendo Unveils New Wii U Gamepad Before E3 Trade Show
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2012-06-04T17:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/nintendo-reveals-wii-u-gamepad-ahead-of-e3-show-in-los-angeles.html
Nintendo Co. (7974) , the world’s largest
maker of video-game players, unveiled a Wii U gamepad that adds
features such as messaging between players and downloads of
titles to its gaming console.  The Wii U’s centerpiece is a touch-screen controller, which
can serve as a second screen for Wii games or as an independent
screen for video calls or Internet browsing, Nintendo President
Satoru Iwata said during a presentation on the company’s website
today. The Wii U will be compatible with earlier Wii games and
hardware, Iwata said, without disclosing when the Kyoto-based
company would start selling the gamepad.  Nintendo may sell 7 million Wii U units this fiscal year,
Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in  Tokyo ,
estimated in April.  The Wii U will be usable as a car-navigation device and as
an e-book reader, and also offer 10,000 karaoke songs, the
Nikkei newspaper reported without attribution. The console is
planned for release at year-end and is expected to cost about
30,000 yen ($380), the newspaper said.  Nintendo also will introduce a version of its 3DS handheld
gaming device with a 50 percent larger screen, Nikkei reported.
That model, with a 4.3-inch screen, will be sold in  Japan , the
U.S. and  Europe  as early as the summer season, the newspaper
said.  The creator of “Super Mario Bros.” games is predicting a
return to profit in the year ending March 31 after a surging yen
and a consumer preference for playing games on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and iPad led to the first annual loss in at least three
decades last fiscal year.  E3, a trade show for computer and video games, runs June
5-7 at the Los Angeles Convention Center.  Nintendo was unchanged at 9,020 yen at the close of trading
on the Osaka stock exchange. The shares have declined 15 percent
this year compared with a 1.9 percent drop in the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  