-- Nissan Poaches U.S. Audi Chief to Run Infiniti Brand
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-06-04T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/nissan-poaches-u-s-audi-chief-to-run-infiniti-brand.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-
largest carmaker, named Johan de Nysschen, who had led
competitor Audi in the U.S., as head of its Infiniti luxury
brand.  Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn, who moved the unit’s
headquarters to Hong Kong last month to boost China sales, wants
to more than triple Infiniti sales to 500,000 units in five
years. Ghosn intends to raise Nissan’s share of the global
luxury car market to 10 percent and is depending on China to
drive that growth as it challenges  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi,  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG.  De Nysschen, who was with Audi for 19 years, had headed the
luxury unit in the U.S. since December 2004 after spending five
years running the luxury brand in  Japan . Audi sales in the U.S.
rose 42 percent to 117,561 last year from 2005, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. During his time in Japan, Audi sales
more than doubled, VW said when he took over the U.S. post.  “We have exciting and ambitious plans for improving the
Infiniti brand including introducing new models in all markets
where premium customer demand exists,”  Andy Palmer , Nissan
executive vice president for product planning, business strategy
and marketing communications, said in an e-mailed statement.  De Nysschen’s appointment is effective July 1. He will be
based in Hong Kong and hold the title of senior vice president
at Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan, the company said in the
statement. His move follows a shake-up of VW’s management last
week that included replacing three Audi board members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  