-- TNK-BP Snaps Four-Day Slide on Bets BP Won’t Sell: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-06-04T15:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/tnk-bp-advances-on-speculation-bp-unlikely-to-sell-its-stake.html
TNK-BP rose, snapping four days of
declines, on speculation BP Plc won’t sell its stake in  Russia ’s
third-largest oil producer, unwinding a nine-year investment.  TNK-BP advanced 1.1 percent to 70.76 rubles by the close in
Moscow, after tumbling 10 percent on June 1 following BP’s
statement that it may sell its half of the company.  “The sale would go against BP’s strategic interests,”
Mikhail Rotaev, an analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow,
said by phone. “To sell its biggest Russian investment would be
illogical.”  The sale, which analysts said could raise at least $30
billion, would dismantle BP’s landmark venture, the largest
foreign investment in Russia’s oil industry. BP said last week
it is considering offers from unidentified suitors for its stake
amid a dispute with billionaire partners that has kept the
company from forming a board of directors since December.  BP’s statement probably won’t end in a deal and is just
part of its strategy in dealing with its Russian shareholders,
according to VTB Capital.  “The most likely outcome is the company resuming
operations in the former shareholder structure,” VTB analysts
led by Dmitry Loukashov, who once worked at  TNK-BP (BP/) , said in a
research note today. “The recent spike in media attention as
concerns a ‘possible deal’ has been part of both sides’
strategy, which in turn is to draw in the interest of potential
buyers.”  One of the Russian billionaire shareholders,  Mikhail Fridman , tendered his resignation as chief executive officer of
TNK-BP on May 28, saying later the 50-50 shareholder structure
had “run its course.”  Alfa-Access-Renova, the group known as AAR that represents
BP’s partners, “sent indicative terms for a deal, which are
still on the table for discussion,”  Stan Polovets , AAR’s chief
executive officer, said by phone last week. Rosneftegaz, the
state-owned Russian  oil company , made an approach to BP to buy
its stake in TNK-BP, the Sunday Times reported on June 3,
without citing anyone for the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  