-- Nobel Winner Stiglitz Sees More Recession Odds in Romney
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/nobel-winner-stiglitz-sees-more-recession-odds-in-romney.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said the election of  Mitt Romney  as president in
November would “significantly” raise the odds of a recession
because it would herald a shift to a much  tighter budget .  History shows that the adoption of fiscal austerity when an
economy is weak can have disastrous consequences, as happened in
the U.S. in 1929 on the eve of the Great Depression, Stiglitz
told Bloomberg editors and reporters in  New York  yesterday.
Republican candidate Romney risks making that same sort of
mistake by backing a plan to slash the  budget deficit , he said.  “The Romney plan is going to slow down the economy, worsen
the  jobs deficit  and significantly increase the likelihood of a
recession,” said Stiglitz, who served as chairman of President
 Bill Clinton ’s  Council of Economic Advisers  from 1995 to 1997.  In contrast, President  Barack Obama  “recognizes the need
to stimulate the economy,” Stiglitz said.  He listed two other “very big differences” between the
Democratic and Republican presidential candidates: Obama sees
inequality as a “significant problem” for the country and is
committed to raising taxes on the rich to help address it.
Romney does not, according to Stiglitz, author of a new book
entitled, “The Price of Inequality: How Today’s Divided Society
Endangers Our Future.”  Misguided Austerity  The Columbia University professor argued that European
nations are also misguided in pursuing fiscal austerity as a way
to resolve the region’s sovereign debt crisis and said there was
a “very high probability” that more than one country will drop
out of the 17-nation euro zone.  In the longer run, the New York-based professor sees a
“rump” of countries led by  Germany  and possibly  France 
retaining the euro as their common currency.  “It probably means that the euro is going to go up”
eventually because of the strength of the economies that will
remain in the currency compact, he added.  The euro rose for a second day versus the dollar after
falling to its lowest level in almost two years last week. The
euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.2499 at 5 p.m. New York time
yesterday. It fell to as low as $1.2288 on June 1, the weakest
level since July 1, 2010.  Federal Reserve  Stiglitz said that there is little that  Federal Reserve 
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  can do to help the slow-growing  U.S.
economy  through  monetary  policy. Instead, the Fed chief should
focus on efforts to get banks to provide more credit to the
economy.  “Providing more liquidity doesn’t force them to lend,” he
said.  The U.S. central bank has cut its federal funds rate target
to zero to a quarter percentage point and more than tripled the
size of its balance sheet since the start of September 2008 in
an effort to promote a rapid recovery of the economy from the
worst recession since the Great Depression. Gross domestic
product grew at an annual pace of 1.9 percent in the first
quarter, after expanding 3 percent in the final three months of
2011.  Stiglitz said the Fed should use its regulatory powers to
limit the ability of banks to make profits through trading of
derivatives and other means so as to encourage them to “focus
on lending,” including to small and medium-sized businesses.  “You want them to have to go back to the boring business
of lending,” the economics professor said.  Dodd-Frank  He criticized the Dodd-Frank financial services legislation
that Obama signed into law in 2010.  The legislation, named after former Connecticut Senator
 Chris Dodd  and Massachusetts Congressman Barney Frank, does not
correct the problem of too-big-to-fail banks that the government
feels compelled to rescue, according to Stiglitz.  “We need to do more to reduce excessive risk-taking” by
the banks, Stiglitz said, adding that was highlighted by the $2
billion trading loss reported last month by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  