-- Northeast U.S. Chill Expected to Damp Electricity Demand
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-04T13:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/northeast-u-s-chill-expected-to-damp-electricity-demand.html
Cool weather and seasonal
temperatures may dominate the U.S. Northeast and Mid-Atlantic
through the week, damping electricity demand.  New York City ’s forecast is for rain through mid-week and
highs in the low 70s Fahrenheit (20s Celsius), according to the
 National Weather Service .  Along the East Coast from the Canadian Maritimes to
Virginia, average temperatures may be at least 5 degrees below
normal, Commodity Weather Group LLC President  Matt Rogers  said
in Bethesda,  Maryland . In New England, temperatures may be as
much as 8 degrees below normal from June 4 to June 8.  Natural gas futures dropped to a four-week low in New York
on June 1 as forecasts for cooler weather in the eastern U.S.
this week signaled reduced demand from  power plants . Demand for
gas from power producers accounts for about 36 percent of U.S.
gas consumption.  The expected cooling-degree days value for the coming week
in the U.S. is 37, or 3 below normal and 29 lower than a year
ago, according to the Climate Prediction Center in Camp Springs,
Maryland. In  New England  it’s forecast to be 1, or 5 below
normal, while the mid-Atlantic prediction is for 1, 16 lower
than the norm.  The cooling-degree days value is calculated by subtracting
a base of 65 degrees from the daily average temperature. Higher
values mean warmer weather and more energy for cooling.  Week’s Outlook  Boston may have rain and high temperatures in the 60s for
the remainder of the week, while Washington’s weather is
expected to be rainy with highs in the mid-70s, according to the
Weather Service.  Chicago  may miss the rain as temperatures peak
in the low 70s through most of the week.  The forecast for Toronto is for highs in the 60s and low
70s with periods of rain. Montreal will be much the same, though
reaching the mid-70s by week’s end, according to  Environment
Canada .  After this week’s cool weather along the East Coast, heat
may build again in the central U.S., according to MDA EarthSat
Weather.  Highs in the 90s are possible in the Midwest from June 9 to
June 13, and that warmth may spread eastward to the coast, MDA
said in a 6- to 10-day forecast.  “The Northeast should start the period near normal,”
MDA’s forecast said.  The normal average temperature in  New York  for June 7 is
about 70 degrees, according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland.
It’s 65 in Boston, 73 in Washington, 76 in Atlanta, 82 in
Houston, 80 in  Dallas , 60 in  Seattle  and 68 in Burbank,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  