-- Norway Interbank Rates Surge as Euro Area Debt Crisis Deepens
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-06-04T13:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/norway-interbank-rates-surge-as-euro-area-debt-crisis-deepens.html
Norwegian interbank rates rose the
most in seven months as the euro area’s debt crisis deepened and
reports indicated global growth will slow, easing pressure on
the central bank to raise  interest rates  this year.  Three-month Nibor rose eight basis points to 2.41 percent,
the biggest one-day gain since Nov. 17. The difference between
the central bank’s deposit rate and Nibor widened to 91 basis
points, versus a March 29 low of 73. The spread is the widest
since March 2.  “Weaker global growth prospects and a deepening of the
euro-zone debt crisis have intensified turbulence in financial
markets,” Erica Blomgren, chief strategist at SEB AB in Oslo,
said in a reply to e-mailed questions. “On the back of this
U.S. dollar cash has again become more expensive, which is
driving Nibor rates higher.”  Norway ’s central bank has cut its  benchmark interest rate 
by 0.75 percentage point to 1.5 percent since December in a bid
to weaken the krone and alleviate pressure on exporters. Policy
makers signaled in March that rates would remain unchanged for a
year. Surging  house prices , stronger than estimated economic
growth and a drop in unemployment have prompted economists at
 DNB ASA (DNB) , Norway’s largest lender, and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
Scandinavia’s biggest bank, to forecast that policy makers will
reverse some of their easing within the next six months.  Rate Pressure  Euro-area investor confidence dropped to the lowest level
in more than three years in June as the euro region’s debt
crisis weighs on the economic outlook, while a drop in  China ’s
non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index in May added to
evidence that the economy is slowing. A U.S. payrolls report
showed that fewer jobs were added to the American economy than
forecast.  The 11 basis point rise in  interbank borrowing costs  since
the beginning of May is taking some pressure off the central
bank to raise again and may even prompt further cuts.  “What we see now is reducing the probability of a hike in
the fourth quarter and we can’t rule out further cuts from
Norges Bank,” said Bjoern Roger Wilhelmsen, chief currency
strategist at Swedbank First Securities ASA and a former Norges
Bank economist. “In isolation, a higher three-month Nibor means
a lower key policy rate from Norges Bank,” he said, adding that
the rate is “only” six basis points above Norges Bank’s second-
quarter estimate.  Policy makers will meet on June 20 to decide on rates and
publish an updated rate forecast.  “The rise in three-month Nibor since the beginning of May
is equal to half a rate hike from Norges Bank,” Blomgren said.
“Should the pressure in money markets remain until the June 20
rate decision, this will put downside pressure on the new
optimal rate path.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  