-- Obama Teams With Bill Clinton even as He Can’t Script Him
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/obama-teams-with-bill-clinton-even-as-he-can-t-script-him.html
President  Barack Obama  needs  Bill Clinton ’s help, even if it comes with a price: he can’t control
the former president.  Clinton has been drafted by the campaign to serve as a
prime surrogate, trumpeting Obama’s economic policy, hitting the
trail to rally activists and raise money, endorsing the
president’s rescue of the U.S. auto industry and highlighting
his killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  Yet, the downside to enlisting Clinton was on display late
last week. In a May 31 CNN interview, the former president
undercut the narrative Obama’s campaign is building around the
presumed Republican presidential nominee -- arguing that  Mitt Romney ’s record as a private-equity executive and as a governor
of  Massachusetts  disqualifies him from being president.  While Clinton predicted an Obama victory in November and
said the president’s proposals are better for the economy than
Romney’s, he also said that “the man who has been governor and
had a sterling business career crosses the qualification
threshold.”  The mixed messages came just ahead of today’s trio of
Manhattan fundraisers where Obama and Clinton are set to
showcase a newfound alliance that has evolved after years of
mistrust and tension.  “Bill Clinton is not someone who is easily controlled and
sometimes he says what he thinks,” said  Julian Zelizer , a
professor of history and public affairs at  Princeton University 
in  New Jersey . “It’s something the Obama campaign will have to
deal with and accept in exchange for his support.”  A Slow Thaw  The iciness between the two has thawed since the protracted
2008 Democratic primary between Obama and his then-rival turned
secretary of state,  Hillary Clinton , the former first lady.  Still, people knowledgeable about the relationship say that
while the two are in a good place, it isn’t one they describe as
warm. Obama, 50, and Clinton, 65, are respectful and friendly,
without being effusive.  During an hour-long private dinner last month before a
fundraiser at the home of  Terry McAuliffe , a former Democratic
National Committee chairman, Obama and Clinton talked politics,
energy issues and foreign policy. They discussed their mutual
love of basketball. After a $20,000-a-plate dinner with 80
donors, they jointly spoke to a crowd of 500, each of whom paid
at least $1,000 to see them side-by-side.  Joint Fundraising Appearance  “Well, you guys get two presidents for one out of this
event, which is a pretty good deal,” Obama said at McAuliffe’s
McLean, Virginia home.  The president’s campaign has solicited Clinton’s help at
all levels of the re-election effort, including messaging,
targeting specific demographic groups, and fundraising for the
campaign and Priorities USA Action, an independent political
committee founded by former Obama aides.  He praised Obama’s handling of the economy in a 17-minute
campaign video by Davis Guggenheim, an Academy Award winning
director, and aides say they are considering using more footage
from the interview in the next five months. Obama’s strategists
also plan to dispatch Clinton to Midwestern battleground states
where he can highlight an asset he has and Obama lacks: a strong
record of economic growth.  “I don’t think there’s a state I wouldn’t put him in,”
said  Jim Messina , Obama’s campaign manager. “There isn’t anyone
he couldn’t talk to. He’s just -- he’s Bill Clinton.”  Wisconsin Recall Appeal  At the request of Messina and Patrick Gaspard, DNC
executive director, Clinton engaged in tomorrow’s Wisconsin
recall election of Republican Governor  Scott Walker , a priority
for organized labor.  “The great thing about not being president is you can say
whatever you want,” Clinton told a Milwaukee crowd on June 1,
standing alongside Walker’s Democratic challenger,  Tom Barrett ,
and holding up a piece of paper bearing his handwritten speech
notes. “Nobody has to care anymore, but you can say it.”  Later that day, Clinton traveled to Paterson, New Jersey,
where he campaigned for Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., who is
running against Representative Steve Rothman -- who has the
backing of Obama. His appearance served as another reminder that
the former president will cut his own path.  Harlem Overture  Clinton’s political role was mapped out last November when
Messina, Gaspard and  David Axelrod , Obama’s chief political
strategist, made a trip to Clinton’s Harlem office where they
outlined a plan, solicited his input, and personally asked for
his help.  They discussed how Clinton could be most useful to the re-
election effort, how to best attack Romney and Messina gave an
hour-long briefing on the states in play. The former president
still displayed an encyclopedic knowledge of polling data,
regions and media markets, according to one of the participants.  The alliance could benefit both men.  Obama will be aligned with a president who served during a
time of economic growth and has a gift for communicating with
voters, particularly women, independents, and working-class
voters.  Clinton regains a central political role and his efforts
could benefit his wife if she decides to seek office in the
future.  Lingering Resentments  It should also put behind charges by Obama and Clinton
allies in 2008 that the former president injected race into the
Democratic primary battle by comparing the president’s  South
Carolina  win to  Jesse Jackson ’s victories there in 1984 and
1988. Clinton, who was dubbed America’s first black president by
author Toni Morrison, still resents that accusation.  That lingering angst is one reason it’s taken years to
build a bridge between 44th and 42nd presidents.  In March 2010, Obama said he couldn’t attend the annual
Gridiron Dinner, a Washington event at which presidents
traditionally speak. Clinton was invited by the club to stand in
for Obama -- and he insisted that it be approved by the
president so it didn’t look like he was trying to usurp him.
After initially balking, White House aides agreed to the
substitution and  Rahm Emanuel , then-chief of staff and a former
Clinton aide, put in the request to his old boss.  Early in the administration and during his first campaign,
aides urged Obama to reach out to Clinton, even if it was just
to check the box. In the same way Obama has been reluctant to
seek the advice and counsel of congressional lawmakers outside
his inner circle, the calls were infrequent.  Deference to Hillary  Clinton’s allies cite a number of positive turning points
over the last several years, including the deference Obama has
paid to his wife, who ended her primary bid four years ago this
Thursday.  They also point to the surprise December 2010 White House
briefing room appearance where Clinton pressed lawmakers to pass
legislation that would extend Bush-era tax cuts.  As Clinton reveled in the back-and-forth with reporters,
Obama left the room after about 10 minutes to attend a reception
while Clinton held court for another 20 minutes.  The former president supported the more aggressive tone
Obama took with congressional Republican lawmakers after the
2010 midterm elections in which they ousted the House Democratic
majority.  Obama’s aides picked up on the strength of Clinton’s new
attitude when watching in  Los Angeles  the first cut of the Davis
Guggenheim campaign documentary, a campaign official said.  Pakistan Raid  In it, Clinton spoke about Obama’s authorization of the May
2011 raid that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  “He took the harder and more honorable path,” Clinton
said in the video. “When I saw what had happened, I thought to
myself, ‘I hope that’s the call I would have made.”’  Axelrod and others, who didn’t provide talking points or
scripts for the interview, were struck by the graciousness of
the remark, a campaign official said.  To be sure, last week’s praise for Romney wasn’t the first
time Clinton veered from the Obama message.  In Clinton’s 2011 book, “Back to Work,” in addition to
offering his own prescriptions for generating jobs and reducing
the deficit, he faulted the Obama administration for not
including an increase in the debt ceiling as part of the 2010
deal to extend the Bush-era tax breaks.  Correcting the Record  An e-mail from  Gene Sperling , Obama’s National Economic
Council director who held the same position under Clinton,
informed his former boss that the administration did try for
that outcome. Clinton recanted that portion of the book, saying
at a forum where he was interviewed by his daughter, Chelsea,
“I was wrong.”  Republicans, knowing the value of Clinton and his broad
appeal, are looking for any opportunity to puncture holes in the
alliance. Romney last month said Obama should take an example
from Clinton and strive toward greater bipartisanship.  “Maybe it was a personal beef with Clintons,” he said,
alluding to the complicated relationship that’s played out in
the public stage.  After hearing Romney’s comments that day, Clinton told
associates that when it comes to Obama, he’s “all in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  