-- Obama Brings Clinton to New York Events to Draw Donors
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-05T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/obama-brings-clinton-to-new-york-events-to-draw-donors.html
Bill Clinton  showered praise on
 Barack Obama  and warned that  Mitt Romney ’s election would be
“calamitous” for the U.S., as the former and current
presidents joined forces to appeal to donors in  New York .  Clinton, who undercut Obama’s campaign message last week,
was unstinting last night in his support for the Democratic
incumbent’s re-election in November. The two men showcased their
alliance, soothing wounds that have taken years to heal after a
bitter 2008 primary fight between Obama and his now-secretary of
state,  Hillary Clinton , the former first lady.  Obama’s campaign is counting on Clinton, who presided over
the creation of 22.7 million U.S. jobs during his two terms in
office, to bolster the president’s economic message. Clinton
likened Republican challenger Romney’s policies to European-
style fiscal austerity and issued a fiery endorsement of Obama.  “I don’t think it’s important to re-elect the president; I
think it is essential to re-elect the president,” Clinton told
a fundraiser at the Waldorf Astoria hotel, the second of three
events last night. “It is my opinion that he has performed
extremely well under very, very difficult circumstances.”  Clinton and Obama have had a complex and tense relationship
that has played out on the public stage. Last night’s
fundraisers, aimed at collecting almost $4 million, came less
than a week after Clinton questioned a central theme of the
president’s campaign: that Romney’s private-equity experience
disqualifies him from the presidency.  ‘Miserable Situation’  Still, Obama’s campaign has solicited Clinton’s help at all
levels, including targeting specific demographic groups. He is
also raising money for Priorities USA Action, a so-called super
political action committee founded by former Obama aides.  “I don’t think there’s a state I wouldn’t put him in,”
said  Jim Messina , Obama’s campaign manager. “There isn’t anyone
he couldn’t talk to. He’s just -- he’s Bill Clinton.”  The president has “made the best of a miserable
situation” with the economy, Clinton told donors at a reception
last night at the home of  Marc Lasry , managing partner and
founder of Avenue Capital Group LLC.  After the event at the home of Lasry, a top Democratic
donor and long-time supporter of the Clintons, Obama and the
former president headlined a gala at the Waldorf Astoria hotel
where singer Jon Bon Jovi performed. They also attended a
Broadway concert at the New Amsterdam Theatre that included
performances by Megan Hilty, James Earl Jones, Tony Kushner,
Mandy Patinkin and Stockard Channing.  Europe in Trouble  “Why aren’t things roaring along now? Because  Europe  is in
trouble and because the  Republican Congress  has adopted the
European economic policy,” Clinton said. “Austerity and
unemployment now at all costs. I mean, after all, their
 unemployment rate  is at 11 percent and ours is 8. We can get
right up there if we adopt their policies.”  The Obama campaign also was raising money by holding a
raffle for small-dollar supporters that offers an expenses-paid
trip to New York and a chance to meet privately with Obama and
Clinton.  Obama’s aides are warning supporters that the president’s
current fundraising lead may be overcome by the independent
super-PACs backing Romney. The super-PACs can take in unlimited
donations from corporations and individuals and their nonprofit
arms that keep their donors secret.  While Obama had 12 times as much in his campaign account as
Romney through the end of April, $115.2 million to $9.2 million,
the advantage shrinks to less than 2-1 when the bank accounts of
the national party committees and friendly super-PACs were
added.  ‘Obama’s Fault’  Obama echoed those concerns, warning that Republican super-
PACs will spend $500 million on negative ads against him. The
ads “will try to feed all those fears, those anxieties and that
frustration,” he said.  “They’re not offering anything new, they’re just saying,
things are tough, it’s Obama’s fault” the president said.
“There’s no vision for the future there, no imagination.”  Romney also raised money yesterday. Romney, co-founder of
the Bain Capital LLC private-equity firm, had fundraisers in
Oregon and  Washington .  In addition to fundraising help, Obama’s strategists plan
to dispatch Clinton to Midwestern battleground states where he
can highlight an asset he has and Obama lacks: a record of
robust economic growth while in office.  Clarifying Choice  A U.S. Labor Department report last week showed that
payrolls expanded by 69,000 last month, fewer than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of private
economists, while the  unemployment rate  rose to 8.2 percent from
8.1 percent. It is a critical time in the campaign, as voters
are beginning to lock in perceptions of the economy five months
before the election.  Obama said that over the next several weeks he’s going to
be “clarifying for people the choice” in the November
election.  The  Republican Party  has “gone from a preference for
market-based solutions to an absolutism when it comes to the
marketplace,” Obama said at the fundraiser at Lasry’s home. “A
belief that all regulations are bad, that government has no role
to play, that we shouldn’t simply be making sure that we balance
the budget, we have to drastically shrink the government and
eliminate those commitments that ensure the middle class have a
chance to succeed.”  Obama said that his spending record and Clinton’s show a
commitment to responsible fiscal policy.  Government Spending  “The truth is the two presidents over the last 30 years,
40 years who have had the lowest increases in  government
spending  -- You’re looking at them right here. They’re on this
stage,” the president said at the Waldorf fundraiser.  Even as Clinton is serving as a prime surrogate, trumpeting
Obama’s economic policy, hitting the trail to rally activists
and raise money, endorsing the president’s rescue of the U.S.
auto industry and highlighting his killing of al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden, he isn’t always on message.  In a May 31 CNN interview, the former president undermined
the narrative Obama’s campaign is building around the presumed
Republican presidential nominee -- that Romney’s background as a
private-equity executive doesn’t translate into the skills
needed to be president.  While Clinton predicted an Obama victory in November and
said Obama’s proposals are better for the economy than Romney’s,
he also said that “the man who has been governor and had a
sterling business career crosses the qualification threshold.”  Different Ideas  “With any and all surrogates, there is always the
challenge that those who will be the most respected because they
have their own platform, their own constituency and their own
ideas, will also be the surrogates most likely not to adhere
directly to the talking points,” said Christopher Lehane, who
was press secretary to former Vice President  Al Gore ’s 2000
presidential campaign.  Clinton’s political role was mapped out last November when
Messina, Patrick Gaspard, Democratic National Committee
executive director, and  David Axelrod , Obama’s chief political
strategist, visited Clinton’s Harlem office where they outlined
a plan, solicited his input and personally asked for his help.  “I’m looking forward to hitting the campaign trail hard,”
Obama said at Lasry’s home. “Luckily, I’ll have some pretty
good companions along the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  