-- Loews Plans $70 Million Renovation of Regency in New York
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-06-04T14:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/loews-plans-70-million-renovation-of-regency-in-new-york.html
Loews Corp. (L)  plans a $70 million
renovation of the  Loews Regency Hotel New York , a 354-room
luxury property on Park Avenue in  Manhattan , as the company
focuses on the city in an expansion of its hotel division.  The upgrades should be completed by February 2014, when the
 National Football League ’s Super Bowl will be held at MetLife
Stadium in nearby  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey , said Paul W. Whetsell, chief executive officer of Loews Hotels. The venue is
the shared home of the  New York Giants , which is 50 percent-
owned by members of the Tisch family, Loews Corp.’s founders.  “You know what’s happening in New York in February of
2014?” Whetsell said in an interview yesterday at the Regency’s
The Library lounge. “The  Super Bowl  will be here. We want to
definitely be done by then.”  The Regency renovation, which will be done in stages to
avoid service disruptions, is part of an initiative to overhaul
and bolster Loews’s hotel business, its smallest unit. Whetsell,
who was hired by the New York-based insurance and energy holding
company in January, plans to more than triple the division’s net
income by the end of 2015 and increase its hotel count from 18
to about 30. It will probably make a “major” acquisition in
Manhattan by the end of the year, Whetsell said.  The hotel division contributed $4 million to Loews Corp.’s
$367 million of net income in the first quarter, according to a
 filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Four Hotels  Loews is willing to pay more than $500,000 a room for
properties in  New York , Whetsell said. He expects to boost the
number of hotels from one to as many as four in the city.  Outside of New York, Loews is looking to pay as much as
$400,000 per room for hotels in major cities. The company
expects to complete three  acquisitions  and announce one ground-
up development before year’s end, Whetsell said.  The CEO is looking for high-end hotels that are in need of
renovations and cater to business groups and corporate
travelers, such as the Renaissance Hotel & Spa in the Hollywood
area of Los Angeles that it bought from CIM Group last week.
Loews will have a heavier focus on individuals to balance out a
drop in group bookings during economic slowdowns, he said.  Loews Hotels is ultimately aiming for a similar business
model and portfolio size as  Four Seasons Hotels Inc.  and
 Marriott International Inc. (MAR) ’s Ritz-Carlton brand, with about 60
to 70 properties, Whetsell said. The company is considering
partnerships and buying other hotel portfolios to accelerate its
expansion.  “It would take a long time to get there by just doing one-
off deals,” Whetsell said. “Ultimately, buying another company
or a portfolio of hotels will get us there more quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  