-- Oil Tankers Squeezed as Rates Drop to Lowest Since ’97: Freight
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-06-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/oil-tankers-squeezed-as-rates-drop-to-lowest-since-97-freight.html
Aframaxes, already this year’s worst-
performing  oil tankers , are poised for the lowest annual rates
in at least 15 years as  Europe ’s economic stagnation curbs
demand, the region’s most-accurate shipping analysts said.  The 800-foot vessels will make about $12,000 a day in 2012,
the least since 1997, said Anders Karlsen, an analyst at  Nordea
Markets  in Oslo. His recommendations on the industry returned 25
percent in the past year, more than any shipping analyst in
Europe tracked by Bloomberg. The prediction is 37 percent less
than the second-half average of $18,901 anticipated in forward
freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to bet on future
rates, for northwest Europe, the biggest market for Aframaxes.  The vessels are struggling to win cargoes on all sides of
the Atlantic, with European oil demand contracting for a sixth
year at a time when the U.S. push for energy independence is
driving down crude imports to the lowest since 1999. That’s
drawing more South American and West African supply to Asia on
routes favoring very large crude carriers, displacing smaller
Suezmaxes which in turn are competing with Aframaxes.  “With the situation in Europe, the picture for Aframaxes
is just abysmal,” said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an Oslo-based
analyst at Arctic Securities ASA who anticipates an annual
average of $10,000. “VLCCs are taking out Suezmaxes, and
Suezmaxes are taking out Aframaxes,” said Stavseth, whose
recommendations returned 24 percent in the past year, the
second-best performance in the region.  Baltic Exchange  Daily  rates  for Aframaxes, hauling 690,000 barrels, slumped
32 percent to $14,911 since the start of January, according to
London-based  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker. That
compares with a 6 percent advance in earnings for VLCCs, which
load 2 million barrels, and a 24 percent retreat for Suezmaxes,
with about 50 percent of the capacity. VLCCs carry the most oil
worldwide, followed by Aframaxes, Clarkson data show.  The slide in Aframax rates is being mirrored in other
classes of shipping. Capesize vessels hauling  iron ore  and coal
are earning $4,812 a day, 98 percent less than their May 2008
peak, according to the London-based Baltic Exchange, which
publishes daily rates along more than 50 maritime routes.
Panamaxes, with about 50 percent of the capacity, are making
$7,138, 92 percent less than the all-time high set in 2008.  The supply of Aframaxes will expand 6 percent this year as
demand contracts by the same amount, the worst ratio of any oil-
tanker market tracked by Clarkson. The fleet grew 14 percent
since 2008, a year in which rates peaked at $87,775, according
to data from  IHS Inc. (IHS) , a research group based in Englewood,
 Colorado . Outstanding orders at ship yards are equal to 7
percent of existing capacity, the data show.  Fastest Pace  European oil demand will decline 2 percent to 14.7 million
barrels a day this year, the lowest since at least 1996, the
Paris-based International Energy Agency estimates. The region’s
refineries are shutting at the fastest pace in three decades as
economies stagnate or contract and competition from U.S. rivals
using cheaper grades of crude intensifies. Aframaxes get 48
percent of their cargoes from Europe, Clarkson estimates.  The U.S. is producing the most  crude  in 13 years after
prices rose almost fourfold in a decade, Energy Department data
show. Companies were drilling 2,329 wells last month, the most
in a quarter century, the data show. Aframaxes rely on  North
America  for about 14 percent of their cargoes, the same order of
magnitude by which imports carried on the vessels will fall this
year, according to Clarkson.  The slump in European demand may reverse as its economies
strengthen, with the  International Monetary Fund  predicting 2013
growth of 0.9 percent in the 17-nation  euro zone , from a 0.3
percent drop in 2012. The 15 percent weakening in the euro
against the dollar in the past year is aiding the monetary
union’s manufacturers, potentially boosting demand for energy.  Extra Loadings  More cargoes may emerge as Libyan output recovers from the
war that toppled  Muammar Qaddafi  in October. Output that slumped
to 45,000 barrels a day in August reached 1.4 million barrels
last month, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It would have to
add another 150,000 barrels to reach the pre-war average, equal
to about six extra Aframax loadings a month.  Extra shipments will also come from the Baltic Sea port of
Ust Luga, which  Russia  opened in March. It exported 219,900
barrels a day in April, according to data from OAO Transneft,
which operates the pipeline to the terminal. Aframaxes are the
most commonly used vessels for Baltic Sea crude because of depth
restrictions in the area.  The forecasts from Karlsen and Stavseth on Aframax rates,
from last year’s $12,726, are among the most bearish. The ships
will earn $12,875 this year and $16,000 in 2013, according to
the median of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Earnings averaged $50,010 in 2008, Clarkson data show.  Offshore Wells  Teekay Corp., based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , is the biggest
publicly traded operator of Aframaxes, with 49 of the tankers,
according to Clarkson. It also owns vessels hauling liquefied
natural gas and ships that process and store oil extracted from
offshore wells.  The company will report a loss of $34.4 million this year,
narrowing from $368.9 million in 2011, the mean of four analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shares (TK)  of Teekay were
little changed in  New York  trading since the start of January
and will advance 34 percent to $35.13 in the next 12 months,
according to the average of eight forecasts.  Additional cargoes from Libya and Russia probably won’t be
enough to reverse the slump in overall European shipments.
Refinery closures removed as much as 1.3 million barrels a day
of capacity since 2009, almost as much as  Spain  consumes, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shipping Associations  The slump in shipping reflects a glut of vessels rather
than declining world trade, 90 percent of which is carried by
sea, according to the Round Table of Shipping Associations.
Shipments of raw materials will rise 4 percent to a record 3.8
billion metric tons this year, Clarkson estimates. Global oil
demand will expand 0.9 percent to 90 million barrels a day, the
most ever, the IEA estimates.  Trade flows are changing, with  China  now consuming 9.9
million barrels a day, from 5 million barrels a decade ago, IEA
data show. That in turn is shifting demand for different types
of ship, with VLCCs now hauling more cargoes to  Asia  that were
previously taken by Aframaxes, said Andreas Vergottis, the
research director at Tufton Oceanic Ltd., which manages the
world’s biggest shipping hedge fund.  “One VLCC turning up kills three Aframax cargoes,” said
Hong Kong-based Vergottis. “ Venezuela , the  North Sea  and North
Africa will be cannibalized for Aframaxes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  