-- Oil Gains a Second Day in New York as Stockpiles Decline
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-06-05T12:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-as-u-s-supply-drop-seen.html
Oil gained a second day in  New York 
before a government report that may show stockpiles dropped for
the first time in 11 weeks in the U.S. amid speculation global
policy makers will take steps to stimulate economic growth.  Crude fluctuated between gains and losses after rising
yesterday for the first time in five days. Finance ministers and
central bank governors from the Group of Seven countries will
discuss the  European debt crisis , Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said. U.S. crude supplies probably slipped  1 million
barrels  last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey before
an Energy Department report tomorrow.  “Emergency talks for the G7 are a little bit dangerous
because they raise expectations,” Ole Hansen, senior manager of
trading advisory at Saxo Bank A/S, said by phone from
Copenhagen. Crude is “close to a floor” and will trade above
$82 a barrel in the near term, he said.  Oil for July delivery gained as much as 94 cents to $84.92
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $84.20 at 1:49 p.m. London time. Earlier it
lost 67 cents. The contract yesterday rose 0.9 percent to
$83.98, the highest close since May 31. Prices are 15 percent
lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement increased as much as 78
cents, or 0.8 percent, to $99.63 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate was at $14.67, from $14.87 yesterday.  Bollinger Band  New York crude has rebounded since closing below its lower
Bollinger Band on June 1 for the first time in more than three
weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The indicator is
at about $82.90 today. Buy orders tend to be clustered near
chart-support levels.  Oil prices  are unlikely to collapse as they did in 2008,
according to  Peter Voser , the chief executive officer of  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  Crude is dipping because the geopolitical
factors that drove it higher are becoming less dominant, he said
at the World Gas Conference in Kuala Lumpur today. Prices will
probably rise in the longer term as supply struggles to meet a
projected increase in global demand, he said.  Crude in New York dropped from a record high of $147.27 a
barrel to $32.40 between July and December 2008 as the global
recession sapped demand. It traded as high as $110.55 a barrel
on March 1 this year amid speculation that international
sanctions against  Iran  threatened supplies from the world’s
fourth-biggest producer. Prices have dropped since Iran resumed
talks with the West over its nuclear program.  Refinery Throughput  U.S. crude supplies climbed to a 22-year high in the week
ended May 25, according to Energy Department data. Companies
operated refineries at 89.6 percent of capacity last week, up
0.5 percentage point from the prior week and the highest level
since August, the Bloomberg survey of nine analysts showed.
Supplies of gasoline and distillates, a category that includes
diesel and heating oil, may have each gained 1 million barrels.  “We would like to see some of that substantial stockpile
reduced,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at
CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney. “The markets seem to
have come to the conclusion all at once that we were in oversold
territory. West Texas has moved back into an old trading range
between $82 and $88 a barrel and I expect those bounds to hold
the contract over the course of this week.”  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Producers in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries are likely to maintain oil supplies at current levels
when they meet in Vienna this month, Maria van der Hoeven, the
executive director of the  International Energy Agency , said
today in an interview in  Kuala Lumpur .  “It’s likely that they’ll be unwilling to do anything that
might risk prematurely tightening markets once again at a time
of such economic uncertainty,” van der Hoeven said. “We are
fairly confident that OPEC’s decision will be as it has been
until now, to supply the market as they did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  