-- Hontex Asks Court to Halt Hong Kong Regulator’s IPO Case
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-06-04T06:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/hontex-asks-court-to-halt-hong-kong-regulator-s-ipo-case.html
Hontex International Holdings Co. (946) 
sought to halt a lawsuit seeking compensation for investors who,
Hong Kong’s securities regulator said, were misled by the
Chinese fabric maker in its listing prospectus.  The Securities and Futures Commission’s fraud case against
the company should be tried under a criminal and not civil
burden of proof if it proceeds, Hontex’s lawyer  Charles Manzoni 
told the city’s  High Court  today.  “We don’t want to adduce all the evidence that we say is
inadmissible,” Manzoni said, referring to witnesses that
weren’t warned about self-incrimination and potentially
privileged communications with lawyers.  The Securities and Futures Commission wants to use HK$997
million ($128 million) of Hontex’s frozen assets to compensate
investors in its 2009 share sale, after saying the company is
criminally liable for misstatements in its prospectus. In April
the SFC revoked the license of an arranger of the sale and last
year a KPMG accountant was cleared of taking a bribe for his
work on the Fujian province-based company’s prospectus.  “The Hontex case illustrates what can happen when things
go wrong,” SFC Chief Executive Ashley Alder said on May 22, two
weeks after the regulator proposed more stringent due diligence
requirements for bankers as well as extending civil and criminal
liability to them for prospectus information.  Test Case  Alder said the case also will be a test of whether  Hong
Kong  investors have recourse when a listed company’s business,
directors, and legal incorporation all exist outside of Hong
Kong’s legal jurisdiction. Hontex manufactures goods in mainland
 China ; its directors are in  Taiwan  and the company is
incorporated in the  Cayman Islands .  High Court Judge Jonathan Harris, who in July ordered the
Hontex trial to proceed, ruled in a separate case that the
regulator must obtain a civil or criminal finding of culpability
before the court can order refunds.  The Court of Appeal reversed Harris’ ruling over the use of
assets of New York-based hedge fund Tiger  Asia  Management LLC in
February. Tiger Asia, which the SFC accused of trading on inside
information, is appealing to the city’s highest court.  Simon Westbrook, a lawyer for the regulator, said today
that criminal prosecution of Hontex directors isn’t possible
because they aren’t in Hong Kong, and that prosecuting the
company for a fine would only decrease the amount of funds
available to compensate investors.  Standard of Proof  Harris said today he would rule this week on whether it’s
appropriate for him to hear the case and to what standard of
proof the SFC must prove its allegations.  Hontex was suspended from trading in March 2010 after the
SFC made its allegations. The company’s board in August of that
year concluded that investors should be compensated after its
 audit committee  found the listing prospectus to be unreliable.  Hontex’s IPO sponsor Mega Capital (Asia) Co., in addition
to losing its corporate finance license, was fined a record
HK$42 million for failing to highlight the misleading
information in the prospectus. The KPMG accountant was cleared
in April 2011 of the bribery charges after a trial.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Hontex
International Holdings Co., HCMP630/2010 in the Hong Kong Court
of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  