-- Oracle’s Legal Defeat Means Less Cash From Java Sales
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/oracle-s-legal-defeat-means-less-cash-from-java-sales.html
     June 5 (Bloomberg)--  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s defeat in a two-year-
old lawsuit against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  will make it harder for the
 software company  to harness demand for mobile devices and
benefit from its $7.4 billion Sun Microsystems purchase.  A federal judge ruled on May 31 that Google didn’t violate
Oracle’s copyrights on programming interfaces related to the
Java computer language, which came as part of the 2010 Sun
acquisition.  That means Google doesn’t have to pay Oracle to use
elements of Java in its Android operating system, the software
used in more than 300 million mobile devices. And since Apple
Inc. doesn’t use Java in its iPhones, Oracle misses out on a
chance to make money from the world’s two biggest providers of
smartphone software just as Sun’s hardware business  shrinks .  “One of the crown jewels of the Sun acquisition was
Java,” said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in  San Francisco ,
who has a buy rating on Oracle. “They had grand aspirations of
being able to take the ubiquitous platform of Java and monetize
it at a potentially higher rate. There are some questions now
about what their ability to monetize this is.”  Google and Oracle have jousted since August 2010 to resolve
Oracle’s allegation that Google ripped off software code and
programming tools to build Android.  When Oracle announced the Sun deal in 2009, Chief Executive
Officer Larry Ellison called Java “the single most important
software asset we have ever acquired,” and he has been working
to increase the $220 million in licensing fees Sun made from
Java in 2008.  No Bonanza  “This question of, ’Why hasn’t anyone been able to make
money from Java?’ is kind of a cliche in our industry,” said
Andy van Dam, a computer science professor at  Brown University 
in Providence,  Rhode Island , who teaches a course on Java and
has written a textbook on it. “It’s never been a bonanza for
anyone.”  The Java programming language, created at Sun in the mid-
’90s, is free for anyone to use. Java lets developers write
programs that work across a variety of operating systems and
computers by translating their code into instructions various
machines can understand. Part of the reason Oracle sued was to
prevent Google and other companies from coming up with software
that runs functions like Java without taking an official
license.  When software developers write programs in Java, Oracle has
a greater chance of selling its other products, such as computer
servers or middleware, used to knit together various
applications.  ‘Calling-Card’  For instance, if corporate technology departments creating
 business software  choose Microsoft Corp.’s .Net technology, they
might gravitate toward Microsoft’s operating system, middleware
and database software, and servers running Intel Corp. chips,
which compete with Oracle’s products.  “Java was essentially a calling card for Sun salesmen,”
said John Rymer, an analyst at Forrester Research Inc.  That’s especially important as sales of Sun hardware
decline.  Oracle’s hardware sales may drop 11 percent to $6.3 billion
this year and slide for a fourth consecutive period in the
fourth quarter, which ended in May, Walter Pritchard, an analyst
at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a  report . Oracle’s database,
middleware and business applications revenue may climb 9 percent
this year to $26.2 billion and account for 70 percent of the
company’s sales.  Oracle’s share of worldwide server revenue declined 7.4
percent in the first quarter to 5.9 percent of a $12.4 billion
market, according to market researcher  Gartner Inc .  Android Dominance  At issue in the court proceedings, which began on April 14,
was Google’s use of instructions called application programming
interfaces, which help developers create a wide range of
programs -- from operating systems to smartphone applications.  Google says it legally used the APIs -- a central building
block of computer programs -- to come up with its own compatible
version of Java for Android without taking a license to use it.  In 2007, Google released Android using open-source
technologies, including the  Linux operating system  and Apache
Harmony, open-source software that replicates Java’s functions.
 Mountain View , California-based Google gives Android away to
smartphone and tablet makers, then makes money through resulting
mobile app sales and users’ searches. Android devices now have
51 percent of the U.S. smartphone market, according to market
researcher  ComScore Inc.   Ellison Testimony  “Google didn’t want a platform Sun controlled,” said Al Hilwa, an analyst at market researcher IDC. “They wanted to
bulldoze through things and move much faster.”  Oracle executives, who initially sought $1 billion in
damages from Google for infringing copyrights, have said in
court proceedings that Google copied Java’s functions without
signing a contract to use it. That risks creating multiple,
incompatible versions of the language, in turn hampering other
developers’ ability to use it effectively.  “Just because something is open source doesn’t mean you
can do whatever you want with it,” Ellison said on the witness
stand April 17.  To be sure, Oracle gained much more than Java when buying
Sun, including the Solaris operating system and Sparc chips. The
business is “enormously profitable” and the deal has “already
paid for itself” given Sun’s cash, Ellison said at a
technology-industry conference May 30.  Appeal Plans  “Java is only one component of the Sun acquisition,” said
UBS’s Thill. “They have had favorable legal battles in the past
-- they can’t win ’em all. I don’t think this disrupts the
overall story.”  Still, the court ruling may set back Oracle’s growth
prospects. U.S. District Judge William Alsup ruled on May 31 in
San Francisco that elements of Oracle’s APIs are free for anyone
to use and Google didn’t infringe any of Oracle’s copyrights.
Alsup said earlier in the trial that even though the jury
decided there was infringement, Google wasn’t liable for damages
because the jury deadlocked on the question of whether the
company’s copying constituted “fair use.”  Oracle plans to appeal,  Deborah Hellinger , a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail after the decision.  As Oracle seeks to make more money from Java than Sun ever
did, its best chance now may be on an appeal.  “If  Larry Ellison  knows anything, it’s how to make
money,” said Scott Kveton, CEO of Urban Airship, a Portland,
Oregon, maker of software that developers can use in mobile
apps. The fight against Google was “Oracle saying, ‘We want a
piece of the action.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  