-- More Twist, Mortgage Buying Likely From Fed, Jersey Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-06-04T20:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/more-twist-mortgage-buying-likely-from-fed-jersey-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  is likely to
provide added monetary stimulus when its current effort winds
down, with an emphasis on extension of Operation Twist and
further mortgage buying, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The probability of more central bank policy action reached
80 percent, up from 60 percent, the company said, after the
Labor Department reported June 1 that U.S. employers added
69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year after an increase of
77,000 the previous month. The median forecast of 85 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey before the jobs report was for an
increase of 150,000 jobs.  “With the weak and slowing global and domestic economy and
falling confidence, the case for a continuation of the current
policy is very high,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York , one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “A move close to the
status quo is likely, along with mortgage buying to further
lower borrowing costs.”  The U.S. central bank has almost completed its program to
replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its holdings with
longer maturities to support the economy by keeping down
borrowing costs. The program, known as Operation Twist, ends
this month and the  Federal Open Market Committee  meets June 19-
20.  Bernanke said April 25 that the Fed remains “prepared to
do more as needed,” maintaining that inflation below 2 percent,
along with sluggish jobs growth, may prompt Fed officials to
increase accommodation. The central bank has already kept
 interest rates  close to zero since December 2008 and expanded
its balance sheet by buying $2.3 trillion in bonds.  Skepticism about the U.S. economic recovery as well as
signs  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening has driven U.S. 10- and
30-year bond yields to record lows. The 10-year note yield rose
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.52 percent in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 Ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 