-- Morgan Stanley’s Stock Sinks to Lowest Close Since 2008
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-06-04T22:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/morgan-stanley-s-stock-sinks-to-lowest-price-since-2008.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, sank to its lowest closing price since
December 2008 as investors weighed a potential credit-rating
cut,  Europe ’s debt crisis and lower trading revenue.  Morgan Stanley fell 37 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $12.36 at
4 p.m. in New York, its third decline of more than 2 percent in
the past four trading days. That’s the lowest since Dec. 2,
2008, less than three months after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled global markets.  Moody’s Investors Service may reduce Morgan Stanley’s
credit ratings by as many as three levels, the most among U.S.
lenders. The cut could force the firm to post added collateral
and pay more to borrow. Ed Najarian, an analyst at International
Strategy & Investment Group Inc., said in a note yesterday that
the firm’s fixed-income trading revenue probably will drop by
half in the second quarter as risk-averse clients pull back.  “The fragility has a lot to do with the lack of their core
funding structure,” Charles Peabody, an analyst with Portales
Partners LLC, said in an interview today on the “Bloomberg
Surveillance” radio program. “They don’t have the same core
deposit base that a Bank of America or a Citigroup or even a
JPMorgan might have. I think it also has to do with where the
franchise is in its evolution. They’re still very much in a
transition phase.”  Sliding Value  The shares of New York-based Morgan Stanley are now trading
at 45 percent of tangible book value, the lowest among the six
largest U.S. banks and a level that Chief Executive Officer
 James Gorman  described as “inexplicable” last month.  Tangible book value measures the theoretical liquidation
value of a firm that excludes assets such as brand names that
would be worth little or nothing if a company went out of
business. Morgan Stanley has  traded  below its total book value
for more than two years.  Najarian cut his price target for the shares to $15 from
$18 and maintained his “hold” rating. Peabody said today that
he had previously said Morgan Stanley may slide to as low as
$12.  “We’re there,” said Peabody, who  rates the stock  “sector
perform.” “Could we go lower than $12? Maybe temporarily, but
generally speaking with the financials, I’m getting closer to
thinking we’re reaching some kind of trading bottom.”  ‘Negative Outcome’  The cost to protect Morgan Stanley’s debt for five years
climbed 4.1 basis points to 453.2 basis points, the highest in
more than two weeks. A basis point is one-hundredth of a
percentage point.  UBS AG analysts led by Brennan Hawken said in a note to
investors last month that Morgan Stanley’s valuation reflects
“a very negative outcome” to the  European debt crisis  and that
the shares should trade between 60 percent and 70 percent of
adjusted tangible book value. Susquehanna Financial Group’s Doug
Sipkin wrote that a three-level downgrade is more than priced in
to the stock.  Morgan Stanley has plenty of liquid assets to cover
collateral calls resulting from a potential Moody’s downgrade,
which the ratings company has said will come by the end of the
month, Peabody said today. The cut may crimp revenue from long-
dated derivatives in the firm’s fixed-income trading business,
he said.  Stock Swings  Today’s close is lower than in October 2011, when swings in
the stock price prompted  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
the company’s biggest shareholder, to put out a statement saying
it was “firmly committed” to its alliance with Morgan Stanley.
The stock sold for as little as $11.58 intraday on Oct. 4.  Gorman also sent a memo to employees on Oct. 3, urging them
to remain focused on their jobs and clients instead of
responding to “the rumor of the day.”  On Dec. 2, 2008, the last time Morgan Stanley’s shares
closed at a level below today’s, the firm borrowed $20.9 billion
from the  Federal Reserve ’s emergency lending facilities,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
company, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  