-- Toronto Police Make Arrest in Eaton Centre Weekend Shooting
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-06-04T11:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/toronto-police-make-arrest-in-eaton-centre-shooting-cp24-says.html
Toronto police made an arrest in
connection to a shooting that killed one man and injured seven
people over the weekend at the Eaton Centre mall.  “An arrest has been made, no further details at this
time,” the Toronto police department wrote on  Twitter  this
morning.  Ahmed Hassan, 24, of Toronto, was killed in the June 2
shooting, which took place in a food court at the downtown mall
around dinnertime, police said. The shooting sent hundreds of
panicked people running for the exits, the Toronto Star
newspaper  reported .  “Our investigation clearly suggests that this is a
targeted shooting and not a random act of violence against the
members of the general public,” Detective Sergeant Brian Borg
said at a news conference in Toronto yesterday.  Six others were shot. A 23-year-old man who was shot in the
neck and chest was in critical condition. A 13-year-old boy who
was shot in the head was in critical but stable condition, Borg
said.  A 28-year-old pregnant woman who was injured, though not
shot, was released from hospital yesterday without having the
baby, the Toronto Star reported.  Eaton Centre, near the main square along Yonge Street in
 Canada ’s biggest city, was planning to reopen today after
closing yesterday for a police investigation, according to the
the mall’s w ebsite .  Gang Connections  The victim was known to police and may have had gang
connections, said Borg. At least one of the shooting victims has
gang links, he added.  Police called the shooting an isolated incident.  “One idiot with a gun on a Saturday afternoon in downtown
Toronto does not speak to the state of affairs of the city of
Toronto,” said Acting Deputy Chief Jeff McGuire.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  condemned the shootings in a
statement issued by his office. “Canadians should be assured
that such depraved and monstrous acts will be met with the full
force of the law,” he said.  Toronto Blue Jays third baseman Brett Lawrie  said  on
Twitter that he was at the mall when the shots broke out.
“Pretty sure someone just let off a round bullets in Eaton
Center mall .. Wow just sprinted out of the mall ... Through
traffic,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  