-- How Israel Can Finally Win the Six-Day War
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-06-04T23:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/how-israel-can-finally-win-the-six-day-war.html
Tuesday marks the 45th anniversary of
the Six-Day War between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and the
question remains: Which side will win?  Yes, many people are under the impression that Israel
already won. It’s true that the first phase of the war -- which
began with Israeli strikes on the Egyptian  air force  and ended
with Israel in possession of the  Sinai Peninsula , the  Golan
Heights , the  West Bank  and the Gaza Strip -- represented an
unambiguous military triumph.  But it’s an open question whether the seemingly endless
second phase -- occupation, failed peace negotiations and Jewish
settlement of the West Bank -- will lead to Israel’s ultimate
defeat.  The original occupation of the West Bank was justified.
Jordan, which then ruled the territory, had used the West Bank
to fire on Israel, and Israel’s seizure was an act of self-
defense. In the days after their conquest, Israeli leaders
searched for Arab interlocutors who would negotiate withdrawal
in exchange for peace. They found none. That’s when the logic of
settlement began to take hold.  Divine Hand  Given that many Israelis in 1967 feared their country might
very well be eliminated by an Arab onslaught, they could be
excused for believing they had just experienced a miracle when
the battle ended.  Some of them quite literally saw the divine hand guiding
their army to victory. Noting that  Israel  had taken possession
of the biblical heartland -- the West Bank is the Judea and
Samaria of the Bible, and where the Jewish people were born --
these religious nationalists succumbed to ecclesiastical
temptation and agitated for Jewish settlement of these
territories. Successive Israeli governments gave in to their
demands.  Forty-five years later, the settlements -- in particular
those planted deep in the West Bank -- are obstructing the
emergence of a Palestinian state, and have brought Israel low. A
country once perceived as progressive is now seen by much of the
world as illiberal and imperial; a country that once seemed to
have been at least partly successful in separating synagogue
from state now seems to be in the thrall of religious
fundamentalists. A country that was founded to give a homeless
people a home now seems indifferent to the demands of another
people for a home of their own.  It is more complicated than that, of course. For one thing,
the Palestinians have done a terrible job of bringing about
their own independence. Their leaders have squandered
opportunities to negotiate a comprehensive treaty with Israel,
and their long detour into terrorism, while gaining fame for
their cause, did nothing to convince Israelis they were
interested in compromise.  Lately, though, Palestinians have stumbled on a more
effective method of fighting Israel: waiting.  Many Palestinians realize that although they cannot defeat
Israel militarily, they can wait for Israel to defeat itself. In
the not-too-distant future, the number of Arabs under Israeli
control will equal the number of Jews. The Palestinians will
then simply demand the vote. Many Arabs already vote in Israel
(a quarter of Israel’s population is non-Jewish), but the Arabs
of the West Bank don’t. Their neighbors in the Jewish
settlements do have a vote, and this already strikes much of the
world as unfair. It is only a matter of time before Israel finds
itself the target of a broad international campaign to grant
these Palestinians the right to vote. (This campaign is already
taking place on the margins.)  A Choice  Then Israel’s government will be forced to make a choice:
Give up the settlements, or give up the idea of a democratic
Jewish homeland. A decision that could have been made gradually
and responsibly will have to be made in a crisis -- and in a
crisis Middle Eastern countries tend to act in stupid and self-
destructive ways.  It doesn’t take special powers of discernment to understand
that the time isn’t ripe for a comprehensive peace treaty.
 Palestine  is divided into two warring camps -- one led by Hamas,
the other by Fatah -- that continually threaten to unite, and
then fail to do so. The more moderate Fatah, led by Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , is weak and corrupt, and
Abbas recently walked away from negotiations with Israel,
according to Jordanian officials who helped organize the talks.
Hamas is devoted to Israel’s physical destruction -- not ideal
for a negotiating partner.  On the Israeli side, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is
preoccupied with the threat of a nuclear  Iran . He is a powerful
prime minister, but his right-leaning coalition, still dependent
on the settlers and their supporters, could thwart even modest
compromise, especially in the absence of a compelling
Palestinian partner.  Still, there is something Netanyahu can do: He can have an
honest conversation with the Israeli people about the
consequences -- military, moral and demographic -- of the
settlements. And he can contemplate a notion advanced by a
growing number of the country’s security experts: a unilateral
pullout of some settlers from the most distant reaches of the
West Bank.  “Unilateralism” has a bad name in Israel, given that the
country’s pullout of settlers and soldiers from the  Gaza Strip 
in 2005 led to a Hamas takeover. But a unilateral departure from
the West Bank could be carried out in slow motion, and in a way
that leaves the Israeli army in place until negotiations resume
in earnest.  A pullout of settlers would signal to the Palestinians that
the Netanyahu government is serious about compromise. It would
show the world that Israel is not interested in being an
occupying power forever. And it would show Israelis that their
government is interested in finally winning the Six-Day War.  (Jeffrey Goldberg is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  pressuring Russia to
pressure Syria ;  Margaret Carlson  on  the Wisconsin recall
election ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on the  wayward Obama campaign ; William
Pesek on  India’s faltering market reforms ; Gary Shilling on
 Japan’s misguided stimulus .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jeffrey Goldberg  at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 