-- Toyota CEO Voices Concern on Yen, Europe, Slower U.S.
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-06-05T01:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/toyota-ceo-voices-concerns-over-yen-europe-u-s-slowdown.html
(Corrects to remove reference to auto demand in first and
second paragraphs of story published June 4.)  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  President  Akio Toyoda  said the appreciating yen, the  European debt crisis  and a
slowing U.S. are among concerns facing  Japan ’s car industry.  “In the short run, the European economy and a possible
slowdown in the U.S. are a concern,” though he’s optimistic on
the outlook for the year, Toyoda, speaking as chairman of the
Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, told reporters in
Tokyo today. The yen is also a “major concern,” he said.  Japan’s three-biggest carmakers have surrendered most of
their January-to-March stock gains as concerns about the
European debt crisis pushed up the value of the Japanese
currency since mid-March. The yen, the worst-performing major
currency in the first quarter, is the best performer this
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Toyoda said he’s still optimistic for the year as consumers
replace their vehicles. Toyota is forecasting group  sales  to
climb 21 percent to a record 9.58 million vehicles in 2012 after
natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand  hobbled production last
year.  “In  Europe , where vehicle ownership is already very high,
the cycle that drivers replace their old cars may slow down, but
measures to avoid a major slowdown in the replacement cycle are
taken in each country,” Toyoda said. “In  emerging markets ,
demand itself is growing, so volume itself will still grow.”  Six Major Headwinds  In the U.S., light-vehicle sales in May ran at a 13.8
million seasonally adjusted annualized rate, according to data
compiled by Autodata Corp. last week. The pace missed the 14.4
million average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
and slid below 14 million for the first time this year.  Longer term, Toyoda said Japanese carmakers face six major
headwinds: the strong domestic currency, stricter fuel-emission
standards, lack of trade partnerships, high corporate taxes,
heavy taxation on car purchases, and unstable power supply.  Asked about unprofitable  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the
world’s biggest maker of automotive chips, Toyoda said Japanese
carmakers have been in talks with the nation’s semiconductor
companies to avoid supply disruptions as in the wake of last
year’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami. Renesas, which has never
posted a profit since it was reorganized in 2010, is planning an
overhaul that may involve 10,000 job cuts, a person briefed on
the matter said May 25.  “The  auto industry  needs to seriously think and hold
further close discussions with the Japanese semiconductor
industry,” Toyoda said, without naming any chipmakers.  On concerns over Europe, Toyoda said the downturn in the
financial markets has preceded actual sales results.  China Demand  “In reality, compared with the world of finance, there is
a slight gap in the timing of when things occur,” Toyoda said.
“For there to be any impacts in the real world, it takes time,
unlike information, which comes in a very timely manner.”  On  China , Toyoda said demand may rebound in the longer term.  “Though there is concern over the Chinese economy’s
outlook, there is still sustainable growth in China, and the
buyers are spreading to the middle class,” Toyoda said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  