-- HP-Oracle Itanium Chip Trial May Turn on Hurd’s Exit Terms
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-04T16:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/hp-oracle-itanium-chip-trial-outcome-may-turn-on-hurd-settlement.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s lawsuit to
force Oracle Corp. to continue making software for its servers
may turn on two sentences of the computer-maker’s separation
agreement with former Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hurd .  Oracle, six months after Hurd became its co-president in
2010, said it would stop developing software for  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
Itanium chip, a component of high-end Hewlett-Packard servers.
Hewlett-Packard, in a trial that started today in state court in
 San Jose , California, accuses Oracle of violating a portion of
Hurd’s agreement describing a “reaffirmation of the Oracle-HP
partnership.”  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest personal-computer
maker, seeks a court order requiring Oracle to continue
developing software for its servers and about $500 million in
damages, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Without such an order, Hewlett-Packard estimates it should
be awarded more than $4 billion in damages, based on an
extrapolation to 2020 that accounts for projected losses, said
the person, who didn’t want to be identified because the court
document containing the damages request is confidential.  “The basic issue to be tried is whether Oracle breached
its obligation” under the two sentence-paragraph in the Hurd
settlement “to continue to offer its product suite on Hewlett-
Packard’s server platforms,”  Palo Alto , California-based
Hewlett-Packard said in court filings.  The Itanium chip is a niche technology different from the
Intel Xeon chips used in most computer servers. Sales of
Hewlett-Packard’s Itanium-based Integrity and Superdome
machines, which the company describes as “business critical
systems,” have been declining since Oracle made its March 2011
announcement that it would stop developing software for Itanium.  Same Turf  The trial comes after the two companies started competing
on the same turf. While  Redwood City , California-based Oracle
was once almost exclusively a software maker, and Hewlett-
Packard mainly a manufacturer of hardware, Oracle’s 2010
acquisition of Sun Microsystems made it a competitor of Hewlett-
Packard’s in the market for computer servers. Oracle, the
largest database-software maker, said in court filings that the
intensifying competition in that area was a cause of the
dispute.  Relations between the companies further soured after
Hewlett-Packard’s August 2010 ouster of Hurd following an
investigation that found his expense reports concealed a
personal relationship with a marketing contractor. One month
after his forced resignation, Hurd was hired by Oracle CEO  Larry
Ellison .  First Phase  In the first phase of the trial, which is scheduled to last
about three weeks, Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg must
determine whether Oracle is contractually obligated to continue
developing software for Hewlett-Packard’s Itanium-based servers.
If so, a jury would determine in a second phase whether Oracle
broke the contract and what if any damages should be awarded.  Hurd’s settlement and release agreement includes this
paragraph: “Oracle and Hewlett-Packard reaffirm their
commitment to their longstanding strategic relationship and
their mutual desire to continue to support their mutual
customers. Oracle will continue to offer its product suite on
Hewlett-Packard platforms, and Hewlett-Packard will continue to
support Oracle products, including Oracle Enterprise Linux and
Oracle VM, on its hardware in a manner consistent with that
partnership as it existed prior to Oracle’s hiring of Hurd.”  Stanford Law School Professor George Triantis said that
paragraph doesn’t amount to a “new legal obligation.”  ‘Implied Obligations’  “It is pretty clear that it’s a reaffirmation of the
partnership that existed prior to Oracle’s hiring of Hurd,
rather than the creation of something new,” Triantis said in an
interview. “You have to look whether there was a legal
obligation that existed before the settlement -- and there might
well be that.”  Under  California  law in particular, it’s possible to read
“implied obligations” in such relationships, Triantis said.
While the legal obligation claimed by Hewlett-Packard may not be
spelled out in detail, “that doesn’t mean you couldn’t find it
in the interaction between the parties before the settlement
agreement,” he said.  The second trial phase, which is scheduled to conclude by
July 27, may cover Oracle’s claim that Intel “really wanted to
kill” the Itanium chip, which was on “life support.” Oracle
accuses Hewlett-Packard of engaging in a “campaign of secrecy
and deception” and “pay-off” to Intel to induce it to
continue making the chips. While Intel isn’t a defendant in the
case, CEO  Paul Otellini  may be called as a witness if the trial
goes to a second phase, according to court filings.  ‘Public Blame’  Oracle said the two-sentence paragraph of Hurd’s settlement
agreement doesn’t give Hewlett-Packard any rights to continued
software development, guaranteed pricing, or “any such rights
that existed in the Oracle-HP ‘partnership’ before the Hurd
agreement was signed,” Oracle said in its cross-complaint.  Hewlett-Packard’s complaint is “designed to give the
impression of a contract where none existed,” and was “an
escalation in the ongoing campaign to deflect attention from
HP’s years-long Itanium fraud and to pin the public blame for
its unraveling squarely on Oracle,” according to an Oracle
court filing.  In its counterclaims, the database maker seeks a court
order barring Hewlett-Packard from making false statements about
Oracle’s business practices and commitment to customers, and
unspecified damages.  Hurd a Witness  Hurd may be called as a witness by both sides. Hewlett-
Packard said in court filings it will call him to testify about
Oracle’s conduct “prior to and after its Itanium
announcement.” Oracle said it will call him to testify about
“the Oracle-HP relationship prior and subsequent to” his
separation agreement. Oracle also said Ellison may be called as
a witness.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle, declined to
comment on today’s trial.  Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for  Santa
Clara , California-based Intel, also declined to comment.  “We look forward to trial, where the details of Oracle’s
deliberate, anticustomer business strategy to drive hardware
sales from Itanium to inferior Sun servers will be revealed,”
Michael Thacker, a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard, said in an e-
mail.  Itanium Sales  Because chips rely on software programs that are written
specifically for them, the absence of Oracle’s industry-leading
database software from the Itanium platform makes it less useful
to customers. Sales of Itanium hardware dropped 23 percent to
$421 million in Hewlett-Packard’s fiscal second quarter ended
April 30. The computer maker also gets a revenue stream for
services related to these systems.  Hewlett-Packard said in November it’s developing a new
computer system called Odyssey that would run Xeon and Itanium
blade servers side by side in the same chassis and offer
customers a path for moving their software off Itanium chips.  For Oracle this year, even as software sales rebounded,
hardware sales fell in fiscal third-quarter profit reported in
March as the company sacrificed volume for higher margin
products. Oracle also has been emphasizing sales of large
systems for data processing at the expense of Sun’s less
expensive gear. Hardware systems sales declined 16 percent to
$869 million, though analysts were projecting an 11 percent
drop.  Ellison told analysts in March that next year, Oracle’s
“hardware business should be a growth story.”  The competition playing out in the technology market will
be highlighted at trial, according to court filings.  “Since the Sun acquisition closed, Oracle and HP have
routinely competed against each other in the sale of computer
server systems, and in that setting have appropriately not acted
as partners in any sense of the term,” Oracle said in court
papers.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , 11-
cv-203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  