-- HP Tells Judge Oracle Abruptly Broke Contract for Support
-- B y   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-05T00:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/hp-tells-judge-oracle-abruptly-broke-contract-for-support.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  was “shocked”
when Oracle Corp. abruptly announced last year that it would no
longer provide software support and broke its contractual
commitment, a Hewlett-Packard lawyer told a judge.  Attorney Jeff Thomas said today that the two companies had
worked for years without written contracts on joint engineering
to allow Oracle software to support Hewlett-Packard platforms.
Six months after a settlement was reached over  Mark Hurd ’s
transition from chief executive officer of Hewlett-Packard to
co-president at Oracle, that cooperation ended, Thomas said.  “Oracle abruptly announced its  database software  would not
be available to HP customers and all that came to a screeching
halt,” Thomas said in his opening statement at a trial in state
court in  San Jose ,  California . “HP was shocked. It never saw
the announcement coming.”  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest personal-computer
maker, seeks a court order requiring Oracle to continue
developing software for its servers that run on  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
Itanium chips and about $500 million in damages, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  $4 Billion  Without such an order, Hewlett-Packard estimates it should
be awarded more than $4 billion in damages, based on an
extrapolation to 2020 that accounts for projected losses, said
the person, who didn’t want to be identified because the court
document containing the damages request is confidential.  In the first phase of the trial, which is scheduled to last
about three weeks, Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg must
determine whether Oracle is contractually obligated to continue
developing software for Hewlett-Packard’s Itanium-based servers.
If so, a jury would determine in a second phase whether Oracle
broke the contract and what if any damages should be awarded.  Thomas told Kleinberg today that Oracle made repeated
assurances to  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard over
the years that it would provide platform support. Oracle, based
in  Redwood City , California, specifically told Hewlett-Packard
that nothing would change after the database maker acquired Sun
Microsystems Inc. in 2010, he argued.  ‘All Bets’  “You have heard that all bets were off after Oracle bought
Sun,” Thomas said. “That is not true.”  Oracle attorney Dan Wall told the judge that the
partnership between the companies was “a relationship born of
self-interest” based on the idea there was “money to be made
in combining what we do and what they do.”  “The core issue in this case comes down to this: Did
Oracle promise to give up its historical discretion to decide
what to develop and what price to charge?” he said. “HP is
arguing that Oracle gave that up in the brief and breezy
language in the opening paragraph of an employment settlement,”
referring to the Hurd separation agreement.  Contrary to HP’s assertion, the Hurd settlement “had to do
with one thing only: Mark Hurd going to Oracle,” Wall said.  The first witness called today by Hewlett-Packard was  Ann Livermore , a former executive vice president at the company who
is now on the board of directors.  She testified she was “concerned” when she learned that
Hurd was leaving Hewlett-Packard.  ‘Ill-Will’  “I was concerned that he would be leaving with ill-will
toward HP and our board,” she said. “I was concerned he had
confidential information. He knew our financials and our
dependence on Itanium. That could be used to hurt HP.”  Livermore said she “wondered if our relationship would
change with Mark being at Oracle.”  In its 2011 complaint, Hewlett-Packard accused Oracle of
violating a portion of Hurd’s agreement describing a
“reaffirmation of the Oracle-HP partnership.”  Hurd’s settlement and release agreement includes this
paragraph: “Oracle and Hewlett-Packard reaffirm their
commitment to their longstanding strategic relationship and
their mutual desire to continue to support their mutual
customers. Oracle will continue to offer its product suite on
Hewlett-Packard platforms, and Hewlett-Packard will continue to
support Oracle products, including Oracle Enterprise Linux and
Oracle VM, on its hardware in a manner consistent with that
partnership as it existed prior to Oracle’s hiring of Hurd.”  Niche Technology  The Itanium chip at issue in the lawsuit is a niche
technology different from the Intel Xeon chips used in most
computer servers. Sales of Hewlett-Packard’s Itanium-based
Integrity and Superdome machines, which the company describes as
“business critical systems,” have been declining since Oracle
made its March 2011 announcement that it would stop developing
software for Itanium.  The trial comes after the two companies started competing
on the same turf. While Oracle was once almost exclusively a
software maker, and Hewlett-Packard mainly a manufacturer of
hardware, Oracle’s acquisition of Sun made it a competitor of
Hewlett-Packard’s in the market for computer servers. Oracle,
the largest database-software maker, said in court filings that
the intensifying competition in that area was a cause of the
dispute.  Relations between the companies further soured after
Hewlett-Packard’s August 2010 ouster of Hurd following an
investigation that found his expense reports concealed a
personal relationship with a marketing contractor. One month
after his forced resignation, Hurd was hired by Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison .  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , 11-
cv-203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  