-- Paulson Backs Schapiro’s Bid for SEC Rules on Money Markets
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-06-04T20:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/paulson-backs-schapiro-s-bid-for-sec-rules-on-money-markets-1-.html
Former Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  is backing U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman  Mary Schapiro ’s effort to impose new rules on money-
market funds.  In a  letter  that the SEC published May 30 on its website,
Paulson highlights excerpts of his 2010 book, “On the Brink,”
which provides his account of the financial crisis. Paulson’s
letter covered the period between Sept. 16 and Sept. 19, 2008
when  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp.,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Northern
Trust Corp. (NTRS)  reported requests for “billions in redemptions”
from their money funds. Such requests exacerbated a credit
crisis that began earlier that month, he wrote.  Paulson, who was President George W. Bush’s Treasury
Secretary from 2006 through 2009, has mostly avoided the debate
over financial regulation since he left office. He encouraged
Schapiro to use his letter to help bolster her argument that
money-market funds should face tougher regulations.  “You should feel free to use this any way which helps you
secure this important reform, including quoting from it, or
sharing all or part of it with the press or members of
Congress,” Paulson, a former chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , wrote in the letter dated Feb. 22.  Michele Davis, a spokeswoman for Paulson, said he wrote the
letter because Schapiro asked for his views on the issue.  Schapiro has warned since November that future runs on
money-market firms could damage the economy, a view shared by
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Chamber Opposition  She is battling a lobbying campaign funded by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, which opposes new rules as an unnecessary
burden that could weaken money-market funds.  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus ,
an Alabama Republican, has also questioned the need for new
rules. The Senate Banking Committee is expected to hold a
hearing on June 21 to discuss possible rules, a person familiar
with the plan said.  Since November, Schapiro has met or held telephone
conversations with representatives of Vanguard Group Inc.,
Fidelity Investments,  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  to discuss money-market rules, according to the SEC’s
records.  Schapiro initially proposed requiring money-market firms
float their $1 net asset value along with mandating more capital
and preventing customers from withdrawing all of their funds for
30 days. The so-called holdback provision has been particularly
controversial in the industry and Schapiro is said to be open to
replacing it with a fee that would be imposed on customers who
take out their money during a liquidity crisis.  Floating NAV  Money-market firms have also fought the effort to move the
industry to a floating net asset value. Paulson’s letter
highlights a passage in his book that supports the floating
value.  “The SEC should explore whether fund managers should move
from a fixed NAV, which makes money-market funds resemble
insured bank accounts, to a floating NAV,” he wrote. “The
funds would still be good products and could offer attractive
returns, liquidity and very low volatility and principal risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  