-- Payday Lenders and Indians Evading Laws Draw Scrutiny
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-06-05T20:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/payday-lenders-and-indian-tribes-evading-laws-draw-scrutiny-1-.html
(Corrects reference to Think Finance direct lending in
34th paragraph of story published June 4.)  U.S. regulators and Congress are
scrutinizing partnerships between Native Americans and outside
investors in online payday lending businesses accused of
exploiting tribal sovereignty to evade state consumer-protection
laws.  The push has divided Native American groups, with critics
of payday lending opposing tribal involvement in the businesses,
which charge interest rates as high as 521 percent for short-
term loans. Other Indian groups, formed to represent the nascent
industry in  Washington , are pushing back against the regulators.  Charles Moncooyea, vice chairman of the Otoe-Missouria
Tribe, called the interest of the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau “a declaration of war” and vowed to fight federal
intervention into the new businesses.  “The fact is our tribe -- and tribes nationwide -- benefit
from the positive economic impact from these and other
businesses activities, with revenues directed towards such
critical needs as medical care, education and many other basic
necessities,” Moncooyea said in a written statement.  The partnerships have drawn the attention of federal
regulators largely because of sovereign immunity, the legal
doctrine that restricts state interference in tribal affairs.  “It’s a model that could go into any kind of area where
the states regulate,” said  Colorado  Attorney General John Suthers.  10 Tribes  At least 10 Indian tribes have lending businesses,
according to the  Native American Lending Alliance  and the  Native
American Fair Commerce Coalition , both year-old trade
associations. Barry Brandon, executive director of the
coalition, said on May 21 that the two groups are in the process
of merging.  One tribe, the  Chippewa Cree , has set up  Plain Green LLC , a
lender that uses a technology platform provided by Fort Worth
Texas-based Think Finance Inc, which is backed by  Sequoia
Capital , a Silicon Valley venture capital firm that funded
Google Inc.  Victory Park Capital , a Chicago-based private equity
firm, helps fund the loans, according to a person briefed on
their business arrangements who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the contract is private.  “We think this is a big growth market and will be here for
a long time,’ Ken Rees, chief executive of Think Finance, said
in an interview. ‘‘The legitimacy of a tribal entity to provide
loans is very clear. The demand for products is clearly more
than ever before.’’  Online Payday  The tribes and their outside partners are part of the fast-
growing ranks of online payday lenders, which originated 35
percent of the $32 billion in payday loans made in 2010,
according to a Jan. 9 report by JMP Securities, a San Francisco-
based investment bank. The report was written by John Hecht, now
a research analyst at Stephens Inc., a  Little Rock , Arkansas-
based investment bank. He estimated that online small-dollar
lending -- in which loans average about $400 -- will grow to 62
percent of the payday loan market by 2016.  Traditionally, payday borrowers leave lenders a postdated
check for the amount of the loan plus a fee as collateral. Now,
many of the transactions are made online, with borrowers
authorizing lenders to debit their account electronically when
the payments fall due.  Annual  interest rates  on payday loans can be as high as 521
percent, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The Federal Trade Commission is suing one lender based on
an Indian reservation in South Dakota. Commissioner Julie Brill
told  National Association of Attorneys General  on March 6 that
her agency and the consumer bureau will cooperate on the issue
because in the payday lending business, ‘‘the actors have moved
online into tribal relationships.’’  ‘Zoning In’  Consumer bureau director  Richard Cordray , also speaking to
the group on March 6, said that his new agency is ‘‘zoning in”
on tribal payday business.  In a March 21 interview, Cordray, a former Ohio attorney
general, said he did not want to suggest he is focusing just on
the tribal industry. Instead, he has a wider interest in online
lending, though the agency has not announced any investigations.  “Internet lending is a broader area where I know states
are frustrated because I know when I was a state attorney
general, I was frustrated with it,” Cordray said. “And that’s
an area where we intend to be helpful to them.”  Sovereign Immunity  After he spoke on March 6, consumer bureau staff met with
the  National Congress of American Indians , a Washington-based
group with a broad membership of tribes, according to two people
briefed on the meetings. The staff assured the group that the
bureau is not starting a campaign directed at Native American
lenders, and does not want to attack tribal sovereign immunity.  The executive director of the congress, Jacqueline Johnson
Pata, declined an interview request.  Some Native Americans have embraced online lending in part
because sovereign immunity limits the reach of state consumer-
protection laws, and only Congress can modify this immunity.
That legal status has generated investor interest in working
with the tribes.  The emergence of Internet lending has opened the business
to tribes that are far from major population centers. That
allows them to profit from non-Indian customers who live all
over the country and form the bulk of their revenue, according
to Allen Parker, an  industry consultant  based in Beaumont,
 California .  Federal Laws  Tribes are not exempt from federal consumer-protection
laws, such as the ones against unfair, deceptive and abusive
practices that are enforced by the consumer bureau and the FTC.
They must also comply with the Truth in Lending Act, which
governs the disclosure of borrowing costs.  Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat, will introduce
legislation on tribal lending in the next few weeks, Courtney
Warner Crowell, his spokeswoman, said in an interview. The
legislation would allow states to petition the consumer bureau,
a federal agency, to stop lending by tribes in states where
payday loans are illegal. That way, states would not directly
litigate against tribes, thus preserving sovereign immunity,
Crowell said.  The move into the business has drawn the opposition of some
Native American groups that have long pushed for restrictions on
what they see as a predatory form of lending. The Navajo Nation
in 2006  imposed  a usury cap of 15 percentage points above the
prime rate.  ‘Predatory Lending’  In a position paper on its website, the congress states
that it opposes “predatory lending” because many Native
Americans are especially vulnerable to its abuses in the absence
of mainstream financial institutions, such as banks.  A group of Native American community development
organizations met with the consumer bureau in early May to
outline the “devastating effects” of payday lending among
Indians, they said in a May 15 press release.  Charles Trimble, a member of the  Oglala Lakota Nation  in
 South Dakota  and a former executive director of the congress,
denounced tribal payday lending as an abuse of sovereign
immunity.  “It’s like having a pimp in the family,” Trimble wrote in
an online  column  published on March 14, 2011. “He shames
everyone but you can’t disown him because he is family.”  Some states, such as  West Virginia , ban payday lending
through an interest rate cap, while others, like Washington,
require lenders to be licensed.  Federal Help  A Feb. 13 decision by a Colorado court prompted that
state’s attorney general, Suthers, to complain to Cordray that
the states needed federal help before tribes entered other
business lines.  Colorado had attempted to prove that lenders affiliated
with the  Miami Nation  of  Oklahoma  and the  Santee Sioux  were in
fact controlled by Scott Tucker, a payday lending business owner
and semi-professional race car driver. The court concluded that
tribal sovereign immunity blocked Colorado from obtaining
documents from the tribe itself. The court also found that
Tucker “performed services” for the tribes but did not own the
business, according to its Feb. 13 decision.  On April 2, the FTC  filed a lawsuit  against a series of
companies linked to Tucker, including the ones targeted by
Colorado. Tucker did not respond to faxes or calls to listed
numbers of his businesses.  The payday loan industry, which sometimes partners with
 Indian tribes  to set up the lenders, is proceeding on the
assumption that states will be unable to enforce their laws,
said Parker, the industry consultant. As long as they comply
with federal law, tribes need not fear legal repercussions on
their business. “I don’t think anyone’s going to attack tribal
sovereignty.” Parker added.  States Losing  “The states are losing the battle, and even if they can
beat the fake Indian payday lenders, there is enough legal room
for tribes” to lend themselves,  Ira Rheingold , president of the
National Association of Consumer Advocates, said in an
interview.  Rees, the Think Finance chief executive, said his company
has shifted away from doing direct lending itself because
“byzantine state laws” made it complicated. Native American
tribes, he said, “don’t have to look to each state’s lending
laws.”  The Plain Green lending business established by the
Chippewa Cree on the Rocky Boy Indian Reservation in northern
 Montana  uses a Think Finance software platform to offer first-
time borrowers installment loans of as much as $1,000, at an
annual rate of 299 percent, according to its website.  Good Jobs  Billi Anne Raining Bird-Morsette, Plain Green’s chief
executive, said that the business has created jobs for 18 people
in a call center on the reservation. The tribe has 6,177
members, about half of whom live on the reservation, according
to Montana’s  Office of Indian Affairs .  “We have people working for us who have never had the
chance to have a real, good job,” Raining Bird-Morsette said in
an interview.  Plain Green uses a software platform developed by Think
Finance to track lending. Victory Park Capital funds the Plain
Green loans by taking a 99 percent participation in them once
they are made by the tribe, the person briefed on the business
said.  Think Finance had a previous business, called ThinkCash,
offering small-dollar loans in partnership with the  First Bank
of Delaware. (FBOD)  The bank stopped offering the loans in December
2010, Think Finance spokeswoman Kelly Ann Scott said in an e-
mail. Visitors to the ThinkCash web address are now redirected
to the Plain Green website.  Victory Park  A $90 million line of credit that Think Finance obtained
from Victory Park helped finance ThinkCash, Scott said.  Asked about the connection to Victory Park, Raining Bird-
Morsette said the tribe has “a number of investors” that she
would not name. She said the tribe hopes to eventually generate
enough working capital to fund loans itself.  Victory Park spokeswoman Sheila Mulligan declined to
comment, as did Sequoia spokesman Andrew Kovacs.  Plain Green generated about $2 million in revenue during
its first six months in business, and $896,000 was the “tribal
share,” according to a newsletter distributed to tribal
members. The tribe is now adding new types of loans to its
business lines, Raining Bird-Morsette said.  The first, under the brand  Bear Paw Cash , offers a basic
payday loan, which is repaid when the borrower’s next paycheck
clears. The second,  SureCashXtra , allows customers to enroll a
prepaid debit card in a service that draws a payday loan if the
account balance falls to zero.  Jean Ann Fox, the director of financial services for the
 Consumer Federation of America , said the expansion of Internet-
based payday lending under the shield of sovereign immunity sets
a dangerous precedent.  “Now we have payday lending,” Fox said in an interview.
“How about insurance?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  