-- PBG, Builder of Polish Soccer Arenas, Seeks Bankruptcy
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-06-04T16:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/pbg-builder-of-polish-soccer-arenas-seeks-bankruptcy-2-.html
PBG SA (PBG) , Poland’s third-largest
builder, decided to file for bankruptcy to help reach an
agreement with creditors to cut debt by as much as 31 percent.  PBG, which helped build three out of four stadiums for
European soccer championship that kick off in Poland and  Ukraine 
this week, is proposing to honor 69 percent of its debt to
creditors owed more than 1 million zloty ($282,700), 80 percent
to those owned from 100,000 zloty to 1 million zloty and 100
percent for those owned lesser sums, the company said in a
regulatory filing today.  The company, which specialized in oil and gas engineering,
ventured out of its core business to bid on arena and motorway
deals after  Poland  was selected to co-host the Euro 2012 soccer
championship, only to see its debt swell on falling margins. PBG
said negotiations with banks remain at an “impasse” that
prevent the company from fulfilling its contracts.  “This bankruptcy is going to have a big negative impact,
not just on banks that are financing PBG and on its
subcontractors, but on the whole economy,” Robert Maj, an
analyst at KBC Securities in Warsaw, said today by phone.  PBG’s unconsolidated debt, which doesn’t include the
borrowings of its unit, amounts to 1.5 billion zloty, Chief
Financial Officer Przemyslaw Szkudlarczyk said via a video
conference today. The entire group’s debt at its 12 crediting
banks is at 1.7 billion zloty, Kinga Banaszak-Filipiak, a
spokeswoman, said at the conference.  Shares Tumble  The builder’s shares fell 13.2 percent to 14.63 zloty at
1:18 p.m., three minutes after the statement was issued, their
 biggest drop  in six weeks. No other transactions were completed
after that time. The  Warsaw Stock Exchange  hasn’t suspended the
PBG shares and is trying to balance supply and demand, said a
spokeswoman, who declined to be identified in line with company
policy.  The  WIG20 (WIG20)  blue-chip index rose 0.3 percent, reducing a 0.7
percent gain after PBG made its announcement.  PBG’s four biggest bank creditors are  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , Bank
Zachodni WBK SA,  ING Bank Slaski SA (BSK)  and Nordea Bank Polska SA,
the CFO said. Slaski fell 3.7 percent to 74.25 zloty, the
biggest decline in more than five months, while Pekao dropped
1.5 percent to 136 zloty.  Piotr Utrata, a spokesman for Slaski, and Pekao’s deputy
spokesman Miroslaw Kuk, declined to comment when reached by
phone by Bloomberg News. Artur Sikora, a spokesman for Zachodni,
didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.
Slawomir Zygowski, an acting chief executive officer of Nordea
AB’s Polish unit, didn’t answer a call to his mobile phone.  Construction Woes  “PBG itself isn’t a problem for the banking sector, but
it’s hard to tell what the impact will be for the whole
 construction industry ,” Andrzej Bursa, an analyst at Ipopema
Securities SA, said by phone today. “It seems that the market
has overreacted” when it comes to the price of the banks on the
Warsaw bourse, he added.  Holders of more than 1 million zloty of PBG debt may also
be given the option of converting 12 percent of the debt into
company shares at a rate of 40 zloty a share, to be executed one
year after a debt agreement is reached, PBG said.  Aprivia SA and Hydrobudowa Polska SA, both controlled by
PBG, also decided to file for bankruptcy aiming at an
arrangement today. Hydrobudowa will offer the same conditions to
creditors except for amounts over 1 million zloty, where it is
offering to honor 44 percent of its debt, PBG said in the
statement. Aprivia will release details of its proposed debt
reduction later.  ‘Additional Financing’  “We’ve always said that the first half of the year would
be difficult and we would need additional financing to make up
for a negative operating cash flow,” Szkudlarczyk said. “Our
contracts allow us to generate cash starting in the second
half.”  PBG, which last year failed to sell Hydrobudowa to  Spain ’s
Obrascon Huarte Lain SA, needs about 700 million zloty of extra
funding, the CFO said.  PBG is helping build Poland’s first liquefied natural gas
terminal, its unit Rafako SA is also part of the group that won
a 9.3 billion-zloty contract to build a power plant for PGE SA
utility.  The company’s order backlog stands at 9 billion zloty,
Szkudlarczyk said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;  Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  