-- Prison-Bound Bauer Reprises ‘Confessions of an Inside Trader’
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/prison-bound-bauer-reprises-confessions-of-an-inside-trader-.html
Garrett Bauer stood in a New York
University lecture hall and warned 150 students not to emulate
him. The day trader recounted illegally making millions of
dollars over 17 years using corporate merger tips stolen by an
attorney.  Students stopped checking their iPhones and stared at
Bauer, 44. He told how the lawyer,  Matthew Kluger , searched law
firm files for tips to pass to a middleman,  Kenneth Robinson ,
one of Bauer’s closest friends. They escaped detection by
talking on disposable, prepaid mobile phones. Their scheme
unraveled after the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  persuaded
Robinson to make secret recordings of conversations.  “I’m here hoping you won’t commit the same crime I
committed,  insider trading ,” Bauer told the students at NYU’s
Stern School of Business in February. “I feel remorse. That’s
why I’m here. It’s my way of trying to apologize to everyone for
what I’ve done and try to make amends.”  Bauer described Robinson’s betrayal, his own arrest and
five-night jail stay in April 2011, and guilty pleas by all
three men in one of the largest insider-trading cases of the
past decade.  Bauer and Kluger, 51, are scheduled to be sentenced today
by U.S. District Judge Katharine Hayden in Newark,  New Jersey .
Bauer faces nine to 11 years in prison under federal guidelines,
and Kluger faces 11 to 12 years.  Hayden will decide whether Bauer deserves an 11-year term
like that given to Raj Rajaratnam, the co-founder of hedge fund
Galleon Group LLC convicted of insider trading last year.  Galleon Cases  Rajaratnam was the most prominent of 66 people charged in
an insider-trading crackdown by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. All but seven pleaded guilty or were convicted at trial
since 2009. Most got far less severe terms than Rajaratnam.  Bauer said he hopes that his “scared straight” message,
delivered in 147 speeches since last fall at business schools,
law schools, churches and synagogues, will move the judge to
grant him leniency. Sentencing judges can consider whether a
defendant has accepted responsibility and shown remorse for his
acts.  “I’m not blind anymore,” Bauer said in an interview. “I
see how wrong it was, how unfair it was to everybody else that’s
trading. You get away with it once, and then you think you can
get away with it every time. I almost never considered the
question of getting caught. It was more a question of let’s
figure out a way to make money and not lose money.”  $37 Million  Prosecutors in New Jersey say the Bauer scheme netted more
than $37 million in illicit profits. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission said the three men made almost $32 million
in the scheme’s last four years.  Bauer forfeited cash and property worth more than $23
million, including a 5,100-square-foot apartment on New York’s
Upper East Side that he bought in 2009 for $6.7 million.  Kluger stole secrets at four prominent law firms from 1994
to 2011, making $502,500 in the scheme’s last four years. His
lawyer says he deserves far less than a decade in prison.
Robinson, 46, a mortgage broker, is scheduled to be sentenced
tomorrow. He made $829,129 in the last four years, according to
the SEC. As a cooperator, he will probably get much less time
than the others.  All three men admitted Kluger passed secrets on about 30
corporate transactions to Robinson, who gave them to Bauer to
buy shares in companies that included Sun Microsystems Inc.,
3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM)  When deals went public, Bauer sold
the stock and shared the profit with his partners, using cash.  Class Appearances  Bauer spoke several times a week in person or via Skype at
schools including  Harvard University ,  Yale University , the
 University of California  at Berkeley, the  University of Texas ,
the  University of Michigan  and  Duke University . He booked his
own speeches, sometimes called “Confessions of an Inside
Trader.”  Bauer gave the same basic narrative in two appearances
observed at NYU, as well as at Cardozo Law School in New York,
 Drexel University  in Philadelphia and a Rutgers University class
in Jersey City, New Jersey. Bauer, lean at 5-foot-11 and 145
pounds, favors button-down shirts and khaki pants. He speaks
rapidly in a nasal voice, lacing his account with jokes.  He recounted growing up in Melville, New York, studying
economics at  Clark University  in Worcester, Massachusetts, and
trading stocks for 20 years. He worked mostly at firms that
provide space to traders, lend them money and share profits.  The illegal scheme began in 1994, when Kluger was an
associate for the New York-based firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore
LLP, Kluger and Bauer admitted in pleading guilty. Robinson and
Kluger worked together from 1987 to 1991; Robinson and Bauer,
from 1992 to 1994 at Weiss, Peck & Greer, a New York venture
capital firm, the government said.  First Time  Bauer said at NYU that he didn’t clearly remember his first
illegal trade in 1994. Prosecutors said one trade that Bauer
made that year involved  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s acquisition of
Neutrogena Corp.  The scheme began when Kluger called Robinson and said,
“I’ve got something,” referring to inside information from
Cravath, the FBI said in Bauer’s arrest complaint. Robinson said
he would find a stock trader, and called Bauer.  “I knew I was breaking the law, but I didn’t know to what
degree,” Bauer told students. “I got that phone call from Ken,
I did the trade, and I made some money. It could have been
$30,000 or $40,000. I had no money then.”  Kluger first passed tips to Robinson only on deals on which
he worked as a mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer. As the scheme
grew, he stole information from law firm computers about other
deals, he admitted in pleading guilty.  Three-Way Split  At first the men bought an equal number of shares and split
any profit equally, with Bauer giving cash to Robinson to divide
with Kluger, Bauer said in an interview. Bauer said he later
began buying greater amounts of shares than the other two. Bauer
told students he met Kluger only once and didn’t remember his
last name until reading it in the arrest complaint.  Bauer initially financed his legitimate trading with
$25,000 drawn on his  credit card , he said in an interview. He
worked next to other day traders at various firms, including one
owned by the Royal Bank of Canada, which extended him more
credit as he traded more.  Kluger admitted stealing secrets from 1998 to 2001 at
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, based in New York, and
from 2001 to 2002 at Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP.  After a hiatus, the scheme resumed in December 2005 and ran
until March 2011, when Kluger worked in the Washington office of
Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati PC.  In a March talk at NYU, Bauer said that his legitimate
trading prowess increased and the illegal trading became only a
small fraction of his activity.  Few Trades  Bauer told students that he would execute 1,000 to 2,000
trades a year, with perhaps two or three based on illegal tips
fed to him by Robinson. He could make or lose $1 million in a
day, betting on U.S. stocks and turning them over quickly, he
said. In 1999 alone, he said, he made and lost $50 million.  “I always had big swings in my account,” he said. “I
could be up $10,000 and then up by $500,000. I really enjoyed
finding that trade where you acted on it quicker than anybody
else and then sold it to people who were too slow.”  Much of the illegal information he got was vague and led to
purchases requiring him to hold shares or trade them several
times over weeks or months, he said. Kluger’s tips often were
unspecific and rarely led to instant profits, he said.  “Almost all of these trades were more complicated than
they seemed,” he told NYU students in March. “I had 10 years
of losses.”  Bauer made most of his illicit profits in the last years of
the scheme, as his legitimate trading prospered. By 2010, he
said, he had traded $8 billion through his account.  Sun Microsystems  Prosecutors said he made $11.3 million in illicit profits
by buying 4.9 million shares of Sun Microsystems Inc. before its
acquisition by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  The government didn’t count the $9
million he lost by buying and selling Sun shares in the weeks
leading up to the deal, he said.  A student at Drexel asked how he made $11 million without
alarming regulators.  “I was always a really big trader,” Bauer said. “The SEC
asked me questions a few times over the years. They would ask
for confirmations of trades. It would be very difficult to find
because on some days, I was in and out of millions of shares.”  Bauer lived modestly, rarely taking vacations, he said in
an interview. His favorite restaurant was Houston’s, a chain
that serves American classics. His only extravagances were his
New York apartment bought four years ago, a house in  Florida  he
bought for his mother and a $28,000 watch.  “It wasn’t about the money,” Bauer said. “It was just
about the smart trade.”  Crimes Discovered  The scheme ended when U.S. authorities approached Robinson,
who had made two large trades on his own that attracted
suspicion. He began taping Bauer and Kluger after the FBI raided
his house in Long Beach, New York, on March 8, 2011. The FBI
later seized $175,000 in cash from Robinson, according to the
SEC.  Before the first recorded call, Robinson told Bauer that
the FBI had searched his house and that he should destroy his
prepaid mobile phone, Bauer said in an interview. A few days
later, in a recorded conversation cited in the FBI complaint,
Bauer told Robinson that he had broken the phone in half and
dumped it in two McDonald’s restaurant garbage cans.  “I was so panicked,” Bauer told Robinson, according to an
FBI affidavit. “I literally didn’t sleep that entire night.”  The two discussed the $175,000 in cash that Bauer had
withdrawn on consecutive days from multiple ATMs at a Citibank
branch. He used the money to pay Robinson, who was to split it
with Kluger. Bauer said Robinson should burn the money to remove
his fingerprints. Robinson later suggested running it through a
washing machine.  In every talk to students, Bauer discussed how 20 FBI
agents came to his apartment to arrest him and how they played
the tapes for him, as well as his time in the Hudson County
Jail.  No Emotion  He tried hard to show no emotion to violent criminals.  “Saying it’s a scary place kind of understates it,” he
said. “It’s the scariest place on earth.”  The college senior who organized the NYU talk in February,
Sameen Singh, said Bauer made a big impact on him and his
friends.  “I was impressed by how human he was and how his
friendships and relationships played a role in his crimes,”
said Singh, who has graduated and will work for  Morgan Stanley. (MS) 
“My friends were quite taken aback by how similar he was to
them. He came from humble beginnings, and he’s not a deviant
mastermind criminal. He’s just a regular guy.”  Bauer’s lawyer,  Michael Bachner , said he submitted about
200 letters to Hayden expressing support or urging leniency.
Mark Brennan, an adjunct professor at NYU’s Stern School who
invited Bauer to lecture to two classes, wrote that students
commented on the “strong deterrent effect” of Bauer’s message.  ‘Immense Good’  “Many remarked that it was the best experience of their
entire time at Stern,” Brennan wrote to Hayden. “Immense good
has already come from Garrett’s self-inflicted tragedy.”  Students saw how “someone, different from them only in
age, ruined his life through a combination of greed, deceit, and
carelessness,” Brennan wrote. “No ‘Scared Straight’ program
could hope to be as effective as the one Garrett provided my two
classes.”  At today’s court hearing, prosecutors will probably argue
to Hayden that she should focus on the seriousness of the crime
and impose a stiff sentence, while Bachner will argue that Bauer
is a good person who changed for the better, said Lawrence Lustberg, a white-collar defense attorney in Newark who isn’t
involved in the case. Judges must balance those factors in
fashioning a sentence, he said.  “The challenges for the defense here are very real,” said
Lustberg, of Gibbons PC. “This type of crime is viewed very
negatively by society. Judge Hayden will be thinking about a
sentence that’s the best thing for our society in a way that
other judges might not. She’s going to try to do something
that’s very creative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 