-- Qantas Slumps to Record Low on 91% Profit Drop Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-06-05T08:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/qantas-forecasts-full-year-profit-may-plunge-91-.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
largest carrier, plunged to a record low in Sydney trading after
saying annual profit may fall as much as 91 percent because of
losses on overseas routes and higher fuel costs.  The  carrier , which listed in 1995, tumbled a record 19
percent at the close and its credit-default swaps rose to an
eight-month high. The stock slump cut the airline’s market value
to A$2.6 billion ($2.5 billion). Shareholders rejected an A$11
billion takeover offer for the Sydney-based company in 2007.  Underlying profit before tax may be A$50 million to A$100
million in the year ending June because of a A$700 million
increase in fuel bills and a doubling of losses at Qantas
International, the airline said today. The  carrier  could lose
its investment-grade  credit rating  at  Standard & Poor’s 
following the profit warning, said National Australia Bank Ltd.  “It’s bleeding,” said Peter Esho, chief market strategist
at City Index Ltd. in Sydney, a provider of equities, bonds and
 currency trading . “It’s very disappointing, especially the
extent of the decline for the international business.”  The group will make a net loss for the full year, Chief
Executive Officer Alan Joyce said on a conference call, without
providing a specific forecast. Qantas hasn’t made a full-year
loss since listing, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The carrier has tumbled 41 percent in the past year. That’s
the worst performance among the 16 stocks in the  Bloomberg Asia
Pacific Airlines Index (BPRAIRL) , which has dropped 29 percent.  Qantas closed at A$1.155 in Sydney. Australia’s benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 1.5 percent, the most since Jan. 17.  Virgin, Etihad  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , the nation’s No. 2 carrier,
also today said that Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways PJSC had
bought a 4 percent stake, cementing ties between the companies.
Etihad would like to raise the stake to 10 percent, if
regulators approve, its CEO  James Hogan  said by phone.  Competition from Etihad, Emirates Airlines and Qatar
Airways Ltd. has contributed to losses at Qantas International
as the Middle East-based airlines are able to offer a wider
range of one-stop flights to  Europe . Virgin has also expanded
its international reach by cooperating with Etihad,  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , Delta Air Lines Inc., and part-owner Air New
Zealand Ltd.  Second-Half Loss  Qantas expects an underlying group loss of at least A$177
million in the six months ended June, based on today’s forecast.
First-half underlying earnings were A$277 million. Last fiscal
year, the carrier posted annual  earnings  of A$552 million.  “The deterioration in international and domestic has only
started to come through in recent weeks,” Joyce said. A demand
slowdown has also contributed to Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.
forecasting “disappointing” first-half earnings and Singapore
Air posting a quarterly loss.  At Qantas International, losses will jump to more than
A$450 million from A$216 million last fiscal year, the carrier
said in a statement. The unit will also suffer a A$100 million
cost from a labor dispute, it said. Joyce has cut loss-making
flights and divided the operations into a separate unit with
dedicated  management  in a bid to return it to profit by 2014.  In the domestic market, Qantas and budget arm Jetstar will
boost  profit  this fiscal year to a combined total of more than
A$600 million, according to the statement.  “Outside Possibility”  Qantas five-year credit default swaps jumped 17 basis
points to 368 basis points at 4:16 p.m., according to Westpac
Banking Corp. That’s set for the highest close since Oct. 5,
according to data provider CMA. S&P downgrading the carrier from
BBB is likely and a two-grade cut to a non-investment level is
an “outside possibility,” National Australia Bank said in a
research note.  “It’s difficult to see how S&P would not downgrade Qantas
at least one notch,” the bank said. The carrier is the highest-
rated by S&P, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  and Deutsche Lufthansa AG, both ranked BBB-, are
the only other airlines rated investment grades the ratings
company.  S&P placed a ‘negative’ outlook on Qantas’s credit rating
in October, days after Joyce grounded the carrier’s main unit
for about 48 hours in a showdown with unions.  “The profit numbers are potentially weaker than what we
thought,” said Anthony Flintoff, S&P’s Melbourne-based managing
director of corporate ratings. He declined to comment
specifically on whether S&P would cut its rating on the carrier.  Moody’s Investors Service said the outlook for its Baa3
rating on Qantas was stable and that the carrier should be able
to maintain its financial profile at that level for at least the
next year. The ratings company cut Qantas to Baa3, its lowest
investment grade, in January, according to a statement.  Maintenance Closure  Qantas has slowed the introduction of new planes to pare
costs, accelerated the retirement of older aircraft and
announced plans to shut a heavy-maintenance base.  Fuel costs will probably rise to a record A$4.4 billion in
the current fiscal year, the airline said.  Jet fuel  has averaged
$127.50 a barrel in Singapore trading since June 30, 19 percent
higher than a year earlier.  “The biggest issue for this airline at the moment is the
fuel bill,” Simon Fitzgerald, an analyst at Moelis & Co., said
by phone from Sydney. He rates the stock a buy.  Macquarie Bank Ltd. and TPG Inc. offered to buy Qantas for
A$11 billion in 2007 in what would have then been the largest
airline takeover. The bid lapsed after less than 50 percent of
investors accepted an offer of A$5.45 per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  