-- Queen’s Diamond Jubilee Climaxes With Palace Appearance
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-06-05T14:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/queen-elizabeth-s-husband-in-hospital-amid-jubilee-celebrations.html
Celebrations to mark Queen Elizabeth II’s 60 years on the British throne reached a climax as the
monarch appeared on the  Buckingham Palace  balcony in front of
cheering crowds and the Royal Air Force staged a flypast.  Thousands of well-wishers waving flags surged toward the
monarch’s central London residence for the finale of four days
of Diamond Jubilee events. An hour earlier, the 86-year-old
monarch returned from lunch at the Houses of Parliament in an
open horse-drawn carriage. She attended a thanksgiving service
this morning at  St. Paul’s Cathedral  in the financial district.  Forecast rain largely held off during the day. A shadow was
cast over the celebrations yesterday when the queen’s husband,
Prince Philip, who turns 91 next week, was hospitalized with a
bladder infection.  “We’ve seen people coming together in tremendous unity and
spirit,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  told  BBC television .
“We’ve also seen a great resilience -- people wanting to
celebrate even though the weather’s been pretty bad -- and an
extraordinary resilience on behalf of her majesty who, in spite
of all the problems and difficulties, has kept going, and with
such incredible spirit. She’s a real inspiration.”  Cameron was among the congregation in St. Paul’s for the
thanksgiving service. Chants of “God Save the Queen” broke out
as the queen arrived at the cathedral door to a fanfare of
trumpets.  Eighteen RAF planes, including a World War II Lancaster
bomber and the Red Arrows display team trailing red, white and
blue smoke, took part in the flypast.  ‘Living Proof’  “We are marking today the anniversary of one historic and
very public act of dedication, a dedication that has endured
faithfully, calmly and generously through most of the adult
lives of most of us here,” the Archbishop of Canterbury,  Rowan Williams , who heads the Church of  England , said in his sermon.
“We are marking six decades of living proof that public service
is possible, and that it is a place where happiness can be
found.”  With Prince Philip absent, the queen’s son and heir to the
throne, Prince Charles, sat next to his mother during the
service. Philip also missed a concert last night outside
Buckingham Palace that featured stars including  Paul McCartney 
and  Stevie Wonder .  Charles and his wife Camilla traveled in the queen’s
carriage in this afternoon’s procession, followed by Charles’s
son and daughter-in-law, Prince William and Catherine, and
William’s brother, Prince Harry.  Philip Disappointed  Prince Philip, who is also known as the Duke of Edinburgh,
is receiving hospital treatment for the second time in six
months. He had a coronary stent inserted for a blocked artery in
December after suffering chest pains, causing him to miss the
royal family’s Christmas celebrations.  “The Duke of Edinburgh was taken to  King Edward VII
Hospital  in  London  this afternoon, from Windsor Castle, as a
precautionary measure after developing a bladder infection,
which is being assessed and treated,” the royal household said
in a  statement on its website  yesterday. “Prince Philip will
remain in hospital under observation for a few days. He is
understandably disappointed about missing this evening’s Diamond
Jubilee concert and tomorrow’s engagements.”  The queen described Philip on their golden wedding
anniversary in 1997 as “my strength and stay all these years.”  Boat Pageant  The prince was hospitalized a day after the royal couple
took part in a 1,000-boat Diamond Jubilee pageant on the  River
Thames , watched by an estimated 1 million people amid driving
rain and unseasonably cold temperatures.  The queen arrived halfway through last night’s concert
outside the royal palace, which included performances by  Grace Jones  and  Kylie Minogue , as well as McCartney, Cliff Richard,
 Elton John  and  Tom Jones  -- all of whom have been knighted by
the monarch. In contrast to the previous day, the skies above
central London were cloudless.  Charles mentioned his father’s illness at the end of the
concert, as he led the audience in three cheers for his mother.  “If we shout loud enough he might just hear us in
hospital,” Charles joked.  The archbishop also spoke of the Duke of Edinburgh in his
sermon this morning, saying that “our prayers and thoughts are
very much with him.”  Only one British monarch has spent longer than the current
queen on the throne: Victoria, who reigned from 1837 to 1901.
Her  Diamond Jubilee in 1897 , captured on  grainy black-and-white
film , is the only precedent for this week’s events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  