-- Rand Rebounds From 3-Year Low to Dollar as Stocks Erase Declines
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-04T14:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/rand-rebounds-from-3-year-low-to-dollar-as-stocks-erase-declines.html
The rand gained as traders gauged the
currency’s slide to a three-year low was overdone, and as stocks
pared declines, boosting investor appetite for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency advanced as much as 1 percent to
8.4936 per dollar as of 3:32 p.m. in Johannesburg, rebounding
from a 0.7 percent retreat in earlier trading. The currency fell
to 8.7051 on June 1, the weakest level since May 2009. Yields on
the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 were little changed at
7.75 percent.  European stocks pared declines and U.S. equity index
futures advanced as Spanish borrowing costs decreased, easing
concern the euro region’s debt crisis is spreading. South
Africa’s benchmark stock  index  rebounded from its lowest level
in a week. The euro, the currency of South Africa’s biggest
regional trading partner, climbed for a second day.  “Global markets have consolidated a bit, and that’s why
we’ve seen a bit of a pull-back for the rand,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the Johannesburg-based chief dealer at Bidvest
Bank Ltd., South Africa’s biggest chain of money-changers, said
by phone. “The euro is looking perkier today and that’s helped
sentiment.”  The rand often trades in tandem with the euro, with a
statistical correlation of 0.7 over the past year. A value of 1
would mean they moved in lock step.  Slowing Growth  The rand may resume declines on deepening concern that
slowing growth in the U.S. and  China  will cut demand in the two
largest economies. The currency’s three-month implied volatility
against the dollar rose to 21.03 percent today, the highest
since January, as options traders anticipate wider price swings
in coming months.  China’s non-manufacturing  purchasing managers’ index  fell
to 55.2 in May from 56.1 in April, the National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
yesterday in Beijing. U.S. unemployment rose to 8.2 percent in
May and payrolls increased less than the most-pessimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, Labor
Department figures showed June 1. European leaders remain
divided on solutions for the region’s debt crisis.  “Commodity currencies are already on the defensive in the
wake of the China data,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “This combination of forces will continue to weigh on
the rand.”  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of commodities declined as
much as 1.6 percent. Copper for three-month delivery slumped to
the weakest in more than five months. Metals and other
commodities account for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports,
according to government data. China is South Africa’s largest
trading partner, accounting for 13 percent of exports last year.  The currencies of other large commodity producers including
Australia and Canadian also declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net 
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  