-- Treasuries Drop on Speculation Growth to Lift Yields
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-06-04T21:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/treasuries-fall-as-indicator-signals-rally-may-be-halted.html
Treasuries fell for the first time in
four days on speculation the  U.S. economy  won’t slow enough to
justify keeping yields at the record lows set last week.  Government securities  interrupted a rally driven by
Europe’s fiscal crisis and U.S. employment data that fell short
of economists’ forecasts. A technical indicator showed the gains
are poised to end after the 10-year yield slid last week the
most since August. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
testify this week about the outlook for the U.S. economy.  “Treasuries are overvalued if the prices are based on an
economic slowdown,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director
and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in
 New York . “If this is a fear trade, where you have a situation
where the market is fearing a major catastrophe, then they are
not overvalued.”  Benchmark 10-year yields climbed seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.52 percent at 5:14 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The 1.75 percent
note maturing in May 2022 dropped 21/32, or $6.56 per $1,000
face amount, to 102 2/32. The all-time low yield was 1.4387
percent on June 1. The  yield  dropped 29 basis points last week
and 36 basis points last month.  Thirty-year bond yields rose five basis points to 2.57
percent after touching a record low 2.5089 on June 1.  The long-bond yield could approach 2 percent, according to
 David Rosenberg , Toronto-based chief economist and strategist at
Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc.  Volume Decreases  Trading  volume  dropped to the lowest level since May 29
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker,
closing just above $212 billion in New York. The figure rose as
high as $395 billion on May 31, the most since reaching a 2012
high of $439 billion on March 14. Its low for the year was $114
billion on May 7.  Valuation measures show Treasuries are at almost the most
expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, was at negative 0.87 percent after
closing June 1 at negative 0.94 percent, a record. A negative
reading indicates investors are willing to accept yields below
what’s considered fair value.  The 14-day relative-strength  index  for U.S. 10-year yields
was at 29.8. A reading of less than 30 suggests to some traders
rates have fallen too quickly and are set to change direction.  Price momentum signals, or trend oscillators, also
indicated Treasuries yields may rise after hourly, daily, weekly
and monthly indicators showed the securities are “overbought,”
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, one of the 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  ‘Overextended Market’  “The warning signs are there that this is an overextended
market,”  William O’Donnell , co-head of strategy Americas and
head Treasury strategist at RBS Securities., said in a telephone
interview. “We’re in uncharted territory.”  Thirty-year bonds, among the securities most sensitive to
inflation because of their longer maturity, are outperforming
the rest of the market.  The extra  yield  investors demand to buy the long bonds
instead of 10-year notes touched 1.04 percentage points, the
narrowest since Jan. 17. It reached 1.22 percentage points on
Feb. 3, the most in 2012. The average for the past year is 1.15
percentage points.  The gap in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, which represents traders’
expectations for the rate of inflation during the life of the
bonds, was at 2.08 percentage points. It touched a 2012 low of
1.9 percentage points on Jan. 3 and a high of 2.45 percentage
points on March 20.  A  measure  of price-increase predictions used by the Fed to
set policy, the five-year, five-year forward break-even rate,
which gauges the average inflation rate between 2017 and 2022,
was 2.47 percent on May 30, down from a 2012 high of 2.78
percent on March 19.  Mortgage Securities  Treasury yields tumbled last week after a report showed the
nation added 69,000 jobs in May, versus 150,000 projected by a
Bloomberg poll of economists, fueling speculation the Fed may
take more action to spur economic growth, including debt
purchases under quantitative easing.  The Fed is more likely to buy additional government-backed
mortgage securities, according to primary dealers Morgan Stanley
and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Morgan Stanley mortgage-bond analysts including Vipul Jain
and Janaki Rao wrote that a third round of quantitative easing
may involve about $200 billion in additional purchases of home-
loan debt over nine months. Morgan Stanley said in a note the
Fed would probably purchase $475 billion over nine months,
including Treasuries and TIPS. It estimates odds are 80 percent
the central will begin a third round of quantitative easing.  Operation Twist  The Fed may choose to begin a new round of its Operation
Twist involving acquisitions of mortgage securities, rather than
Treasuries, instead of buying debt, JPMorgan mortgage-bond
analysts led by Matt Jozoff wrote. The size may be as much $100
billion to $200 billion, said the analysts.  The Fed bought $4.75 billion of Treasuries today due from
June 2018 to May 2019 under Operation Twist, in which it’s
replacing $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its holdings with
longer maturities through this month.  Credit Suisse Group AG sees 80 percent odds of additional
stimulus, with an emphasis on an extension of Operation Twist
and some mortgage buying, Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at the primary dealer, said today.  The central bank, which meets June 19-20, purchased $2.3
trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing from
December 2008 to June 2011 to boost the economy.  Bernanke will testify June 7 in  Washington  before the Joint
Economic Committee on the U.S. economic outlook.  ‘Very Creative’  “The key question is going to be how open is he to another
round of quantitative easing, and if he is, what form?” Gluskin
Sheff’s Rosenberg said on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness”
in an interview with Scarlet Fu. “They could buy Treasuries;
well, bond yields are already at record lows. They could buy
mortgages.  Mortgage rates  are at record lows. We know that
Bernanke is willing to be very creative, he’s willing to be very
aggressive and he’s not willing to let politics get in the
way.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hardened her opposition to
joint debt-sharing in the euro area in a speech June 2, amid
speculation  Greece  will abandon the common currency, worsening
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Merkel gave no ground to Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
pleas that  Germany  consider new ideas to resolve the debt
crisis. Her spokesman said today  Spain  can seek a bailout if
needed and accept the conditions that will come with it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  