-- Treasury Bears Give Up as Low Yields Seen Through Election
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-06-04T19:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/treasury-bears-capitulate-as-low-yield-seen-through-election-1-.html
Less than three months after rising
yields foretold a  bear market  in Treasuries, bond market metrics
show growing investor confidence that  record-low  borrowing costs
will last for years.  As yields on 10-year notes tumbled, dropping below 1.5
percent last week for the first time, investors who had sought
protection from bond losses retreated, reducing the so-called
payer skew in options on interest-rate swaps from a near one-
year high. Money-market traders drove the yield on futures
contracts that expire at the end of 2014 to record lows.  While Treasuries lost 1.3 percent in the first quarter as
bond prices fell and 10-year yields rose to 2.4 percent, they
have since returned 3.9 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show. Rising concern that Greece will exit the euro,
increasing unemployment in the U.S. and Europe and slowing
Chinese manufacturing growth drove investors to the safety of
 U.S. debt , cutting borrowing costs for homeowners, companies and
the government ahead of the November presidential election.  “When all bets are off there is a race to the most liquid
and safest assets,” Michael Brandes, global head of fixed-
income strategy for Citi Private Bank, a unit of Citigroup Inc.,
with $250 billion in assets under management, said in a May 31
interview. “We are more likely to see the 10-year yield stay
around these levels, or decline further, than to go back to 2
percent anytime soon unless we get a positive surprise.”  Low Yields  Strategists at New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co., which
in early April forecast 10-year yields would rise to 2.5
percent, said in a report dated June 1 that it lowered its
estimate to 1.4 percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG also cut their estimates.  Morgan Stanley, who along with JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and
Credit Suisse, are among the 21 primary dealers of U.S.
government securities that trade with the  Federal Reserve , said
June 1 that the probability of the central bank adding more
stimulus when its current effort winds down this month is 80
percent, up from 50 percent.  “Rates are going to remain low for quite a long time
period and if anything for longer than what people expect,”
said James Sarni, senior managing partner at Los Angeles-based
Payden & Rygel, which manages over $70 billion. “That’s simply
because of the continued problems in  Europe  as well as our own
economic and political uncertainties and challenges. There’s
been a change of sentiment since the end of the first quarter
and not for an unjustified reason.”  Slowing Growth  Yields on 10-year Treasuries ended last week at 1.45
percent, as the Labor Department reported job gains of 69,000 in
May, the fewest in a year, and said the  unemployment rate  rose
to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent in April. Commerce Department
figures a day earlier showed the economy expanded at a 1.9
percent annual rate last quarter, below its 2.2 percent prior
estimate.  In Europe, a gauge of manufacturing output for the 17-
nation euro area contracted for a 10th month in May, as the
London-based Markit Economics’ purchasing managers’ index
declined to 45.1 from 45.9 in April. Manufacturing in China grew
last month at the slowest pace this year, trailing 26 of 27
estimates in a Bloomberg survey, according to an index published
by the nation’s statistics bureau and logistics federation.  The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield fell 29 basis points
last week, or 0.29 percentage point, the most in eight months,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent
security maturing in May 2022 gained 2 20/32, or $26.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 102 3/4.  The yield rose to 1.50 percent as of 3 p.m. in  New York . It
reached an all-time low of 1.4387 percent during trading on June
1.  Term Premium  By some measures, the turnaround means that Treasuries are
overvalued. The term premium, a model created by economists at
the Fed, fell to negative 0.94 on June 1, the  lowest  level ever.
A negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  A Bloomberg survey of 69 economists and strategists shows
10-year yields are expected to rise to 2.41 percent by year-end.  Bonds also reflect growing speculation that  Greece  will
exit the 17-nation euro region after parties opposed to the
terms of the nation’s second bailout by the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund  won most of the votes in May 6
elections. Greece’s departure would spark uncontrollable
contagion that may exhaust official funding sources, according
to Societe Generale SA analysts.  A fresh round of voting will be held June 17 after leaders
failed to form a government and a victory by Greek politicians
who favor the strict bailout conditions may reduce economic
concerns and draw investors out of Treasuries.  Waning Recovery  “You’ll probably see some measures taken out of Europe
that will ease the concerns, not solve the problems but ease
them, and then we could see Treasury yields rise back north of 2
percent,” Thomas Higgins, global macro strategist in  Boston  at
Standish Mellon Asset Management Co., with $92 billion of fixed-
income assets, said in an interview on May 30.  For now, signs of a waning U.S. economic recovery and
turmoil in Europe are leading money market traders to cut bets
that the Fed will lift benchmark rates before 2015.  The Federal funds futures contracts expiring in December
2014, traded on the Chicago-based CME Group exchange, fell 14
basis points last week to 0.37 percent.  The Fed lowered its benchmark interest rate to about zero
in December 2008 and has said economic conditions will probably
warrant holding it low through at least late 2014. Policy makers
next meet June 20 to decide monetary policy.  Maturity Extension  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston President  Eric Rosengren 
said June 1 before the jobs report that central bank should spur
growth and cut unemployment by prolonging a program that
lengthens the average duration of bonds on its balance sheet by
selling $400 billion of short-term debt and buying longer-term
in a policy traders have dubbed Operation Twist.  “That would have the impact of helping to reduce longer-
term  interest rates  without expanding our balance sheet,”
Rosengren said in an interview with Bloomberg News. “If you
were looking for something that would promote growth but didn’t
have an impact on our balance sheet, then certainly extending
the maturity extension program would be a viable way forward.”  Options traders are reversing course. Last year they
wagered that the only way prices swings would increase was if
yields rose. That changed last month as measures of projected
interest-rate  volatility  in options on swaps trended higher as
yields fell.  “Everybody had been using options over the last six months
to position for higher rates with almost nobody buying them to
hedge lower rates,” said Piyush Goyal, a fixed-income
strategist in New York at Barclays Plc, in a telephone interview
on May 29. “All of that has changed.”  Payer Skew  The option market’s thirst for insurance against even lower
Treasury yields comes as higher-risk securities, such as
 equities , have slid. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had its
worst month since September in May, retreating 6.3 percent as
the euro weakened to an almost two-year low against the dollar,
reaching $1.2288 last week.  Costs to hedge against rising 10-year yields over the next
three years, as measured by the payer skew in options on
 interest-rate swaps , began to retreat in mid-May after surging
50 percent since the end of March to an eight-month high,
according to Barclays data.  The skew reached 21 basis points on May 23, up from 14
basis points at the end of the first quarter, and averaging 15
over the past 12 months, Barclays data show. It fell to 20 basis
points on May 24, where it held for four straight days before
rebounding as the 10-year Treasury yield set record lows the
final three days of last week.  Corporate Debt  Lower 10-year Treasury yields may bring down  home loan 
rates, already at record lows, further as the Fed completes
Operation Twist. The average for a typical 30-year fixed-rate
mortgage fell to 3.75 percent on May 24, from 4.08 percent on
March 22 and more than 5 percent in February 2011, according to
Freddie Mac surveys.  Investment-grade company bond yields tumbled to 3.33
percent May 8, the least in data going back to 1986, the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index shows.  Low interest rates have allowed President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to finance three years of budget deficits
exceeding $1 trillion without igniting price increases.  While the amount of marketable Treasuries  outstanding  has
more than doubled to $10.4 trillion from $4.4 trillion in mid-
2007, debt expense equaled 3 percent of the economy in fiscal
2011 ended Sept. 30, less than the 4 percent in 1999, when the
U.S. ran a  budget surplus .  Fed Minutes  Tax increases and spending cuts of $450 billion will kick
in at the end of this year unless Congress blocks them,
potentially slowing the economy further.  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania , estimates full implementation would cut 1.5
percentage points from growth next year.  Fed policy makers signaled last month that further monetary
easing remains an option to protect the  U.S. economy  from the
danger that lawmakers will fail to reach agreement on the budget
or Europe’s debt woes worsen, according to minutes of the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s April meeting released on May 16
in  Washington .  “It’s tough to see exactly where the bottom might be” in
Treasury yields, Gregory Whiteley, who manages investments in
government debt at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP,
which has $35 billion in assets, said in a June 1 telephone
interview. “All the  stars  are lined up for this drop in yields
to continue. The likelihood of Fed action is going up here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  