-- Rehn, Moscovici Step Up Demand for Direct Euro-Area Aid to Banks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-06-04T13:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/rehn-moscovici-step-up-demand-for-direct-euro-area-aid-to-banks.html
The top European Union and French
finance officials pressed to allow direct euro-area aid for
troubled banks in the face of German opposition.  EU Economy Commissioner  Olli Rehn  and French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said letting the euro’s permanent
rescue fund inject cash into banks instead of channeling the
money through national governments would help stem the debt
crisis in Europe. The step would move the 17-nation euro area
toward a “banking union,” they said.  “We have been considering this as a serious possibility of
breaking the link between the sovereigns and the banks,” Rehn
told reporters today in Brussels. “It is important to consider
this alternative of direct bank recapitalization.”  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
backed the idea last week along with Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  as concerns grew that Spain would be forced to seek
emergency funds for its banks following 386 billion euros ($481
billion) in international loan pledges to  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal since 2010.  The new French administration under Socialist President
 Francois Hollande  has also weighed in with its support for
giving this power to the European Stability Mechanism,
challenging German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s stance that euro-
area bank aid must go through governments in order to enforce
related conditions.  ‘Isn’t Mysterious’  “Our position isn’t mysterious,” Moscovici said today in
Brussels with Rehn at his side. “We too are in favor of this
banking union. It’s a fundamental issue for which proposals are
on the table.”  Moscovici expressed hope that this would mark “one of the
new avenues” to be opened in tackling the debt crisis at a June
28-29 meeting of EU heads of government in Brussels.  The ESM, due to start operating in July, is the successor
to the temporary  European Financial Stability Facility , which is
likewise restricted to providing any aid to banks via
governments. So far, no euro nation has requested funds to
recapitalize lenders from the EFSF, whose role to date has been
to sell debt to finance rescue loans for Ireland,  Portugal  and
Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  