-- Rice Poised for Third Record Crop as Food Prices Retreat
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-06-05T19:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/rice-poised-for-third-record-crop-as-prices-retreat-commodities.html
The third consecutive year of record
rice production is poised to expand inventories to the most in
more than a decade, driving down prices and helping to contain
the more than $1 trillion spent on food imports annually.  Farmers will harvest 466.4 million metric tons in the
2012-2013 season, boosting  stockpiles  by 0.7 percent to 104.9
million tons, the largest since 2001-2002, says the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . Prices of  5 percent white rice  in
Thailand may drop as much as 14 percent to $520 a ton by the end
of July, said Mamadou Ciss, who is the president of Alliance
Commodities SA in Geneva and has traded the grain for more than
a quarter century.  Rising supply will contribute to the biggest grain crop
ever, according to the  United Nations , whose gauge of  world food
costs  fell 10 percent since reaching a record in February 2011.
Lower grain prices will help contain inflation because rice is a
staple for more than 3 billion people. The global food-import
bill was already expected by the UN to drop by about $50 billion
in 2012 from an all-time high of $1.29 trillion last year.  “There is enough supply to meet all the demand in the
world,” said  Concepcion Calpe , a senior economist at the UN’s
Food & Agriculture Organization, where she is also secretary of
the Rome-based group’s inter-governmental body on rice. “There
will be ground for a further slide in prices.”  Support Farmers  The cost of benchmark 100 percent  grade-B Thai rice  fell 7
percent since reaching a three-year high of $663 in November.
The grain is still 5.7 percent higher this year after the
government began stockpiling supply to support farmers. Prices
are now dropping because the harvest will be so big that exports
can still expand 23 percent, allowing Thailand to overtake  India 
and Vietnam as the world’s biggest shipper, the USDA estimates.  Rough-rice futures on the Chicago Board of Trade declined
7.2 percent this year to $13.825 per 100 pounds. Ciss said
prices may drop to $13.25. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Agriculture Index of eight commodities fell 10 percent this
year, and the MSCI  All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of equities retreated
2.3 percent. Treasuries returned 2.3 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  The global stockpiles projected by the USDA would be 30
percent above the level reached in 2007-2008, when curbs on
exports by countries including India drove the Asian benchmark
to a record $1,038 a ton. With harvests now expanding across the
region, demand for imports will drop 1.5 percent to 32.4 million
tons, the first contraction in four years, the USDA estimates.  Nigerian Supply  India, the second-biggest grower after  China , has lifted a
three-year ban on non-basmati sales overseas and will ship 6
million tons, USDA data show. That’s enough to supply  Nigeria ,
the largest importer, for about 2 1/2 years. More exports will
also come from  Pakistan , China,  Cambodia , Myanmar,  Brazil  and
 Australia , the USDA estimates.  Extreme weather is the greatest threat to lower prices.
Indian farmers rely on a favorable monsoon for the so-called
kharif crop, which is sown in the rainy season from June and
accounts for more than 80 percent of annual output. Rain from
this year’s monsoon, the farmers’ main source of irrigation,
will probably be about 99 percent of the 50-year average, the
 India Meteorological Department  said in April. The rains should
reach the Indian mainland during the next 48 hours, according to
the weather bureau yesterday.  El Nino weather conditions, which can parch parts of  Asia 
including Vietnam, Thailand and  Indonesia , may develop this year
as the Pacific Ocean warms, Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology
warned last month. All seven models used by the Melbourne-based
bureau show conditions are likely to approach or exceed El Nino
thresholds, according to a report on May 22.  Profitable Crops  In the U.S., the fifth-largest shipper, production is
forecast to slump to the smallest in 14 years as farmers plant
the least in a quarter century in favor of more profitable crops
including soybeans and corn, the USDA estimates. Exports will
decline for a third year, dropping 7.9 percent to 2.8 million
tons, the lowest since 2000-2001, predicts the department.  Thailand ’s stockpiling program runs until mid-September and
there is no limit on the amount that can be bought. The
government wants export prices at $800 a ton and will stop
buying when they reach that level, Yanyong Phuangrach, permanent
secretary at the Commerce Ministry, said on June 1.  The Thai program may be less effective than planned because
inventories already exceed 10 million tons, space is scarce and
funding is constrained, Alliance Commodities’ Ciss said. The
country will have accumulated more than 12 million tons of
reserves by the end of this season, the USDA estimates.  Grain Supply  That’s mirroring gains in the availability of combined
grain supply worldwide, with the FAO predicting a 1.1 percent
advance to 2.37 billion tons. Rice and corn will more than
compensate for smaller wheat harvests.  Vietnamese rice production will expand for a 12th straight
year, reaching an all-time high of 26.5 million tons, the USDA
predicts. Exports will match the previous year’s record 7
million tons, making them the second-largest after Thailand.  Stockpiles in India, underpinning the scale of exports,
will rise 2 percent to a record 25.5 million tons by the end of
the season, USDA data show. State-run warehouses held 32.92
million tons as of May 1, 19 percent more than a year earlier,
according to Food Corp. of India, the country’s biggest buyer of
food grains.  Typhoon Season  The  Philippines , formerly the largest importer, has been
promoting self-sufficiency. More irrigation means land can be
planted earlier, allowing harvests before the typhoon season,
Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala said in April. The
government anticipates imports of 500,000 tons this year, from a
record 2.47 million tons in 2010. Purchases by Indonesia may
drop to a three-year low of 1.45 million tons, USDA data show.  Smaller producers are also boosting output for sale
overseas.  Cambodian shipments  may climb to 950,000 tons, 19
percent more than a year earlier and up from 10,000 tons a
decade ago, the USDA estimates. Myanmar, which is now opening up
its economy after decades of isolation, may ship 750,000 tons,
from 600,000 tons a year earlier, the department predicts.  “With record output, the market will be bearish this
year,” said Ciss, who correctly predicted in 2006 that prices
would double. “The crop is very good in  Vietnam  and the
government in Thailand is sitting on over 10 million tons, which
they will soon have to release.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  