-- RIM Tumbles Below $10 a Share, Lowest Since December 2003
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-04T20:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/rim-tumbles-below-10-a-share-lowest-since-december-2003.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  fell to the
lowest level since 2003, marking four days of declines since the
struggling BlackBerry maker forecast an operating loss and said
it had hired banks to explore strategic options.  RIM  declined  5.8 percent to $9.66 a share at the close in
New York, for the lowest price since Dec. 22, 2003. The stock
has slumped 93 percent from its mid-2008 high of $147.55.  RIM said May 29 that it may report a quarterly loss for the
three months that ended June 2, stung by a “high” rate of
customer defections in the U.S. The operating loss would be the
first since 2004 for the Waterloo, Ontario-based company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The stock had hung in better than I expected after the
pre-announcement and maybe we’re now seeing people that had not
sold amid the early pressure, doing so,” said  Matt Thornton , an
analyst at Avian Securities LLC in Boston. He has a neutral
rating on the stock.  Faced with pressure from shareholders to improve
performance, RIM last week said it had hired  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  RBC Capital Markets  to help the company evaluate its
options. Its share of the global smartphone market fell by more
than half last quarter to 6.4 percent, according to research
firm IDC, as its aging lineup of BlackBerry phones failed to
keep pace with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and newer products based on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating platform.  Store checks indicate that sales of BlackBerry devices in
the U.S. probably fell in May from a month earlier, Jim Faucette, a Pacific Crest Securities Inc. analyst, said today in
a client note.  “It is going to get worse for Research In Motion,” said
Faucette, who rates the stock equivalent of a sell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  