-- Triple Crown Bid Calling Black-Swan Traders: David Papadopoulos
-- B y   D a v i d   P a p a d o p o u l o s
-- 2012-06-04T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/triple-crown-bid-calling-black-swan-traders-david-papadopoulos.html
The  Belmont Stakes  will be a black-
swan trader’s dream.  The race, set for June 9 at Belmont Park in Elmont, New
York, combines elements of chaos with a speculative bubble to
provide contrarian bettors the opportunity to make the score of
the year.  The bubble part is easy enough to grasp.  Horseracing aficionados, itching to see I’ll Have Another
become the first Triple Crown winner in 34 years, are overtaken
by emotion and wager millions of dollars on the horse as if that
financial backing will help him hit the finish line first. The
colt, who won the  Kentucky Derby  and  Preakness Stakes  last
month, will enter the starting gate at odds that I estimate of
about 3-5 (meaning bettors put up $5 for a chance to win $3).
That’s one-fifth the fair value odds of 3-1 that I’d assign him.  Explaining the Belmont’s chaotic outcomes -- which can be
seen in the defeat of 14 of the past 16 favorites -- is a more
involved matter. At the crux is the distance, a 1 1/2-mile (2.4
kilometers) odyssey that makes the Belmont an oddball event in
modern horseracing. It is a quarter mile farther than any of the
participants has tried before and likely will ever try again.  Stamina-testing events were common when the term Triple
Crown was coined to describe Gallant Fox’s sweep of the Derby,
Preakness and Belmont in 1930. Four of the six races the colt
competed in following his Belmont romp were at 1 1/2 miles or
longer. He won them all. The past 20  Belmont  champions don’t
have a single such victory among them.  233-1 Payout  As longer races lost popularity, breeders stopped focusing
on stamina and concentrated on producing speedballs that excel
at races half the length of the Belmont. Judging which horses
will handle the 1 1/2-mile distance is as much guesswork as
handicapping science. Colts that are mediocre at today’s more
conventional distances can shine in the Belmont.  Look at the last 10 winners. They raced 43 times after
their Belmont victories and won just five of those races, or 12
percent. Four horses in that group went a combined 0-for-28. By
comparison, the past 10  Preakness  champions won 29 of their 74
subsequent races, or 39 percent.  Gamblers who anticipated the Belmont chaos were well
rewarded. The winner paid 21-1 on average over the past decade.
The exacta ticket -- where a bettor predicts the first two
finishers of the race -- returned an average of $233 for each $1
bet.  30-1 Longshots  This year’s race figures to offer plenty of options for
those seeking to generate similar returns. There were 11 horses
in the preliminary field listed yesterday by the  New York Racing
Association  (the final group will be set on June 6). At least
five of them will likely offer odds of more than 30-1: Atigun,
Five Sixteen, Guyana Star Dweej, Optimizer and Ravelo’s Boy.  I’ll leave these horses to you black-swan traders out there
who specialize in capitalizing on random events. While I
understand the principles of chaos laid out above, I just can’t
get myself to wager on bad horses. All five look overmatched to
me (though note I said the same thing about the winners of the
race in 2011, 2009, 2008 and 2004).  My bid to exploit the Triple Crown bubble will focus on the
middle part of the betting curve -- those in the 5-1 to 15-1
range. Here’s my $50 model portfolio, offering a mix of win and
exacta bets:  Exacta Box  -- $24 win on Union Rags (estimated 5-1 odds); the betting
public is losing faith in this horse after back-to-back flops in
the  Florida Derby  and  Kentucky Derby ; I’m less discouraged than
my peers and like the value he offers here.  -- $6 exacta box on Union Rags and Paynter (8-1), a late-
developing, talented colt; the “box” means that a first-second
finish by those two in either order produces a winning ticket.
Total cost: $12.  -- $2 exacta box adding Street Life (15-1) to Union Rags
and Paynter. Total cost: $12.  That leaves a deuce.  Put it on I’ll Have Another. And if he wins, keep the
ticket, frame it and give it to your grandchildren in 2046, when
the next Triple Crown champion comes around.  (David Papadopoulos, the team leader for Latin America
markets coverage at Bloomberg News, has been following
thoroughbred racing for more than two decades and was runner-up
in 2008 Eclipse Award voting for feature writing on the sport.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jay Beberman at 
 jbeberman@bloomberg.net  