-- Romney-Backed Solar Company Fails Days After He Faulted Solyndra
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/romney-bashes-solyndra-s-loan-as-solar-company-he-backed-fails.html
Republican Mitt Romney, who
criticized President  Barack Obama  last week for backing failed
Solyndra LLC, supported as governor of  Massachusetts  a different
solar-power company that has gone out of business.  Konarka Technologies Inc. filed to liquidate on June 1
after getting state and U.S. aid, a development that may muddy
his attempts to use Solyndra to try to show Obama’s broader
economic failures, a professor said.  “It demonstrates the ‘problem’ of having a record, in that
obscure decisions and circumstances come to light, often far
removed from their original frameworks,” Burdett Loomis, a
University of Kansas political science professor, said in an e-
mail yesterday.  Romney, who on May 29 claimed enough delegates to win the
Republican presidential nomination, has sought to use Solyndra
to underscore his argument that he understands how business
works and Obama doesn’t. Romney cites Solyndra’s collapse two
years after winning a $535 million loan guarantee as a symbol of
Obama’s failure to create jobs with  government spending , and the
risks of using taxpayer money to fund private companies.  Thomas Pyle, president of the Washington-based Institute
for Energy Research, said in an interview that both examples
appeared to be an effort to pick “winners and losers.”  “This is clearly not the way we should be doing
business,” he said yesterday.  State Financing  Romney, a co-founder of Boston-based private-equity firm
Bain Capital LLC, promoted state aid during a January 2003 press
conference in Lowell, according to a  statement  from  Ameresco
Inc. (AMRC) , a Framingham, Massachusetts-based company that also won
state help. Romney took over as governor that month.  Romney gave Konarka of Lowell, Massachusetts, a $1.5
million loan, part of $9 million in state financing to clean-
energy companies. Romney also announced that a restructured
green fund would provide $15 million in support for renewable
energy in the state.  Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for the Romney’s campaign, said
on in an e-mail yesterday that the subsidies were approved by a
Massachusetts board before Romney became governor.  Asked to respond to the candidate’s backing for Konarka,
Saul said Obama has “a lot of questions to answer about why he
used taxpayer dollars to reward wealthy campaign donors for bad
ideas like Solyndra.”  Kaiser’s Foundation  A foundation run by  George Kaiser , an Oklahoma billionaire
and Obama fundraiser, was a leading investor in Solyndra. An
investigation by Republicans in Congress hasn’t found evidence
the administration gave Solyndra the loan to reward a political
donor.  The administration has said the award was based on its
merits and had been advanced during the  Bush administration .  “Every day we see a new example of  Mitt Romney ’s
hypocrisy,” said Lis Smith, a campaign spokeswoman. “Just one
day after he pulled a political stunt outside Solyndra, we
learned even more about his record of picking winners and losers
in Massachusetts when one of the companies he gave a loan to
went bankrupt.”  Supporters of clean-energy programs said Konarka’s collapse
shows Romney is being hypocritical for criticizing Obama’s
support for renewable-energy subsidies because some projects
fail.  Similar Efforts  “Romney and allies are attacking the president for efforts
similar to his when he was governor,” Dan Weiss, senior fellow
and director of climate strategy at the Center for American
Progress Action Fund, which says it promotes progressive
policies, said in an e-mail.  As president, Obama sought to make clean-energy support a
central feature of the 2009 economic stimulus. The loan program
through which Solyndra received its award provided about $16
billion in guarantees before ending last year.  In a May 2010 visit to Solyndra, Obama said the factory
being built with taxpayer help was proof that “the promise of
clean energy isn’t just an article of faith.”  Last week, Romney stood outside Solyndra’s shuttered
facilities in Fremont,  California , saying the company was a
symbol of Obama’s failure to create jobs.  In 2003, then-governor Romney said the Massachusetts fund
could become a “major economic springboard” by focusing on job
growth in the renewable-energy industry.  One major difference between Solyndra and Konarka is the
size of support. Solyndra filed for bankruptcy in September,
about two years after it won its $535 million U.S. loan
guarantee. The company also collected about $1 billion in
private investment.  Private Capital  Konarka attracted $170 million in private capital and $20
million in government research grants, according to its website.  Howard Berke, chief executive officer of the company, said
June 1 Konarka had been unable to obtain financing and was
unable to continue operations.  The company, which said it would lay off its 85 workers,
listed $100,000 to $500,000 in assets and $10 million to $50
million in debt in its Chapter 7 filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Worcester, Massachusetts.  At least four other U.S. solar-panel manufacturers filed
for bankruptcy in the past year as the price of the products
fell 50 percent on an oversupply and expanded production in
 China .  Pyle said Romney’s past support for state subsidies to
clean-energy companies shouldn’t deter him from criticizing
Obama’s more generous aid.  “It’s a little bit of a stretch to say, ‘He did it too, so
let’s call it a draw,’” Pyle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  