-- Romney Aversion to Wind-Power Aid Alienating Republicans
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-04T17:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/romney-aversion-to-wind-power-aid-alienating-republicans.html
Mitt Romney ’s opposition to tax
breaks for wind farms puts him at odds with conservative support
for renewable energy in states such as  Iowa  and Texas that have
built the largest wind industries with taxpayer help.  The presumptive Republican presidential nominee favors more
oil drilling and fewer clean-air regulations and has voiced
opposition to government backing for wind and solar projects.  Romney hasn’t taken a position on renewing a federal tax
credit for wind power that’s set to expire Dec. 31, though he’s
ridiculed government subsidies for turbines. Republican
lawmakers are backing a bill to extend the incentive. President
 Barack Obama  supports the credit and says it will create jobs.  Romney’s faith in free markets to develop alternative
energy sources may be misguided, Representative Roscoe Bartlett,
a Maryland Republican, said in an interview.  He “believes that the market will take care of this,”
Bartlett said. “I wish that were true. I think the market
signals will be too late and inadequate and that we will face
very serious energy shortages.”  Bartlett is co-sponsoring  The American Renewable-Energy
Production Tax Extension Credit Act of 2011 , which would extend
through 2016 the 2.2-cent-a-kilowatt-hour credit for electricity
produced by  wind turbines , biomass, geothermal and landfill-gas
plants. The issue will intensify this week as executives gather
in Atlanta for the  Windpower 2012  annual conference.  Bipartisan Support  The act was introduced in November and has 101 co-sponsors
including more than 20 Republicans from states such as Texas,
 Illinois  and  Oklahoma . It’s supported by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the  National Association of Manufacturers  and more
than 400 turbine-component makers, developers and trade groups,
according to the  American Wind Energy Association , which also
endorsed the bill.  Romney has criticized Obama’s efforts to promote clean
energy. At a May 31 campaign event in front of Solyndra LLC’s
shuttered factory, he said a U.S.-backed loan for the bankrupt
Fremont, California-based solar company was an example of
“crony capitalism” that demonstrates the folly of supporting
expensive renewable-power sources.  Imaginary World  That echoed comments he’s made elsewhere. “In place of
real energy, Obama has focused on an imaginary world where
government-subsidized windmills and solar panels could power the
economy,” Romney said in a March 5  editorial  in the Columbus
Dispatch. “This vision has failed.”  He’s pledged to amend the  Clean Air Act  to exclude
 greenhouse gases  such as carbon dioxide that scientists say
causes global warming and would shift renewable-energy funding
to basic research instead of subsidies for power projects.  Romney’s position baffles some lawmakers in his party.
Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for the Romney campaign, didn’t
respond to two e-mails seeking comment.  “Now is the time for stability in the wind industry” and
the production tax credit offers that, Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican, said April 25 on a conference call
organized by AWEA.  “The certainty that extending the PTC provides can and
will spur growth and development, reduce electricity costs and
create jobs,” Representative Dave Reichert, the Washington
Republican who introduced the bill, said on the same call.  The presidential candidate’s views may also cost him votes
from Republican wind-industry executives.  Lost Votes  “Romney’s got it wrong on this issue,” said Steve Lockard, chief executive officer of blade maker TPI Composites
Inc. and a registered Republican. “If Romney doesn’t change his
mind by November, I won’t be voting for him.” Lockard also
serves on AWEA’s board.  The company is based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , and
manufactures blades in Newton, Iowa. “Republicans running for
office are saying that wind costs too much but our costs have
come down significantly,” Lockard said. “I’d like to see
Romney have a conversation with Steve King and work from the
facts about this industry.”  Obama toured TPI’s Iowa plant May 24 and called on Congress
to extend the tax credit. The former Maytag factory employs more
than 700 people making 160-foot (49-meter) fiberglass blades for
turbines including  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s 1.6 megawatt model.  “It’s got to be done now,” Obama told a crowd of
employees and visitors. “If Congress doesn’t act, companies
like this one will take a hit. Today we have 500 facilities in
43 states employing tens of thousands of workers. That progress
is in jeopardy.”  Lost Jobs  Iowa’s Republican Governor Terry Branstad, both its
senators and all five congressmen have endorsed extending the
tax credit, according to AWEA.  There are about 75,000 U.S. wind-industry workers,
according to AWEA. Letting the credit lapse will lead to the
elimination of 10,000 wind-industry jobs this year and another
27,000 in 2012, the trade group estimates.  “It should be the role of both presidential candidates to
support an all-of-the-above energy policy,”  Denise Bode , AWEA’s
CEO, said today at the Atlanta conference. The trade group has
met with Romney’s campaign “and we’re trying to educate them on
the benefits of wind.”  “We hope Congress can come together and get this passed,
Rob Gramlich, AWEA’s senior vice president for public policy,
said in an interview. The bill was referred to the House Ways &
Means Committee, where he said it may stall because it’s
narrowly focused on a single tax credit and may not garner
enough attention on its own to move forward. ‘‘The problem is
finding a viable vehicle.”  Texas  is the largest wind-producing state with 10,337
megawatts, equivalent to about ten nuclear reactors, and Iowa
gets as much as 20 percent of its electricity from installed
turbines. The two states, along with Illinois, also have the
most jobs in the wind industry with a combined 20,000 workers,
AWEA said.  No Kowtowing  Not all conservative lawmakers from windy states support
tax credits for turbines.  “It’s refreshing to see a presidential candidate show up
in a state like Iowa and not kowtow to the wind and ethanol
industries,” Representative Mike Pompeo, a Kansas Republican,
said in an interview.  “Eventually you’ve got to take the training wheels off,”
he said. “What about the jobs displaced by the government
picking wind over natural gas or coal? I like wind, but the
prediction of doom and gloom is overstated.”  Slowing Growth  The looming deadline is already slowing growth in the wind
industry, said Nathanael Greene, director of renewable  energy
policy  at the  Natural Resources Defense Council  in  New York .  “It’s having disastrous effects on the supply chain
because you have to have steel in the ground by Dec. 31 to get
the credits,” Greene said in an interview. “The pipeline of
projects has already stopped growing. We just can’t have a
debate about improving renewable-energy incentives while we’re
racing toward a cliff.”  The Bloomberg Wind Energy Index of 64 companies has  dropped 
14 percent this year on concern that U.S. demand for turbines
will slow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  