-- Russia Stocks Rebound as Gazprom Rises on South Stream News
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-06-04T15:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/russia-stocks-rebound-as-gazprom-rises-on-south-stream-news.html
Russian stocks rose for the first day
in four as OAO Gazprom, the country’s biggest company, rallied
after  Vladimir Putin  said the South Stream pipeline may start
natural-gas flows to the European Union as early as 2014.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 0.6 percent to 1,305.86 by the close
in Moscow. The benchmark gauge retreated 11 percent last month,
the most since September. Gazprom, Russia’s natural gas export
monopoly, added 2.1 percent. Preferred shares of OAO Sberbank,
the country’s biggest bank, slid after Interfax reported
Chairman  German Gref  signaled the securities will not be
converted into ordinary shares in the near future.  The Micex erased a drop of as much as 1.4 percent earlier.
Gazprom’s planned South Stream will probably take one and a half
to two years to start working, Putin said today in  St.
Petersburg  at a summit with European Union officials. The
company’s shares, which have the second-biggest weighting in the
Micex, climbed to 151.53 rubles.  “The market has declined so much, it has nowhere further
to fall,” Leonid Slipchenko, a strategist at UralSib Capital in
Moscow, said by phone. “It has to rebound.”  Crude oil, Russia’s main export earner, slumped as much as
2.4 percent in New York before erasing losses. Russia received
almost 50 percent of budget revenue from oil and gas sales last
year. Most metals retreated on the London Metal Exchange and the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index declined as much as 1.6 percent.  TNK-BP, Norilsk  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index dropped to the lowest
level in a year, the statistics bureau said yesterday. The U.S.
jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent, according to
June 1 data. Orders to U.S. factories unexpectedly fell, data
showed today.  OAO  Norilsk Nickel , Polyus Gold International Ltd. and
United Co. Rusal climbed after Morgan Stanley said the companies
will benefit from the ruble’s decline. The ruble snapped an
eight-day streak of declines today, closing up 0.7 percent at
33.4510 against the dollar.  TNK-BP rose as much as 3.4 percent after VTB Capital and
Renaissance Capital said BP Plc’s statement last week that it’s
considering selling its 50 percent stake in the  oil company 
probably won’t end in a deal. The stock climbed 1.1 percent to
70.76 rubles by the close, the biggest gain since May 24.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said European leaders
should reinforce efforts to protect euro-area banks, ratcheting
up pressure on German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to back new ideas
for a resolution of the debt crisis. French Finance Minister
 Pierre Moscovici  will travel to Brussels today to meet with EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  and EU
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier .  “The market is awaiting support from the  European Central
Bank ,” Slipchenko said.  Fund Outflows  Russia-dedicated equity funds posted redemptions for the
seventh week in eight, registering a net outflow of $8.2 million
in the week ended May 30, according to EPFR Global. Developing-
nation equity funds registered outflows of more than $1 billion
for the fourth consecutive week, the longest streak since the
third quarter of 2011.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 1.2 percent to 883.31
today, the lowest level since Nov. 25, while the MSCI BRIC Index
of shares traded in India, Brazil, Russia and China, dropped 0.9
percent.  Russian stocks trade at 4.8 times  estimated earnings ,
having lost 6.9 percent this year. That compares with a 3.6
percent drop for the  MSCI Emerging-Market Index (MXEF)  which trades at
9.1 times projected earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  