-- S&P Revising Commercial Mortgage Ratings After Freeze-Out
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-06-04T14:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/s-p-to-revise-commercial-mortgage-bond-ratings-after-freeze-out.html
Standard & Poor’s , the ratings firm
frozen out of the commercial-mortgage  bond market  since last
year, plans to change the way it rates the securities.  The changes may trigger downgrades for about 15 percent of
bonds that S&P rates and upgrades for 10 percent, the unit of
New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos. said today in a statement.
Securities will start requiring a “credit-enhancement level”
that protects bonds from the first 20 percent of losses to
receive top AAA ratings, it said. The firm said it will accept
comments on the proposal until July 2.  Wall Street banks have been bypassing S&P’s ratings since
the firm derailed a $1.5 billion sale by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Citigroup Inc. in July by pulling its grades on the
securities. Since then, S&P hasn’t rated a so-called conduit
deal, the biggest part of the market, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The results should provide the market with more stable
ratings and better differentiation of relative credit risk,”
Gary Carrington, S&P’s global criteria officer for CMBS, said in
the statement.  The proposed changes may lead to AAA portions of deals
issued as recently as May 2011 losing the top grades,  Richard Hill , a debt analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said
in a telephone interview today.  Most Lucrative  Ranking structured products such as CMBS and collateralized
debt obligations is one of the most lucrative areas for ratings
firms. They generally charge between $1 million and $2 million
to grade a CMBS deal, according to a September paper by  Andrew
Cohen , a researcher at the  Federal Reserve . CMBS are bundled
loans tied to commercial properties and sliced into securities
of varying risk.  “A revision to its prior method was essential to any
attempt to revitalize its structured-finance practice,”  Chris Sullivan , who oversees about $1.9 billion as chief investment
officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in  New York , said
in an e-mail. “Any successful repair to S&P’s damaged
credibility in this market will only be realized over time.”  S&P withdrew rankings on the deal arranged by Goldman Sachs
and Citigroup on July 27 and temporarily stopped rating new
commercial-mortgage bonds, saying it had to review a potential
conflict in its model. The following month, it said the conflict
had turned out not to be significant and that it would resume
grading deals.  S&P Shakeup  The banks were forced to cancel the transaction five days
after it was placed with investors, and the pulled rating
interrupted a broader recovery in CMBS sales. Goldman Sachs
reimbursed buyers for losses they incurred when the deal was
withdrawn, people familiar with the transaction said at the
time. Wall Street banks have arranged about $8.75 billion of the
deals this year without S&P’s rankings.  Carrington was appointed in March in one of a series of
personnel changes at the ratings firm since Douglas Peterson
took over as president in September. In February, S&P moved
Peter Eastham to New York from  Melbourne  to be head of CMBS
ratings, replacing Barbara Duka, who left the firm.  Ian Thompson 
replaced Mark Adelson as the overall chief credit officer in
December. David Jacob, who was head of structured finance, left
last year.  The new criteria, which S&P had said last year it was
planning, would result in upgrades for about 10 percent of so-
called “super senior” bonds and downgrades for 5 percent, S&P
said.  “The magnitude of the changes contemplated do not appear
they will result in substantive changes to outstanding
ratings,” Harris Trifon, a commercial-mortgage debt analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG and a former employee of S&P, said in an e-mail
today. The shift “may result in a small number of changes for
legacy super-senior bonds, which represent the linchpin of
investor complaints.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  