-- S&P Sees at Least 1-in-3 Chance of Greece Exit After Vote
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-06-04T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/s-p-sees-at-least-1-in-3-chance-of-greece-exit-in-coming-months.html
There’s at least a one in three
chance of  Greece  leaving the 17-country euro area within months
of a June 17 election that could halt its international bailout,
a report by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said.  An exit “could be brought about by Greece rejecting the
reforms demanded” by European policy makers and the
 International Monetary Fund  “and a consequent suspension of
external financial support,” S&P said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Greeks will vote June 17 after an inconclusive May 6
election catapulted a party opposed to the rescue terms into
second place. At the same time, the European Commission has
warned Greece that it must pursue budget cuts with
“determination” to be eligible for more emergency aid and the
IMF said future discussions about the conditions attached to the
130 billion-euro ($163 billion) bailout wouldn’t change the
objectives of the program.  Citigroup Inc. economists, who earlier forecast the chances
of a departure at as much as 75 percent, now are assuming as a
“base case” that Greece will leave on Jan. 1, 2013. Nomura
International Plc said in a note last week it saw such a
probability as “marginally above 50 percent.”  A Greek exit from the euro would probably lead to another
sovereign default by the country, S&P estimated.  Still, it
doesn’t see countries facing rising borrowing costs imitating
Greece.  Won’t Follow  “We believe that other sovereigns would be unlikely to
follow any Greek exit, having witnessed the resulting economic
hardships and long delay in harnessing benefits from national
 currency devaluation ,” S&P said in its report. It expects
“European partners would provide additional support to
discourage further departures.”  S&P also said it expects a Greek exit would strengthen the
resolve of countries already receiving bailouts to stick to the
economic policies they pledged to implement. Portugal and
Ireland are currently receiving aid packages from the European
Union and the IMF.  “We consider it likely that the ECB would respond
vigorously to any sustained rise in borrowing costs for other
sovereigns,” S&P said in the report.  What is less clear is how so-called core members of the
currency union would respond, the ratings company’s report said,
creating a risk of debt restructuring in other countries.  A downgrade by S&P of the U.S. AAA credit rating last year
was repudiated by investors, with Treasuries rallying in the
days following the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  