-- Sachin Tendulkar Starts Innings as Lawmaker With Parliament Oath
-- B y   M a r k   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-04T06:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/sachin-tendulkar-starts-innings-as-lawmaker-with-parliament-oath.html
Indian cricket star  Sachin Tendulkar 
took the oath to become a member of the country’s upper house of
parliament today after being nominated by the ruling Congress
party, a pick that drew criticism and a legal challenge.  Tendulkar joined the chamber, known as the  Rajya Sabha , in
the presence of Congress lawmakers at a private ceremony in the
office of Vice President Hamid Ansari, who oversees the running
of the house. He was presented with a scarf after reading out a
short statement.  While Tendulkar vowed to uphold his responsibilities as a
member of parliament, he said his focus would remain on cricket.
“When there is time, I will see how I can help,” Tendulkar
said in an interview with Rajya Sabha television.  Nicknamed “ Little Master ,” the 5-foot-5 Tendulkar is an
idol in  India , where cricket is the most popular sport among the
country’s population of 1.2 billion. He earns about $8 million a
year from salary and endorsements, according to Forbes magazine,
and was given the honorary rank of group captain by the  Indian
Air Force  in 2010 in recognition of his “glorious achievements
as a cricketer and sports icon.”  He joins other former Indian test cricketers in parliament,
including Mohammad Azharuddin and Navjot Singh Sidhu, who have
used their sporting fame to win election to the lower house. In
neighboring Pakistan,  World Cup  winning captain  Imran Khan  has
emerged as a major challenger to established politicians less
than a year ahead of parliamentary polls.  ‘Political Pawn’  Of the 250 seats in India’s Rajya Sabha, 12 are filled by
candidates nominated by the president. Congress’ decision to
recommend Tendulkar was challenged in the courts on the grounds
that the constitution didn’t contain a category for sporting
excellence when choosing nominees. His nomination also triggered
 debate  in the media, and opposition claims, that he was being
used as a political pawn by a Congress party damaged by
corruption scandals.  Tendulkar, the leading run-scorer in Test and one-day
matches, became the first player to score 100 international
cricket centuries this year during India’s Asia Cup one-day loss
to  Bangladesh , ending his yearlong wait to reach the milestone.  It was the latest record for Mumbai-born Tendulkar, 39, in
a career that began at 16. In the past two years, the right-
hander became the first player to hit a one-day international
double-century, score 50 Test hundreds, amass an unprecedented
15,000 Test runs and set the record for Test matches played. In
April last year, he helped India win its first Cricket World Cup
title since 1983.  Tendulkar, who made his debut against India’s archrival
Pakistan in 1989, registered his first three-figure score in
Tests against  England  in 1990 at the age of 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Williams  in  New Delhi  at 
 mwilliams108@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  