-- Safaricom of Kenya Advances in Intraday Trading: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-06-04T12:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/safaricom-of-kenya-advances-in-intraday-trading-nairobi-mover.html
Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM)  a unit of  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , advanced in intraday trading after  Business Daily 
reported mobile-phone companies agreed a new rate for calls
originating from each other’s network.  The shares of Kenya’s biggest mobile-phone company gained
as much as 3.1 percent to 3.35 shillings before closing
unchanged at 3.25 shillings in Nairobi, the capital. Markets
were closed in Kenya on June 1 for a public holiday.  Kenya’s four mobile-phone companies agreed to cut the cost
of calls originating from each other’s network to 1.60 shillings
(2 cents) per minute from 2.21 shillings from July, Business
Daily reported May 31. The agreed rate was a compromise after
three of the companies and the industry regulator proposed a
lower rate of 1.44 shillings, while Safaricom wanted a higher
rate, the Nairobi-based newspaper said, citing  Permanent
Secretary  in the Ministry of Information and Communications
Bitange Ndemo.  The agreement “was not the ideal position for Safaricom
but it was better than the initial proposal,” Eric Musau, a
research analyst at Nairobi-based Standard Investment Bank Ltd.,
said in a phone interview today.  Francis Wangusi, acting Director-General of the industry
regulator, said May 16 the so-called interconnection tariff
would be reviewed in October when the Kenya Institute of Public
Policy Research and Analysis completes a study of the effects of
a reduction on the economy.  Mobile-phone companies in the East African country slashed
voice-call rates after the regulator halved the interconnection
tariff in August 2010.  Safaricom increased call charges last year for the first
time in 11 years amid a weakening currency and accelerating
inflation in  East Africa ’s biggest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  