-- Salesforce to Buy Buddy for $745 Million in Social Push
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-06-04T20:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/salesforce-to-buy-buddy-media-for-689-million-in-social-push.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  agreed to buy
Buddy Media Inc. for about $745 million, its biggest purchase
ever, adding marketing software to promote products on social
sites including Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.  Salesforce will acquire closely held Buddy for $467 million
in cash, $184 million in common stock and $38 million in options
and restricted stock, the San Francisco-based company said in a
statement today, without specifying a total deal value. The
final deal value of about $745 million will also include costs
for employee retention, Salesforce said in a regulatory filing.  Software makers including  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  are
buying smaller social-media specialists to take advantage of
more than 1 billion consumers who exchange views on products and
services on online platforms. Oracle considered purchasing Buddy
Media before opting to acquire its peer Vitrue, Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Ellison  said last week.  “Social media has caused the biggest transformation in
marketing since the Mad Men era, causing chief marketing
officers to completely re-think their strategies,” said Marcel
LeBrun, senior vice president of Salesforce Radian6’s social-
media analysis platform in the statement. “By bringing together
market leaders Radian6 and Buddy Media, we are doubling down on
the Salesforce marketing cloud to provide chief marketing
officers with the ability to manage the entire social marketing
lifecycle.”  Following the completion of the deal, Salesforce said it
expects fiscal 2013 revenue of $2.99 billion to $3.025 billion.
Earnings per share for that year on a non-GAAP accounting basis
will be $1.45 to $1.49, it said. The transaction probably won’t
have “any material impact” on its results for the fiscal
second quarter, it said.  The deal is expected to close in the fiscal third quarter
ending Oct. 31, Salesforce said. Code Advisors worked with Buddy
Media on the transaction.  Salesforce shares rose 0.2 percent to $131.22 at the close
in  New York . The stock has climbed 29 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  