-- Santana’s $137 Million Arm Gets Extra Rest After Mets’ No-Hitter
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-04T04:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/santana-s-137-million-arm-gets-extra-rest-after-mets-no-hitter.html
Johan Santana  and his $137 million
left arm will get an extra day of rest after throwing a career-
high 134 pitches in recording the first no-hitter in the  New
York  Mets’ 51-year history.  Santana, 33, missed the 2011 Major League Baseball season
following surgery on his pitching shoulder. He’ll be pushed back
one day and is expected to start the Mets’ June 7 series finale
against the Washington Nationals, manager Terry Collins said
before yesterday’s 6-1 win over the  St. Louis Cardinals .  Dillon Gee was moved up one day to start today’s game
against the Cardinals, while  Chris Young  will come off the
disabled list to make his season debut tomorrow against the
Nationals and knuckleball pitcher R.A. Dickey will probably move
up one day to face Washington on June 6.  The Mets had been one of two major-league teams without a
no-hitter until Santana’s eight-strikeout, five-walk performance
in an 8-0 win over the Cardinals on June 1 ended the franchise’s
wait after 8,019 games. The  San Diego Padres  are now the only
major-league club without a no-hitter.  Collins said afterwards that he’d questioned his decision
to allow Santana to throw so many pitches against the Cardinals
and wouldn’t rush the two-time Cy Young Award winner back.  “I went against just about everything I stand for, and
that’s taking a chance to hurt your whole ballclub for the next
four months for an instant decision of glory,” Collins told
reporters. “Is it worth it?”  Two Straight Shutouts  Santana was traded to the Mets from the  Minnesota Twins 
during the 2007-08 offseason and signed a six-year, $137.5
million contract in February 2008. When he pitched on opening
day this season, it was his first major league appearance since
Sept. 2, 2010. Santana has now thrown consecutive shutouts,
including a 9-0 victory on May 26 against the San Diego Padres.  Santana’s pitch count will be limited in his next start,
Collins said, without being specific.  The Mets have allowed only one run in their past three
games, as Dickey tossed a seven-hit shutout against the
Cardinals on June 2 and Jon Niese combined with four relievers
to limit  St. Louis  to one run in last night’s win.  Niese left the game after six shutout innings because of an
elevated  heart rate  and will be evaluated today, Collins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  