-- Could India Be Headed for Its Own Lost Decade?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-06-04T21:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/schumpeter-s-creative-destruction-meets-indian-alter-ego.html
The search for lost economic decades
has brought us from  Japan  to the U.S. and  Europe  in recent
years. It’s time to take it to India.  With its 5.3 percent economic growth, young population and
vast potential, the world’s biggest democracy may not seem to be
on the verge of a crisis. Look closer, though, at the political
chaos in India and things come into focus: the odds of a lost
decade are growing, with implications that would be ruinous.  Last quarter’s expansion was the weakest in nine years.
That can’t be blamed just on Europe’s debt crisis, faltering
U.S. growth or China’s slowdown. No, this slackening is the
fault of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and the inability of
India’s leadership to bring about the needed reforms to an
economy hamstrung by bureaucracy and entrenched interests.  Singh must get some credit for at least trying. He has
backed efforts to allow foreign investment in supermarkets,
airlines and other industries, and to reduce $8 billion of
subsidies that contribute to the widest  budget deficit  among
major emerging economies. These efforts have stalled, thanks
mostly to his self-serving critics. And these days, that means
 Mamata Banerjee , who has rallied opposition to Singh’s plans.
Among her more unhelpful achievements, she has made it harder
for companies to buy land, setting back expansion plans by Tata
Motors Ltd. and Infosys Ltd.  Alter Ego  If  Joseph Schumpeter  had an alter ego, one bent on halting
the creative destruction that shucks off old stagnant industries
to make way for the new, the chief minister of the West Bengal
state would be it. She has emerged as the most strident opponent
of the coalition government of which she’s a part. Not
surprisingly, investors aren’t sticking around, sending Indian
stocks down about 8 percent since the start of March.  Yet as wrong as Banerjee is on the  economics , as retrograde
as her ideas are in the age of globalization, she’s not the real
problem. India’s political system is, and Singh’s failure to
regain some semblance of control over it risks surrendering a
decade of economic progress.  When will India’s leaders realize that growth alone isn’t
enough?  China ’s authoritarian government can get away with
ignoring structural flaws with impressive gross domestic product
figures. The interesting thing about the scandal surrounding Bo Xilai, a former senior figure in the Communist Party, is that
investors seem so nonplussed. The odyssey of rights activist
 Chen Guangcheng  caused nary a ripple in markets. For all China’s
troubles, investors have faith that policy makers are tending to
the economy. India doesn’t have that luxury.  Asia ’s third-biggest economy needs to constantly remind and
convince investors that market liberalization is moving forward,
even if progress is gradual and unsteady. Right now, India is
failing miserably. With each passing day, Singh’s inability to
marshal a consensus confirms the perception that officials in
 New Delhi  are weak, distracted, indecisive and overwhelmed by
divergent interests.  Banerjee is merely Singh’s most prominent headache at the
moment. Her political star was burnished last month when U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  visited Kolkata to pay
obeisance to arguably India’s most powerful woman. That
designation doesn’t go to Congress Party President  Sonia Gandhi ,
which says much about how India’s unruly provincial interests
are determining the debating terms while India’s government is
in disarray.  Granted, Banerjee has her supporters. The forces of
globalization are proving to be less benevolent and benign than
once advertised. And it is true that India’s stability following
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 was widely
attributed to tight regulations and an economy that is more
closed than those in  East Asia. (MXAP)  Yet the lack of reform isn’t
just a drag on growth; it might forever tarnish the “India
Shining” narrative promoted in a marketing campaign that looks
more outdated than ever.  Economic Shakeup  A broad economic overhaul seemed plausible back in mid-2009
when Singh won re-election with a solid mandate. Many bright-
eyed observers, including me, thought the former central-bank
governor who masterminded a set of  market  changes in the 1990s
that propelled India’s rapid growth would shake up the economy.  Three years later, India is behind schedule on reforms,
imperiling the longer-term possibility that it might catch up
to, or even trump, China some day. A reasonable argument can be
made that based on demographics alone, youthful  India  with 1.2
billion people could surpass the growth rates of aging China a
decade from now. Not if India’s dysfunction continues to
sabotage its potential.  India needs some serious creative destruction, far beyond
what Schumpeter had in mind when he championed market forces
exacting the change that only unfettered competition can bring.
None of it is occurring.  India even risks losing its investment-grade status.
Standard & Poor’s cut India’s credit outlook to negative from
stable in April, saying the political environment is
“unfavorable.”  If India were more focused on broad reforms, Banerjee’s
antics would be a sideshow. Singh needs to make sure that India
has coherent policies and the political support to see them
implemented. There’s no question that capitalism can be a harsh
taskmaster, and that checks and balances are needed in a nation
where two-thirds of the population lives in extreme poverty.  Yet without taking some risks that might lead India to a
higher growth path, the economy will lose altitude, poverty will
increase and, far from shining, much will be lost.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  