-- Scrushy, Siegelman Rejected in Supreme Court Appeals
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-06-04T15:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/scrushy-siegelman-rejected-in-supreme-court-appeals.html
HealthSouth Corp. (HLS)  founder  Richard Scrushy  and former Alabama Governor Don Siegelman were turned
away by the U.S. Supreme Court in their attempts to overturn
public corruption convictions.  They were found guilty on charges that Siegelman in 1999
appointed Scrushy to a state hospital regulatory board in
exchange for $500,000 of political contributions.  Scrushy and Siegelman asked the justices to set a high
standard of proof in cases treating political contributions as
bribes, to keep prosecutors from putting politicians behind bars
for common practices such as naming supporters to government
posts.  “It is a simple fact: Money is the lifeblood of modern
politics, and most if not all officials are responsive in at
least some degree to those who contribute,” Siegelman, 66, said
in his appeal. “What degree or type of linkage is enough to
take a case across the line from politics into crime?”  Courts should require proof of an “express” agreement --
a spoken or written statement specifically promising a benefit
in return for campaign money -- before officials or contributors
can be convicted of bribery, Siegelman said. In his case, the
former Democratic governor said, the jury was allowed to infer
the existence of a quid pro quo from circumstantial evidence.  “We are very disappointed by the  Supreme Court ’s decision
not to hear the case,” Siegelman’s Washington lawyer, Sam
Heldman, of the Gardner Firm, said in an e-mail. Scrushy’s
lawyer, Bruce Rogow, said in an e-mail he was disappointed the
court denied review.  ‘Knowing Winks’  The Justice Department, in its brief, said Siegelman’s
argument would let corrupt politicians use “knowing winks and
nods” to avoid prosecution.  “Under a standard that requires not just a quid pro quo,
but one that is verbally spelled out with all ‘i’s dotted and
t’s crossed,’ all but the most careless public officials will be
able to avoid criminal liability for exchanging official action
for campaign contributions,” the government said.  In his appeal, Scrushy, 59, said there must be “no doubt
that an explicit, not an inferred or implied promise, is
essential to sustain a criminal conviction in a campaign
contribution case.”  The  Justice Department  said an Atlanta-based federal
appeals court correctly ruled that jury instructions at the 2006
trial, which said prosecutors had to prove that Siegelman agreed
to take a specific action in exchange for Scrushy’s
contributions, were all that was required.  Disguising Source  The government said evidence that Scrushy took steps to
disguise the source of an initial $250,000 contribution --
making it appear to have come from a third party -- and the fact
that Siegelman had an aide deposit the money in a secretly
opened bank account, helped “corroborate the jury’s finding”
that the men “acted with corrupt intent and knowledge that
their conduct was illegal.”  The appeals marked repeat visits to the Supreme Court by
Scrushy and Siegelman. In 2010, the justices told a lower court
to reconsider their convictions in light of a high court
decision in the case of former Enron Corp. Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Skilling .  The high court, in Skilling’s case, put limits on
prosecutions under a federal ban against fraudulent schemes
designed to “deprive another of the intangible right to honest
services.” Allegations of so-called honest-services fraud were
among the charges against Scrushy and Siegelman.  Appeals Court  The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals threw out two counts
against the men but sustained convictions on bribery and other
charges.  Scrushy’s sentence was reduced to 70 months from 82 months
in prison. The former HealthSouth executive, who was
incarcerated in June 2007, is finishing his sentence in a Texas
halfway house and is set for release in July.  Siegelman, originally sentenced to 88 months behind bars,
was released on bail in March 2008 while he appealed his
convictions. Siegelman hasn’t been resentenced after the appeals
court reversed two of the counts against him.  The cases are Siegelman v. U.S., 11-955, and Scrushy v.
U.S., 11-972.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in  Washington  at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  