-- Secret Service Agents Shielded From Suit by High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-04T15:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/secret-service-agents-shielded-from-suits-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court , ruling in a
case balancing free-speech interests against the safety of
government officials, said two Secret Service agents can’t be
sued by a man who was arrested after confronting then-Vice
President  Dick Cheney .  The justices unanimously took a narrow approach in the
case, saying Secret Service agents were immune from suit. The
justices didn’t decide whether the man’s First Amendment rights
were violated.  Steven Howards claimed in his lawsuit that he was arrested
for expressing his opposition to the Iraq war when he
encountered Cheney during the vice president’s 2006 visit to an
outdoor mall in Beaver Creek,  Colorado . Howards sued five Secret
Service agents, two of whom were still involved in the case by
the time it reached the Supreme Court.  The decision comes as the Secret Service grapples with the
fallout from allegations that agents paid prostitutes for their
services while in  Colombia  in April preparing for President
 Barack Obama ’s arrival.  In today’s case, Secret Service agents Virgil D. Reichle
Jr. and Dan Doyle contended they couldn’t be sued for
retaliatory arrest because they had “probable cause” to
apprehend Howards. The agents said they had reason to believe
that Howards violated the law by lying to them about touching
Cheney.  Qualified Immunity  Justice  Clarence Thomas  wrote for the court that the two
agents were entitled to “qualified immunity,” which insulates
government officials from lawsuits for damages unless they
violate a “clearly established” constitutional right.  Thomas said it wasn’t clearly established that law
enforcement officials could be sued for violating the First
Amendment when they have probable cause to make an arrest.  In 2006, the court ruled that government officials were
shielded from claims of retaliatory prosecution if the charges
were supported by probable cause. The latest case tested whether
a similar rule applied to allegations of retaliatory arrest.  The 2006 ruling “injected uncertainty into the law
governing retaliatory arrest,” Thomas wrote.  The Obama administration backed the agents in the case,
urging the court to provide a legal shield for the Secret
Service.  A Denver-based federal appeals court let Howards’s free-
speech claims go forward. Other lower courts had said that law
enforcement officials are immune from that type of lawsuit if
they had probable cause to make an arrest.  Touching Shoulder  Howards was taking his son to a piano recital in the mall
when he saw Cheney shaking hands and having his picture taken
with the public. According to court documents, agents overheard
Howards saying on his mobile phone that he was going to ask
Cheney “how many kids he’s killed today” in the  Iraq war .  Howards then approached Cheney and told him that his Iraq
policies were “disgusting.” After Cheney responded, “Thank
you,” Howards touched the vice president’s shoulder with his
open hand.  Howards left the area and later returned. Reichle
confronted Howards and asked him about the encounter with
Cheney. Howards denied touching Cheney, an assertion disputed at
the time by Doyle and two other agents. Howards later admitted
under oath that he had touched Cheney.  Reichle arrested Howards for assault on the vice president,
though prosecutors never pursued charges. Howards was charged
with harassment under Colorado law and the case was dropped.  The case is Reichle v. Howards, 11-262.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  