-- Serbia Starts Government Talks to Avoid an Economic Slump
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-04T12:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/serbia-starts-talks-to-form-government-to-avoid-economic-slump.html
Serbian President  Tomislav Nikolic 
began talks with political parties on forming a government, a
month after inconclusive elections heightened political
instability and weakened the dinar.  Nikolic has said he’ll give the mandate to form a Cabinet
to anyone who can show they have a majority in parliament after
the  Democratic Party  of former president  Boris Tadic  failed to
do so by today.  The Progressives , the biggest party in the
legislature, asked the Socialists to form a coalition during the
discussions, according to party leader Aleksandar Vucic.  “It is imperative that a government is formed as soon as
possible as we have to stop the wild depreciation of the
dinar,” Vucic told reporters after the meeting.  The result of the May 6 elections have pushed the dinar to
record lows on concern a delay in forming an administration will
halt progress on spending cuts and the renewal of a $1.3 billion
international bailout loan. The currency has lost more than 12
percent this year, trading at 117.55 per euro at 1:40 p.m. in
Belgrade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fiscal Outlook  Fitch Ratings  said last week the Balkan nation needs to
form a government quickly to ease concerns about its fiscal
outlook. A delay to set up a Cabinet will entail harsher fiscal
measures to rein in the 2012 deficit, Fitch said. The budget
shortfall expanded to more than 7 percent of gross domestic
product in the first five months and public debt approached 50
percent of GDP, exceeding targets.  The  International Monetary Fund  froze the loan program in
February as it became clear it would slip on the agreed targets,
including keeping the public debt below 45 percent of GDP. The
economy contracted 1.3 percent in the first three months and
Fitch Ratings forecast a stagnation this year.  Nikolic’s office reminded parties in a statement of “the
difficult economic and social situation” as the meetings
started. The legal deadline to form a government or repeat the
elections is Aug. 29. Most politicians agree a Cabinet needs to
be in place before the summer recess to revise the budget.  Tadic’s Democrats, with 67 seats in the assembly, had hoped
to complement their alliance with the Socialists, which hold 44
seats, with a third partner that would give them the 126-seat
parliamentary majority. In the outgoing Cabinet, the two parties
had the of a  party  led by  Mladjan Dinkic , a former finance
minister and central bank chief.  Third Partner  The Progressives and the Socialists would control 117 seats
and need another partner for a majority, possibly the  Democratic
Party  of  Serbia  of former premier Vojislav Kostunica, which has
21 seats.  The Progressive party, which Nikolic founded before
stepping down as leader after he won a May 20 presidential
runoff election, wants to create a government led by Jorgovanka
Tabakovic, the party’s vice president, Vucic said. The
administration would have 12 ministries, down from the current
17, and seek savings of as much as 600 million euros ($746
million) annually from public procurements, he said.  The Socialists oppose Serbian recognition of  Kosovo , the
breakaway province where an ethnic-Albanian majority
unilaterally declared independence in 2008. The European Union,
which Serbia is trying to join, has said there needs to be
visible and sustainable improvement, in ties with Kosovo in
order to advance Serbia’s bid to join the 27-member bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  