-- Shell May Get Pennsylvania Tax Windfall for Ethane Plant
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/shell-may-get-pennsylvania-tax-windfall-for-ethane-plant.html
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett is
asking state lawmakers to authorize $1.65 billion in tax credits
for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s biggest oil company, in
exchange for building a chemical plant near Pittsburgh.  The commonwealth competed with  Ohio  and  West Virginia  to
attract Shell’s investment in a so-called ethane cracker, which
would use the natural-gas byproduct to make raw materials for
plastic. In March, The Hague-based Shell said it had an option
for a site northwest of the state’s second-largest city.  Corbett, a Republican, wants to give buyers of ethane such
as Shell a credit of as much as 20 percent of tax liabilities,
said Steven Kratz, a spokesman for the state Community and
Economic Development Department. The 25-year incentive would
begin in 2017 and amount to about $66 million a year for the
company, Kratz said yesterday by telephone.  “This is about growing an industry that would
reindustrialize Pennsylvania and create tens of thousands of
jobs,” Kratz said. The site Shell has the option to buy is in
Potter and Center Townships near Monaca, about 27 miles (43
kilometers) northwest of Pittsburgh.  The boom in natural-gas production from the Marcellus shale
formation is helping to propel Pittsburgh employment toward
surpassing its record high, reached in 2001, according to Wells
Fargo Securities economists. Almost 2,000  Pennsylvania  wells
were drilled in 2011, up from about 200 in 2008, according to
the state Environmental Protection Department.  Jobs Engine  Gas production may create more than 100,000 jobs through
2020 in 14 counties near Pittsburgh, the Wells Fargo economists
led by  Jay Bryson  said in a March report. Corbett has said he
wants the state to be the “Texas of the natural-gas boom.”  The credit for Shell would be in addition to a previous
package of incentives passed by the Legislature earlier this
year to lure the company. That arrangement provides 15 years of
tax breaks for businesses in designated areas of the state.  The deal with Shell hasn’t been finalized, Kratz said. The
company is still weighing an  investment decision  in light of
state incentives, a spokeswoman said.  “We will carefully consider it as one of a variety of
factors to determine the economic viability of our proposed
petrochemical project before taking an investment decision,”
Kayla Macke, the spokeswoman, said by e-mail. “Shell supports
and endorses incentive programs provided by state and local
authorities that improve the business climate for  capital
investment , economic expansion and job growth.”  Lawmakers Examine Deal  Democratic lawmakers, who are in the minority in both the
state House of Representatives and the Senate, asked Corbett for
more information on the latest incentives for Shell.  “It is critical that the Legislature and the citizens of
Pennsylvania have all the time possible to examine, consider and
possibly amend a plan that could have costs and implications
well into the next generation,” Senators Jay Costa, Vincent Hughes and John Wozniak, all Democrats, said yesterday in a
letter to the governor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  