-- Singapore Family Sedan Matches Cost of a U.S. Home
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-06-04T23:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/singapore-family-sedan-matches-cost-of-a-u-s-home.html
Vinay Mathur gave up on buying a new
car in  Singapore  as the cost of a  permit  rose to the highest in
17 years. He settled for a two-year-old BMW 3-series.  “By the time we began seriously to think of buying a car,
license prices had shot up,” said Mathur, 42, referring to the
so-called certificates of entitlement, which are auctioned by
the city-state and used to control congestion.  At S$86,889 ($67,000) just for a permit, the total price of
a Volkswagen Passat in Singapore is about the same as the median 
U.S.  metropolitan  home. A 25 percent jump in  residents  in seven 
years, coupled with the world’s highest proportion of 
millionaire households, has fueled a 10-fold surge in license 
prices over three years. The government said last week it will 
postpone plans to cut the number of permits available and slow 
traffic growth, responding to the outcry over soaring prices.  After the ruling People’s  Action Party  lost a by-election
in the opposition-led Hougang district on May 26, Prime Minister
Lee Hsien Loong reiterated a pledge to change the way the party
governs a population that opinion surveys show is most concerned
with issues such as high living costs and an influx of foreign
residents. The PAP remained in power last year with the smallest
general election victory since independence in 1965.  “The COE system is well-intended in that it does limit the
traffic to some extent and pollution, but it bumps up the price
of even entry-level cars to a ridiculous level,” said Mathur, a
senior executive who moved to Singapore from Mumbai with his
wife and young son two-and-a-half years ago. Mathur said he was
entitled to an interest-free, five-year loan of S$130,000 from
his company, and didn’t want to spend more than that.  Car or House?  A new 2012 Passat sedan made by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the world’s
second-largest  carmaker , costs about $152,000 in Singapore,
including the license, according to classified ads website
 SGCarMart.com . The median  price  of a U.S. metropolitan area home
is $158,100, National Association of Realtors data show.  So-called open-category permit, which can be used to buy
any type of vehicle, reached S$92,010 in April, the highest
since the end of 1994 when a record of S$110,500 was reached. At
the latest auction May 23, the licenses went for S$86,889,
compared with S$8,501 three years ago. The permits give the
right to own a car for 10 years. The next auction is tomorrow.  Besides having to bid for certificates at auctions that are
held every two weeks, Singaporeans also pay registration fees
and taxes that can amount to 150 percent of the market value of
a vehicle, according to the Land Transport Authority  website .  Delayed Cuts  In Singapore, an island of 248 square miles (642 square
kilometers), the  number of cars  climbed to a record 603,723 at
the end of 2011 from 405,354 a decade earlier. To limit
congestion and pollution, the government had planned to reduce
the growth of the vehicle pool from 1.5 percent annually to 0.5
percent starting in August.  That rate will instead be reduced to 1 percent in August,
and then to 0.5 percent in February, the Land Transport
Authority said last week on its  website . Efforts to undo an
oversupply of licenses in prior years will also be delayed for a
year. The measures will increase the monthly supply of permits
by 17 percent, or about 656, according to the authority.  “The government help might ease the pressure,” said
Lynette Tan, a stocks analyst at DMG & Partners in Singapore.
“I don’t think prices will plummet.”  Inflation Pressure  Transportation costs pushed Singapore’s  inflation rate  to
5.4 percent in April, the most this year, government figures
show. The goverment said more than a week ago inflation will
remain elevated in the next few months, and Prime Minister Lee
said in his May Day speech that the No. 1 concern among union
leaders is the cost of living.  “We must make a special effort for the low-wage workers,
because they are the ones most affected by competition, by
inflation,” according to a  text  of the speech. “We will
continue to monitor inflation very closely to see when something
more needs to be done, we will be ready to act.”  In the past year, Lee’s government has also introduced
stricter immigration policies, imposed higher taxes on property
purchases for foreigners and cut ministerial pay. Worker income
in the island-state has risen 12 percent in five years after
accounting for inflation, Lee said.  More than a third of the 5.2 million-population is made up
of foreigners and expatriate permanent residents. Singapore’s
unemployment rate averaged 2 percent last year, a 14-year low.
Singapore was ranked as the Asian city with the best quality of
life, according to a Mercer report in November.  Confident Buyers  Job security  has made people more willing to buy cars,
helping drive prices higher, said Song Seng Wun, an economist at
CIMB Research Pte in Singapore.  “There’s a certain degree of speculation,” Song said.
“Due to the COE, you can make money by buying a car and selling
it one year later. In most other countries, we’d say a car is a
depreciating asset.”  Song said he takes trains and buses, and “whoever wants to
drive and pay through the nose, go ahead.”  Michael Gomez , who is 30 and works in Singapore’s banking
district, said his permit has appreciated so much that he’s
planning to sell it and downgrade to a cheaper car.  Gomez bought a 2009 BMW a year ago for S$145,000. The car
is now worth about S$135,000, he said.  “The actual depreciation on the car should be about
S$20,000, but I’ve only lost 10 grand” because of the
appreciation of the permit, he said. “I’m getting a good price.
If I downgrade, then I will save money.”  The government should amend the permit system because it
favors the rich, Chee Soon Juan, head of the opposition
Singapore Democratic Party, said before last week’s
announcement.  Singapore’s millionaire households expanded 14 percent last
year, according to a study by the  Boston Consulting Group 
published May 31. Singapore’s proportion of millionaire
households was 17 percent, the highest in the world, followed by
Qatar and  Kuwait , the study showed.  “You’re pitting the  rich against the poor , and guess who
wins?” Chee said in an interview. “People with needs, and the
guy who runs a small family business, are pitted against this
wealthy family that’s buying a third car for the teenage son
because he had just done well in his exams.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  