-- Sleeping in Vermont Dumpster Shows Psychiatric Cuts’ Cost
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2012-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/sleeping-in-vermont-dumpster-shows-psychiatric-cuts-cost.html
Katherine Gluck blurts out to the
judge, “I’m guilty.”  Gluck, 47, is charged on this March morning with
threatening her former husband with a hammer. Police who
arrested her in Burlington, Vermont, know those tired eyes and
stringy blond hair. In December, Gluck was charged but not
jailed or hospitalized after she slammed a dead raccoon against
the front door of  City Hall . Her family urged her to get help
for her bipolar disorder, which usually involves getting back on
medication. She refused.  Now, court-appointed lawyer Sarah Reed hopes Judge Thomas
Devine will send Gluck to a hospital. The odds aren’t good.
 Hurricane Irene  wiped out the last state-operated psychiatric
beds in Vermont nine months ago.  Since then, private-hospital emergency rooms have been
backed up with mentally ill patients -- some handcuffed to ER
beds for as long as two days. Dozens of people are turned away
each month without being admitted, and calls to Burlington
police about mental-health issues increased 32 percent over the
prior year.  As the only U.S. state with no government-operated
psychiatric beds,  Vermont ’s experience reflects a growing
realization among mental-health experts and advocates that the
decades-long trend toward outpatient care has reached its limit
-- and public outcry against the latest round of cuts is
beginning to change the game.  ‘Becoming Extinct’  “It’s gone too far,” said Mark Covall, president of the
National Association of Psychiatric Health  Systems . Patients
with severe schizophrenia or bipolar disorder sometimes need
long-term psychiatric care “and that setting is becoming
extinct,” he said.  There were 42,385 patients in U.S. state mental hospitals
last year, down from 559,000 in 1955. Today, there are 14 state
and county psychiatric beds in the U.S. for every 100,000
people. Fifteen experts polled in 2008 by the Arlington,
Virginia-based Treatment Advocacy Center recommended at least
50.  In Vermont, Governor Peter Shumlin initially proposed to
restore 36 of the 54 beds lost to flooding -- citing the expense
of maintaining the beds, in part.  “We have an opportunity to provide community-based care,”
Shumlin said last December when he proposed the lower number.
“We believe this model will be more affordable for Vermont
taxpayers and better quality care.”  A groundswell of opposition from mental-health advocates
and patients’ families helped change Shumlin’s mind; the state
now plans to restore 45 beds by 2015 -- still just half the U.S.
per capita average in a state of 625,471 people. For now,
Vermont is contracting with private hospitals to use about 25
beds.  Opposition Rallies  A similar outcry in  Alabama  forced Governor Robert Bentley,
a Republican, to moderate plans to close four state hospitals
and displace 524 patients. In Massachusetts, 200 gathered in
March at the statehouse to oppose the shutdown of a 169-bed
psychiatric facility in Taunton. The same week, a crowd of 300
in  Brooklyn ,  New York , rallied to preserve the 265-bed Kingsboro
Psychiatric Center.  “For the first time, there is pushback against closing
psychiatric hospitals,” said D.J. Jaffe, executive director of
the New York-based Mental Illness Policy Org., a nonprofit
policy  center .  “There is a direct connection between violence and lack of
hospital beds,” Jaffe said. “You can’t stabilize someone who’s
psychotic anywhere other than in an inpatient setting.”  Suicides Increase  A study published in 2009 showed that suicide rates
increase when the number of state psychiatric beds decreases.
Researchers Jangho Yoon of  Oregon State University  and Tim A.
Bruckner of the  University of California ,  Irvine , studied state-
level data from 1982-1998 to find that eliminating one public
bed per 100,000 people was associated with an increase of 0.25
suicides each year, provided that community health funding
remains constant. If such services increased, suicides could be
offset, concluded the study in Health Services Research.  In Vermont, “I think we may see a rise in suicide,” said
Robert Pierattini, chief psychiatrist at  Fletcher Allen Health
Care , a private hospital in Burlington.  States have been cutting back on psychiatric beds since the
mid-1950s, when the development of powerful antipsychotics
Haldol, Thorazine and  others  began to allow for less restrictive
settings. The recent global recession pushed the process to a
new level, said Ted Lutterman, senior researcher with the
National Association of State Mental Health Program Directors.  Wholesale Closings  The 3,144 beds lost from 2009 through last year were not
eliminated simply by closing units here and there, as had been
the case. Entire facilities were shut down to ease budget
deficits, Lutterman said.  “It used to be difficult to close a whole hospital,” he
said. “That logjam has been broken.”  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, is
closing the 310-bed Hagedorn Psychiatric Hospital, which will
become a facility for homeless veterans, despite a rally of
workers and advocates in 2010. As of April 30, about 62 patients
remained in the hospital, which will be empty by the end of
June, said Ellen Lovejoy, a spokeswoman for the state Department
of Human Services.  “New Jersey has the second-highest rate of
institutionalization in America” behind only  Texas , Christie
said in February, when he proposed the closing in his budget
address. “This is a shameful fact.” A portion of the savings
from the closing -- about $5.6 million -- would be spent on
community-based care for the mentally ill in the fiscal year
that begins in July, said Nicole Brossoie, a spokeswoman.  Medicaid Limit  A psychiatric bed costs about $658 per day, and Medicaid,
the public health insurance system for the poor and disabled,
won’t reimburse larger state facilities. That policy decision
dates to the 1960s and was enacted to thwart the creation of
larger state hospitals, perceived as grim and punitive,
inspirations all for Ken Kesey’s 1962 novel, “One Flew Over the
Cuckoo’s Nest.”  In Vermont, the lost beds have left the mental-health
system teetering on the edge of disaster. While the state has
contracted with private hospitals for about 25 beds, there
frequently aren’t enough to go around.  “I worry every day,” Patrick Flood, the state’s mental
health commissioner, said in a telephone interview last month.
“I have on my screen right now the case of somebody we have to
find a bed for tonight and there’s no apparent bed.”  Every Bed Taken  In early January, Tammy Thompson’s 22-year-old son,
diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder, went to private  Copley
Hospital  in Morrisville, Vermont, where he was involuntarily
committed. Every psychiatric bed in the state was already taken.  “So he stayed in his clothes, handcuffed to an exam bed,
all night and all the next day,” she said. “It was
horrendous.”  Leah Hollenberger, a Copley spokeswoman, declined to
comment on any specific patient’s case. She said the hospital’s
emergency department, like others in Vermont, has seen an
increase in the number of psychiatric patients who “are
extremely violent” or suicidal. Staffers sit with such
patients, one on one, at all times, she said. Some patients have
made threats, requiring police intervention.  “It is a very difficult situation,” Hollenberger said in
an e-mail.  After two days, Thompson’s son was sent to the private
Brattleboro Retreat and he’s now home, Thompson said. She asked
that her son’s name not be published.  Emergency Rooms  The number of patients held in Vermont emergency rooms for
want of a bed has spiked. This year through April, 49 mentally
ill patients were held for as long as two days, up from 18 in
the same period last year, according to the state Department of
Mental Health.  When the state hospital was open, the private Fletcher
Allen facility typically turned away about 15 mentally-ill
patients a month, said Pierattini, the chief psychiatrist. Just
after the closing, that number hit 40 a month. It peaked at 130
early this year, and has since returned to 40 or so this spring,
he said.  The hospital simply doesn’t have enough room to meet the
need, he said.  State hospitals have “no-reject” beds -- meaning the most
difficult patients cannot be turned away. That’s not the case
with private hospitals, said Ruth Grant, a retired physician
whose son with schizophrenia has been rejected by two private
hospitals because he can be unruly and violent.  “The privates pick and choose and that infuriates me,”
she said.  Police Busier  In Burlington, Vermont’s largest city with 42,000 people,
the impact is showing up on police logs. Calls about mental
health issues, which Police Chief Michael Schirling defined as
any act with an underlying mental issue, rose 32 percent to 215
calls from October 2011 to March 2012, up from 163 over the same
period a year before.  “There’s no question that the closing of the state
hospital had a cascade effect” that’s felt on the streets,
Schirling said.  Matt Young, 62, who heads a local mental-health outreach
effort, is finding more people who need his team’s help.
Subsidized by the state and by local merchants, Young and others
roam the city’s 19-block commercial district of dress shops,
bistros and Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream parlors, working to keep the
mentally ill from landing in jail or the hospital. That might
mean steering someone into detox, finding a bed for the night or
simply stopping for a friendly chat to soothe overheated
emotions.  In Dumpster  On a chilly March morning, Young, a former Boston
restaurateur, had to make sure a 33-year-old with schizophrenia
who’d slept in a local dumpster was on a bus to  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , where he came from.  A fiftyish woman with “significant mental health issues,”
had been evicted from her apartment and needed a place to live
by week’s end, he said. As he discussed his efforts to find her
housing -- one landlord had barred her for complaining of “bugs
in the walls” before she moved in -- his cell phone rang about
another patient.  “Beds that used to go to some of these individuals are now
being taken up by the most acutely ill,” Young said.  Mary Hamm, a 45-year-old with schizophrenia, lives alone in
 St. Albans  with round-the-clock caretakers covered by her
veterans’ insurance benefits. She was diagnosed when she was in
the Army, according to her mother, Barbara. Mary took a turn for
the worse in February and had to be hospitalized.  186 Miles  With no beds available at the Veterans Administrations
Hospital in White River Junction, she was transported 186 miles
to the veterans’ hospital in Bedford,  Massachusetts . There, she
stayed about a week and returned, her mother said.  “We were pissed off,” said Barbara, 80. “But what are
you going to do? It’s the only place they could get her into.”  Vermont officials promise a better way. Shumlin revised his
plans after he received assurances from the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services that the state could get a waiver from
Medicaid rules against reimbursing facilities with more than 16
beds. The state now plans a 25-bed facility, which will cost $16
million to $20 million; officials hope 90 percent of that amount
will come from federal disaster funding, said Flood, the mental
health commissioner.  In addition, the state will continue to contract for the
use of private beds, 14 at Brattleboro and six at Rutland
Regional Medical Center. The 45 total remains nine short of the
54 beds lost to flooding.  New Services  To pay for daily operations, the state  legislature  in March
approved a 15 percent increase in mental health spending to $174
million for the fiscal year that begins in July. The increase
includes $21 million for enhanced community services designed to
offset the need for more beds, Flood said. Those measures
include mobile teams to monitor patients at risk, new beds in
transitional housing and a central computer to identify
available beds around the state at any hour.  Fran Levine, a nurse manager at the old Vermont State
Hospital, is skeptical. “They’re promising us magic and roses
again, and we know it’s not going to last,” she said.  Wariness about such mental-health funding goes back
decades, said Julie Tessler, who directs the Vermont Council of
Developmental and Mental Health Services, a trade group.  “The concern is, one governor sets something up and, 10
years later, it’s a memory,” she said.  Gluck’s Arraignment  Back at Katherine Gluck’s arraignment, Judge Devine asks if
everyone has seen the psychiatrist’s report.  “I haven’t seen it,” Gluck says. “But why should they
show it to me after a long day’s work?”  Devine interrupts. “We don’t want you to say anything that
will get you in trouble.”  Gluck is the youngest of five and has had bipolar disorder
since she was 16. She graduated from high school and college and
went on to become a carpenter. There’ve been “many, many”
hospitalizations since, says her sister, Christine. “When she’s
stable, she’s a great member of society.”  Vermont’s bed shortage weighs heavily on the proceedings.
In the eight months since the state hospital was closed, Gluck’s
attorney hasn’t had a mentally-ill defendant get a hospital bed
right away. They’re usually sent back to jail to await a bed or
released with orders to stay out of trouble. Neither option is
acceptable to Gluck’s family, according to Christine.  Judge’s Decision  After conferring with the state prosecutor and Reed, Judge
Devine utters his decision in a low voice.  “What did he say?” Gluck asks.  “He’s sending you to Brattleboro Retreat,” Reed tells
her.  A single bed has been found, paid for by the state, 117
miles south of Burlington. Her family members will have to take
turns making the drive.  The assault charge against her is dropped. After two-and-a-
half weeks, Gluck is released from the hospital with conditions.
She’ll be monitored for 90 days to make sure she’s taking
medication. If she doesn’t comply, the charge could be
reinstated.  “I’m doing much better than I was before but I’m on heavy
doses of medication,” Gluck said during a telephone interview
in May, about a month after her release.  Reed agrees with her client. “She’s actually pretty
delightful now, she’s one of the lucky ones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  