-- Spain Tourism Boost Fizzles Amid Recession: Economy
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-06-04T10:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/spain-registered-unemployment-posts-second-monthly-fall.html
Spanish  registered unemployment  in
May fell less than a year earlier as a deepening  recession  in
the euro area’s fourth-largest economy damped hiring in the run
up to the country’s peak tourism season.  The number of people registering for  unemployment benefits 
fell by 30,113 from April to 4.71 million, less than half the
79,701 drop in the same month last year, data released by the
 Labor Ministry  in Madrid showed. The figure is the worst for a
month of May since the start of the crisis in 2008.  Tourism is the biggest contributor to the country’s economy,
and any slowdown in hiring, at a time when unemployment already
tops 24 percent, will make it more difficult for the government
to meet its pledge to slash its deficit by more than half this
year. Growing investor concern about Spain’s public finances and
the need to shore up the banking system has fueled speculation
the country will be the next to need a bailout.  “Even seasonal hiring is becoming difficult for cash-
strapped Spanish companies,” said Thibault Mercier, an
economist at BNP Paribas in Paris. The data adds to signs of
weakening activity in the  euro zone  after average unemployment
in the 17 countries last week reached 11 percent in April, he
said.  Markets Decline  U.S. index futures and European stocks retreated with the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index down 0.3 percent to 234.45 at 12:15 p.m.
in  London . The benchmark measure has declined almost 14 percent
from its 2012 high on March 16 amid growing concern that  Greece 
will be forced to leave the euro currency union. Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in June lost 0.6 percent.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government today repeated it
isn’t under pressure from European allies to seek a bailout to
recapitalize banks. The mounting cost of provisions against bad
real estate loans and other credits has prompted Spanish debt to
fall as investors doubt Rajoy can tackle a  budget deficit 
similar to that of Greece.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield reached a six-month high on 6.7
percent on May 30. The yield fell 4 basis points today to 6.49
percent at 11:10 p.m. London-time after the Wall Street Journal
reported  Germany  may be willing to lift its objections to common
euro-zone bonds or mutual support for European banks. Newspaper
El Pais also reported the country is negotiating EU aid for its
banking system that wouldn’t be considered a bailout.  Investor Confidence  A spokeswoman for the Prime Minister’s office who denied to
be identified in line with government policy said in a telephone
interview she had no knowledge of such talks and repeated that
 Spain  is under no pressure from European partners to seek a
bailout.  Spain slipped into its second recession since 2009 in the
first quarter and the economy is set to contract further in the
three months through June even as the surplus of the nation’s
balance of tourism and travel services increased in the first
three months of the year, according to the Bank of Spain.  The fallout from Europe’s debt crisis is weighing on the
economic outlook, the Germany-based Sentix research institute
said today. European investor confidence dropped to the lowest
level in more than three years in June.  China Slowing  In  Asia , there are also signs that the economic growth is
easing. Non-manufacturing industries in  China  expanded at the
slowest pace in more than a year, as export orders declined and
weakness in real estate countered strength in retailing and
leasing, an official survey indicated yesterday.  The report adds to evidence that the world’s second-biggest
economy is weakening as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimps demand and
government curbs on the  property market  feed through to more
industries. JPMorgan Chase & Co. has cut its full-year economic
growth forecast for China twice in a month and now estimates an
expansion of 7.7 percent, down from 9.2 percent in 2011.  Asian stocks dropped after the services data and a U.S.
payrolls report that showed fewer jobs added to the American
economy than forecast.  Japan ’s Topix fell below the lowest level
seen during the 2008-2009 financial crisis and headed for its
weakest close since December 1983. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
slid 2.3 percent at 8:15 a.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  