-- Spain Bankers Backing EU Aid Highlight Doubts on Finances
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-06-05T07:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/spain-bankers-backing-eu-aid-highlight-doubts-on-state-finances.html
Spain should seek European money to
rescue its failed lenders, said Banco Santander SA Chairman
 Emilio Botin , joining a growing number of bankers who question
whether the government can manage the task on its own.  Botin, the 77-year-old head of Spain’s biggest bank, said
40 billion euros ($50 billion) in European Union funds for
nationalized banks, including the Bankia group, would be enough
to resolve the industry’s crisis. Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said in an interview with Onda Cero radio today that
Europe should provide funds to shore up Spain’s banks “because
we’re not talking about astronomical figures.”  “Using the mechanisms for assistance from Europe or the
IMF is the best option and more and more the banking industry is
taking that view,” said Juan Carlos Ureta, chairman of Renta 4
Banco SA, a Spanish bank and investment services company.
“There is the risk of a possible stigma and that is why it’s so
important to stress that it’s only some institutions that are in
difficulties while the industry as a whole is healthy.”  Spain moved to center stage in  Europe ’s debt crisis after
last month’s nationalization of the Bankia group. The Madrid-
based lender’s request for 19 billion euros to mend its balance
sheet underlined banks’ mounting losses and the strains on the
state’s ability to absorb them. Steen Jakobsen, chief economist
at Saxo Bank A/S, said it’s unrealistic for Spain to accept aid
for the banks without also seeking a rescue to cover the
financing needs of the government and its regions.  ‘Multi-dimensional’  “Spain’s problems are multi-dimensional, from having to
deal with real estate to fixing the  budget deficit  and all at
the same time,” said Jakobsen. “The idea that you can solve
the situation with 40 billion euros of European money for the
banks makes no sense.”  Banco Sabadell (SAB)  SA Chairman Josep Oliu has said EU funds for
weaker lenders “could be a solution,” while  Bankinter SA (BKT)  Chief
Executive Officer Maria Dolores Dancausa said Spain may have no
choice.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has repeatedly said Spain
won’t need a rescue for the nation or its banks, even as he
argued the region’s permanent bailout fund should be able to
recapitalize lenders directly, sidestepping governments. EU
Economy Commissioner  Olli Rehn  and French Finance Minister
 Pierre Moscovici  said yesterday that letting the fund inject
cash into banks instead of channeling the money through national
governments would help stem the debt crisis. The step would move
the 17-nation euro area toward a “banking union,” they said.  Cost of Bailout  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s spokesman said yesterday it’s up
to Spain to decide whether to seek aid and accept the conditions
linked to it, giving no ground to Rajoy’s pleas to  Germany  to
explore new alternatives for resolving the debt crisis.  Spain’s borrowing costs have surged since the Bankia
nationalization, even as yields on German bunds tumbled. The
extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds
compared with German bunds was 522 basis points today, compared
with 430 basis points before the Bankia rescue. A basis point is
a hundredth of a percentage point.  An EU and International Monetary Fund bailout package for
Spain that covered the government’s gross funding needs through
the end of 2014 and included 75 billion euros to recapitalize
banks would amount to about 350 billion euros, David Mackie, the
chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , wrote in a
May 30 report.  Healthy Banks  More Spanish banks are in favor of seeking European funds
for ailing lenders because neither the banking system nor the
government can afford to absorb the losses, said Ureta.  Spain ’s financial system may still need 45 billion euros in
taxpayer money, including 30 billion euros to clean up three
previously nationalized banks and 15 billion euros for other
lenders, Santiago Lopez, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said
in a May 29 report.  “As far as the healthy banks go, there aren’t too many of
us,” said Sabadell’s Oliu in comments provided by the lender.
Bankinter’s Dancausa told Spain’s public broadcaster on June 1
that European bailout funds shouldn’t be stigmatized and that
the situation facing Spanish banks was “critical.” Botin said
“no more is needed” beyond his 40 billion-euro estimate to
recapitalize the nationalized banks. His comments in Brasilia
were reported by Efe and confirmed by a spokesman yesterday.  Spanish banks rose in Madrid trading. Santander advanced
1.1 percent to 4.58 euros by 9:41 a.m., while Sabadell climbed
0.4 percent and Bankinter jumped 3.4 percent to 2.56 euros.  Stigma Attached  Spain runs the risk that investors will attach a stigma to
the country’s banks if it seeks funds to rescue ailing lenders
such as Bankia, said Andrew Bosomworth, a  money manager  at
Pacific Investment Management Co.  “There are coherent concerns from the stronger banks and
the government about going down that route,” said Bosomworth in
a phone interview. “The experience shows that once you lose
 market access  it’s very difficult to find your way back again.”  In 2010, banks helped push  Portugal  toward a bailout by
urging the government to ask for aid as downgrades by credit-
rating companies hurt their ability to borrow. Portuguese
lenders also said they couldn’t take any more Portuguese debt
onto their balance sheets.  The Portuguese government yesterday said it would inject
more than 6.6 billion euros into its banking system to help
Banco Comercial Portugues SA, Banco BPI SA and Caixa Geral de
Depositos SA meet  capital requirements  as part of its compliance
with the terms of 78 billion-euro EU-led bailout agreed on a
year ago.  Not About ‘Honor’  Spain can’t separate funding the clean-up of its weaker
lenders from its wider funding needs, said Lorenzo Bernaldo de
Quiros, a Madrid-based economist who advised the former People’s
Party government of Jose Maria Aznar. JPMorgan’s estimate that
Spain may need a bailout costing as much as 350 billion euros
didn’t sound “crazy,” he said.  “This isn’t an issue of defending national honor but of
being practical,” said de Quiros. “It’s about making sure
Spain doesn’t end up suspending payments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  