-- Starbucks Acquires Bay Bread for $100 Million in Cash
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-06-05T13:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/starbucks-acquires-bay-bread-for-100-million-in-cash.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator, agreed to buy Bay Bread LLC for $100
million in cash, making its largest acquisition to further
expand its offering of food with pastries and sandwiches.  The  purchase  of San Francisco-based Bay Bread and its La
Boulange brand will decrease full-year profit by 2 cents a
share, the Seattle-based company said in a statement yesterday.
The French-themed bakery sells homemade granola, flank steak
sandwiches and organic bread, according to its  website .  “We are deeply committed to building a national brand”
with bakery items, Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said
during a conference call. Starbucks may also sell La Boulange
products in grocery stores where it already sells coffee and
tea, he said.  Since returning as CEO in 2008, Schultz has introduced Via
instant coffee, wrested control of packaged goods distribution
from  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and bought a juicemaker to cash in on the
health and wellness trend. The company has also recently tried
to boost sales by attracting afternoon customers with wrap and
noodle boxes and a smaller-portion desserts line.  “It will be higher quality food,” said Peter Saleh, an
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York. Starbucks
customers “care about the quality of the item” and are
“definitely brand-conscious people.”  The purchase is the largest by Starbucks following its
acquisition of U.K. coffee shop operator Seattle Coffee Co. for
about $81 million in stock in 1998, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Critical Component’  Starbucks  fell  3.5 percent to $52.01 at 9:44 a.m. in  New
York . The shares had gained 17 percent this year before today.  La Boulange bakery operates 19 retail stores in the San
Francisco area and sells its products in restaurants, hotels and
grocery stores, according to the statement. Besides selling the
bakery’s food in Starbucks cafes, Starbucks will expand La
Boulange locations nationwide.  “Food is a critical component of the core Starbucks
business,” Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead said in a
telephone interview. Food, including fruit salads, chicken
lettuce wraps and blueberry scones, makes up about 19 percent of
sales at Starbucks U.S. stores, he said.  The transaction is expected to close in Starbucks’ fiscal
fourth quarter, Alstead said. Pascal Rigo, who opened the first
La Boulange store in 1999, will become senior vice president and
general manager of La Boulange bakery at Starbucks when the deal
is finalized.  Energy Drinks  The purchase extends Starbucks reach further beyond its
coffee-shop roots and it will need to explain how much more
capital it will deploy as it rolls out Bay Bread products in its
stores and expands La Boulange’s network, Saleh said.  Starbucks  revenue  rose 6.3 percent to $8.04 billion in the
U.S. in the year ended Oct. 2. The company’s domestic  segment 
made up 69 percent of revenue last year.  Last year, Starbucks paid $30 million for Evolution Fresh
Inc. and has since opened one cafe to sell the flash-pasteurized
juice, which it also plans to put in grocery stores. In March,
Starbucks said it would sell 60-calorie, green-coffee extract
energy drinks called Refreshers. It also owns the Tazo tea and
Ethos water brands.  Starbucks has about 17,400 stores worldwide, including more
than 10,800 in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  