-- Statement by the EC, ECB and IMF Mission to Portugal (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-06-04T12:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/statement-by-the-ec-ecb-and-imf-mission-to-portugal-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
Statement:  Staff teams from the European Commission (EC),  European Central
Bank  (ECB), and International Monetary Fund (IMF) visited Lisbon
during May 22-June 4 for the fourth quarterly review of Portugal’s
economic program.  The program remains on track amidst continued challenges.
The authorities are implementing the reform policies broadly as
planned and external adjustment is proceeding faster than expected.
At the same time, rising unemployment has emerged as a pressing concern.
The need to combine fiscal consolidation with deleveraging private
balance sheets while restoring external cost competitiveness remains
a difficult balancing act. But the authorities are determined to stay
the course of adjustment and reform. Broad-based political support
and social consensus is a key contribution to a successful adjustment.  Growth in 2012 may hold up better than expected. The rebalancing of
the economy has continued, with stronger-than-expected exports more
than offsetting weaker domestic demand. GDP in 2012 is now expected
to decline by 3 percent (against 3¼ percent before). Positive albeit
still subdued growth is expected in 2013. However, with domestic
demand weak and pressures on firms to reduce high indebtedness,
unemployment has increased sharply as part of the adjustment process,
and could peak at close to 16 percent in 2013. Continued tensions in
the euro area represent a risk clouding the external outlook.  The ambitious 2012 fiscal deficit target remains within reach.
Notwithstanding the weaker labor market and a less tax-friendly
growth composition, the authorities expect to achieve the deficit
target of 4.5 percent of GDP. As during the third review, new fiscal
measures were not discussed, but developments warrant close monitoring
to detect potential slippages in a timely manner. The strategy to
prevent new and to settle existing arrears is being implemented and
regional and local governments under financial stress receive additional
support, on the condition of enhancing their own consolidation efforts.
Reforms of state-owned enterprises and public-private partnerships are
on track. Efforts to strengthen public financial management, bolster
tax compliance, and streamline public administration are continuing at
good pace.  Protecting the banking system and ensuring orderly deleveraging remain
among the program priorities. Liquidity in the banking system continues
to benefit from exceptional support from the Eurosystem. The authorities
are finalizing efforts to ensure that mid-year targets for banks’ capital
buffers will be met. Further progress has also been made in strengthening
the banking supervision and resolution frameworks. Tight credit conditions
remain a concern and a range of measures is in train to ensure that sound
companies, particularly in the tradable sectors, can fund their activities.  Progress is being made on reforms to raise long-term growth. Although
product market reforms could still be stepped up in some areas, the
program’s structural reform agenda will create the conditions for
sustainable growth in productive jobs over the medium term. Reforms
are in progress as regards removing rigidities in the housing market,
privatizing state companies, making the ports more competitive, and
increasing the efficiency of the judicial system. Examples of reforms
already legislated include the competition law, the insolvency code,
and the urban lease law. Some progress has also been made in reducing
the undue burden on consumers and taxpayers by increasing competition
and reducing rents in the network and sheltered services sectors,
including in the electricity sector. Nevertheless, more determination
is needed to push through reforms that touch on sensitive political
and vested interests.  The surge in unemployment requires decisive policy action. Temporarily
higher unemployment is part of the transition to a more export-oriented
economy, but its rise has been exacerbated by  Portugal ’s long-standing
labor market rigidities. The recent approval of the revised Labor Code
should attenuate job losses. The broader structural reform agenda and
rising capacity utilization in the export sector should help employment
recover in the medium term. Nevertheless, further action to improve the
functioning of the labor market is urgent. This includes institutional
reforms that give firms more flexibility in matching labor costs and
productivity. The exceptionally high unemployment, particularly among
the young, also calls for more immediate measures, including active
labor market policies. We also welcome the government’s initiative to
consider, in the context of the budget 2013, ways to reduce social
security contributions targeting specific segments of the  labor force .  Overall, this review confirms that the program is making good progress
amid continued strong external support. Provided that the authorities
persevere with strict program implementation, the euro area member
states have declared they stand ready to support Portugal until  market
access  is regained. The efforts of the Portuguese authorities are being
complemented by a strengthened EU economic policy framework and new EU
initiatives to support growth and employment in Portugal, and in  Europe 
as a whole.  The government’s program is supported by loans from the European Union
amounting to €52 billion and a €26 billion Extended Fund Facility with
the IMF. Approval of the conclusion of this review will allow the
disbursement of €4.1 billion (€2.7 billion by the EU, and €1.4 billion
by the IMF). These disbursements could take place in July subject to
the approval of the IMF Executive Board and ECOFIN and EUROGROUP. The
joint mission for the next program review is expected to take place in
September 2012.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  