-- Steel Authority Expansion Delay to Erode Profit: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-06-05T04:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/steel-authority-expansion-delay-to-erode-profit-corporate-india.html
Steel Authority of  India  Ltd., the
nation’s second-biggest maker of the alloy, may fail to revive
profit from an eight-year low as project delays more than double
the cost of a  planned capacity expansion  to $13 billion.  Contractor disputes, holdups and rising equipment prices
have inflated the bill for increasing capacity 59 percent to
21.4 million tons, Chairman C.S. Verma said in an interview. The
estimate in 2006 was $6.3 billion. The overrun may shrink profit
36 percent to 5.5 rupees a share this year, said Ravindra Deshpande, a Mumbai-based analyst at Elara Securities Ltd.  State-run (SAIL)  Steel Authority is counting on higher capacity to
compete with  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  as demand for the alloy is forecast
to grow 8 percent in India this fiscal year, driven by public
works spending and purchases of cars, homes and appliances. The
shares fell 37 percent in the past year, making the company the
worst performing steel stock on the  BSE Metal Index (BSEMETL) , after a 36
percent increase in the number of analysts recommending a sell
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “After Steel Authority’s expansion, the return on equity
will be low, so the stock is being downgraded,” said Giriraj Daga, a Mumbai-based analyst at Nirmal Bang Securities Ltd.,
which has kept a sell rating since July last year. “The cost is
abnormally high and will only increase from here.”  The  shares  rose as much as 0.9 percent to 92.85 rupees and
traded at 92.30 rupees as of 9:28 a.m. in Mumbai. The benchmark
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  gained 0.5 percent.  Plant Cost  Typically, the cost of building a steel mill is about $1
billion per million ton, while Steel Authority will pay $1.6
billion, according to Niraj Shah, an analyst at Mumbai-based
Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd.  Interest costs for New Delhi-based Steel Authority have
almost tripled in five years to 6.8 billion rupees ($122
million), while net income dropped to 35.5 billion rupees in the
12 months ended March 31, the least since 2004, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  stock  is rated a hold by 14 of
51 analysts. Nineteen rate it a sell and 18 a buy.  The company’s expansion program, which includes raising
steelmaking and iron-ore mining capacities and also refurbishing
old equipment to boost efficiency, has been delayed. The first
estimate in  March 2006  envisaged completion by 2012. The
steelmaker will be able to increase its capacity to 18 million
tons by the end of the current financial year, Verma said,
without giving a timeframe for the full expansion.  “There’ll always be issues with such a huge project,” he
said.  Inflated Plan  Steel Authority, which has spent 403.2 billion rupees on
its expansion plans, expects to invest 120 billion rupees this
financial year. It had 163.2 billion rupees of debt as of March
31, Verma told reporters in New Delhi on May 29.  “The delayed as well as inflated capital-expenditure plan
will continue to put pressure on the balance sheet of the
company,” Elara’s Deshpande said.  Still, project delays aren’t exclusive to Steel Authority
as every company faces these issues, said Anubhav Gupta, an
analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pvt. in Mumbai, who rates the
stock a buy.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, and
 South Korea ’s Posco, the fourth biggest, have been waiting for
almost seven years to begin construction of their combined $36
billion projects in eastern India.  “If someone believes in India’s metals consumption story,
one could consider buying Steel Authority,” Gupta said.  Coking Coal  A decline in prices of coking coal, a key ingredient in
making steel, will help increase profit at Steel Authority, he
said. Contract coking coal prices dropped to $206 a ton for the
quarter ending June 30, a 36 percent decline from their record a
year ago. A spurt in the fuel price last year led to a 29
percent drop in profit in the financial year to March 31.  The benefits of the expansion won’t be seen for at least
another two years, said Ritesh Shah, an analyst at Espirito
Santo Securities in Mumbai. A proposed mining bill will further
erode the company’s earnings, he said.  A planned change in India’s five-decade old mining law will
need coal miners to give away an amount equal to the royalty
payments for local welfare, while miners of other minerals will
have to part with 26 percent of their profit. The bill is being
studied by a parliamentary committee.  “We see disappointments on too many fronts in Steel
Authority,” said Chirag Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst at
Barclays Bank Plc. “We have been negative on the stock and
continue to be so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  