-- Success in Rio? That's for Us to Decide
-- B y   A r o n   C r a m e r
-- 2012-06-04T16:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/success-in-rio-that-s-for-us-to-decide.html
     The Rio+20 Summit on sustainable development is still
weeks away, and yet many already have proclaimed the event a
failure. That verdict is based on outdated assumptions about
the nature of change. In fact, a 21st century success in Rio
remains possible.  Long gone are the days when a small number of governments
shaped the future through lengthy communiqués delivered at
global summits. In contrast, the tens of thousands of people
who will descend on Rio next month reflect the way the world
works today. Ian Bremmer's smart new
book,Every Nation for Itself, accurately depicts today's
world: a complex system lacking über-powerful mega-states that
set the stage for us all. In the "G-Zero world" that Bremmer
describes, many have power—and no one has control.  And yet, a world without clearly defined leaders is not a
leaderless world. Rio+20 certainly won't be a green version of
the Reagan-Gorbachev summits of decades past, where success
was defined by the dynamics and agreements between two men and
two nations. Achieving the Millennium Development Goals or the
new Sustainable Development Goals, which will be debated at
Rio, depends upon the engagement of a wide array of
nations, businesses, and citizens, and on the effective use of
technologies that place power in the hands of individuals
rather than institutions.  Judging Rio+20 based on the world that existed at the
time of the first Earth Summit is unwise. Twenty years
ago, the internet was largely unknown. The Cold War had just
ended, and BRICS were used to build houses, not the world's
most dynamic economies. Few companies attended the original
Earth Summit, and examples of company-NGO collaboration were
few and far between.  It is disconcerting that President Obama, Prime Minister
Cameron, and Chancellor Merkel, among other world
leaders, are skipping Rio. Their absence reflects and
accentuates a lack of government commitment to prioritize
sustainable economic development. But political declarations
are not the only—or the best—way to measure progress.  In Rio, we will see hundreds of companies, NGOs, and
issue experts calling for action, exploring new
partnerships, and debating the best way forward. Rio will
serve as an opportunity to take stock of the imperfect but
real progress since 1992, to renew commitments, and to focus
the world's attention on sustainability.  Unlike most political leaders, these institutions have by
and large maintained their commitment to sustainable
prosperity despite the global financial crisis. They know
something that governments seem to have overlooked:
successfully meeting the world's need for
food, water, fuel, and dignified lives is the mother of all
innovation challenges, and this kind of innovation can unlock
a new generation of economic vitality that policy debates have
failed to deliver.  There is no doubt that Rio will appear chaotic: 21st
century solutions to our global challenges are messier than
20th century models. But the old models are no longer
relevant. We need to get used to our new reality and shape our
actions accordingly. We may live in a G-Zero world when it
comes to nation states. But when it comes to leadership, we
are living in a G-Everybody world. We all have the ability to
shape a more sustainable future at Rio. Let's get on with it.  Aron Cramer is President and CEO of BSR, a research and
consulting organization focused on sustainable business
strategies. He is the author
of Sustainable Excellence: The Future of Business in a Fast-Changing World.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.
 