-- U.S. Nuclear Agency Needs Independent Probe, Markey Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-04T17:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/u-s-nuclear-agency-needs-independent-probe-markey-says-1-.html
An independent investigation is
needed of alleged lapses in the safety culture at the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Representative  Edward Markey 
said, citing worker concerns about a lack of management support.  Markey said NRC employees wrote him to say the agency
failed to take appropriate steps to deal with safety issues at
the Fort Calhoun plant operated by Omaha Public Power District,
and  DTE Energy Co. (DTE) ’s Fermi station on the shores of Lake Erie in
southeast  Michigan . Employees also told Markey that the NRC
Office of Inspector General has ignored safety issues, he said.  “Every individual who contacted my office expressed
concerns that they did not trust the NRC IG to resolve their
concerns,” Markey said today in a letter to NRC Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko . “Suggestions were made that the commission
engage a firm such as Conger and Elsea or other organization to
conduct an independent investigation.”  U.S. lawmakers and safety advocates are putting the NRC
under scrutiny after Jaczko said May 21 that he is resigning as
colleagues and the NRC’s watchdog criticize what they said was a
bullying style and mistreatment of female employees. Jaczko has
denied the allegation, saying he’s passionate about safety.  NRC is reviewing the Markey letter,  Eliot Brenner , agency
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Calhoun Safety  Employees on the NRC’s Texas staff, writing anonymously,
said in an April 24 letter to Markey that Troy Pruett, deputy
director of the Division of Reactor Projects, rejected a
recommendation to classify failures at Fort Calhoun Station as
having “high safety significance,” saying his job would become
more difficult.  The agency inspected  Fort Calhoun , about 19 miles (31
kilometers) north of Omaha, after a June 2011 electrical breaker
fire triggered a shutdown in the system that cools spent-fuel
pools, according to an April 10 NRC statement. The plant was
shut at the time by flooding along the Missouri River.  Markey said workers in the region for seven states near the
 Great Lakes , in a separate letter, said safety findings at the
 Fermi plant  in 2010 were removed from the inspection report by
middle management. Efforts to investigate the incident resulted
in retaliatory action, Markey said in his Jaczko letter.  “If NRC managers do not believe the commission is
committed to following the safety recommendations of its top
technical staff, they may similarly feel empowered to reject the
recommendations made by their inspectors, dismiss safety
concerns and retaliate against those who are making them,”
Markey said in his letter. 