-- HTC Electronics Imports to Be Probed by U.S. on Nokia Compliant
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-04T20:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/u-s-to-probe-htc-electronics-imports-after-nokia-compliant-1-.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s claim of patent
infringement on electronics, including mobile phones and tablet
computers from Taiwan’s  HTC Corp. (2498) , will be reviewed by a U.S.
agency that has the power to block imports of the goods.  The International Trade Commission agreed to investigate
Nokia’s complaint, filed with the agency last month, according
to a  statement  yesterday. No date has been set for a decision.  Nokia on May 2 said it filed lawsuits in the U.S. and
 Germany  over inventions for mobile devices, naming HTC among
several manufacturers. The company, which lost its 14-year title
as the world’s biggest seller of mobile phones last year to
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , is seeking to expand revenue from its
patent holdings.  HTC is using proprietary technology of Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia to improve hardware and software functions in its devices,
the company said in a statement when it filed the suits.  Nokia has joined  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to make Lumia smartphones
that run using Windows Phone software, which competes with
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system. HTC makes phones for
both Android and Windows Phone.  A final decision in the trade commission’s investigation
will be made “at the earliest practicable time,” according to
the statement. A hearing will be held, then a commission judge
will issue findings in the case. If a violation is found, the
six-member commission will then vote on whether to block HTC
phones from entering the U.S. market,.  A spokesman for HTC wasn’t immediately available to
comment. Nokia and HTC have been partners in fighting patent-
infringement claims by IPCom GmbH, a licensing company that
obtained mobile-phone patents from  Robert Bosch GmbH  in 2007.  About 10 companies, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research in
Motion Ltd ., dominate the global industry. There was about $312
billion in worldwide sales of handsets in 2011, a 19 percent
increase from 2010, according to Bloomberg Industries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  