-- U.S. May Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-06-04T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/u-s-may-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of
U.S. employment trends index from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index (ETI)
Increases in May. But Its Growth Rate Has Slowed Over Last
Three Months.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index (ETI) increased
0.29 percent in May to 108.34, up from the revised figure of 108.03
in April. The May figure is 7.6 percent higher than a year ago.
“While growth in employment has slowed significantly in recent months,
the Employment Trends Index does not signal further slowing in the
coming months,” said  Gad Levanon , Director of Macroeconomic Research
at The Conference Board. “Employers have been very cautious in hiring
in the past two months, but at the moment, economic activity in the
U.S. is just strong enough to require a modestly growing workforce.”  May’s increase in the ETI was driven by positive contributions from
five of the eight components. The improving indicators - beginning with
the largest positive contributor - were Percentage of Firms with
Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now, Initial Claims for  Unemployment
Insurance , Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry,
 Job Openings  and  Industrial Production .  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators, each of which has proven accurate in its own area.
Aggregating individual indicators into a composite index filters
out “noise” to show underlying trends more clearly.
The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment
Trends Index include:
Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get”
(The Conference Board  Consumer Confidence  Survey)
Initial Claims for Unemployment Insurance (U.S. Department of
Labor)
Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now
(National Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation)  Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry
( U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics )
Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons (BLS)
Job Openings (BLS)**
Industrial Production (Federal Reserve Board)*
Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)**  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index monthly,
at 10 a.m. ET on the Monday that follows each Friday release of the
Bureau of Labor Statistics Employment Situation report. The technical
notes to this series are available on The Conference Board website:
 http://www.conference-board.org/data/eti.cfm .  ABOUT THE CONFERENCE BOARD
The Conference Board is a global, independent business membership
and research association working in the public interest. Our mission
is unique: To provide the world’s leading organizations with the
practical knowledge they need to improve their performance and
better serve society. The Conference Board is a non-advocacy,
not-for-profit entity holding 501 (c) (3) tax-exempt status in
the  United States .
www.conference-board.org  Employment Trends Index (ETI) 2012 Publication Schedule Index
Release Date (10 AM ET) Data for the Month Monday, July 9 June
Monday, August 6 July Monday, September 10 August Tuesday,
October 9 * September Monday, November 5 October Monday,
December 10 November  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
