-- UBS Promotes Friedman to Global CIO for Wealth Management Units
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-06-04T15:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/ubs-promotes-friedman-to-global-cio-for-wealth-management-units.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the world’s third-biggest
manager of money for the rich, promoted Alexander Friedman to
serve as the global chief investment officer for both of its
wealth management units.  Friedman, who has been the chief investment officer for the
business excluding Americas, will be responsible for combined
investment and research across all regions, Juerg Zeltner and
 Robert McCann , heads of the wealth management units, said in a
memo today. A UBS spokesman confirmed the memo’s content.  “We have brought together all the investment and research
competencies of our business into a globally coordinated and
centralized engine, complemented by our investment bank, to
produce strong investment insights for our clients,” Zeltner
and McCann said in the memo.  Before joining UBS in March 2011, Friedman, 41, was the
chief financial officer of the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
between 2007 and 2010. Previously he worked at Lazard Ltd. as a
mergers and acquisitions banker.  UBS also said that  Mike Ryan  will continue to lead research
for the wealth management Americas unit and serve as its chief
investment strategist. Anthony Roth, who now heads wealth
management strategies, will in addition serve as the head of
 asset allocation  and portfolio construction for the Americas
unit. Ryan and Roth will report to Friedman, and regionally to
Bill Carroll, head of investment solutions at the Americas
division.  Andreas Hoefert will serve as the chief economist for the
Americas unit, in addition to his role as the chief investment
officer for Europe, according to the memo.  UBS was ranked the third-biggest wealth manager by assets
under management after  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America Corp. and New York-based Morgan Stanley in a survey
published in July by Scorpio Partnership, a London-based
provider of research and industry analysis. The bank’s wealth
management units had 1.5 trillion Swiss francs ($1.56 trillion)
in assets at the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  