-- Hungary Postpones Central Bank Vote as Forint Forces IMF Bargain
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-06-04T10:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/hungary-postpones-central-bank-vote-as-forint-forces-imf-bargain.html
Hungarian ruling-party lawmakers
postponed the vote on amendments to a disputed central bank law,
signaling the government’s willingness to compromise for a
bailout agreement to shield the forint.  Parliament will probably vote on the bill before going into
summer recess on July 15, Antal Rogan, the head of the ruling
Fidesz party’s parliamentary group told reporters today. Mihaly Varga, the country’s chief bailout negotiator, asked for the
vote to be delayed over the weekend to consider proposals from
the  European Central Bank .  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is seeking to revive bailout
negotiations with the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union, held up by a central bank law that the
institutions said jeopardized monetary policy independence.
Government-initiated amendments to the law “don’t go far
enough” to re-establish monetary-policy independence and “fail
to address” key concerns, the ECB said on May 31.  “It’s obvious the government panicked, they got scared by
the sudden weakening of the forint,”  Daniel Bebesy , who helps
oversee $1.5 billion at the Budapest Fund Management, said by
phone. The delay won’t bring an immediate break through as the
government will stick to its strategy of playing for time, he
said.  The forint plunged to its weakest level against the euro in
more than four months on June 1 after sliding 4.7 percent in
May. It rose 0.2 percent to 304.39 per euro by 10:54 a.m. in
Budapest. The cost of insuring against default on Hungarian
government debt for five years with credit-default swaps rose 3
basis points to 628 basis points, the highest on a closing basis
since Jan. 18.  ECB Concern  Hungary ’s plans to expand the Monetary Policy Council and
nominate a third vice president without consulting the central
bank remain a concern, similarly to frequent changes in the
remuneration of the bank’s decision-making bodies and the
mandate of the council, the ECB said.  The IMF has no dates for the possible start of aid talks,
which Orban requested in November, and is in touch with
authorities on “actions needed” to ensure central bank
independence, IMF spokesman Gerry Rice said on May 31, according
to the  transcript  of the press conference.  Delaying the vote “is a positive message in as much as it
shows the government is sensitive to changes in the forint’s
exchange rate,”  Eszter Gargyan , economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Budapest, said by phone. “As for its credibility, I don’t find
it too convincing given that negotiations with international
partners have been going on since January and the government is
fully aware of the concerns.”  ‘Pending Questions’  Hungary won the go-ahead from the European Commission to
start negotiations on the financial aid package on April 25
after the government pledged to amend the central bank.  The lifting of the EU’s infringement procedure depends on
the country amending the law, commission spokesman Olivier
Bailly told reporters in Brussels today.  “There are indeed some pending questions” by the ECB and
the IMF, Bailly said. “We want these clarifications to be fully
made. This lifting of the infringement will be done provided
that the national law on the central bank is fully amended.”  The government won’t make concessions from its
“sovereignty” or national interest for an aid agreement,
Andras Giro-Szasz, a spokesman for the government said
yesterday, adding that delays to starting talks on the bailout
were caused by the EU’s slow decision-making.  “Our baseline is unchanged in that central bank act
changes will occur at some point when forced by the market;
we’re not at that stage yet but nearing it,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist at Nomura International Plc
said in an e-mail today.  Hungary can finance itself “indefinitely” without aid
from the IMF, Orban said last week, adding the country won’t
“yield to blackmail and won’t accept preconditions.”  “The government is taking a big gamble which appears
increasingly irrational in the current European environment,”
Gargyan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  