-- Turkish Yields Fall to Lowest Since March After Inflation Slows
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-06-04T14:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/turkish-yields-fall-to-lowest-since-march-after-inflation-slows.html
Turkish  bond yields  fell to the
lowest level in almost three months after inflation slowed
faster than economists expected in May.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt declined 10 basis points,
or 0.10 percentage point, to 9.25 percent at the 5 p.m. close in
Istanbul, the lowest on a closing basis since March 9. The lira
rose for a second day, up 0.5 percent to 1.8487 per dollar.  Inflation slowed to 8.3 percent last month from 11.1
percent in April, the statistics office said on its website
today. The rate was expected at 9 percent, according to the
median estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Core
inflation , excluding items such as food and energy, slowed to
7.7 percent from 8.2 percent. Consumer prices fell 0.2 percent
in the month.  “This figure is way below expectations and will pull down
estimates for full-year inflation,”  Emre Balkeser , head of
trading at Garanti Investment in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci increased the cost of
funding for banks to as high as 10.83 percent in May, the most
since mid-January, to support the lira. The central bank
withheld lending at its 5.75 percent lower rate for a third day
as the bank tightens to support the lira as it pursues a 6.5
percent year-end inflation target.  “We will see it declining further on the past effects of
monetary tightening,” Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-market
economist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said in e-mailed
comments. Meeting the bank’s inflation target would be a
“challenge” as the leading indicators suggest recovery re-
accelerated and the lira weakened, she added.  The lira has pared some of this year’s gains to trade 2.2
percent stronger from the end of last year. It fared better than
all other emerging-market currencies except the Colombian peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  