-- Lusty Orangutans Amuse Borneo Visitors, Lovely Akmad
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-06-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/lusty-orangutans-amuse-borneo-visitors-lovely-akmad.html
The sign at Camp Leakey on the
Indonesian island of  Borneo  says: “Never stand between a male
and a female orangutan.”  We were watching a group of female orangutans feasting on
bananas, babies clinging to their bellies, when we learned why.  First came the sound of snapping branches, like a bulldozer
crashing through the forest. The mother orangutans stuffed their
mouths with bananas and started to flee just as Tom, a massive
red-haired ape with black cheek pads framing his glassy brown
eyes, swung down from the trees.  One female, Akmad, was too slow to escape the long arm of
Tom. He grabbed her ankle, tossed her on her back and had his
way in less than a minute. When Tom was finished, he let out a
loud fart.  My wife and I visited Borneo in November, taking a four-day
river trip to see some of our closest relatives on the
evolutionary tree in their native habitat. We have gone on
safaris to view tortoises in the Galapagos Islands, wild tigers
in  India ’s  Ranthambore National Park  and grizzly bears in
 Alaska ’s  Denali National Park . The Borneo trip was my favorite.  “Orangutan” is an Indonesian word for “jungle person.”
The babies are cute. The youthful apes are naughty. The mothers
are nurturing. And you don’t want to get in the way of the
dominant males.  Laidback Journey  We were the only passengers on the Kosasi, a 40-foot (12-
meter) wooden boat powered by a single-cylinder diesel engine.
It putted lazily up the Sekonyer River, gateway to the  Tanjung
Puting National Park , a refuge for one of the world’s largest
colonies of the rare apes.  Orangutans are native only to the islands of Borneo and
Sumatra, their habitats shrinking from encroachment by loggers
and palm-oil plantations, their ranks decimated by poachers and
trappers. The Sumatran orangutan population has dwindled to an
estimated 7,500, according to the  World Wildlife Fund , which
lists the species as “critically endangered” with the
possibility of extinction in 50 years.  An estimated 41,000 orangutans live in Borneo, according to
the WWF, including about 38,000 in Indonesia’s Central
Kalimantan province, where the Tanjung Puting park is.  Research on Borneo’s orangutans has been conducted
continuously since 1971, when a then-graduate student named
 Birute Galdikas  persuaded Louis Leakey, the famed African
paleontologist, to fund her studies in Tanjung Puting.  'Leakeys Angels'  Galdikas became one of “Leakey’s Angels,” living among
Borneo’s orangutans as Jane Goodall stayed with the chimpanzees
of Tanzania and Dian Fossey dwelled among  Rwanda ’s mountain
gorillas. Galdikas still supervises research in Tanjung Puting,
financed in part by the  Orangutan Foundation International , a
Los Angeles-based not-for-profit group she co-founded.  She established Camp Leakey as a center where orphaned and
domesticated orangutans are rehabilitated to survive in the
wild. The first chapter of Galdikas’s autobiography,
“ Reflections of Eden : My Years With the Orangutans of Borneo,”
is titled “Akmad” after the ape who couldn’t escape Tom.  “Akmad was a lady,” Galdikas writes. “How human she
appeared, like an orange gnome, with her intelligent, quietly
inquisitive face.”  Orangutan Rehab  Loggers captured the infant Akmad shortly after Galdikas
arrived in Borneo, according to “Reflections,” holding the ape
in a cage for possible sale until she was rescued and
transferred to Camp Leakey for “rehabilitation.” Orangutan
rehab consists mostly of daily feedings to help the apes survive
while they re-adjust to life in the wild.  Orangutans are usually reclusive, but those in rehab can be
naughty neighbors. Rangers shield the windows of their cabins
and outbuildings with chain-link fencing to prevent intrusions.
During our visit, one ranger briefly left his kitchen door ajar
and a female orangutan named Tutut dashed inside. She emerged
with a bottle of hot sauce in her mouth and the ranger in
pursuit. The ranger coaxed Tutut, who happens to be the mother
of Tom, to exchange the hot sauce for a banana.  Deeper in the jungle, the apes converged on wooden
platforms to enjoy their daily servings of bananas. Wild pigs
and squirrels also joined the feedings.  Hungry Swingers  The orangutans swung from tree to tree, using their weight
to bend branches until the next limb came into reach of their
lanky arms. Their wingspan can grow to as much as eight feet.
They scampered over trunks and vines, stuffed their mouths with
fruit and clambered away.  The females are said to be at least four times as strong as
a human. The males, like Tom, weigh as much as 300 pounds (136
kilograms) and have eight times the strength of a human.  We took a prop plane from Surabaya, Java, to Pangkalanbun
in Central Kalimantan, then rode an SUV for a half-hour to the
port of Kumai, where stevedores shouldered bags of rice onto
riverboats that carried cargo deep into Borneo’s jungles.  We boarded the Kosasi and crossed a broad bay, entering the
mouth of the Sekonyer River in the late afternoon, passing a
billboard with a picture of Tom, welcoming us to his kingdom. It
said his reign as dominant male began in 2006, when he dethroned
a predecessor.  As the sun sank, the cloudy sky turned pink and the
wildlife came out. A hornbill that looked like a toucan, a
stork-billed kingfisher and a huge bat called a flying fox
soared above us. Proboscis monkeys with pink hooked noses
chattered like a quarreling family as they clambered through
trees. A monitor lizard dozed on a branch.  Firefly Fireworks  Darkness fell. From palm trees that lined the banks, a
firefly drifted onto the boat. Soon, the fireflies came in
clouds, swarming and swirling like silent fireworks. We were
beyond the range of our mobile phones. The only mechanical sound
was our putting boat, which fell silent after the crew lashed it
to the side of the river and we settled in for the night.  Shielded by a tent of mosquito netting, we slept on
mattresses rolled onto the deck. On the river, it was cool
enough to doze comfortably without air conditioning, even though
Tanjung Puting is only about 3 degrees latitude south of the
equator.  We awoke at dawn to the jungle din -- droning cicadas,
chirping frogs, warbling birds, blabbering macaque monkeys.  More than 40 wooden boats such as the Kosasi ply the
Sekonyer River, ferrying tourists to the feeding stations for
three- and four-day trips. Speedboats also roar out of Kumai to
make the Camp Leakey journey in a single day.  Scary Tourists  August and September make up the peak visitor season, when
the tropical rains let up. More than 100 tourists at a time
troop to the feeding platforms, their prattling scaring away
many of the apes, according to our guide Kres Harytono, who
spoke fluent English and a little Spanish. During our November
trip, we never saw more than three other tourists at a time.  The three feeding stations we visited were about a half-
hour walk from the river. Orangutans came to greet us on the
path. We fed bananas to one named Rica and her baby Roy. After
Rica sucked the fruit down, she returned the empty peel to Kres
or handed it to Roy.  “I like Rica,” Kres said. “She’s beautiful.”  Akmad was also beautiful, Galdikas wrote, and mysterious.
The ape would stay away from the camp for years as she raised
her babies in the wild. She would return at odd intervals,
occasionally climbing into the scientist’s bed for comfort, like
a member of the family.  Tips: Citizens from 63 countries, including the U.S. and
European Union, can obtain 30-day tourist visas on arrival in
 Indonesia . We booked a four-day/three-night trip to Central
Kalimantan, including round-trip airfare from Java, via Wisata
Alam Indonesia Tour Services,  http://www.oranghutantour.com . It
cost $700 per person. The package covered food, non-alcoholic
beverages, on-board sleeping accommodations and an English-
speaking guide. We tipped the guide and boat crew after our
trip. The dry season from about June to October offers the best
weather for visits but can also be crowded. More information on
orangutans is available through the Orangutan Foundation
International, http:// www.orangutan.org .  (John Gittelsohn is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net . 