-- Utilities More Concerned About Carbon Emissions: Survey
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-06-04T13:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/utilities-more-concerned-about-carbon-emissions-survey.html
(Corrects executive’s name and title in fourth paragraph.)  Concern about  carbon emissions 
increased last year among U.S. utility executives, who also
expressed apprehension that customers won’t tolerate higher
rates for power generated from renewable sources, according to a
report.  Carbon emissions increased to third from sixth among the
top environmental concerns of 543 managers and engineers, said
Black & Veatch Corp. The  Overland Park , Kansas-based engineering
and consulting firm conducted the survey from Feb. 22 through
March 23 and posted the results on its website today.  Utilities produced  42 percent  of their electricity from
burning coal last year, the industry’s top source of carbon
emissions, and the need to reduce production of  greenhouse gases 
is outstripping their ability to cut the amount of power they
get from coal.  “There’s still a significant investment in coal assets,
and it’s not economically reasonable to assume you could just
jump off of that into a new technology,” Dean Oskvig, president
of the company’s Black & Veatch Energy unit, said in a telephone
interview.  More than 52 percent of respondents said complying with
regulatory and environmental mandates to reduce emissions will
require them to “significantly” raise customer rates, while 40
percent expected rates to increase “slightly,” according to
the report.  About two-thirds of them said a rate increase of 5 percent
to 10 percent would prompt customers to “object to further
investment in renewables.”  Carbon-emissions legislation and water supplies remained
the top two concerns among survey participants.  “A good way to think about water is that it’s another
fuel,” Oskvig said. “It’s something that’s going to be used in
a plant along with energy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  