-- Vietnam Opens 3 New Sites to Let U.S. Look for War MIA
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-04T07:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/vietnam-opens-3-new-sites-to-let-u-s-look-for-war-mia-1-.html
Vietnam agreed today to open three
previously restricted sites to the U.S. for future excavation in
the search for American troops missing in action from the
 Vietnam War .  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  reached the agreement
with Vietnamese Defense Minister Phung Quang Thanh in a meeting
today in Hanoi. Vietnam still restricts eight sites, U.S.
Pacific Command Casualty Resolution Specialist Ron Ward said in
a briefing with reporters today in Hanoi.  The announcement reflects improving relations between the
former combatants from a war that began 50 years ago and ended
in 1975. Panetta’s trip underscores an effort by the Obama
administration to expand the U.S. presence in  Asia  to counter
 China ’s rising influence.  The U.S. says 1,666 personnel are still missing from the
conflict and of those, 1,284 are in Vietnam. The three sites
opened up for investigation include a location in the Quang Binh
province in central  Vietnam , just north of the former
demilitarized zone line that divided North Vietnam from the
South.  Aircraft Lost  A U.S. Air Force F-4C was lost in the Quang Binh province
in 1967, likely downed by hostile fire, and two pilots are
believed missing, Ward said. The second site is in the province
of Kon Tum near the Cambodia border, where an Army private is
believed missing, and the last is in Quang Tri, where a Marine
Corps F-4J aircraft went down, he said. One of the pilots
ejected and the other is believed missing, Ward said.  Panetta and Thanh also returned artifacts taken by service
members of both nations during the Vietnam War in the first such
exchange of its kind, Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said in a
statement.  Panetta presented Thanh with the diary of Vietnamese
soldier Vu Dinh Doan, which was taken by U.S. Marine Corps
serviceman Robert Frazure in 1966. Thanh presented Panetta with
personal letters of U.S. Army Sergeant Steve Flaherty, who was
killed in action in 1969. Excerpts of Flaherty’s letters were
used for propaganda broadcasts by Vietnamese forces during the
war, according to the statement.  Both ministers agreed to return the items to relatives of
the deceased soldiers, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Hanoi at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  