-- Vitro Confronts Bondholders Over Bankruptcy Plan Approval
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-06-04T17:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/vitro-confronts-bondholders-in-bid-to-enforce-bankruptcy-plan.html
After the U.S. recession and bad bets
on derivatives contracts sent Mexican glassmaker  Vitro SAB (VITROA)  into
bankruptcy, the company has a restructuring plan in place. At
least in Mexico.  Vitro is asking a U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Harlin DeWayne Hale
in  Dallas  today to enforce the plan and stop litigation by debt
holders who have been fighting to collect on $1.2 billion in
defaulted bonds.  The bondholders have called the plan, which was approved by
a Mexican court, “a testament to audacity, brazen manipulation
and greed.” Enforcing it in the U.S. would be “manifestly
contrary” to public policy, they said in court papers.  The judge must weigh whether the Mexican court’s approval
of Vitro’s plan should be given deference or it conflicts too
much with U.S. law and should be rejected, said Madlyn Primoff,
a bankruptcy attorney at Kaye Scholer LLP in  New York .  “It’s got the Good Housekeeping seal of approval from the
Mexican court,” said Primoff, who isn’t involved in the case.
“For the U.S. court to upset that ruling and say, ‘OK,
bondholders can have at it,’ that tests the issue of how cross-
border restructurings get implemented here in the U.S.”  Vitro and bondholders have been fighting over the
restructuring in Mexican and U.S. courts, with creditors suing
Vitro subsidiaries that guaranteed company debt to recover what
they’re owed.  Threat to Vitro  The company, which makes glass containers and car
windshields, wants to put an end to the litigation, saying in
court papers that bondholders want to “bring Vitro to its knees
by destabilizing its business and interfering with its
relationships with its customers.”  Andrew Leblanc, an attorney for Vitro, told the judge at
today’s hearing the case has been heavily litigated and the
Mexican court’s approval is “worthy of respect.” The
bondholders lost in  Mexico  and are “obviously disgruntled,” he
said.  “They have availed themselves of every single element of
Mexican law, Mexican process, Mexican procedures,” Leblanc
said.  Hale’s decision probably won’t resolve litigation over the
restructuring plan, and the judge said in a court order that he
expects it to be appealed. The bondholders’ appeal in Mexico of
the restructuring there didn’t stop it from being implemented.
The plan provides $814.7 million in new 8 percent notes and
$109.6 million in convertible bonds, according to Vitro.  2009 Default  In early 2009, Vitro defaulted on $1.5 billion of debt,
including $1.2 billion of bonds, after construction and auto
glass sales plunged during the U.S.’s worst recession since the
1930s. The company also incurred $340 million of derivative
losses from bad bets on natural gas prices and currencies.  Bondholders argue that Hale should reject the bankruptcy
plan in part because shareholders are retaining value while
creditors aren’t being paid in full. They also oppose
discharging the guaranty obligations of subsidiaries even though
the units aren’t in bankruptcy. Enforcing the plan would
undermine international credit markets and raise the cost of
capital in  emerging markets , they said.  The plan is “an outrage,” Jay Westbrook, an attorney for
bondholders, told Hale.  Vitro, based in San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico, says the
Mexican court considered the objections from creditors, and
therefore the  U.S. bankruptcy court  “should respect and
enforce” the plan.  “We are looking forward to the opportunity to demonstrate
that Vitro’s restructuring is entitled to Chapter 15 enforcement
in the U.S.,” Roberto Riva Palacio, a spokesman for Vitro, said
in a statement.  The case is in re Vitro SAB, 11-33335, U.S.  Bankruptcy
Court , Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Dallas
at   bcase4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 