-- Vodacom to Retain Congo Unit Stake as Court Cancels Sale
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-06-04T16:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/vodacom-to-retain-congo-unit-stake-as-court-cancels-sale.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)  said a Democratic
Republic of Congo court canceled a forced sale of its stake in a
local unit, allowing  South Africa ’s biggest wireless carrier to
retain a foothold in the fast-growing market.  A letter from Congo’s supreme court “postpones the auction
pending the outcome of certain legal proceedings already under
way,” Richard Boorman, a spokesman for Vodacom, said in an e-
mailed statement. Another court had planned to push through a
disposal to help enforce a ruling that Vodacom pays a former
consultant to settle a dispute.  The decision lets Johannesburg-based Vodacom, controlled by
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , for now to keep a stake in a market Chief
Executive Officer Pieter Uys has called its biggest opportunity.
Only about 21 percent of Congo’s more than 70 million people
have mobile phones, compared with a penetration rate topping 100
percent in Vodacom’s home market.  The shares, seized by the commercial court from Vodacom on
May 16, represent Vodacom’s entire 51 percent stake in the unit,
in which the company says it has invested about $500 million in
the past nine years. The unit had about 5.6 million customers at
the end of March and it employs about 600 people.  Uys said on May 21 that the company would do everything to
prevent the sale of its shares and had started three separate
court processes to that effect.  Auction Scrapped  Vodacom  advanced  0.3 percent to 102 rand at the close of
trading in Johannesburg. The stock has gained 15 percent this
year, compared with a 3.4 percent gain by the FTSE/JSE Africa
All Shares Index, valuing the company at 152 billion rand ($17.9
billion).  The commercial court in the capital Kinshasa had planned to
sell Vodacom’s 510,000 shares in Vodacom Congo SPRL in a June 3
auction in order to enforce its Jan. 25 ruling that Vodacom pay
former consultant Moto Mabanga’s Nameco Energy (Pty) Ltd. $21
million to settle a dispute.  Mabanga sued Vodacom last year, seeking a $40.8 million fee
for consultancy work done during 2007 and 2008. The commercial
court ruled on a reduced award in January. Mabanga was already
paid a $2.8 million service fee for the consulting work, which
Vodacom maintains was a full and final settlement of its
obligations.  In a phone interview, Mabanga said he plans to try to
contest the latest court decision.  “We received a letter that the auction has been stopped,”
Mabanga said. “We’ll now be going to court to reverse that
irregular action and get a new date.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 mantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  