-- Wal-Mart CEO Duke Gets 87% Votes for Board Re-Election
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-06-04T20:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/wal-mart-ceo-mike-duke-receives-87-votes-for-board-re-election.html
Almost one-third of  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s (WMT)  non-Walton-family shareholders voted against Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Duke  and three other board members.  The vote at the June 1 annual meeting followed allegations
that executives at the world’s largest retailer bribed Mexican
officials and came after several pension funds vowed to oppose
the re-election of some or all company directors. The founding
Walton family controls about 47 percent of outstanding shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Duke was re-elected with about 87 percent of votes in
favor, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said today in a
statement. Not counting family shares, Duke got 70 percent of
the votes. Former CEO  Lee Scott  received about 84 percent of
votes in favor and Chairman Rob Walton, son of company founder
 Sam Walton , won about 87 percent of votes. Not counting family
shares, Walton got 71 percent of the votes; Scott 64 percent.  “Given the family’s control, the amount of opposing votes
is a big number,” Charles Elson, director of the Weinberg
Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware,
said today in a phone interview. “If there is that much
opposition, maybe they need to revisit how the board is
comprised.”  Last year, Duke, Scott and Rob Walton got more than 99
percent of all votes.  Chris Williams , chairman of the board’s audit committee and
responsible for oversight of the internal bribery investigation,
was re-elected with 87 percent of all votes and 69 percent of
non-family votes.  Wal-Mart  rose  0.7 percent to close at $65.99 in  New York .
The shares have gained 10 percent this year.  New Director  Last week, all 15 directors were re-elected and one new
director,  Marissa Mayer , who is vice president of Local and Maps
for  Google Inc. (GOOG) , joined the board.  “A substantial majority of our shareholders supported
their election,”  David Tovar , a Wal-Mart spokesman, said today
in an e-mail.  In the weeks leading up to the annual meeting, pension
funds in California, Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts and
New York all cited the company’s handling of the bribery
investigation as cause to vote against Duke, Scott, Walton and
other directors.  The votes against the directors should send a message to
Wal-Mart that its board needs more independent directors, New
York City Comptroller  John Liu  said today in a statement.  “The results are a vote of no confidence that sends a
message to Wal-Mart’s entire board, which has ignored our
concerns and failed to safeguard the company’s standards of
ethical and legal compliance,” Liu said. “It’s up to the board
now to restore investor confidence.”  In response, Tovar said that the company will continue its
investigation and act once the probe is completed.  “We will do the right thing the right way and we hope
people will judge us by our actions after the investigation is
concluded,” Tovar said in an email.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  