-- Walker Recall Vote Turns On Work Creation Record
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-06-04T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/walker-recall-vote-turns-on-work-creation-record.html
Nine is the only number that means
anything these days to Larry Carlton, a foreman for a southern
Wisconsin electrical contractor. That’s how many electricians he
oversees in a crew that a year ago had 11.  “The goal is keeping everyone busy,” said Carlton, a 60-
year-old from West Bend who ignores all the other numbers he
hears in television ads, campaign speeches and talk-radio
chatter referring to jobs coming to Wisconsin. “It is politics
at its best, to make it look like we’re really going someplace.
Are we?”  That’s a difficult question to answer without being
challenged in politically polarized Wisconsin. Voters there will
decide tomorrow whether to oust their governor, Republican  Scott Walker , 17 months after he was sworn into office with a promise
to create 250,000 private sector jobs by the end of 2014.  The recall initially triggered by a dispute over Walker’s
2011 collective-bargaining restrictions on public employees has
evolved into a campaign turning on the state’s economic climate.
At issue is employment data and whether they are as good -- or
as bad -- as they appear. The import of these numbers has been
magnified by the ouster vote, only the third for a state chief
executive in U.S. history.  While other states will hold elections tomorrow --
California voters will decide the fate of a $1-a-pack cigarette-
tax increase to fund cancer research and  New Jersey  holds two
Democratic primary contests for congressional seats -- the
Wisconsin recall has attracted national attention.  Jobs and Elections  Promises of jobs often get politicians elected. Failure to
produce or protect them destroyed the re-election chances of
Presidents  Herbert Hoover ,  Jimmy Carter  and  George H. W. Bush ,
as well as scores of governors. President  Barack Obama  came
under attack June 1 from  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican
nominee, after employers added 69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in
a year and less than the most pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News economists’ survey.  After raising expectations in Wisconsin, Walker, 44, is
under heavy pressure to deliver. The numbers have been
uncooperative. The  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics , which churns
out reams of national and state employment data every month, has
shown Wisconsin losing 33,900  jobs  in 2011. The numbers, which
aren’t adjusted for season variation, were among the worst of
any other state. The state also ranked 42nd out of 50 states in
economic health in 2011, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States.  Unemployment Rate Falling  At the same time federal figures showed jobs leaving,
Wisconsin’s unemployment  rate  was falling. In April, it was 6.7
percent and has been dropping steadily since January 2010, when
it last peaked at 9.2 percent. Walker has touted that as
evidence of a strengthening economy.  The monthly job-loss data, though, provided ammunition for
Democrats to argue that Walker should be bounced from office.
With the recall election bearing down on him, Walker drew on a
different federal measurement -- a quarterly accounting -- on
May 16 and last year’s job loss was transformed into a gain of
about 23,000.  “Good news for  Wisconsin ,” Walker said in a television ad
that began running that same day. “The government just released
the final job numbers, and as it turns out, Wisconsin actually
gained -- that’s right, gained -- more than 20,000 new jobs
during my first year in office.”  Milwaukee  Mayor Tom Barrett, 58, Walker’s Democratic
opponent in tomorrow’s election, promptly labeled the figures
“fiction.”  Public Opinion  The quarterly jobs measurement appears to have had an
impact on  public opinion . A poll by Marquette Law School in
Milwaukee in early May showed that 20 percent of those
questioned thought the state had gained jobs while 37 percent
believed there was a net loss. An updated poll released May 30
from Marquette reflected a shift -- 38 percent said more jobs
while 30 percent said fewer.  “That’s very dangerous,” said Charles Ballard, an
economist at  Michigan State University  in East Lansing. “If you
let each governor come up with his or her own numbers, I bet
almost every state would have faster job growth.”  “As soon as it becomes a political football, the numbers
become meaningless.”  Clear Picture  Getting a clear jobs picture of Wisconsin is tough, said
Abdur Chowdhury, chairman of the economics department at
Marquette University. The manufacturing sector has shown growth,
he said, pointing to Obama’s visit in February to Milwaukee-
based Master Lock Co. to celebrate the return of about 100 jobs
from  China . Meanwhile, the  construction industry  continues to
suffer.  “We are struggling to keep everyone working,” said
Carlton, the electrical foreman, who has to drive more than an
hour to some job sites. “The bottom line is we are losing
jobs.”  While quarterly jobs data are more accurate, those numbers
are also subject to revisions, just like the monthly ones,
Chowdhury said. That, he said, can lead to confusion.  “The Walker administration obviously came out with the
data because they saw that the data was more favorable to
them,” Chowdhury said in a telephone interview.  “The fact that they came out with data is mid-May was very
unusual,” he said. “It’s not against the law but it’s just
very unusual. States usually don’t do that. They did it for
obvious political reasons.”  Not so, said  John Koskinen , chief economist at the
Wisconsin Revenue Department.  ‘Economic Decisions’  “You have to understand that people do make economic
decisions based on economic data, right?” Koskinen said.
“Having inaccurate information out there affects decisions that
people make.”  The monthly data needed to be challenged because they were
distorting the state’s economic picture, he said. The Walker
administration used a quarterly jobs census measurement, which
covers about 98 percent of employers, as opposed to the monthly
survey that relies on a survey of about 5.3 percent of
employers.  Ballard, the Michigan State economist, said if one state is
going to rely on quarterly numbers, “then so should the nation
as a whole.”  “I can understand the political imperative,” he said,
“but I want the numbers to mean something.”  This is statistical noise to Jeff Zander, 50, an
electrician from Cross Plains who recently celebrated his one-
year employment anniversary after being out of work almost two
years.  “It’s always hard to say what the numbers mean,” Zander
said. “You can play a lot of games with statistics to show what
you want to show.”  Zander’s own significant figures are these: He says he’s
making about half the salary he made in his former job. The
value of his retirement portfolio has just returned to where it
was four years ago. He doesn’t see his income “growing in the
future at all.”  “And I’m playing the lottery and really hoping it comes
through,” Zander said. “That Powerball really looks good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  