-- WellPoint Will Buy 1-800 Contacts to Expand Retail Offeri
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-04T20:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/wellpoint-agrees-to-buy-1-800-contacts-fenway-partners-says.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health plan, will acquire eyeglass and contact-lens
retailer 1-800 Contacts to expand its consumer offerings as more
people buy their own medical insurance.  WellPoint will pay private-equity firm Fenway Partners
about $900 million for 1-800 Contacts, said a person familiar
with the agreement who asked not to be identified because the
information hasn’t been disclosed. The insurer trimmed its 2012
profit  forecast  by 4 cents as a result of the deal, to $7.80 a
share, Indianapolis-based WellPoint said in a statement today.  WellPoint is the biggest seller of health plans to
individuals, a market set to grow by as much as 22 million
people under the 2010 U.S. health-care law. Fellow insurers are
pursuing similar strategies, with  Aetna Inc. (AET)  announcing it will
sell coverage this year through Costco Wholesale Corp.’s stores
and  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  introduced a line of hearing aids.  “Over time, the consumer will become the primary
purchaser,” said Wayne DeVeydt, WellPoint’s chief financial
officer, by telephone. “With the continuing shift to the
individual, our focus is around areas that can create more
convenient access” as well as lowering the cost of goods sold.  The acquisition sells prescription contact lenses and
glasses online and over the phone and has about 3.3 million
customers today, according to the statement. 1-800 Contacts has
pretax profit margins of 10 percent or more, compared with about
4 percent to 5 percent for WellPoint, DeVeydt said.  WellPoint fell 1.4 percent to $65.45 at the close of  New
York   trading . The shares have fallen 15 percent in the past 12
months.  Frustrated Investors  The announcement frustrated some investors who wanted the
money spent on share buybacks that would’ve boosted  earnings 
immediately, said Joshua Raskin, a Barclays Plc analyst in New
York.  The purchase should give the company “a strategic
advantage” in an era of advancing customer choice, Raskin said.
“WellPoint will be able to add another service to consumers
that is differentiated from its competitors,” he said.
“Obviously, share repurchases do nothing to improve the
attractiveness of WellPoint’s products.”  The  Supreme Court  is expected to rule this month on a
constitutional challenge to Obama’s Affordable Care Act. The
acquisition makes sense even if the law is overturned, because
more employers are handing insurance-purchasing decisions to
individual workers, the CFO said.  Consumer Environment  “Health-reform really accelerated the movement to the
consumer-purchasing environment, but we still see it occurring
no matter what,” DeVeydt said.  The direct-to-consumer eyewear business is fragmented, with
1-800 Contacts leading with just 10 percent of the market,
DeVeydt said. While WellPoint will focus on integrating its
purchase over the next 18 months, “we view this as an industry
that’s still far from consolidated,” he said.  Fenway, based in New York, acquired 1-800 Contacts in June
2007 for $340 million. The sale to WellPoint was first reported
earlier today by The Wall Street Journal.  Brooke Gordon , a spokeswoman for Fenway Partners, didn’t
immediately respond to a voicemail requesting comment.  UnitedHealth, the largest U.S. insurer, is based in
 Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , and Aetna in Hartford,  Connecticut .  Financed by Cash  The deal is being financed with cash on hand, the statement
said. Sonenshine Partners LLC acted as Fenways’s  financial
adviser and Ropes & Gray LLP as its legal adviser, the private-
equity firm said in a separate statement. Linklaters LLP was
WellPoint’s legal adviser.  Laboratory Corporation (LH)  of America Holdings also announced
an acquisition today, saying in a statement it would buy testing
company  Medtox Scientific Inc. (MTOX)  Laboratory Corp., based in
Burlington,  North Carolina , said it would pay $27 a share, for
an enterprise value of $241 million.  Hospital company  Universal Health Services Inc. (UHS) , meanwhile,
said in a statement that it would buy Ascend Health Corp., an
operator of nine psychiatric facilities. Universal Health, based
in  King of Prussia , Pennsylvania, said it would pay $500
million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  