-- WestJet Raids Air Canada for New York Business Fliers
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-06-04T20:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/westjet-raids-air-canada-for-new-york-business-fliers.html
WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  is bidding to
pry passengers from Air Canada in the C$2 billion ($1.92
billion) cross-border business travel market by returning to  New
York ’s  LaGuardia Airport .  Canada’s second-largest carrier began service today between
Toronto, the country’s financial hub, and LaGuardia with the
first of seven daily round trips. An eighth will be added on
July 12.  WestJet’s foray into New York escalates the challenge to
Air Canada, the country’s biggest airline. Founded in 1996 with
a focus on vacationers, Calgary-based WestJet now holds more
than a third of Canada’s air traffic after the discount carrier
established a foothold in the Eastern Triangle linking Toronto,
Ottawa and  Montreal .  “New York is really our first big push into the business
market into the U.S.,” Bob Cummings, executive vice president
of sales and marketing, said in an interview. “We are pretty
close to capped out with the leisure market with respect to our
life cycle. We’ve barely scratched the surface on corporate
travel.”  Cummings said business fliers make up about 40 percent of
what WestJet estimates is a C$5 billion U.S.- Canada  air-travel
market. More than 937,000 people flew between New York and
Toronto in 2010, the largest trans-border route, according to
Statistics Canada data.  ‘Step Up’  “If you’re a business traveler in the Eastern Triangle,
you probably from time to time need to come into New York,”
said Jeff Straebler, an independent airline analyst based in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “As far as your frequent-flier programs
are concerned, you would like to keep that all in one place. So
adding LaGuardia is clearly a step up for WestJet in terms of
their ability to compete.”  WestJet bid $17.6 million in winning the right in November
to make eight LaGuardia round trips daily. That gives business
fliers more options than the twice-daily Toronto flights in
WestJet’s first LaGuardia venture, which began in September 2004
and lasted less than 10 months before the airline pulled out,
saying the route wasn’t viable.  “This is a fairly significant challenge for  Air Canada (AC/A) ,”
 Cameron Doerksen , an analyst at National Bank Financial in
Montreal, said in a telephone interview. “Eight flights a day
is a sizable increase in capacity. It’s a route that Air Canada
has a very big presence on. There are other airlines on that
route, obviously, but Air Canada is the largest player there.”  Air Canada  Air Canada added three daily nonstop flights last month
between New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport, the
city’s chief overseas gateway, and Toronto’s Pearson
International. It flies as many as 38 daily round trips from
Canada to New York airports.  “Frequency is a big component for the business traveler,”
Straebler said. “If they miss a flight and the next flight is
in an hour, as opposed to three hours, that’s a big deal.”  Canada’s closely held  Porter Airlines , which flies to New
Jersey’s Newark Liberty International Airport from Toronto’s
Billy Bishop Airport, added two daily flights this year,
boosting its total to as many as 13.  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)  increased Toronto-Newark service in December.  Airlines prize business travelers because they fly
frequently, often at the highest, last-minute fares. A Toronto-
New York round trip tomorrow would cost C$556.50, or as little
as C$304.49 a month from now, according to WestJet’s website.  Business Travelers  Business travelers fill about 20 percent of seats on
WestJet’s coach-only  Boeing Co. (BA)  737 jets, Cummings said, a
proportion the carrier wants to boost in the next few years.
Under study is whether to add more comfortable “premium”
seats, he said.  WestJet has about 22 percent of the business-flier market
in Canada and about 15 percent of the combined U.S.-Canada
market, Cummings said. Each percentage point is roughly
equivalent to about C$30 million a year of revenue, he said.  Keeping corporate passengers is important to  Air Canada (AC/B) ,
which has multiple classes of service. A walkup business-class
fare tomorrow would cost about C$2,228.  “What we’ve done on New York is that we decided to
increase our frequency to all three airports,” Air Canada Chief
Executive Officer Calin Rovinescu told reporters in Calgary
after the carrier’s annual meeting today. “We’re going to be
ready for the competition.”  Operating Costs  WestJet’s cost to fly each seat a mile was 23 percent
cheaper than Air Canada’s last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That helped propel WestJet to a seventh straight
annual profit, with  net income  of C$148.7 million on revenue of
C$3.1 billion. Air Canada’s 2011 net loss of C$255 million was
its fourth in a row.  While WestJet gained 28 percent this year to C$15 as of 4
p.m. today in Toronto, Air Canada’s Class B shares, the most
 actively traded , tumbled 12 percent to 87 Canadian cents. The
 12-carrier (BRAIRNAV)  Bloomberg Industries North  American Airlines  Index
has gained 4.7 percent in the same period.  Agreements with two of the largest U.S. carriers also are
part of WestJet’s business-flier strategy. WestJet and  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  began a partnership to share booking codes on certain
routes on Jan. 23, following a similar accord with  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
American Airlines last year.  Delta Agreement  Under the Delta agreement, members of both airlines’
loyalty programs can earn awards on code-share flights.
Passengers get boarding passes for all flight segments at the
first check-in, and tag bags for their final destination. Air
Canada has a code-sharing agreement with United, and the
companies want to create a trans-border joint venture.  “We needed strong code-share partners to take care of the
point of sale in the U.S.,” WestJet’s Cummings said. Ties to
Delta and American in New York will help “get people to step
onto our planes. Without that point of sale in the U.S. and the
connectivity beyond the New York market with Delta, the
economics would be pretty darn difficult.”  Additional jets may help WestJet woo more business
travelers. Lease options may expand today’s 98-plane fleet to
135 by 2018, according to Cummings and a  WestJet presentation .  WestJet’s focus for now will be on ensuring the LaGuardia
route’s success, he said. The carrier will begin a new short-
haul unit in 2013, and Cummings said WestJet will consider
serving new U.S. cities “in a couple of years.”  “What you will see us announce are markets with a business
or corporate component,” he said. “New York and Chicago are
big business markets. The other business markets are pretty
obvious:  Boston ,  Washington , Houston,  Dallas , those types of
cities. As we ramp up the effort into New York, we will look to
learn from that and apply that to future endeavors.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  