-- Why Is Obama Avoiding Romney’s Biggest Weakness?
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-06-04T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/why-is-obama-avoiding-romney-s-biggest-weakness-.html
President  Barack Obama  is in a
bind. All the obvious strategies available to an incumbent
president running for re-election are foreclosed to him.  He can’t run a “Morning in America” campaign in the
style of  Ronald Reagan  in 1984 or  Bill Clinton  in 1996. In
those years, the country was doing well and felt it. A
majority of the public now thinks that we are “ on the wrong
track ” as a nation rather than headed in “the right
direction.” The already dismal jobs picture is growing
bleaker: Payroll growth slowed and the unemployment rate
rose in May, to 8.2 percent. If voters make their decision
based on the state of the country, Obama will lose.  Obama can’t run on his record of accomplishments
either: Too much of that record is unpopular. Bringing
 Osama bin Laden  to justice was a great victory, but it
hasn’t been matched by any domestic success. His two major
legislative achievements were the stimulus enacted in the
spring of 2009 and the health-care law enacted in the
spring of 2010. Both have been chronically underwater in
the polls. The  Kaiser Family Foundation  finds that  only 37
percent  of the country looks on the health law favorably.
In February, a Pew Foundation poll found  the same
percentage  of people viewed the stimulus positively.  Few Options  Running on his unfinished agenda looks no more
promising. Obama’s main policy initiative in recent months
-- the Buffett rule to impose a minimum tax level on people
with large amounts of  capital gains  and dividends -- polls
well. But it’s politically small. Working out an unfair
kink in the  tax code  (to look at it in a positive light)
can’t carry Obama to re-election.  Obama could pledge to fight for immigration reform in
his second term. But his failure to expend any capital on
the issue when he had Democratic majorities in both houses
of Congress, or at any point since, would make such a
pledge seem like the repetition of old talking points. And
the reason Obama didn’t make more of an effort -- the
existence of serious opposition, even among Democratic
voters, to the kind of reform he favors -- hasn’t gone
away.  To win the election, then, Obama has to run a negative
campaign against  Mitt Romney  and the Republicans. All signs
point to his doing exactly that. But some kinds of attacks
are more likely to help Obama than others.  In recent weeks, the president’s aides have been
attacking Romney for saddling companies with debt when he
was in the private sector, increasing the liabilities of
 Massachusetts  when he was governor and creating few jobs in
either capacity.  It is hard to see these tactics paying off. Federal
debt has increased under Obama by orders of magnitude more
than any sum Romney has overseen. If the Democrats talk
about debt, they will be prolonging a conversation they
can’t win. And while Massachusetts may have ranked 47th
among states in  job creation  under Romney, the country
would be delighted to have the 4.7 percent  unemployment
rate  he left it with.  Another temptation will be to attack Romney on social
issues. “Let’s be clear what he would do as president,”
Obama adviser  David Plouffe  recently  said . “Potentially,
abortion will be criminalized. Women will be denied
contraceptive services.” Most Americans don’t want all
abortions banned, or contraception made inaccessible. But
Romney’s election wouldn’t yield either result, and most
people know it.  Entitlement Reform  Obama’s best bet is probably to hit Romney again and
again over his plans for Social Security and Medicare.
That’s a big issue: Nothing Romney is proposing would be
more consequential. And it’s an issue where Obama can draw
on strong public sentiments. Most people believe the
programs need reform. But in a Pew poll in 2011, Americans
favored preserving benefits to reducing deficits by  almost
2-to-1 . By 56 percent to 33 percent, they  worried more 
about Social Security benefit cuts than about tax
increases. In a March 2012 poll, just 26 percent of the
public favored the Republican idea of changing Medicare so
that beneficiaries pick a health plan and get a “fixed sum
of money” to meet the costs.  A defense of the two entitlement programs as now
structured would not be the most edifying of spectacles. It
would require Obama to foster the false impression that the
approaching insolvency of our welfare state has painless
solutions. But it would force Romney to confront the issue
head-on, and the country would get the important debate it
deserves rather than months of sniping about trivial side-
issues and non-issues.  It seems more likely than any of Obama’s other options
to win him a second term.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns,
editorials and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  pressuring Russia
to pressure Syria ;  Margaret Carlson  on  the Wisconsin recall
election ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  winning the Six-Day War ;
William Pesek on  India’s faltering market reforms ; Gary
Shilling on  Japan’s misguided stimulus .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  