-- Wisconsin Fights to Recall’s Bitter End, Some Using Fists
-- B y   T i m o t h y   J o n e s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-06-04T18:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-04/wisconsin-fights-to-recall-s-bitter-end-some-using-fists.html
The fistfight at the Short Branch
Saloon in Neenah began after Dan Wintheiser, a union worker at a
manhole-cover foundry, altered a yard sign promoting Wisconsin’s
governor to read “I Can’t Stand Walker.”  Wintheiser said he tried to stop the punch-up between
workers and managers that he set off at a May 30 retirement
party. Still, it drove home that no matter what happens in
tomorrow’s recall election pitting Democratic Milwaukee Mayor
Tom Barrett against Republican  Scott Walker , Wisconsin won’t
greet the next day’s sunrise in a spirit of peace and unity.  “I just see the divide getting deeper and deeper,” said
Wintheiser, 50. He said there was a “huge fight” over the
recall at his dinner table -- on Mothers’ Day.  While Americans have gone to the polls only twice to recall
a governor -- in 2003 and 1921 -- those votes didn’t carry the
national significance of tomorrow’s election. Organized labor is
trying to halt nationwide momentum from Walker’s collective-
bargaining restrictions on public-employee unions. Both parties
see the election as a proxy for the presidential contest. And
conservatives are embracing Walker as the standard-bearer for
austerity and backing him with more than $30 million, most of it
raised since January.  “We’re in a battle for freedom in this country,” Reince Priebus, a  Wisconsin  native and chairman of the  Republican
National Committee , told about 75 Walker supporters yesterday in
Germantown. “We’re not only in a battle for the state of
Wisconsin; we’re in a battle for the future of America.”  Showing Up  The recall effort that started last year after Walker
pushed limits on unions through the Legislature has
metamorphosed into a debate over the job climate and controlling
the cost of government services. Most minds, according to polls,
were made up long ago. Undecideds are a sliver of the
electorate.  “This election, as we all know, will be determined by
turnout,” said U.S. Senator Herb Kohl, a Democrat who
campaigned with Barrett yesterday at a coffee shop in Oshkosh.
“We’re fairly well evenly divided. That’s what Wisconsin is
these days.”  Wisconsin, a hotbed of the early 20th century’s Progressive
movement, is polarized. Voters recalled two Republican state
senators last year of nine who were challenged. Walker will be
up for an ouster vote along with Republican Lieutenant Governor
Rebecca Kleefisch and four state senators from their party.  Stardom Awaits  Barrett, 58, who lost the 2010 governor’s race to Walker by
about 125,000 votes, said his opponent’s agenda “is all about
the  Tea Party . It’s all about making Wisconsin this experimental
dish for all these radical notions.”  “He’s obsessed about becoming the rock star of the far
right,” Barrett told about 60 supporters in the Oshkosh coffee
shop.  At a strip mall along a freeway in Germantown, where women
jumped up and down with Walker placards urging drivers to honk
their horns, the governor quoted the Wisconsin constitution.  “Moderation and frugality in government leads to freedom
and prosperity for our people,” he told cheering supporters.
“And that’s what this is all about.”  A Walker victory would embolden labor opponents nationwide
to continue chipping away at unions, including by weakening the
 National Labor Relations Board  and banning requirements that
workers pay dues, said William Jones, a historian of the
movement at the  University of Wisconsin-Madison .  “We’ll certainly see those trends increasing,” Jones
said. “The outcome of the recall election could have a big
impact nationally.”  Punching Out  Labor is already on the defensive. Although Ohio voters
last year repealed by 61 percent a law limiting bargaining and
requiring increased pension and health-care insurance payments
championed by Republican Governor  John Kasich , it has lost
ground elsewhere. Governor  Mitch Daniels  and fellow Republican
lawmakers made  Indiana  the nation’s 23rd so-called right-to-work
state Feb. 1 by exempting nonunion employees from paying dues
when working alongside unionized colleagues.  The rate of U.S. union membership fell to a record low in
2011, with collective-bargaining units representing just 6.9
percent of employees in nongovernment jobs, down from 7.2
percent in 2009, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics .  Numbers Talk  Wisconsin membership in the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, the state’s second-largest
public union, fell to 28,745 in February from 62,818 in March
2011, according to the Wall Street Journal, which cited an
anonymous source.  While membership has declined, the numbers published by the
Journal are “wildly inaccurate,” Bob Allen, a spokesman for
AFSCME Wisconsin, said in a telephone interview and e-mailed
statement. The union doesn’t disclose its membership numbers, he
said.  If Walker is recalled, it will be “a shot in the arm for
labor,” said  Robert Reich , who was labor secretary under
Democratic President  Bill Clinton .  Clinton campaigned for Barrett last week. New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  has been part of a cadre of Republicans
stumping for Walker.  Barrett and Walker hopscotched around the state today to
encourage people to go to the polls. Election officials have
forecast 60 to 65 percent of registered voters will cast
ballots. While the recall will officially end with tomorrow’s
vote, members of both parties said wounds will not heal quickly.  “People don’t want to respect other peoples’ opinions
anymore,” Wintheiser, the foundry worker, said. “It’s become
that contentious.”  Jean Barina, 64, a freelance court reporter from  Milwaukee 
at Walker’s strip-mall rally, said there “will be hard feelings
for a while.” As to how long that lasts, Barina said, “You’ll
have to ask the Democrats that. We’re prepared to be at peace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Jones in Germantown at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  