-- 9/11 Families’ Suits Against Saudi Binladen Group Upheld
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-16T17:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/9-11-families-suits-against-saudi-binladen-group-upheld.html
Saudi Binladen Group, relatives of
 Osama bin Laden  and National Commercial Bank don’t have to face
lawsuits brought by families and estates of victims of the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks, a U.S. appeals court ruled,
upholding a lower court’s dismissal of the cases.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York , in three related
rulings today, reinstated lawsuits filed by victims against 12
defendants, all charities that the plaintiffs say provided
support to al-Qaeda and bin Laden. Those cases were sent back to
a lower court for more review.  The three-judge appeals panel said the lower-court judge
presiding over the case correctly dismissed suits alleging that
Binladen Group, co-founded by Osama Bin Laden’s father and now
Saudi Arabia’s largest construction company, had supported the
2001 attacks. The panel also upheld dismissal of suits against
five relatives of bin Laden.  The dismissal of a suit against  National Commercial Bank ,
the Saudi state-controlled lender for lack jurisdiction was also
upheld by the panel. The plaintiffs alleged that the bank
maintained accounts for several charities accused of supporting
al-Qaeda.  The bank provided significant financial support to bin
Laden before he was removed as a shareholder in 1993, the
plaintiffs said. The bank did so even though it had “knowledge
that he was targeting the  United States ,” the plaintiffs said.  Financial lifeline  U.S. District Judge George Daniels in Manhattan ruled in
2012 that the claims “have no evidentiary support” and that
the plaintiffs had failed to show “the company maintained a
financial lifeline to bin Laden,” as the lawsuits claimed.  Bin Laden, who used a family inheritance to build the al
Qaeda terrorist network that killed almost 3,000 people in the
attacks, was killed in May 2011 at his Abbottabad, Pakistan,
compound by a team of U.S. Navy SEALs during a 40-minute raid.  The appeals court said today that the plaintiffs failed to
establish the court’s authority over the parties in the suit.
The appeals court agreed with Daniels that the business
activities of an employee of the company’s now-defunct U.S. unit
were insufficient for the court to confer jurisdiction over the
case.  “In these circumstances we agree with the district court
that nothing in the record supports the notion that these
actions were expressly aimed at the United States in any
meaningful way” to establish jurisdiction, the appeals panel
said.  Charities, Princes  In 2005, U.S. District Judge Richard Casey, who presided
over the case before his 2007 death, also dismissed suits
against Saudi charitable organizations as well as the Kingdom of
 Saudi Arabia , three princes and several financial institutions
for allegedly providing material support to bin Laden.  Bin Laden was born in  Riyadh , the 17th child of Muhammad
bin Laden, an immigrant from Yemen who helped found Saudi
Binladin Group in 1931.  Osama grew up wealthy as his father’s business became one
of the kingdom’s largest construction companies, building roads
and bridges, renovating mosques in Mecca and Medina and
expanding into real estate, textiles, telecommunications and
distribution.  Muhammad bin Laden died in a plane crash in 1967, according
to the Binladen Group’s website.  The case is In re Terrorist Attacks on Sept. 11, 2001,
11-3294, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
( Manhattan ) and 03-mdl-01570, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  