-- Macy's Seeks Appeals Court Order Against J.C. Penney
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-16T20:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/macy-s-seeks-appeals-court-order-against-j-c-penney.html
Macy’s Inc. asked an appeals court
to bar  J.C. Penney (JCP)  Co. from selling some unbranded goods
designed by Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. while the case
is pending.  The second-largest U.S. department-store chain yesterday
filed an appeal of the refusal of Justice Jeffrey K. Oing of New
York State Supreme Court to order Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney
not to sell the goods.  Macy’s today asked the state appeals court in Manhattan to
issue a temporary restraining order against J.C. Penney pending
the appeal,  Jim Sluzewski , a Macy’s spokesman, said in an e-
mail. The filing couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court
records.  Oing said Macy’s hadn’t shown that it would suffer
irreparable harm if J.C. Penney was allowed to sell the
unbranded goods. The judge said an earlier injunction he issued
in July against  Martha Stewart  Living applied only to goods
branded with Martha Stewart’s name in categories exclusive to
Macy’s, such as cookware and bedding.  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, is suing both  Martha Stewart
Living (MSO)  and J.C. Penney, alleging that sales of products designed
by Stewart’s company in J.C. Penney stores violate an
exclusivity deal between Martha Stewart and Macy’s signed in
2006.  Joey Thomas, a spokesman for J.C. Penney, said in an e-mail
that the company had no comment on Macy’s request. Martha
Stewart Living didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the new request for a court order.  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 