-- Shell Shut Out as Africa’s Gas Trove Lures Asian States: Energy
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-04-17T07:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/africa-s-gas-trove-pulling-asian-states-ahead-of-shell-energy.html
Asian state-owned oil companies are
making inroads in the contest for East Africa’s energy reserves,
gaining power in export projects that Western explorers like
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  used to dominate.  Fields off Mozambique’s Indian Ocean coast are estimated to
hold enough gas to meet global demand for two years, a prize
that persuaded state-owned China National Petroleum Corp. to
make its biggest foreign investment. The Beijing-based company
agreed to pay Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  $4.2 billion last month for a
share in the fields and a planned liquefied natural gas plant.
While it’s the first time Asia’s state producers have
participated in an African LNG project, companies from China,
India, South Korea and Thailand now hold 24 percent.  State producers “have a national interest initiative to
secure significant gas reserves and they can’t ignore a reserve
of this size,” said Brett Olsher, the global co-head of natural
resources at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “Unlike in a number of
LNG projects, in Mozambique there isn’t one dominant supermajor,
which provides an opportunity for national  oil companies .”  Mozambique, Tanzania and Uganda are the stage where power
over natural resources in developing nations is shifting from
traditional managers like Shell and Exxon Mobil Corp. toward
state oil companies such as CNPC and Thailand’s PTT Production &
Exploration Pcl. They answer to Asian governments that need to
fuel economies growing at least twice the Western average.  LNG plants need billions of dollars in investment before
they can start chilling gas into a liquid and load it on tankers
for export. Western competitors like Shell, the world’s largest
LNG trader, are now operating in a more crowded gas market. That
makes it harder to secure participation in projects that can
offer decades of profits.  Behind Qatar  Eni and Anadarko Petroleum Corp., the two companies leading
the project, plan four production units in Mozambique with a
total capacity of 20 million tons a year, making it the world’s
second-largest export site behind Ras Laffan in Qatar, where
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is a partner.  As things stand, Mozambique would be the biggest LNG
project without the participation of one of the so-called
supermajors: Exxon, Shell,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Total SA.  Even so, Western investor-owned companies have proved a
better investment in the past year, as they’re less likely to
sell fuels at a loss in their home markets.  The Dow Jones Oil & Gas Titans index, whose biggest members
are Chevron and Exxon, has dropped 1.5 percent in the period,
compared with a 8.5 percent loss in the state operator-heavy Dow
Jones  Emerging Markets  Titans Oil & Gas 30 Index, led by
Russia’s state-run Gazprom.  Equal Partner  “Just being commercial buyers is seen as expensive,” said
Laura Loppacher, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in London.
“Because of their lower cost of capital and the higher
strategic benefits, the national companies are able to pay
more” for the fields.  China’s state-owned  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  became an equal partner with
France’s  Total SA (FP)  and  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  of the U.K. last year in a
group developing  oil fields  in Uganda. In Tanzania, where
Chinese President Xi Jinping visited last month, the Export-
Import Bank of China is lending $1.2 billion to build a natural-
 gas pipeline .  Mozambique may have 250 trillion cubic feet of gas
reserves, according to Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos, the
country’s state-backed petroleum exploration company that’s a
shareholder in the fields.  Eni, Europe’s No. 5 producer, is the largest non-Asian
company in Mozambique’s proposed LNG project. Bangkok-based PTT
outbid Shell last year for chunk of the asset.  Bharat Petroleum (BPCL) ,
54 percent owned by India’s government, and Korea Gas Co. are
also shareholders.  Faster Growing  Asia consumes more LNG than any other region and faster-
growing economies are eager to secure future energy supplies,
giving their state-backed companies a strategic imperative to
make deals in Mozambique. Owning the producing assets is a
natural hedge against rising LNG prices for energy importers,
Loppacher said.  There could be room for more state-run Asian investors.
Mozambique’s gas finds to date have been made in two offshore
blocks: Area 4, led by Italy’s Eni, and Area 1, where Woodlands,
Texas-based  Anadarko (APC)  is the lead shareholder. The two blocks
will be combined for the LNG project.  Anadarko is seeking buyers for a 10 percent stake in Area 1
alongside an equivalent sale by Indian media group  Videocon
Industries Ltd. (VCLF)  Among bidders for that stake are India’s  Oil &
Natural Gas (ONGC)  Corp. and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , both state-run energy
companies.  Losing Out  Still, they won’t be the only bidders. It’s possible Shell
will have another go at buying into Mozambique after losing out
to  PTT Exploration (PTTEP)  and Production to acquire a stake last year,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Shell spokesman Jon French declined to comment on whether
the company will take part in the bidding process.  Projects like the one in Mozambique are likely to feature
“more collaboration between the independent oil companies and
the national oil companies” than has been the norm in past LNG
efforts, said Jon Clark, a mergers and acquisitions partner at
Ernst & Young in London.  Eni was reluctant to partner with another Western  oil
company  as it sought buyers for part of its stake, preferring to
collaborate with Asian players with whom it’s trying to build a
stronger relationship, according to a person familiar with Eni’s
thinking.  With Mozambique’s per capita gross domestic product lower
than Rwanda’s, the stakes are high. The country has little
experience in managing mineral wealth and is still building
ports, roads and railway lines. Rio Tinto Group had to write
down 70 percent of its $4 billion investment in Mozambique’s
coal industry because of a lack of transport capacity and a drop
in the price of the fuel.  “The gas project is still an infant, and there are key
decisions to be made to make sure to get it right,” said  Jason Kenney , an analyst at Banco Santander SA in Edinburgh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  