-- Mako to Acquire Stanmore Robotic Assets in Patent Settlement
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-04-16T21:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/mako-to-acquire-stanmore-robotic-assets-in-patent-settlement-1-.html
Mako Surgical Corp. (MAKO)  said it will
receive Stanmore Implants Worldwide Ltd.’s robotic business
assets and intellectual property in a settlement of a patent
dispute.  Stanmore has agreed to withdraw from robotics, while Mako
will drop patent-infringement litigation in two federal courts
and at the U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington ,
the two companies said in a joint statement today. Financial
terms weren’t disclosed  The dispute centered on computerized surgical devices and
software. London-based Stanmore received U.S. regulatory
approval in January to market its Sculptor Robotic Guidance Arm,
used for knee surgery. It competed with Mako’s RIO Robotic Arm
Interactive Orthopedic system, which accounted for $41.2 million
in sales last year, or 40 percent of the  Fort Lauderdale ,
Florida-based company’s revenue, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mako “essentially took a potential robotic competitor off
the market -- and kept this competitor’s robotic assets/IP out
of another ortho manufacturer’s hands,” Richard Newitter, an
analyst with Leerink Swann in  New York , said in a note to
clients.  $1 Million  He and  Matt Miksic , an analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos.,
both estimated the cost of the asset purchase was less than $1
million.  “The agreement eliminates the ongoing cost and distraction
of litigation, while also strengthening Mako’s existing
portfolio of intellectual property, particularly in the area of
haptics for robotically assisted orthopedic surgery,” Miksic
said in a note to clients. He has an “overweight” rating on
the shares.  Newitter, who has a “market perform” rating on Mako, said
it could have cost Mako as much as $6 million in legal fees in
the next 12 months.  “Stanmore is pleased to have reached closure in this
matter,” Stanmore Chief Executive Officer Michael Mainelli said
in the statement. The closely held  company  makes implants for
extreme orthopedic cases.  Mako rose 62 cents, or 5.9 percent, to close at $11.21 in
New York trading. The stock is down 13 percent since the
beginning of the year.  “This agreement both affirms and improves Mako’s
intellectual property position in robotically assisted
orthopedic surgery,” Mako Chief Executive Officer Maurice Ferré
said in the statement. “Moreover, we are enthused about the
possibility of partnering with Stanmore on potential future
projects.”  The Boston case is Mako Surgical Corp. v. Stanmore Implants
Worldwide, 13cv10635, U.S. District Court for the District of
 Massachusetts  (Boston).  The California case is Mako Surgical Corp. v. Stanmore
Implants Worldwide, 13cv1221, U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Indianapolis at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net 
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net 
Steven Fromm at 
 sfromm@bloomberg.net  