-- Allergan’s Migraine Drug Inhaler Levadex Rejected
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-04-16T20:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/allergan-s-migraine-drug-inhaler-levadex-rejected.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN) , the maker of the
Botox wrinkle treatment, failed to win U.S. approval for its
inhalable version of a 60-year-old migraine drug after
regulators raised concerns about manufacturing.  The Food and Drug Administration rejected Allergan’s
Levadex, an inhaled form of dihydroergotamine, as an acute
treatment for patients suffering from migraine attacks, the
 Irvine , California-based company said today in a statement. If
approved, the use of Levadex would not be limited by the monthly
number of migraines suffered by a patient as Botox is, Heather Katt, an Allergan spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Allergan said it completed the purchase of canister-filling
maker Exemplar Pharma LLC last week to help address the FDA
concerns about that section of the supply chain and expects a
re-inspection of Exemplar will be required before approval can
be won. The FDA also has concerns about the manufacturing
process of the final-filled canisters.  The FDA’s decision “is disappointing but resolvable in our
view,”  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co.,
said in a note to clients. “Manufacturing and decision making
is now 100 percent under Allergan’s control. Allergan’s
excellent track record on manufacturing and FDA relations
deserves and appears to be getting full credit.”  Migraine Sufferers  More than 36 million Americans suffer from migraines, a
collection of neurological symptoms that can include searing
headaches, dizziness, nausea and as sensitivity to sound and
light. Dihydroergotamine works by narrowing blood vessels in the
brain that swell during a migraine. The present form of the
drug, approved by the FDA in 1946, has been shown to be
effective as an injection against severe pain.  Levadex was developed by  Map Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MAPP) , which
was acquired by Allergan earlier this year in a deal valued at
$958 million. The FDA rejected the therapy a year ago after
regulators questioned the manufacturing process.  Botox is approved as a treatment for chronic migraine
patients, those who suffer attacks more than 15 days a month.  Allergan fell less than 1 percent to $113.12 at the close
of trading in New York. The stock has gained 23 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  