-- Ambani’s Retail Push to Bolster Earnings Growth: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-04-16T18:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/ambani-s-retail-push-to-bolster-earnings-growth-corporate-india.html
Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s push
into retail and digital services may help  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL)  build on its best profit growth in three years amid an
economic slowdown and sliding natural gas output, investors say.  Reliance Retail Ltd. , which sells Kenneth Cole apparel,
Steve Madden footwear and Hamleys toys, turned a cash profit for
the first time since its debut in 2006, the Mumbai-based parent
said yesterday. Revenue from the unit jumped 42 percent to 108
billion rupees ($2 billion) in the year ended March 31. Ambani
said last year that he is targeting a fivefold increase in
retail revenue to 500 billion rupees by 2016.  The owner of the world’s biggest refining complex is
seeking to cut dependence on the energy business as gas
production in its biggest field in  India  dwindled to less than a
third in three years. While Reliance reported a 32 percent jump
in  net income  in the three months to March 31, profit has
declined in four of the past six quarters. The consumer and
phone businesses have the potential to contribute half of the
company’s total revenue in about four years, said Deven Choksey,
chief executive officer at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.  “These are large-scale businesses and provide visibility
of revenue, profit and cash deployment over the next half a
decade,” said Mumbai-based Choksey, who manages $125 million in
assets for wealthy individuals. “These will help hedge its
risks of investing only in the oil and gas business.”  Beating Estimates  Reliance Industries profit last quarter climbed to 55.9
billion rupees, or 17.30 rupees a share, from 42.4 billion
rupees, or 12.9 rupees, a year earlier, the Mumbai-based company
said yesterday in a regulatory filing. That beat the median
 estimate  of 55.3 billion rupees in a Bloomberg survey of 30
analysts. Sales fell 1.2 percent, the first decline in 14
quarters, because of maintenance shutdowns.  Shares have declined 4.1 percent this year, compared with a
3.5 percent loss in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)  The company
lost its No. 1 position as India’s biggest by market value to
software maker  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and  Oil & Natural
Gas Corp. (ONGC) , the nation’s largest explorer.  Reliance, which announced a dividend of 9 rupees a share,
earned $10.10 for every barrel of crude it processed in the
quarter, compared with $7.60 a barrel a year earlier and $9.60 a
barrel in the previous three months.  ‘Retail Footprint’  The refiner may spend $8 billion in five years on refining,
telecommunications and retail as it expands its consumer
offerings, according to Deutsche Bank AG estimates. Reliance is
“focused on expanding its retail footprint,” an official told
reporters yesterday in Mumbai, asking not to be identified as he
isn’t authorized to speak on the topic.  Tushar Pania, a spokesman for Reliance Industries, declined
to comment on the company’s telecommunications and retail plans.  Reliance had cash and equivalent of 829.8 billion rupees
invested in  bank deposits , mutual funds and  government
securities , as of March 31, the company said. That surpassed
724.3 billion rupees of debt outstanding.  “A company of Reliance’s size has to look at other sectors
because just oil may not give them enough growth
opportunities,” said U.R. Bhat, director at Dalton Capital
Advisors India Pvt. in Mumbai. “They have the cash and they’ve
realized that the strategic shift is required.”  Reliance Industries may struggle to maintain margins in the
telecommunications and retail businesses, said Raj Kothari, a
London-based fixed-income trader at Sun Global Investment Ltd.
that holds the company’s bonds.  Declining Profit  Profit at  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s biggest phone
company, has declined for two consecutive years, while debt has
climbed almost sevenfold since 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Shares of  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  have
slumped 71 percent since listing in March 2006 as call rates
remained near the lowest in the world.  Future Retail Ltd., which runs the nation’s biggest chain,
reported its lowest profit in three years in the 12 months ended
June 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income
has dropped in four of the last six years.  “I see rough roads ahead as competition is intense with
margins struggling,” Kothari said. “But since he already had
these assets at his disposal, to him it makes sense to push
ahead in telecom.”  Helping Ambani, 55, diversify into mobile and data services
in the world’s fastest growing market, is his estranged brother
Anil, 53, with whom he fought a public, bitter battle before and
after they divided the Reliance empire in 2005 following the
death of their father Dhirubhai.  First Agreement  The two signed their first business agreement since the
split this month when Mukesh agreed to use Anil’s fiber optic
network to offer fourth-generation, or 4G, broadband wireless
services. The deal may lead to further cooperation and sharing
of signal towers built by Anil’s Reliance Communications, the
two companies said in an April 2 joint statement.  Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd., Mukesh’s phone unit, will pay
Reliance Communications 12 billion rupees to use the latter’s
infrastructure, as it prepares to roll out its services.  The deal benefits both brothers as Jio owns airwaves for
broadband use, while Reliance Communications operates in other
bands, including 3G spectrum, used for voice and data, analysts
led by Vinay Jaising at Morgan Stanley wrote in an April 2
report.  Unprecedented Borrowing  Apart from consumer and phone businesses, Reliance is set
to spend $27 billion in five years to build petrochemical plants
and drill wells, Deutsche Bank estimates, including $11 billion
on energy exploration and $8 billion to boost petrochemicals
production. The company borrowed an unprecedented $5.8 billion
overseas in 2012.  Reliance operates more than 1,450 retail outlets where it
sell goods ranging from vegetables to clothes. It also owns an
18.53 percent stake in luxury hotels operator EIH Ltd. In March
2011, Reliance started an Indian joint venture with U.S.
investment company D.E. Shaw Group.  The company added 184 stores last fiscal year as it
continued to expand across all formats, while same store sales
growth ranged between 7 percent and 18 percent, according to
yesterday’s statement.  “RIL is doing well to diversify so they can reduce their
dependence on their oil business,” said Philipp Good who
manages $2 billion of global bonds in Zurich at Fisch Asset
Management Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  