-- American Adds Flights to Curb Delays From U.S. Grounding
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-04-17T17:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/american-airlines-u-s-flights-grounded-by-computer-malfunction.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  added five
flights today as employees worked to rebuild U.S. schedules and
accommodate passengers stranded in yesterday’s grounding.  The extra trips, coupled with the scrubbing of about 100
flights as American shuffled flight crews and planes, showed the
lingering effects of a computer outage that sidelined the
carrier’s U.S. fleet. Three flights were added between Chicago
and Dallas, one from Dallas to Los Angeles and another from
Miami to Los Angeles, said  Andrea Huguely , a spokeswoman.  American parent AMR Corp. didn’t say what caused the
outages at the third-largest U.S. carrier. The malfunctions
began about 10:30 a.m. Dallas time, and systems were restored
about 3:30 p.m., Huguely said.  “We do have redundancies in our systems,” Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Horton  said in a  video  posted on the Fort Worth,
Texas-based airline’s website. “Unfortunately, in this case we
had a software issue that impacted both our primary and backup
systems.”  The carrier is “very sorry” for disrupting passengers’
travel plans, Horton said. A combined 978 flights were canceled
at American and AMR’s American Eagle regional unit.  American, which is preparing to merge with  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC) , is allowing passengers with flexible schedules to change
reservations at no charge and is providing full refunds to those
who can’t alter plans.  ‘Technology Emergency’  “This is a technology emergency,”  Henry Harteveldt , an
analyst at Hudson Crossing in San Francisco, said yesterday. “I
don’t think American has experienced anything like this in a
long time, if at all.”  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  in November struggled with
its third computer failure of the year when the dispatching
system failed, interrupting service for about two hours.  In March of last year, Chicago-based United’s website and
airport kiosks were disrupted when the company combined
reservation systems for United Airlines and Continental Airlines
Inc. following their 2010 merger.  In 2008, a failure in U.S. Federal Aviation Administration
software that processes flight plans caused hundreds of delays
in the eastern half of the U.S., as FAA workers were forced to
manually enter data and rely on another processing system in
Salt Lake City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net  