-- AMR Files Bankruptcy-Exit Plan Based on US Airways Merger
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-04-16T16:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/amr-files-bankruptcy-exit-plan-based-on-us-airways-merger.html
AMR Corp., the parent of American
Airlines, filed a plan to exit bankruptcy protection that hinges
on creating the world’s largest airline through a merger with  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   American, based in Fort Worth,  Texas , won approval last
month to proceed with the combination, which would be completed
when the airline emerges from court protection. The airline
wants U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  to consider
approval of the plan at an Aug. 15 hearing.  “After evaluating the potential strategic alternatives, it
appeared that a business combination with US Airways was the
only viable option for American to consider” versus emerging
from bankruptcy as a standalone company, American said in the
filing yesterday.  American filed for bankruptcy in New York in November 2011
and announced the deal with US Airways in February, concluding a
quest by US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker for a
tie-up. Parker began pursuing American shortly after it sought
bankruptcy court protection, wooing creditors and American
unions for support.  The deal with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways would cap a
wave of consolidation in the industry and push American past
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and Delta Air Lines Inc. to be
the world’s largest carrier.  Chairman, CEO  The combined company will operate under the American
Airlines name. Parker will become CEO, while AMR CEO Tom Horton,
whose $19.9 million severance was rejected by Lane after
opposition from the U.S. government, will be chairman.  American will ask Lane to reconsider Horton’s severance
package when he considers the bankruptcy plan, saying approval
of the compensation is a condition of the merger.  The bankruptcy plan, which sets out how much AMR creditors
will recover on their claims, requires creditor support.
American has said creditors holding $1.2 billion in unsecured
claims have agreed to back the plan and merger.  Under the proposal, US Airways shareholders will receive
28 percent of the combined company, while the remaining
72 percent will go to AMR’s unsecured creditors, labor unions,
shareholders and certain employees.  American unsecured creditors holding $2.6 billion in claims
and creditors with $6.8 billion in claims backed by aircraft
will receive a full recovery, according to court papers. AMR
shareholders will receive a 3.5 percent stake in the combined
company with the potential for additional shares.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  