-- Mantel, Smith on Women’s Prize for Fiction Shortlist
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-04-16T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/mantel-smith-on-women-s-prize-for-fiction-shortlist.html
Zadie Smith and  Barbara Kingsolver ,
both past winners, join Hilary Mantel as finalists in the
Women’s Prize for Fiction.  Formerly known as the Orange Prize for Fiction, the annual
award was created in 1996 and celebrates fiction by women
worldwide. Its winner takes home 30,000 pounds ($45,900) and a
bronze statuette called “the Bessie.”  This year’s shortlist, announced at the  London Book Fair 
today, embraces themes as varied as global warming,
multiculturalism and destiny.  In “NW” (Hamish Hamilton), Smith tells the story of four
childhood friends raised in northwest  London . The protagonists,
now in their 30s, find their lives have diverged markedly yet
the city still finds ways to bring them back together.  This is Smith’s fourth novel. Her first two were both
finalists for the prize and she won with her third, “On
Beauty,” in 2006.  Kingsolver took the 2010 award for “The Lacuna.” Her
latest, “Flight Behavior” (Faber), opens as a restless wife
and mother hikes into the Appalachian Mountains for an illicit
assignation with a younger man.  She’s stopped in her tracks by what she deems a cautionary
miracle -- a vision -- and turns out to be an enormous cloud of
monarch butterflies, led off course by  climate change .  In the pages that follow, she faces truths about her
marriage, her community and her ambitions.  Booker, Costa  The other finalists include Mantel’s bestseller “Bring Up
the Bodies” (Fourth Estate), which has already become the first
novel to win both the Man  Booker Prize  and the Costa Book of the
Year Award.  Kate Atkinson’s “Life After Life” (Doubleday), A.M.
Homes’s “May We Be Forgiven” (Granta) and Maria Semple’s
“Where’d You Go, Bernadette” (Weidenfeld) complete the list.  In a news release, actor Miranda Richardson, chairwoman of
the judges, commended “six tremendous writers at the top of
their game.” She said: “Their individual novels are flawlessly
presented, they contain a heady mix of ideas and without
exception take the reader on a unique and deeply satisfying
journey.”  While the winner’s cash purse and trophy have always been
endowed by an anonymous benefactor, last year marked the end of
the prize’s long relationship with its founding sponsor, the
telecommunications corporation Orange.  This year’s prize is privately sponsored by a group of
companies and individuals including  Cherie Blair , Martha Lane Fox, and  Bloomberg News ’s parent company, Bloomberg LP.  The winner will be revealed at a ceremony in the Royal
Festival Hall at London’s Southbank Centre on June 5. An
announcement confirming a new headline sponsor for 2014 and
beyond will be made before then.  Previous recipients have included Madeline Miller for “The
Song of Achilles,” Tea Obreht for “The Tiger’s Wife,” and
 Marilynne Robinson  for “Home.”  Muse highlights include  Laurie Muchnick  and  Mark Beech  on
books,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S.
theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 