-- Boston Attack Leads Sports-Event Insurers to Reassess Business
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-17T04:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/marathon-bombing-has-sports-event-insurers-reassessing-business.html
The  Boston Marathon bombings  may
cause a surge in the cost of insuring global sporting events,
while changing the way organizers manage risk, according to Bob
Murphy, global entertainment and events practice leader at  Marsh
& McLennan Cos. (MMC) ’s Marsh Inc.  “This has absolutely shaken sports industry
underwriters,” Murphy said in a telephone interview. “People
are asking, ‘Do we even want to underwrite these events? If we
do, what are the underwriting data that we need to see to
protect our risk? We’re going to have ramifications in terms of
limits and pricing.”’  While event planners and risk managers reevaluated
protections at arenas and stadiums after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks on the U.S., the marathon is designed as an
open festival, similar to a parade and hard to secure across its
26.2-mile (42.2-kilometer) course, Murphy said. Two powerful
explosions disrupted the 117th edition of the  Boston  race two
days ago, killing at least three people and injuring more than
175, about 2 1/2 hours after Lelisa Desisa of  Ethiopia  crossed
the finish line to win the men’s title.  Policies are likely to become more expensive for sports
events because of their high concentration of people, said Mike
Price, president of Atlanta-based  ESIX , an entertainment and
sports insurance company that works with USA Track and Field
among other clients and has in the past worked with the Boston
Marathon. Price wouldn’t disclose whether ESIX and the Boston
race currently are working together.  Terrorism Coverage  The events of Sept. 11 led insurance companies to exclude
terrorism coverage, causing air carriers to complain that they
were unable to operate under those conditions, said Price. U.S.
terrorism coverage is now essentially backed by the federal
government and considered an exclusion that event organizers
have to elect in their coverage terms, he said.  That cost, now less that 5 percent of most policies, will
rise and the list of organizations considering terrorism
coverage will expand from the big leagues to smaller events,
said Price.  “It’s going to filter down,” Price said in a telephone
interview. “Already I’ve gotten calls from smaller
organizations this morning that are saying, ‘Wow, what about us?
Have we got exposure?”’  Steve Lastoe, the founder of New York-based foot race
organizer and race-management service  NYCRuns , was volunteering
at the start line in Hopkinton two mornings ago when a bomb
squad went by to sweep the area.  “I was surprised,” Lastoe, whose company runs three
marathons and several shorter races in the New York area, said
in a telephone interview. “I hadn’t thought about it before, to
be honest with you. When we worry about safety, we worry about
medical safety.”  Prohibitive Cost  The additional costs of terrorism coverage could be
prohibitive, said Price.  “It could easily force a lot of smaller operators out of
business,” he said in a telephone interview. “There are tons
of events out there that have no idea that there is no terrorism
coverage in place.”  Scott Dickey, president and chief executive of  Competitor
Group Inc. , which owns and operates more than 83 events around
the world including the Rock ‘N’ Roll Marathon Series and the
Women’s Running Series, said any public event has risks and
insurers won’t abandon endurance sports, where participation is
at an all-time high.  “That’s just hogwash,” he said. “Underwriters are not
walking away from marathons.”  Lessons Learned  Murphy said his industry had already begun using lessons
from Boston to improve safety at sports events, parades or
concerts.  “There’s no choice but to take the lessons learned and
improve from a risk management standpoint,” he said. “There
will be a Boston Marathon in 2014. There’s no doubt about it.
And my guess is, there will be a record number of
participants.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  