-- Marfrig Bonds, Shares Tumble on Speculation Covenant Broken
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-04-16T22:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/marfrig-bonds-shares-tumble-on-speculation-debt-covenant-broken.html
Bonds issued by  Marfrig Alimentos
SA (MRFG3) , the most indebted meatpacker in the Americas, posted the
biggest drop since 2011 and shares plunged on speculation it
broke a covenant on local debt.  The company’s dollar bonds due 2016 dropped 5.60 cents to
94.23 cents on the dollar at 5:46 p.m. in  New York , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest drop since
October 2011. Yields on the notes soared 1.96 percentage points
to 11.64 percent. Marfrig said in a statement after markets
closed that it “vehemently” denies any covenants were
breached.  Concern that the Sao Paulo-based company has failed to
comply with a local bond covenant setting maximum debt leverage
ratios is undermining investor confidence, according to Marco Aurelio de Sa, the head of fixed-income trading at Credit
Agricole SA’s Miami brokerage unit.  A press official for Marfrig didn’t respond to a telephone
call and e-mail seeking comment.  “The company is still highly leveraged,” Henrique Koch,
an analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , said in an phone interview
from  Sao Paulo . “They’re always looking for alternatives, and
it seems they’re not being very successful.”  The shares  slumped  4.1 percent to 6.28 reais.  ‘Speculative Attack’  Marfrig said in the filing that rumors about the company
were spreading as part of “a speculative attack driven by
certain market agents that seek to confuse the market to obtain
financial gains.”  “The company vehemently refutes that there was any breach
of financial covenants,” according to the filing. “Management
reaffirms its strong commitment to reducing the company’s debt
levels and making operational improvements to add value to its
shareholders.”  Marfrig hired executives from Cargill Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG over the past five months as it seeks to sell assets and
cut costs following an acquisition spree that drove debt levels
up eightfold in five years.  Marfrig’s  net debt  rose to 9.2 billion reais in the fourth
quarter, or 4.3 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, from 3.9 times in the previous
quarter, Marfrig said in its earnings report last month. It had
a shortfall from operations after financial expenses, or
negative free  cash flow , of $1.1 billion in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  