-- Arkansas Medicaid-Private Insurance Proposal Passes in House
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-16T16:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/arkansas-medicaid-private-insurance-proposal-passes-in-house.html
An  Arkansas  proposal to use
Medicaid money to buy private insurance for poor residents was
passed by the House, a move that may help efforts for health-
care overhaul in states with Republican-led legislatures.  Seventy-seven lawmakers voted for the legislation today,
while 23 opposed it, surpassing the 75 votes needed for approval
of a bill enabling spending for health care. The same measure
had failed to achieve the votes yesterday, prompting House
Speaker Davy Carter, a Republican, to seek another vote.  “Arkansas now leads the nation with a conservative
alternative to the policy forced upon us by the federal
government,” Carter said in a statement.  Governor Mike Beebe, a Democrat, received informal approval
Feb. 18 from the federal government to use money for Medicaid
expansion under President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act to
instead buy private coverage. The measure now goes to the state
Senate.  “Many states were considering following suit depending on
the Arkansas vote,” Robert Field, a Drexel University law
professor who specializes in health-care policy, said in an
interview before today’s vote. “It was hopeful that Arkansas
would be a middle course by expanding Medicaid and making it
work with Obamacare, but reassuring conservatives it was more of
a private-sector approach.”  Late-Night Lobbying  Representative Nate Bell, a Republican, said on the House
floor that late-night lobbying by groups favoring the plan had
left some legislators in tears because of what he called
intimidation.  Other Republican legislators denounced the Obama
administration’s health-care overhaul while explaining their
support for the Arkansas approach.  “It’s time to turn the corner and be in the game,” Mark Biviano, a Republican, said before the vote.  The Arkansas House is made up of 51 Republicans and 48
Democrats and one Green Party member, while the Senate has 21
Republicans and 14 Democrats.  The federal government has been forced to build part or all
of the health-insurance exchanges in 34 states where governors
or legislatures declined to do it themselves. The exchanges are
supposed to open on Oct. 1.  Insurers specializing in Medicaid coverage jumped in  New
York  trading after the vote, erasing earlier losses.
Indianapolis-based  WellPoint (WLP) , the biggest private Medicaid
provider, rose 3 percent to $70.34 at 12:10 p.m.  WellCare Health
Plans Inc. (WCG) , based in Tampa,  Florida , gained 2.3 percent to
$59.80.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  