-- Arsenal Ties Everton in Matchup of Champions League Aspirants
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-17T00:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/arsenal-draws-0-0-with-everton-in-english-premier-league-soccer.html
Arsenal missed a chance to
strengthen its grip on a top-four finish in English soccer’s
Premier League with a 0-0 home draw against Everton.  Olivier Giroud and Santi Cazorla went closest to scoring at
the Emirates Stadium last night for Arsenal, which had won its
previous four games to move above London rivals Tottenham and
Chelsea in the race for  Champions League  qualification.  The Gunners stayed in third place with 60 points, two more
than Chelsea and Spurs, and four more than Everton in sixth. The
top three in the standings qualify for the group stage of
Europe’s elite club competition, while the fourth-place team
enters a playoff.  “We have 60 points and I believe, against Everton, we
dropped two,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said in a news
conference. “If we win our coming games we’ll get there. The
other teams have 58 with a game in hand but they play each other.
I’m confident we’ll do it.”  Arsenal and Everton, which extended its unbeaten league run
to six matches last night, have played 33 of 38 games. Tottenham
has six matches left and Chelsea seven ahead of its visit to
Fulham tonight, when both Manchester clubs also play.  Premier League leader Manchester United, which has a 15-
point advantage over defending champion  Manchester City  atop the
standings, travels to West Ham United, while City hosts Wigan
Athletic in a matchup of next month’s F.A. Cup finalists.  Everton manager  David Moyes  said last night’s draw means
his team will probably have to win all its remaining matches to
have a chance of qualifying for next season’s Champions League.  ‘Rank Outsiders’  “The games are running out now so it’s harder and harder
for us to get into the top four,” Moyes told the British
Broadcasting Corp. “Probably we will get talked about at the
end of conversations about the Champions League as we are rank
outsiders. But there’s no shame in getting a draw here.”  Following a first half in which Everton’s  Steven Pienaar 
fired over the crossbar and Giroud missed from close range,
Cazorla forced visiting goalkeeper  Tim Howard  into a save four
minutes after the interval.  Everton midfielder Ross Barkley went close with a curling
right-foot shot before teammate  Seamus Coleman ’s last-ditch
intervention cleared the ball as Giroud prepared to tap in Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain’s cross in the 78th minute.  “It was two points that got away,” Arsenal midfielder
 Mikel Arteta  told the  BBC . “It was a big battle and we had the
better chances and better play. We were unlucky not to score.
There is a lot to play for, if Everton won they were right in
the mix.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  