-- Asia Dollar Bond Sales Pause Amid China Economic Growth Concerns
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-16T07:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/asia-dollar-bond-sales-pause-amid-china-economic-growth-concerns.html
Asian borrowers refrained from
marketing U.S. dollar-denominated bonds today amid concern a
slowdown in  China  will curb the global recovery. Debt risk rose.  Offerings in Asia outside of Japan have stalled this week
after a record $8.3 billion was sold in the previous five
business days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost
of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in the region against
non-payment is set for its highest close since April 10,
according to credit-default swap traders.  Gross domestic product  in China rose 7.7 percent in the
first quarter, less than economists had forecast and its longest
streak of expansion below 8 percent in at least 20 years, data
released yesterday in Beijing showed. The  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index (MXAP)  of stocks slid for a second day after the worst plunge in
gold futures since 1980, weaker U.S. data and a series of deadly
explosions near the Boston Marathon’s finish line.  “I doubt we’ll see any primary U.S. dollar deals today,
but that’s not down to the Boston bombings,” said Mark Reade, a
Hong Kong-based credit desk analyst at Credit Agricole CIB.
“While tragic, the bombings are unlikely to have a major market
impact, a bigger factor overnight was the series of weak
economic data out of China and the U.S.”  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s  general economic
index  dropped to 3.1 this month from 9.2 in March. The median
projection of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 7.  San Miguel  Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, cut
his forecast for China’s growth from 8.6 percent to 8.2 percent
this year. The slower expansion means less of a boost for other
Asian economies,  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic
research at the lender, wrote in an e-mailed note today.
Relatively high dependence on Chinese demand leaves Korea,
Singapore and Australia particularly prone to “downside
risks,” he wrote.  Borrowers planning note sales in the U.S. currency include
 Minmetals Land Ltd. (230) , a Chinese developer, and  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) ,
the largest Philippine food and drinks company, according to
people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the details are private.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan advanced 2 basis points to 117 basis
points as of 8:18 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index increased 3.5 basis points to
93.5 as of 9:48 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche Bank AG
prices. The benchmark is set for its biggest one-day rise since
March 27, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 2 basis points to
115.5 basis points as of 10:11 a.m. in Sydney, according to
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices. The measure is poised to close at
its highest level since April 8, CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  