-- Asia Stocks Fall After China Sparks Global Growth Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-16T10:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/asia-stocks-fall-after-china-sparks-global-growth-concern.html
Asian  stocks  fell, dragging the
regional benchmark equities gauge lower for a second day, led by
raw-material producers amid concern slower growth in  China  will
curb the global economic recovery.  Glencore International Plc (805) , the world’s biggest publicly
traded commodities supplier, dropped 3.6 percent in Hong Kong.
Daphne International Holdings Ltd. slumped 8.1 percent after the
Chinese shoemaker reported first-quarter sales declined.
Softbank Corp. sank 6.8 percent after  Dish Network  Corp. topped
the Japanese wireless carrier’s bid for control of Sprint Nextel
Corp., the No. 3 mobile-phone company in the U.S.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.4 percent to 136.43 as
of 7:43 p.m. in  Tokyo , paring an earlier loss of as much as 1
percent. About five shares fell for every four that rose. The
gauge retreated yesterday from the highest level in 20 months
after reports showed Chinese growth and industrial production
expanded less than economists estimated and gold plunged the
most since 1983.  “The Chinese economy is heading toward slower growth than
what we’ve seen in the past decade, which means it’s a lot less
investment-intensive with less demand for commodities,” said
Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic asset allocation at
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages $126 billion. “We’ve
reduced our equity exposure in the short-term as economic data
show signs of softening. The market needs to correct at least 10
percent.”  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  lost 0.4 percent.
Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  fell 0.3 percent and New Zealand’s
NZX 50 Index retreated 0.6 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
slipped 0.5 percent after falling as much as 1.4 percent.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.6 percent, reversing
losses of as much as 0.7 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index
added 0.1 percent.  Relative Value  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  gained 0.5 percent. The gauge
dropped 2.3 percent yesterday, the biggest decline since
November, after the China gross domestic product report. U.S.
stocks extended losses as explosions rocked the finish-line area
of the Boston Marathon. Almost all of the drop came before the
incident. Three people were killed and at least 128
hospitalized, police said.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 5.9 percent this year
through yesterday amid signs the  U.S. economy  is recovering and
as Japanese equities rallied on speculation the  Bank of Japan 
will step up efforts to stimulate its economy. Shares on the
gauge traded at 13.9 times average estimated earnings compared
with 14 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.5 times for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Indiscriminate Sell-off  “Brace yourselves today,” said Evan Lucas, a market
strategist at IG Markets Ltd., a provider of trading services in
 Melbourne . “The sell-off will be sharp and indiscriminate, loss
will be across the board, not even the defensives will escape
the flight to safety today.”  Only three of the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index advanced. Raw-material producers and energy
companies posted the  biggest decline  amid concern demand from
China, the world’s biggest consumer of metals and fuel, will
drop as economic growth slows.  Glencore dropped 3.6 percent to HK$38.70 in  Hong Kong .
Cnooc Ltd., China’s No. 1 offshore oil producer, slipped 1.9
percent to HK$13.48. Newcrest Mining Ltd., Australia’s largest
gold producer, sank 5.1 percent to A$17 in Sydney.  Calibre Group Ltd. (CGH) , which provides engineering services to
mining and infrastructure companies, slipped 1.2 percent to an
all-time low of A$0.415, extending its decline for a sixth day.
The company last week lowered its full-year net profit forecast
after clients delayed a number of projects on softening demand
for  iron ore  and coal.  Softbank, Sharp  Softbank, Japan’s third-largest mobile-phone company,
declined 6.8 percent to 4,365 yen in Tokyo. Dish Network offered
$25.5 billion for control of Sprint, sparking concerns the
Japanese wireless carrier may raise its own bid.  Sharp Corp., the maker of Aquos liquid-crystal display
televisions, slid 3.2 percent to 358 yen. The company canceled a
plan to sell its TV factory in Mexico after failing to agree on
terms of the deal with Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the
Nikkan Kogyo reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Daphne (210)  slipped 8.1 percent to HK$8.72, the second-biggest
decliner on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The company said first-
quarter same-store sales dropped 2.5 percent from a year earlier
after rising 2 percent in the previous three months.  Ascendas Real Estate Investment Trust (AREIT) , a Singapore-based
industrial landlord, dropped 4.2 percent to S$2.74, heading for
its biggest decline since September 2010. Credit Suisse Group AG
cut its rating on the stock to underperform from neutral, citing
a more challenging operating environment. Deutsche Bank AG
lowered its rating to hold from buy.  New Drug  Among stocks that rose, Shionogi & Co., the Japanese maker
of the Crestor cholesterol pill, jumped 5.5 percent to 2,147
yen. Bank of America Corp.’s Merill Lynch recommended investors
buy the stock, saying Osphena, a new drug for treating post-
menopausal women suffering from painful sex, will boost the
company’s earnings.  Celltrion Inc., the maker of Abatacept used in treating
arthritis, climbed 5.1 percent to 49,800 won in  Seoul . Chairman
Seo Jung-Jin plans to sell his stake in the South Korean drug
maker to a multi-national pharmaceutical company, Celltrion said
in a statement today.     To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  