-- Atlas Pipeline to Buy Teak Midstream for $1 Billion in Cash
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-04-16T22:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/atlas-pipeline-to-buy-teak-midstream-for-1-billion-in-cash-1-.html
Atlas Pipeline Partners LP (APL) , the
energy company that has  quadrupled  in value since 2010, agreed
to acquire closely held Teak Midstream LLC for $1 billion in
cash.  Teak gathers and processes natural gas in the Eagle Ford
Shale of south Texas, the company said in a statement today.  Atlas, based in Moon Township, Pennsylvania, will take over
540 miles (869 kilometers) of gathering pipelines, an existing
200 million cubic-foot-per-day treatment plant and a similar-
sized plant that is under construction, according to the
statement.  It will also own 50 percent to 70 percent of Teak’s joint
venture with TexStar Midstream Services LP, whose assets include
235 miles of pipeline and a co-generation plant.  The  Eagle Ford Shale  is a dense rock formation that
stretches 400 miles by 50 miles across South Texas. Companies
including  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) 
produced 374,000 barrels of oil from the field in January and
1.2 billion cubic feet of gas, according to state regulators.
Teak also has operations in Louisiana and Kansas.  The purchase will boost Atlas’s earnings before interest,
taxes deductions and amortization to as much as $500 million in
2014, according to the statement.  Atlas may be able to triple the Teak system’s size, Chief
Executive Officer Eugene Dubay said in the statement.  Atlas Pipeline Chairman Edward Cohen was CEO of a
predecessor company,  Atlas Energy (ATLS)  Inc., which Chevron Corp.
acquired for about $3.6 billion in 2011.  Matthew Skelly, Atlas’s vice president for investor
relations, didn’t immediately return a voice mail seeking
comment.  Citigroup was Atlas Pipeline’s financial adviser on its
purchase of Teak. Jones Day and Ledgewood provided legal advice.
Teak was advised by  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Tina Davis in  New York  at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  