-- Australia Court Allows Horse-Sex Rules Challenger Appeal
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-04-16T05:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/australia-court-allows-horse-sex-rules-challenger-appeal.html
An Australian judge allowed a
proponent of artificial insemination to breed thoroughbred
racehorses to appeal a ruling upholding an international ban,
overruling objections to the late filing of the challenge.  Federal Court Justice Peter Jacobson in Sydney today ruled
a six-week delay in the filing of a notice of appeal wasn’t
enough to bar the request as the case involves issues “of
significance to the thoroughbred industry.”  Bruce McHugh, a former chairman of a Sydney racing club,
sued thoroughbred authorities to legalize the use of artificial
insemination, arguing the ban on the practice was an illegal
trade restraint as he seeks to start a breeding business.
Federal Court Justice Alan Robertson dismissed the bid Dec. 19,
upholding an international ban that has been in effect since at
least the 1940s.  Under federal court rules, McHugh had until Jan. 31 to file
his notice of appeal.  The combination of Christmas holidays, a monthlong
Australian summer vacation period in January, the review of
Robertson’s 369-page judgment, retirement of the trial lawyer
and the need to get a second attorney’s opinion didn’t provide
enough time to file the required papers, McHugh’s lawyer Jason
Lazarus argued in court today.  Robertson took a year to release the judgment, following a
seven-week trial and a six-week delay to Mar. 15, when McHugh
was ready to file the notice of appeal was “insignificant,”
Lazarus said.  The explanation for the delay was “manifestly
inadequate,” Christian Bova, lawyer for the Australian Turf
Club, said, urging the judge to reject the request.  ‘Draconian’ Consequences  Consequences of a rejection for McHugh would be
“draconian,” while the explanation for the delay is adequate,
Jacobson said in his ruling from the bench, agreeing to provide
the extension.  International rules, including those in  Australia , require
racehorses must have physical sex for their foals to be
considered thoroughbreds.  The suit threatened to upset traditions behind
horseracing’s appeal to kings, queens, sheikhs and billionaires,
according to Tony Bannon, attorney who had defended the
Australian Turf Club at trial.  The law required that the plaintiff must show trade
restraint was unreasonable when it was established for it to be
illegal. Since the rule was imposed many decades ago, it was
reasonable at that time, Robertson ruled.  Trade Restraint  The judge’s ruling failed to take into account advances in
technology and restraint of trade can’t be indefinite, Lazarus
said, indicating some of the reasons for McHugh’s appeal.  The multibillion-dollar thoroughbred breeding industry sees
the world’s most-prized horses being sent around the globe by
their owners, including Dubai’s ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, as so-called shuttle stallions to physically mate.  Fees  for a mating have exceeded $330,000, according to
 breednet.com , an industry website in Australia, the world’s
biggest thoroughbred racing jurisdiction after the U.S.  McHugh claimed the rule requiring horses to have physical
sex makes breeding expensive and dangerous and prevents him from
getting into the business.  He is former chairman of the Sydney Turf Club, which last
year merged with the Australian  Jockey Club  to become the
Australian Turf Club.  The case is Bruce McHugh v the Australian Jockey Club Ltd.
NSD455/2013. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  