-- Austria Plans to Keep Withholding Tax in Bank Secrecy Talks
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-04-16T17:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/austria-plans-to-keep-withholding-tax-in-bank-secrecy-talks.html
Austria ’s government coalition said
it was united in its goals to protect the country’s bank-secrecy
rules while improving the exchange of tax data with other
European Union countries.  Chancellor Werner Faymann and Vice Chancellor Michael Spindelegger, speaking today at their weekly joint press
conference following the government meeting, said they want to
retain the system of a withholding tax on interest and protect
confidentiality rules for residents, while working with other
nations against tax cheats. They played down impressions of a
split following a weekend when Finance Minister Maria Fekter
defied EU pressure on Austria to lift its secrecy laws.  “Our goal is to cooperate so that there are no tax
cheaters who park their money in Austria,” Spindelegger said,
according to a summary distributed by his conservative  People’s
Party . “Austria is not a tax haven,” he said. Faymann added
that Austria would also work with Luxembourg, the other holdout
nation that has sought exceptions from the EU’s crackdown on
bank secrecy.  While Austria’s bank secrecy has been weakened since fully
anonymous savings books were abolished 11 years ago, it is still
a popular right that’s based on the country’s constitution.
While it hasn’t attracted deposits from abroad to the same tune
as Luxembourg’s mutual fund industry and Cyprus’s low taxes,
Germany in particular has expressed frustration with its
southern neighbor’s refusal to share names of German depositors.  Opposition Alliance  Austria and Luxembourg had both opposed draft EU rules that
would allow an automatic exchange of data among tax authorities
in EU countries. That alliance broke down last week when
Luxembourg dropped its opposition and said it planned to take
part in the data exchange from 2015.  Austrian banks had 53.2 billion euros ($70.1 billion) in
foreign deposits at the end of January, equivalent to about 15
percent of all deposits, according to the Austrian central bank.
About two-thirds of the foreign deposits came from EU countries.  Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG Chief Executive
Officer Walter Rothensteiner, who is also the president of the
country’s bank lobby, joined other Austrian bank chiefs today in
playing down the importance of the secrecy laws for the
companies’ core business.  “The bank secrecy is more a question of consumer
protection than a real issue for the banks,” Rothensteiner told
journalists today. He hadn’t observed deposit withdrawals due to
the debate, he added.  “The trust of the savers into the banks is still intact
despite all efforts to the contrary,” he said.  Austria charges a withholding tax of 35 percent on interest
income from non-residents, compared with 25 percent for
residents. It shares that revenue with the home countries of the
non-residents.  Germany  was the biggest recipient of such taxes
from Austria, with 47.2 million euros in 2010, the latest data
available on the Austrian finance ministry’s website show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  