-- Australian Bonds Remain Higher After RBA Repeats Rate-Cut Scope
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-04-16T06:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/australian-bonds-rise-before-minutes-aussie-dollar-stays-lower.html
Australia’s government bonds rose,
sending three-year yields to an 11-week low, as investors added
to bets the central bank will cut  interest rates .  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  reiterated in the minutes
released today of its meeting this month that the inflation
outlook gives it room to cut borrowing costs and that the
Australian dollar “remained high.” The Australian dollar’s
one-month implied volatility against the greenback rose to the
most in seven weeks as investors weighed how the country will
cope with a slowing global economy.  “There will be some consolidation in the Aussie after a
big move yesterday, but risk appetite has been severely hurt
from the combination of weaker Chinese and U.S data,” said
Derek Mumford, a director at Rochford Capital, a currency risk-
management company in Sydney. “The short end of the curve has
been very volatile over the past couple of months. Interest-rate
expectation in  Australia  has turned.”  Australia’s government bonds rose, pushing the three-year
yields down by as much as six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point to 2.681 percent, a level unseen since Jan. 24. Two-year
rates touched 2.673 percent, the lowest since March 5. Ten-year
yields dropped to 3.182 percent, the least since Dec. 12.  The Aussie advanced 0.6 percent to $1.0379 as of 4:24 p.m.
in Sydney from yesterday, when it lost 1.9 percent, the biggest
drop since November 2011. The currency pair’s one-month implied
volatility touched 8.32 percent, the highest since Feb. 28. The
Australian dollar gained 1.4 percent to 101.27 yen from
yesterday, when it weakened 3.4 percent.  The  New Zealand  dollar, known as the kiwi, rallied 0.9
percent to 84.84 U.S. cents from yesterday, when it fell 2.1
percent, the biggest decline since November 2011. It climbed 1.8
percent to 82.80 yen.  Rate Expectations  “Interest-sensitive parts of the economy were responding
to the historically low levels of lending rates and it remained
likely that this had further to run,” the minutes of the RBA’s
April 2 meeting showed. “At the same time, the factors weighing
on the economy -- including the high  exchange rate , the waning
growth of mining investment, and fiscal consolidation -- were
likely to persist.”  The RBA held the cash target rate at 3 percent this month
after reducing borrowing costs in six steps for a total of 1.75
percentage points in the 14 months through December.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 33 percent chance the central bank will lower the
benchmark to a record 2.75 percent on May 7, up from a 17
percent chance indicted a week ago.  ‘Upward Pressure’  “The capital inflow to the resource sector to fund
investment, along with the increased purchases of government
debt, have been putting upward pressure on the currency,” RBA
Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  said in Canberra today. “At the
same time, the reduction in offshore borrowing by the banking
system has been putting downward pressure on it.”  In New Zealand, Finance Minister  Bill English  said the
local currency is overvalued. Many export companies face
challenges if the  New Zealand dollar  stays at 86 cents, English
said in response to questions in parliament today.  The kiwi touched 86.76 cents last week, the highest since
August 2011 when it had reached a post-float high of 88.43. New
Zealand paid out its biggest ever government bond maturity
totaling NZ$11.3 billion ($9.6 billion) yesterday. Yields on 10-
year New Zealand bond touched 3.27 percent today, the lowest
since July 27.  The so-called Aussie and Kiwi posted the biggest drops in
17 months yesterday after data showed economic growth in  China 
slowed and manufacturing in  New York  region expanded less than
analysts estimated.  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.7 percent in the
three months ended March 31 from a year earlier, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing yesterday. The figure was less than
the 8 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey and 7.9
percent growth in the fourth quarter.  In the U.S., the Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York’s  general
economic index  dropped to 3.1 this month from 9.2 in March. The
median projection of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  