-- FAA Near 787 Decision After Tests Finished, Huerta Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-16T21:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/automatic-cuts-jeopardize-flight-safety-rockefeller-says.html
The U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration will decide “very soon” whether to allow  Boeing
Co. (BA) ’s grounded 787 Dreamliner back in the air, Administrator
Michael Huerta said.  Huerta, speaking to reporters after a congressional hearing
on aviation safety, didn’t give a date for when the agency
expects to render a decision. Boeing’s newest model has been
grounded since Jan. 16, following a second incident in which a
lithium-ion battery on the aircraft overheated.  “The FAA is reviewing the test reports and analysis and
will approve the redesign once we are satisfied Boeing has shown
the redesigned battery system meets FAA requirements,” Huerta
said in his testimony.  The FAA also hasn’t decided how long to allow the 787 to
fly between airports on over-water routes, Huerta said. The
agency had allowed it to fly as many as 180 minutes from an
airport before the grounding.  Boeing has finished its tests of a new lithium-ion battery
that it says eliminates risks if batteries overheat, Huerta
said.  Senators also questioned Huerta about the FAA’s plan to
close 149 air-traffic towers run by contractors on June 15 under
the automatic government budget cuts known as sequestration. No
towers staffed by FAA-employed controllers will be closed before
Sept. 30.  The FAA must cut $637 million from its $16 billion budget
by Sept. 30. Because 70 percent of the agency’s spending is on
salaries and benefits, “they will bear a significant portion of
the cuts,” Huerta said.  Airline Impact  Senator Jay Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat who is
chairman of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee,
along with the committee’s senior Republican, John Thune of
South Dakota, sent a letter to the Department of Transportation
asking it to hold off closing the towers.  “I also share my colleagues’ frustration with the lack of
transparency on how the agency made this decision and how it
intends to implement the budget cuts,” Rockefeller said today.  The FAA decided to close the contract towers because less
than 1 percent of commercial passengers fly at those airports
and the agency wanted to limit the impact on airlines, Huerta
said.  The FAA also consulted with the military to ensure it
didn’t object to any of the tower closings, Huerta said. The
agency doesn’t plan to close any towers that sometimes help
guide flights going to airline hubs, he said.  “Well, you don’t give me a lot to report back to my 15
airports,” Senator Bill Nelson, a Florida Democrat, said after
questioning Huerta.  Other Impacts  Senators Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican, and Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat, have proposed legislation
that would prevent FAA from closing any towers through Sept. 30,
2014. The bill has 30 sponsors, they said in a press release
today.  Most of the FAA’s 47,000 employees will be required to take
at least one unpaid day off every two weeks from April 21
through Sept. 30, Huerta said. The agency won’t compromise
safety, Huerta said.  “As a result of employee furloughs and prolonged equipment
outages resulting from lower parts inventories and fewer
technicians, travelers should expect significant delays,” he
said.  The furloughs also will affect airlines, aircraft
manufacturers, repair facilities and pilots, because the agency
will have fewer resources to process licenses and grant other
approvals, he said.  Electronic Devices  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, at a separate House
hearing today, said the FAA won’t delay the contract-tower
closings any further. “We don’t have the money to keep the
towers open,” LaHood said. “We simply don’t.”  Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, urged Huerta
to end the FAA’s prohibition on using electronic devices such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad during some portions of airline flights.
McCaskill said she hasn’t been able to find experts who say
using such devices is dangerous.  “This is a great example of a rule that is arbitrary,”
she said.  An FAA committee is exploring options to allow expanded use
of devices on flights, Huerta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  