-- Bank of China, BoCom Change Top Managers as Reshuffle Continues
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-16T01:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/bank-of-china-bocom-change-top-managers-as-reshuffle-continues.html
Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
fourth-biggest lender, appointed a new party secretary while
 Bank of Communications Co. ’s chairman resigned as China changes
managers at state-owned financial institutions.  Tian Guoli, former vice chairman of Citic Group, was listed
on Beijing-based Bank of China’s website as party secretary
yesterday, paving the way for him to become chairman. Hu Huaibang, who had led Bank of Communications since 2008,
resigned due to “the demands of national financial work,” the
country’s fifth-largest lender said in a statement yesterday.  The changes come as part of a once-a-decade leadership
transition that also saw the breakup of the Railway Ministry,
the nomination of a new finance minister and  Zhou Xiaochuan ’s
reappointment as central bank governor. Tian, 52, will take over
the only Chinese lender included in the Financial Stability
Board’s global list of 28 systemically important financial
institutions.  Hu, 57, will replace  Chen Yuan  as chairman of Beijing-based
China  Development Bank  Corp., the world’s largest policy bank,
two people familiar with the matter said on April 12. The 68-
year-old Chen, son of one of Communist China’s founding fathers,
will help set up a new development bank for the BRICS countries,
which group China with Brazil, Russia, India and  South Africa ,
Caixin reported on April 11.  Overseas Operations  Founded in 1912 by Sun Yat-sen, known as the father of
modern China,  Bank of China  held a monopoly on the nation’s
foreign-exchange dealings and overseas banking from 1949 to
1994. The lender today has the biggest overseas operations of
any Chinese bank, accounting for about 23 percent of its assets
at the end of December, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Under former Chairman Xiao Gang, who resigned on March 17
to become chairman of China Securities Regulatory Commission,
Bank of China steered through the global economic crisis to
report record  profits .  Tian has also served since May 2011 as chairman of  China
Citic Bank Corp. (998) , which last month reported a 0.7 percent gain
in 2012 profit, the weakest among the nine mainland lenders
traded in  Hong Kong , as bad loan charges surged. At Bank of
China, non-performing loans dropped to 0.95 percent of the total
from 1 percent, helping profit beat estimates.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  