-- Banking Risks Spur Talk of 20% Buffers in Sweden
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-04-16T13:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/banking-risks-spur-talk-of-20-buffers-in-sweden-nordic-credit.html
Sweden ’s economic elite are
debating whether governments with oversized bank industries need
to demand even tougher capital standards than those agreed after
the latest wave of regulatory tightening.  Sweden’s requirement that its four biggest banks set aside
at least 10 percent in core Tier 1 capital of risk-weighted
assets this year, and a minimum of 12 percent from 2015, marks
one of  Europe ’s most stringent regulatory overhauls. Yet some of
the nation’s most influential economists now argue those rules
may be too weak to protect the economy from losses.  “Ideally, the capital requirements for banks should be
raised substantially,” Assar Lindbeck, a research fellow at the
Research Institute of Industrial Economics, said yesterday in an
interview. Lindbeck is one of the main architects behind
Sweden’s budget surplus rule and a former chairman of the Nobel
Economics Foundation that selects laureates every October. He
says a capital buffer as high as 20 percent might be called for.  While AAA Sweden boasts a  debt level  that’s less than half
the euro-area average, the government should consider relying
less on borrowed funds to guard against financial risks, Hans Lindblad, director-general of the debt office in Stockholm, said
last week. Nations with large bank systems are particularly at
risk, he said. In Sweden, the four biggest banks have combined
assets more than four times the nation’s $500 billion economy.  Cutting Forecasts  Finance Minister Anders Borg, who yesterday cut Sweden’s
2014 economic forecast to adjust to a bleaker outlook in the
euro area, said the European Union’s rule limiting debt to 60
percent of gross domestic product is a meaningful target only if
it’s not breached during a financial crisis.  After three years of fiscal turmoil, only five of the euro
area’s 17 member states will comply with the bloc’s 60 percent
debt rule this year, according European Commission estimates
published Feb. 22.  Germany ’s debt will reach 80.7 percent, while
the euro area’s average will swell to 95.1 percent of GDP.
 Greece ’s debt burden will be almost three times the bloc’s
targeted limit, at 175.6 percent, the commission estimates.  Commission data also show euro-zone governments have
injected 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) into their banking
systems since 2008 as the fates of nations depended on the
survival of their financial industries.  Spreads Widen  Sweden’s benchmark 10-year note yields about 41 basis
points more than benchmark German notes, widening from 21 basis
points at the start of the year.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s 4.625 percent
euro note maturing in 2022 yields about 202 basis points more
than the euro government benchmark curve, little changed from
the start of the year.  Borg, who this week cut Sweden’s economic growth estimate
by 0.8 percentage point to 2.2 percent for 2014, said yesterday
40 percent of GDP is a safer debt threshold than 60 percent for
nations with large bank industries.  Sluggish economic growth means the government of Prime
Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt will post a budget deficit in both
2013 and 2014, Borg said. The shortfall will reach 1.6 percent
of GDP this year and narrow to 1 percent in 2014. Sweden’s
budget will be in balance in 2015, he said.  “We should have a debt with a significant safety margin,”
Borg said yesterday. “We should be a banking crisis and a weak
economy away from 60 percent debt.”  Job Losses  The government isn’t planning additional measures to reduce
debt as it focuses on creating jobs, Borg also said. While debt
should come down “at some point,” the government can’t cut its
borrowing when unemployment is still high, he said. Sweden’s
 jobless rate  will average 8.4 percent this year, the highest in
Scandinavia.  Sweden’s total debt burden, including borrowing by
municipalities, will reach 42 percent of GDP this year, the
Finance Ministry estimates. Debt will ease to 41.8 percent of
GDP next year and 39.5 percent in 2015, it said. Debt by that
measure was 38.2 percent in 2012.  According to Lindbeck, much of the work to protect
taxpayers from banking industry risks should be done through
stricter capital rules and curbs on investor rewards.  “I can imagine the possibility of putting a stop to
dividends for a couple of years to build up capital buffers to
between 15 percent and 20 percent,” he said. “That may
possibly raise interest rates, but we have to accept that. It’s
much worse if we end up with a banking crisis.”  Haven Trade  Sweden, which emerged as a haven from the current wave of
global turmoil, is determined to avoid a repeat of the nation’s
1990s crisis that ended with the nationalization of two of its
biggest banks. After global financial markets went into a panic
at the end of 2008, Sweden introduced a 1.5 trillion-krona ($235
billion) government guarantee program to secure funding for its
banks.  Of Sweden’s biggest lenders, only  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  used the
guarantees while SEB AB signed up for the program without using
it. Both banks suffered record loan losses from their units in
the Baltic states when housing bubbles led to Europe’s deepest
economic declines in Latvia, Estonia and  Lithuania  in 2009.  Banks have so far amassed more capital than the regulatory
minimum. Nordea’s core Tier 1 capital ratio reached 13.1 percent
of risk-weighted assets at the end of last year, while
Swedbank’s was 17.4 percent and SEB’s was 15.1 percent.  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  had a ratio of 18.4 percent in the final three
months of 2012. The results put Sweden’s biggest banks at the
top of capital rankings in the EU. Even those levels may still
leave room for losses, given the unstable nature of banking,
Lindbeck said.  “The banking business is risky since it lends other
people’s money and you then need a sizable buffer,” Lindbeck
said. “It’s a misconstruction in the world’s banking system
that they’re working with so little capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  