-- Venezuelan Bonds Tumble as Anti-Maduro Protests Leave Seven Dead
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-04-16T20:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/barclays-cuts-venezuelan-debt-on-gridlock-concern-after-election.html
Venezuelan bonds plunged the most
in 15 years as seven people died in street protests demanding a
vote recount of President-elect Nicolas Maduro’s victory, adding
to concern that instability will undermine the economy.  The country’s bonds due in 2027 dropped 6.9 cents to 91.21
cents on the dollar at 4:26 p.m. in New York as Maduro said he
will use a “firm hand” to prevent violence and stands ready to
radicalize  Venezuela ’s revolution. The decline was the biggest
since August 1998. The yield rose 95 basis points, or 0.95
percentage point, to 10.44 percent, the highest since November.  “What we’re seeing is political chaos and political
crisis,” Kathryn Rooney Vera, a strategist at Bulltick Capital
Markets, said in a telephone interview from Miami. “The bond
market doesn’t like that.”  Maduro, handpicked by Hugo Chavez to succeed him weeks
before his March 5 death, pledged to block a march planned by
the opposition contesting his April 14 victory over Henrique Capriles Radonski after the public prosecutor said seven people
were killed in protests. Capriles urged supporters to take to
the streets with him tomorrow to press the electoral council in
Caracas to recount all ballots.  Maduro was declared the winner after receiving 50.8 percent
of the votes, compared with 49 percent for Capriles. The margin
of victory was the narrowest in Venezuela since 1968.  National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello said no
recount of the 15 million votes cast would occur and that Maduro
will be sworn in April 19.  “The margin wasn’t as wide as we had expected, and now
they think the moment has arrived for a coup,” Maduro told
reporters yesterday in Caracas. “They are trying to inflame
hate and have succeeded with some in the middle class.”  Coup Attempts  The cost of insuring Venezuela’s debt against default for
five years surged 103 basis points to 832 basis points after
rising 41 basis points yesterday. The yield on Petroleos de
Venezuela SA bonds maturing in 2017 increased 121 basis points
to 10.62 percent.  Venezuela has stepped up security at its oil infrastructure
sites, Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said in a national address.  “In light of violence the ultra-right has tried to impose
on the country, we declared a yellow alert at all our
installations,” Ramirez said.  In 2002, Chavez was overthrown for two days after
opposition street protests turned violent in Caracas. A decade
earlier, Chavez became a national figure when he led military
rebels in a failed coup against President Carlos Andres Perez.  Maduro, a former union leader who served as Chavez’s
foreign minister for six years, campaigned on a pledge to extend
Chavez’s brand of socialism in South America’s largest oil
producer.  Chavez Nationalizations  Chavez nationalized more than 1,000 companies or their
assets, imposed currency controls and used revenue from the
state-run oil monopoly to fund spending on health and food for
the poor as part of what he called his socialist revolution.  Capriles said he had evidence of irregularities, including
videos of voters being watched by Maduro supporters while they
cast their ballots, that affected about 300,000 votes.  Hundreds of Capriles supporters marched through eastern
Caracas yesterday to gather outside his campaign headquarters,
waving flags and blowing horns. On a highway in the capital,
National Guard troops fired tear gas and plastic bullets to
disperse protesting students.  The selloff this week in Venezuelan bonds is erasing gains
posted earlier this month. In March, they lost 2.7 percent, the
worst performance in Latin America, according to data compiled
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Quickening Inflation  “The uncertainty surrounding the vote recount and the
violent episodes are bad for prices,” Hernan Yellati, a
strategist at Caracas-based brokerage BancTrust & Co., said from
Miami in an e-mail message. “There will be volatility in asset
prices as long as uncertainty remains.”  Maduro faces soaring consumer prices, declining growth and
shortages of goods from chicken to car parts. The central bank’s
scarcity index, which measures the amount of products that are
out of stock, rose to a record high of 20.4 percent in January.  Inflation accelerated to 25 percent in March, the fastest
annual pace in 13 months, according to the central bank.
Economic growth will drop to 1.9 percent this year, the slowest
in three years, based on the average estimate of economists and
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said in a research note that the political
gridlock that follows Maduro’s victory may delay economic
measures needed to maintain growth in the oil-producing nation.  “The main outcome of this election is a very weak
presidency, and a high level of uncertainty may follow,”
Alejandro Arreaza and  Alejandro Grisanti  wrote. The paralysis
“can delay the implementation of the economic measures and
could accelerate the deterioration of Venezuela’s already
fragile fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  