-- Bavarian Nordic Wins $228 Million U.S. Smallpox Vaccine Award
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-16T22:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/bavarian-nordic-wins-228-million-u-s-smallpox-vaccine-award.html
Bavarian Nordic A/S (BAVA) ,  Denmark ’s
largest vaccine maker, won a two-year, $228 million U.S.
government award for a smallpox vaccine that accounts for almost
all the company’s revenue.  The company, based in Kvistgaard, Denmark, relies on the
vaccine for about 95 percent of its sales, Chief Executive
Officer Anders Hedegaard said in a phone interview last year.  Hedegaard had warned that the company might fire hundreds
of workers and shut down a factory in Denmark if the Department
of Health and Human Services didn’t order the work. The award
means the jobs and factory aren’t at risk, he said yesterday.  “We were very confident something would materialize as
time went on, and that’s what we’re seeing here,” Hedegaard
said yesterday during a conference call with reporters and
analysts. “We are moving on and are happy with it.”  Bavarian Nordic’s Imvamune vaccine is meant for people with
atopic dermatitis and compromised immune systems. They are at
risk of severe adverse reactions to the regular smallpox
vaccine.  The company was awarded a $500 million contract from the
health agency for Imvamune in 2007. The initial batch in the
federal stockpile had begun to lose potency, the U.S. health
agency said last year.  Emergency Stockpile  Bavarian Nordic had expected a new order in June 2012. The
health agency said in August it was balancing the need to
maintain a stockpile of emergency medicine with the development
of new products during decreasing budgets.  Gretchen Michael, a spokeswoman for the health department’s
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response,
said the order wasn’t delayed.  The new award will ensure the U.S. has a total of 20
million doses of Bavarian Nordic’s smallpox vaccine in stock in
case of a public health emergency, the company said yesterday in
a press release.  Bavarian Nordic is guaranteed to receive $110 million for 4
million doses of its Imvamune vaccine. The remaining $118
million, for another 4 million doses, hinges on the availability
of U.S. funding next year, company officials said during the
call.  Shares of Bavarian Nordic rose less than 1 percent to 69.50
Danish kroner ($12.28) at 5 p.m. in Copenhagen trading
yesterday. The order was announced after the Danish market had
closed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  