-- Billionaire Triguboff’s Meriton Seeing Global Fund Interests
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-04-16T00:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/billionaire-triguboff-s-meriton-seeing-global-fund-interests.html
Meriton Pty,  Australia ’s biggest
apartment developer, said pension funds from  Canada  and the U.K.
and Chinese investors have shown interest in the closely held
company.  Meriton received approaches from bankers representing
foreign investors seeking to buy all or part of the builder,
said Harry Triguboff, its billionaire founder and managing
director, declining to identify the potential buyers.  Triguboff celebrated his 80th birthday last month amid
speculation about the future ownership of the Sydney-based
company. The Australian Financial Review reported Meriton had
caught the eye of an Asian investor, without citing sources.
Rising demand for apartments as Australians prioritize
convenience and affordability over space is drawing Asian
builders such as Singapore-based  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN) , Malaysian
 SP Setia Bhd (SPSB)  and  Hong Kong ’s  Far East Consortium International
Ltd. (35) , to the country.  “There are Canadian super funds, English super funds, and
Chinese of course,” Triguboff said in an interview in Sydney on
April 12, using the local term for pension funds. “But I’m in
good health and my grandchildren are growing up.”  The Chinese-born son of Russian-Jewish immigrants said he
is looking to his grandchildren for a successor. He denied
speculation of a reverse takeover by his company of Australia’s
biggest listed housing developer,  Stockland (SGP) , which was reported
by the Australian Financial Review in February.  Seeking Successors  His granddaughter, Ella Lankry, marketing director at
Meriton -- who he said in a 2010 Bloomberg interview held
promise as a potential successor -- isn’t interested in
management, he said. A second grandchild, who will finish
university this year, may be a contender, he said.  Triguboff, whose company last year built 1,700 apartments
New South Wales and Queensland states, was Australia’s sixth
richest man, worth $4.6 billion, according to the  Forbes ranking 
of the nation’s 50 richest, released in January.  Meriton will continue to sell half the apartments it builds,
keeping the rest to rent as serviced apartments or long-term
accommodation, Triguboff said. That strategy has led it to seek
loans for the first time since 2000, he said.  The company has borrowed A$130 million ($136 million) from
 Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , he said.  “People are renting more now,” he said. “It’s much
cheaper to do that than to buy an apartment.”  Rental Apartments  Rental apartments had an average gross yield of 4.9 percent
across Australia’s major cities in March, compared with 4.1
percent for houses, according to Brisbane-based researcher RP
Data.  Home loan  approvals for investors jumped 11 percent in
February from a year earlier, statistics bureau data show. The
number of approvals to first-home buyers dropped 19 percent over
the same period, the figures show.  Meriton will begin work in six months on 1,200 apartments
and a shopping center on a site in Mascot, a suburb close to
Sydney’s international airport, Triguboff said. It plans to
start in two years another 300 units at a site in Homebush, some
14 kilometers (8.7 miles) west of Sydney’s center, he said.  The company, whose business is limited to New South Wales
and Queensland states, expects to spend about A$150 million to
buy land this year in Sydney, Triguboff said. He has no plans to
buy in Queensland, he said.  “In Sydney, we always have a deficiency of housing,”
Triguboff said. “So that’s one good thing, which will cause
real estate to keep going up. Not fast, but it’ll go up.”  Australian  home prices  will climb as much as 7 percent in
Perth and Darwin, 5 percent in Sydney and Brisbane and 3 percent
in Melbourne and Canberra, researcher Australian Property
Monitors forecasts.  Triguboff said he has no plans to attempt a public listing
again. Meriton listed on the Australian stock exchange for 1 1/2
years in the early 1970s before the billionaire bought the
shares back.  “If it’s good, I should keep it,” he said. “If it’s bad
why should I cheat them?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  