-- Bitcoin Dreams Endure to Savers Crushed by CPI: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-04-16T14:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/bitcoin-dreams-endure-to-savers-crushed-by-cpi-argentina-credit.html
Banned from buying dollars and
confronted by the fastest inflation in the Western Hemisphere,
some Argentine savers are seeking refuge in bitcoin as a store
of value even after the virtual currency’s collapse.  TradeHill Inc., the San Francisco-based bitcoin exchange,
plans to open its first Latin American office in Argentina after
demand surged the most in the region, founder  Jered Kenna  said
in an interview on April 12. Rodolfo Andragnes, an agent for
bitcoin buyers and sellers who organizes bi-monthly meetings for
enthusiasts in Buenos Aires, says while local trading of the
unregulated currency still equals less than 0.1 percent of the
almost $1 billion of the nation’s foreign-exchange transactions
on a weekly basis, it has more than doubled since February.  Argentines are trying to preserve their savings in 
everything from bitcoins to cars to skirt President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s restrictions on buying dollars, with the
peso forecast to weaken the most of any currency in the world 
this year and local-currency  bonds  suffering the worst returns 
in Latin America. While the price of bitcoins plunged to $79 
from a high of $234 in the past week and caused  Mt. Gox  exchange
to halt trading on April 11, the sixfold increase this year is 
enticing Argentines whose savings have been decimated by 
inflation rising at 25 percent annually.  Currency Controls  “Some Argentines are willing to take very risky
investments and bet on this thing which feels almost like a
Ponzi scheme because they feel their options locally are even
more dangerous,”  Claudio Loser , a former director at the
International Monetary Fund, who now heads the Centennial Group
Latin America research company, said in a telephone interview
from Washington. “They don’t see an easier way to save money.”  Bitcoin is a virtual currency created four years ago by a
person or group using the name Satoshi Nakamoto that doesn’t
have a central authority in charge of money supply, a central
clearing house or financial institutions involved in the
transactions because users perform all these tasks themselves.  Its supply grows as they’re “mined” by computers that
solve difficult cryptographic problems to verify transactions.
As more bitcoins are created, the problems’ difficulty
increases.  There are a little more than 11 million Bitcoins in
existence. The software that governs the network will allow no
more than 21 million coins to be created.  Capital Flight  In an attempt to curb capital flight, Fernandez in July
banned Argentines from buying dollars except for travel and the
country’s tax agency must approve any foreign exchange purchase.
On March 18, the government raised the tax on credit and debit
card purchases abroad to 20 percent.  Press officials at the Economy Ministry didn’t respond to a
telephone call seeking comment on the use of bitcoins to skirt
currency controls.  The government also limited trading in foreign-company
depositary receipts and investment in assets abroad by
restricting the amount mutual funds can hold and making them
value the assets with the official exchange rate, instead of the
higher parallel rate.  Bitcoins are more attractive for Argentines than peers in
the region as they offer a way of transferring money outside of
the country and obtaining foreign currency abroad, according to
TradeHill’s Kenna.  ‘Most Demand’  “Argentina possibly has the most demand I’ve seen out of
Latin America for Bitcoins,” he said in a telephone interview
from San Francisco. “It provides a way to move money out of the
country and avoid capital controls.”  Kenna is seeking to partner with a local bank to open an
exchange in the country.  Most investment options in Argentina don’t compensate for
inflation. The  rate  banks pay for 30-day deposits of more than 1
million pesos was at 15.44 percent on April 12.  The country’s benchmark peso bonds due 2018 yield 8.7
percent and yields for dollar bonds traded locally in pesos are
negative as investors are willing to lose money to get dollars
by holding the notes to maturity.  Argentine local-currency bonds, which are linked to the
official  inflation rate  of 10.6 percent, lost 2.2 percent this
year, compared with average gains of 2.8 percent for similar
notes in Latin America, according to Barclays Plc. indexes.  Yield Spread  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of Treasuries narrowed 32 basis points, or 0.32
percentage point, to 1,127 basis points at 10:35 a.m. in New
York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Julian Garrone, founder of bitcoin forum
litebitcoin.com.ar, said he mined bitcoins two years ago until
the program exceeded his computer’s capacity and is now seeking
to buy more of the virtual currency.  “I don’t believe it’s a bubble, I think it’s here to
stay,” Garrone, 28, said in a telephone interview from Mar del
Plata, Argentina. “It doesn’t depend on any government or bank
and that’s very valuable.”  Bitcoins can be used to buy and sell goods from
refrigerators to property in Argentina through MercadoLibre.com,
a Latin American online-auction site  partly owned  by EBay Inc.
Online exchanges offer a market for bitcoins to be traded for
dollars, euros, yen and other currencies.  The peso price of the virtual currency is calculated by
using the dollar rate on Tokyo-based exchange Mt. Gox, adding a
commission of about 5 percent, and multiplying it by the black
market rate, which was 8.4 per dollar yesterday, said Andragnes,
who also runs an education company called  Cesyt  that accepts
bitcoins as payment.  ‘Distrust Banks’  “People could just go and buy dollars in the black market
but there’s an additional interest for bitcoins,” he said in a
telephone interview from Buenos Aires. “Argentines distrust
banks after their accounts were frozen for the 2001 crisis and a
lot of them think that could happen again.”  In 2001, Argentina restricted access to bank accounts, a
measure dubbed the “corralito,” as the country defaulted on
$95 billion of debt. Early the next year, it ended the peso’s
decade-long one-to-one peg with the U.S. currency and converted
dollar savings into pesos.  Buying or selling dollars in the black market has been
considered an act of terrorism since December 2011 and carries
prison sentence of as long as eight years. The parallel rate is
at a record 63 percent higher than the official rate.  Gold Demand  The official peso was little changed at 5.1514 per dollar.
The currency is forecast to weaken 11 percent to 5.8 by year
end, according to 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, the
biggest drop in the world.  The value of Bitcoins soared from $27 to $82 in March, when
European finance officials approved an unprecedented tax on bank
deposits in Cyprus. While the plan didn’t go through, it led to
speculation that other bank deposits might be taxed. The rising
price drew increased media attention, which sparked further
price gains, according to Andragnes.  The growing market for bitcoins, called “gold for nerds”
by Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at ConvergEx Group,
follows a surge in demand for the precious metal in Argentina,
as investors also view it as a way to hedge against inflation.  Banco de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires, Argentina’s only gold
trader, is talking with mining companies to buy the metal
directly as demand exhausts its supply.  ‘Risky Experiment’  Trading was halted on Mt. Gox for 12 hours on April 11 to
let the market “cool down” after a plunge in price, the
company said in a statement, citing an increase in trading
volume. Other exchanges, including TradeHill, remained open.  The record $50,000 of bitcoins traded last week in
Argentina is still equal to less than 0.1 percent of the $964
million in foreign exchange traded in the country’s Open
Electronic Market, or Mae, in that period.  “This is attractive in Argentina because it’s a currency
that escapes the government’s radar,” Loser said. “But in the
end, it’s a risky experiment that few people are trying out. The
solution needs to come from government policies to seriously
address inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  