-- Blackstone-Backed Senrigan’s Fund Said to Lose 13% on Sundance
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-04-16T04:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/blackstone-backed-senrigan-s-fund-said-to-lose-13-on-sundance.html
Senrigan Capital Group Ltd., an
Asia-focused event-driven fund backed by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
lost 13 percent last month after the collapse of Sichuan Hanlong
Group’s bid to  take over   Australia ’s  Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL) ,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The termination of one of the $361 million Senrigan Master
Fund’s key merger arbitrage investments alone led to a 12
percent decline in net asset value in March, the Hong Kong-based
manager said in a letter to investors seen by  Bloomberg News ,
without identifying the deal. It added that it was the largest
contributor to the month’s negative performance.  The fund’s loss highlights the risks of running event-
driven  hedge funds  that make large bets on corporate mergers in
a region with often opaque private businesses. The Eurekahedge
 Asia  Event-Driven Hedge Fund Index, tracking the performances of
12 such funds, returned 10 percent in the first three months,
according to preliminary data from the Singapore-based provider.  Suzi-Kay Jacoel, investor relations officer at Senrigan,
and  Peter Rose , a New York-based spokesman for Blackstone,
declined to comment. Assets of Senrigan, led by Chief Investment
Officer Nick Taylor, have declined since topping $1 billion in
April 2011. Taylor was head of Citadel LLC’s principal
investments business in Asia and  Europe .  Deal Scrapped  The deal broke “after the unanticipated arrest of the
chairman and founder of the acquiring company for harboring a
fugitive murderer,” according to Senrigan’s newsletter.  Liu Han, the billionaire chairman of closely held Hanlong,
was unexpectedly detained with his wife in  China  in March,
China’s Shanghai Securities News said March 20, citing
unidentified people. Sundance said March 21 it hadn’t been able
to reach Liu and the official Xinhua News Agency reported March
22 that a man with the same name is under investigation for
sheltering a murder suspect. He is being held by the police for
helping his brother evade capture over a 2009 triple murder,
state media later reported.  Sundance’s shares plunged a  record  48 percent in Sydney on
April 9 after it scrapped the A$1.14 billion ($1.2 billion) deal
with closely held Hanlong as the latter was unable to secure
funding for the acquisition. Hanlong  owns  14 percent of
Sundance, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Chengdu, China-based company was trying to buy the rest
of Sundance to control the Mbalam iron ore project straddling
the Republic of Congo and Cameroon. Perth-based Sundance needs
an investment of $4.7 billion for the project. It is in talks
with other Chinese and non-Chinese parties, it said in a
statement April 8 without identifying them.  Large Shareholder  Senrigan started to buy Sundance  shares  in 2011 and it was
once one of its largest investments, said the person, who
declined to be identified as the information is private. It
plans to put the investment in a separate pool, known in the
industry as a side-pocket.  Senrigan has the support of its largest investors to hold
onto the investment for the moment, on anticipation that a
Chinese company will step forward to rescue Sundance because of
the country’s thirst for resources, the person said.  The Senrigan fund gained 12 percent since September without
the Sundance investment and 5.5 percent this year excluding
losses related to it, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  