-- BOJ Shockwave Leveling Rates Sends Banks to Dollar: Japan Credit
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-04-16T05:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/boj-shockwave-leveling-rates-sends-banks-to-dollar-japan-credit.html
Shizuoka Bank Ltd. (8355)  joined Japanese
national lenders in expanding U.S. dollar finance activity,
anticipating monetary easing will crush margins on yen loans.  The nation’s second-biggest regional bank by market value
raised $500 million in zero-coupon notes due 2018, the first
public sale of dollar-denominated convertible bonds by a
Japanese company since 2002. The  average interest rate  on long-
term yen loans from the country’s lenders fell to 0.942 percent
in February, compared with 3.348 percent companies worldwide pay
on dollar facilities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. plans to increase
energy and utility financing in the U.S., as the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s
focus on cutting long-term borrowing costs undercuts earnings
from yen loans, President Nobuyuki Hirano said.  Sumitomo Mitsui (8316) 
Financial Group Inc. aims to sell a record amount of dollar
bonds this year for overseas business, even as the BOJ policy
seeks to spur domestic lending to revive the economy.  “You know it’s a big deal when a conservative lender like
Shizuoka Bank does this, a sure sign that yen debt is just not
cutting it anymore,” said Nozomi Kokubun, a Tokyo-based analyst
at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Dollar-denominated loans are
attractive for banks because they offer a spread you simply
won’t find in Japan.”  Excess Cash  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s call to boost fiscal and
monetary stimulus hasn’t been enough to spark corporate demand
for loans, leaving Japan’s banks with a record amount of  excess
cash . Customer deposits held by Japanese lenders exceeded loans
by 176.3 trillion yen ($1.8 trillion) in March, central bank
data show.  The BOJ decided on April 4 to double monthly bond buying to
7.5 trillion yen and lengthened the average maturity of the
purchases by twofold to about seven years. The central bank’s
previous program under Governor Masaaki Shirakawa focused on
notes maturing in one to three years.  The announcement sent Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond yield
to a record low of 0.315 percent the following day. The rate
surged to almost double that level in the same session and
traded 6 1/2 basis points lower at 0.575 percent as of 2:20 p.m.
in Tokyo today.  Without Precedent  “This round of monetary easing is without precedent and we
must prepare for the interest rates to fall even further,”
Mitsubishi UFJ’s Hirano said in an interview on April 8. “The
decline in yen-denominated interest rates is weighing heavily on
earnings from capital.”  The average interest rate on long-term loans from Japan’s
six so-called  city banks , which include Mitsubishi UFJ, Sumitomo
Mitsui and Mizuho Financial Group Inc., dropped below 1 percent
for the first time in January and was 1.01 percent in February,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate for  regional
banks  was 1.097 percent, after matching a record low of 1.075
percent in December, the data show.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Nissan Motor Co. plans
to price about 60 billion yen of five- and seven-year bonds
later this week, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The automaker is marketing 50 billion yen of the shorter-term
notes at 16 to 21 basis points more than government debt and the
remainder at an 18 to 24 basis point spread, the person said,
asking not to be name because the terms aren’t set. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  7-Eleven Bonds  Seven & I Holdings Co. plans to raise 60 billion yen split
between three-, six- and 10-year bonds, marketing all tranches
at a yield spread of 10 to 14 basis points, a separate person
familiar with the matter said yesterday. The operator of 7-
Eleven convenience stores last sold debt in June 2010, offering
80 billion yen of seven- and 10-year debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A Ministry of Finance sale of about 2.5 trillion yen of
five-year notes today attracted bids valued at 3.09 times the
amount available, showing the weakest demand since December
2011, according to ministry data. The gap between the average
and low prices at the auction was 0.05, the widest since June
2008, another sign of low demand.  Shizuoka Bank’s offering is the first sale of convertible
notes by a Japanese company in the U.S. currency since Orix
Corp.’s May 2002 offering, according to Hiromitsu Umehara, a
Tokyo-based general manager in its banking department. The
lender, headquartered in Shizuoka Prefecture west of Tokyo, home
to Suzuki Motor Corp. and Yamaha Corp., will use the proceeds to
fund dollar offerings to its mostly Japanese clients seeking to
expand overseas, Umehara said.  Loan Demand  “Domestic loan demand should gradually improve, but at
this moment company spending remains at a low level,” said
Shigeki Makita, deputy general manager at Shizuoka Bank’s
corporate planning department. Higher interest rates on dollar
loans make overseas facilities more profitable than domestic
lending, he said.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.56
percent return this year, compared with a 1.43 percent gain for
the nation’s sovereign notes, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Company debt worldwide has climbed
1.54 percent.  The yen traded at 97.41 per dollar at 2:30 p.m. in Tokyo
today, after falling to a four-year low of 99.95 last week. The
currency has plunged 10 percent this year, the worst performance
among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  Sovereign Risk  The cost to insure Japan’s sovereign notes for five years
against nonpayment was at 71 basis points yesterday, after
reaching 78 earlier this month, the highest since Jan. 23,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. A drop in the credit-default swaps signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  “Japanese regional lenders and megabanks alike are very
keen on opportunities for dollar financing,” SMBC Nikko’s
Kokubun said. “They don’t even have to use the proceeds for
lending and may just accumulate overseas securities.”  Sumitomo Mitsui’s lending unit targets two issuances that
could total as much as $4.5 billion, matching last year’s amount
as the most in the company’s 11-year history, President Koichi Miyata said in a Dec. 19 interview. The two sales would range
from $1 billion to $3 billion each, he said.  Sale Ranking  The bank raised 2.15 trillion yen from dollar bond sales
this year, making it the third-largest Japanese borrower in the
currency after Mitsubishi UFJ with 2.25 trillion yen, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Toyota Motor Corp. led the
rankings with 3.193 trillion yen, the data show.  Mitsubishi UFJ is looking to buy a regional bank on the
west coast of the U.S., President Hirano said. The Tokyo-based
lender acquired San Francisco-based UnionBanCal Corp. in 2008
and Santa Barbara, California-based Pacific Capital Bancorp last
year as persistent deflation inhibits loan demand at home.  The balance of  outstanding loans  at Japanese banks rose 0.6
percent to 404.8 trillion yen in March, the highest level since
April 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lending by
city banks climbed to 199.1 trillion yen in the period, 3.7
percent short of the level three years ago, the data show.  “There’s been great demand for dollar funding among
Japanese banks as they increase lending overseas,” said Chikako Horiuchi, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Fitch Ratings Ltd. “The
trend is likely to continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  