-- Bombing of Pakistan Politician Raises Security Fears Before Poll
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-04-16T12:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/bombing-of-pakistan-politician-raises-security-fears-before-poll.html
A roadside bomb targeting a
regional chief of  Pakistan ’s main opposition party killed at
least four people today, including the man’s son and brother, in
the latest attack on political activists ahead of next month’s
general election.  Sardar Sanaullah Zehri, the Baluchistan provincial
president of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, the party of
former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, escaped unhurt in the attack
in Khuzdar district of the southwestern region, police official
Kaleem Ullah said by phone. Also among the dead were Zehri’s
nephew and a guard.  The attack is the latest violence targeting politicians
across Pakistan, and will heighten security concerns in the
South Asian nation ahead of the parliamentary ballot scheduled
for May 11. The PML-N leads in opinion polls. The Pakistan
Peoples Party-led government of President Asif Ali Zardari in
March became the first civilian administration in the country’s
history to complete its full term.  No one claimed responsibility for the attack in Baluchistan
today. The region, rich in natural resources including gas
assets, is roiled by a separatist insurgency and sectarian
violence.  “Baluch separatists could be involved,” Muhammad Amir
Rana, director of Islamabad-based Pakistan Institute for Peace
Studies, said by phone. “The intention could be to disrupt the
political process there.”  There have been several attacks on political activists in
the northwestern Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province in recent weeks,
most of them on supporters of the Awami National Party, the
dominant regional party which headed the previous regional
coalition government.  Secular Views  ANP supporters have been attacked at least five times,
strikes which are affecting the party’s electoral campaign, its
provincial president Afrasiab Khattak said by phone from the
provincial capital of  Peshawar .  “It is the responsibility of the government to provide
security and a level-playing field,” he said.  Taliban militants have claimed responsibility for some of
the attacks on the ANP, according to news reports. The
insurgents oppose the party for its secular views, the reports
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  