-- U.S. Bond Market Needs Improved Fairness, SEC’s Walter Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-04-16T19:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/bond-market-in-u-s-needs-improved-fairness-sec-s-walter-says.html
The $38 trillion U.S.  bond market 
needs to be improved to allow better access for all investors,
said Securities and Exchange Commission member Elisse Walter.  “The more I look at it the more concerns about fairness I
have,” she said today at the start of a series of roundtable
discussions the agency is holding in  Washington  on fixed-income
markets.  Walter sought to assure participants that the agency isn’t
trying to impose an equity-market structure on bonds with
exchange trading and pre-trade price transparency. The
challenge, she said, is for regulators to understand the
complexity of how debt trades to discover what must be changed.
“In this arena, I keep having to reassure people that we get
it,” she said.  Dealers have scaled back principal trading in the market
amid pressure to increase capital to meet international
standards and as they face lower profits from more transparency
created by Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, according to a report
today by consulting firm Tabb Group LLC.  Corporate bond  inventories  at primary dealers that trade
directly with the  Federal Reserve  have dropped to $56 billion,
below the average of $69.3 billion since the end of 2009 and
down from a peak of $235 billion in October 2007, Fed data show.  Leaving Footprints  “Dealers cannot quote in size and wide enough spread to
justify the capital deployment” to hold an inventory of bonds,
Will Rhode and Henry Chien wrote in the Tabb report. A system
for creating instantaneous quotes needs to be developed, they
said. “The challenge is simple: how do you price a bond trade
in real time?”  One concern for investors is showing large trades to the
entire market on bond trading systems, said Robert Auwaerter,
head of the fixed-income group at  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-
based Vanguard Group Inc.  “You leave a footprint in the market that disadvantages
you,” Auwaerter, a panelist on the first roundtable, said.
“It’s better to try to go around quietly to dealers” because
“if you advertise it to the world you destroy your bid-price
execution,” he said.  In the $9.1 trillion U.S. corporate-bond market, about half
of trades are larger than $5 million, said Eric Pitt, a managing
director at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  New York . For those
transactions, investors feel they can get better prices by
talking directly to dealers, he said.  Bigger Deals  “Would it work to electronify that part of the market?”
he said during a panel discussion on corporate and asset-backed
securities. “Is there a problem to be solved?”  The size of new bond deals also has risen as underwriters
give more preference to larger offerings than in the past, said
Neil Schloss, the treasurer at Ford Motor Co. While $500 million
was once considered a large enough bond offering, the company is
now told that debt sales under $1 billion won’t be
enthusiastically greeted by the market, Schloss said.  “There’s more and more demand but less product,”
JPMorgan’s Pitt said.  That’s making it hard for some bond investors to buy the
amount of debt they want, said  Robert Smith , the chief
investment officer at Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory Services
Ltd., which manages about $11 billion. If his firm wants $5
million to $10 million of a certain issue, he’ll tell dealers he
wants $100 million in order to be taken seriously. Then he ends
up with $1 million of securities, “and that’s on a good day,”
Smith said.  “That’s a great risk to my business, because one of those
times I’m going to get $100 million and I don’t know how to get
around that,” he said.  The solution should be a single place to access all sizes
and types of debt, with exchange-like systems alongside
specialist dealers, Smith said.  “I want a mall,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 