-- Brazil Considers Local-Content Requirement for Electricity Bids
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-04-16T17:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/brazil-considers-local-content-requirement-for-electricity-bids.html
Brazilian regulators may require
developers participating in auctions to supply energy to get a
percentage of their power equipment locally to help protect
against Chinese imports.  The measure will reinforce an existing local-content
requirement on goods bought using loans provided by development
bank Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social,
Luciano Cunha de Sousa, analyst for external commerce at the
Ministry of Development, Industry and  Foreign Trade , said today
in an interview.  While many companies already opt to source the bulk of
their equipment locally to get debt from BNDES, as the lender is
known, some may buy from Chinese suppliers which is often
packaged with financing from  China ’s Development Bank, Roberto
Veiga, manager of energy at Bardella SA Industrias Mecanicas,
said at a conference in Sao Paulo today.  “This protection is necessary to avoid the import of
turbines with external financing,” he said. “It will provide
more clarity for investments in supply chains for these kinds of
equipment.”  The percentage of how much equipment will have to be
sourced locally is still to be defined, Sousa said.  A working group for the National Council for Energy
Policies, an advisory body for the Ministry of Mines and Energy
known as CNPE, is also studying ways of boosting the
participation of alternative-energy technologies by raising the
price offered by other  power plants  in auctions, he said. In
 Brazil ’s power auctions, developers bid down the price at which
they’re willing to sell power, and the lowest offer wins.  The working group is expected to make a proposal on both
the local-content requirement and auction-bidding rules when the
CNPE meets at the start of June, Souza said. They may apply to
auctions this year and lead to higher electricity prices in
Brazil.  The working group “needs to calculate what price society
should pay for this increase in energy rates and weigh it
against the benefits for industry,” Souza said. “We’re not
just looking for the cheapest energy but a balanced grid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  