-- Brent Crude Drops Below $100 a Barrel for First Time Since July
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-04-16T00:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/brent-crude-drops-below-100-a-barrel-for-first-time-since-july.html
Brent crude futures fell below $100
a barrel in  London  for the first time since July on concern that
slowing economic growth will curb fuel demand, while supplies
from the North Sea recover after oilfield maintenance.  Brent, used to price more than half of the world’s oil,
declined as much as $1.73, or 1.7 percent, to $98.90 a barrel.
The grade last traded below $100 on an intraday basis on July
12. West Texas Intermediate crude fell to a four-month low after
reports showed manufacturing in the  New York  region expanded
less than projected while  China ’s economic growth unexpectedly
eased. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. dropped a recommendation to hold
a “long” position in the S&P GSCI Brent Total Return Index,
citing weakness in European demand for refined fuels and a
slowdown in China.  “There is a level of confidence evaporating from the
market” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of
Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney. “The
market is starting to realize that without geopolitical events
happening around the world that there is no reason to have a
premium factored in.”  Brent for June settlement was down $1.56 at $99.07 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at 8:46 a.m.
Singapore time. WTI for May delivery declined as much as $1.61
to $87.10 a barrel, the lowest since Dec. 17, on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Saudi Target  Goldman first made its recommendation to buy Brent in
August. Holding the position would have resulted in a loss of
almost 16 percent, the bank said in an e-mailed report
yesterday.  The grade’s plunge brings prices in line with the target
cited by  Ali Al-Naimi , oil minister of  Saudi Arabia , the world’s
biggest oil exporter, who has warned that higher levels threaten
the economic recovery. He described $100 as a “reasonable
price” for consumers and producers in a March 18 speech in  Hong
Kong .  The decline follows a shift in the structure of North Sea
prices starting early April that signaled supplies were
beginning to outpace demand.  Front-month Brent futures traded at a discount to the next
month yesterday, a structure known as contango, as North Sea
production climbed with the end of oilfield maintenance and as
refiners reduced their operations during a seasonal lull in
demand.  Loading Schedule  Daily exports of North Sea Brent, Forties, Oseberg and
Ekofisk crudes, which make up the Dated Brent benchmark, will
increase by 1.5 percent in May to 893,548 barrels a day, loading
programs obtained by Bloomberg News show.  European refiners will idle about 1.3 million barrels of
daily capacity this month, curbing demand for crude, according
to the  International Energy Agency . The reduction is equivalent
to 11 percent of the oil the region will process in April.  The IEA reduced its forecasts for global oil demand in 2013
for a third consecutive month on April 11, predicting the
weakest consumption in Europe in almost three decades. One day
earlier, OPEC reduced its own estimate for worldwide
consumption.  China’s first-quarter gross domestic product gained 7.7
percent from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics
reported in Beijing yesterday. That’s less than the 8 percent
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists and the 7.9 percent
expansion in the fourth quarter.  China, U.S. Demand  The nation’s apparent oil demand in March grew 2.7 percent
from a year earlier to 9.77 million barrels a day, according to
statistics bureau data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from
February’s 10.2 million and is the lowest level since October.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index dropped to 3.1 this month from 9.2 in March. Readings
exceeding zero signal expansion in New York, northern  New Jersey 
and southern  Connecticut .  The U.S. accounted for 21 percent of the world’s crude
consumption in 2011 and China for 11 percent, according to  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  