-- Brittney Griner Is Taken No. 1 by Phoenix Mercury in WNBA Draft
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/brittney-griner-drafted-no-1-by-phoenix-mercury-of-women-s-nba.html
Brittney Griner was taken with the
first pick of the Women’s  National Basketball Association  draft
by the  Phoenix Mercury  after scoring the second-most points in
women’s college basketball history.  Dallas Mavericks owner  Mark Cuban  said April 2 he’d
consider using a second-round National Basketball Association
draft pick on Griner, a 6-foot-8 (2.03-meter) center whose
ability to score, dunk and block shots make her one of the top
WNBA prospects of all time.  Griner led Baylor University to a national championship in
2012 as the Lady Bears went unbeaten to become the first team,
men or women, with 40 wins in one season. Baylor entered last
month’s  National Collegiate Athletic Association  tournament as
the top overall seed before being upset in the round of 16 by
Louisville.  “Brittney is a game changer,” Mercury coach and General
Manager Corey Gaines said yesterday in a statement. “She can
defend, rebound, score, pass and run the floor. She has the
whole package. She creates a world of problems for opponents and
will open up new opportunities for our already-talented roster
of playmakers.”  The Chicago Sky selected Elena Delle Donne of  Delaware  with
the second pick, and the Tulsa Shock took Notre Dame’s Skylar
Diggins with the third pick.  WNBA Commissioner Laurel J. Richie began the draft with a
message of support for victims of the  Boston Marathon bombings ,
which killed three people and hospitalized at least 128
yesterday.  “We are all saddened by the tragic events,” Richie said
in her opening comments. “From the WNBA family, our thoughts
and prayers go out to all who were affected.”  Wooden Award  The 22-year-old Griner won the Wooden Award, the sport’s
top yearly honor, for the second time last season after
averaging 23.8 points and 4.1 blocks per game. With 3,283
points, she finished her career with the second most among women
in NCAA Division I history. She’s also the NCAA’s career leading
shot blocker, among men and women, with 748.  Phoenix finished last season with a 7-27 mark, the worst in
the six-team Western Conference. The new season begins May 24
with the 2012 champion Indiana Fever at the San Antonio Silver
Stars, with Phoenix hosting the Chicago Sky three days later.  Delle Donne, a 6-foot-5 guard/forward, led the nation in
scoring as a junior and was second in 2013, averaging 26 points
per game for the Blue Hens, who reached the round of 16 in the
NCAA tournament. Delle Donne scored 3,039 points during her four
years at the school in  Newark , Delaware.  Diggins, a 5-foot-9 guard, is  Notre Dame ’s career leader in
scoring and steals, while her 737 assists rank second for the
Fighting Irish. She averaged 15.8 points per game in four years
at Notre Dame, which reached the final of the NCAA tournament
when Diggins was a sophomore and junior.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  