-- Pound Weakens Versus Euro as CPI Stays Above Target; Gilts Fall
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-04-16T16:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/british-pound-declines-against-euro-before-u-k-inflation-data.html
The pound fell to a one-month low
against the euro after a report showed consumer-price inflation
stayed above the  Bank of England ’s target at the same time as
growth stagnates.  The U.K. currency dropped versus 13 of its 16 major
counterparts and Britain’s government bonds declined for the
first time in four days. Amundi, which oversees $947 billion,
said the pound will stay under pressure because inflation
exceeds interest rates, damping returns on British assets.
Lawmakers eased the Bank of England’s remit in March to give it
greater flexibility to add stimulus even if inflation remains
above its 2 percent target.  “The fundamental outlook for the pound remains weak,”
said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “The Bank of England is likely
to further loosen monetary policy to support growth despite
inflationary pressure. We see a rebound in sterling as an
opportunity to establish a new short position.” A short
position is a bet an asset will decline.  The pound fell 0.8 percent to 85.93 pence per euro at 5:04
p.m. London time after depreciating to 86.02 pence, the weakest
level since March 15. Sterling advanced 0.3 percent to $1.5327.  The annual inflation rate was unchanged in March at 2.8
percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said.  Core
inflation , which excludes alcohol, tobacco, food and energy
prices, accelerated to 2.4 percent from 2.3 percent in February.
The Retail Prices Index, used as a basis for the inflation-
linked  bond market , was 3.3 percent, up from 3.2 percent.  Negative Rates  Britain’s growth is likely to be “sluggish at best” and
further bond purchases by the Bank of England may do little to
stimulate the recovery, the Ernst & Young Item Club said in a
statement yesterday.  Sterling weakened 4.5 percent this year, the second-worst
performance after the yen, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-nation currencies. The
dollar gained 1.9 percent and the euro advanced 1.8 percent.  The inflation rate exceeds the Bank of England’s benchmark
 interest rate  of 0.5 percent by 2.3 percentage points. The so-
called negative real interest rate, once inflation is taken into
account, will weigh on sterling even as the currency is
“undervalued,” according to Amundi.  “The BOE recently indicated that inflation would remain
above the 2 percent target during the two following years and
that it would not fight against it,” Amundi analysts including
head of research Philippe Ithurbide in Paris, wrote in a note.
“Real interest rates are likely to remain negative and the
pound should not go back to its pre-crisis levels.”  Gilt Yields  The 10-year gilt yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to close at 1.73 percent after falling to 1.63
percent on April 8, the lowest since Sept. 5. The 1.75 percent
bond due September 2022 declined 0.23, or 2.30 pounds per 1,000-
pound face amount, to 100.165.  Inflation expectations  declined, with the 10-year break-
even rate, derived from the yield difference between gilts and
index-linked securities, falling three basis points to 3.23
percentage points. The rate increased to 3.39 percentage points
on April 11, the most since September 2008.  U.K. government bonds returned 1.5 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bonds gained 0.8 percent and Treasuries rose 0.9 percent.  BOE Minutes  The Bank of England will release the minutes of its April
3-4 policy meeting tomorrow. The nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee led by Governor  Mervyn King  maintained the target for
asset purchases at 375 billion pounds at the meeting and kept
the benchmark rate unchanged.  With the weaker pound adding to inflationary pressure, it’s
likely policy makers will be reluctant to expand the bond-buying
target, according to Barclays Plc.  “The MPC has sensibly made it clear it will not act to
bring inflation down more quickly, but in the context of a 2
percent inflation target, the case for additional monetary
stimulus looks equally hard to make,”  Simon Hayes , chief U.K.
economist at Barclays in London, wrote in a client note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  