-- Bulgarian Regulator to Make Additional Checks on CEZ
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-04-16T13:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/bulgarian-regulator-to-make-additional-checks-on-cez.html
Bulgaria’s energy regulator will
make additional checks during the next two months before ruling
on whether to cancel the power-distribution license of  CEZ AS (CEZ) ,
the biggest Czech utility.  Bulgaria’s State Energy and Water Commission will seek the
opinion of other ministries and municipalities on whether there
are grounds to revoke CEZ’s license, Evgenia Haritonova, the
regulator’s chairwoman, told reporters in Sofia today. CEZ,
along with  EVN AG (EVN)  and Czech utility Energy-Pro, was investigated
by the country’s public prosecutor for allegedly breaching
outsourcing contracts.  “The case with CEZ will help set up criteria for revoking
the licenses of other power distributors,” Haritonova said.
“If the decision to revoke the license is taken, it will be
done in strict compliance with the law.”  High utility bills at the beginning of the year triggered
violent public protests that helped topple the government of
Boyko Borissov and set off the investigations of the power
distributors, the regulator and the National Electricity
Company. President Rosen Plevneliev appointed an interim
government led by Premier Marin Raikov last month to prepare for
early elections on May 12.  CEZ is suspected of 21 violations including evasion of
public procurement laws, the nation’s energy regulator said Feb.
20 as it started procedures to revoke the company’s license.
CEZ, which denied any wrongdoing, had the option to fix breaches
until the regulator’s next hearing today.  Fixed Violations  “CEZ has repaired all violations established by the
regulator,” Petr Dokladal, CEZ  Bulgaria ’s regional manager,
said at the hearing. “We hope the commission will stop the
license revocation procedure after hearing our arguments.”  CEZ filed a complaint against Bulgaria at the European
Commission on March 29, claiming the regulator was breaking both
national and EU laws. The utility has asked the commission for
an independent review.  The company’s local units supply electricity to the capital
Sofia and the northern city of Pleven, which together account
for 41 percent of Bulgaria’s power consumption.  Bulgaria is the second Balkan country in which CEZ is in
danger of losing its license after Albania seized its assets in
January. Bulgarian operations account for about 1.5 percent of
the Czech utility’s operating income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  