-- Gunshots Linked to Silicon Valley Substation Vandalism
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-04-16T23:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/california-power-grid-operator-asks-silicon-valley-to-cut-demand.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG)  said gunshots damaged a
substation in Silicon Valley, triggering an alert to conserve
power in the region that is home to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   PG&E’s Metcalf substation near San Jose was damaged by
gunfire early this morning, Joe Molica, a spokesman for the San
Francisco-based utility, said in a telephone interview. Multiple
gunshots were reported in the vicinity of the station at 1:46
a.m., said Kurtis Stenderup, a spokesman for the Santa Clara
County Sheriff’s Office.  Law enforcement officials are considering the incident an
act of vandalism and will conduct a criminal investigation,
Stenderup said in a telephone interview.  California Independent System Operator Corp., which
operates the state grid, issued a “flex alert,” or an urgent
call for conservation, for the San Jose area, particularly
Silicon Valley and Santa Clara. Damaged equipment at the
substation near San Jose will limit capacity on the grid,
according to an e-mailed statement from the ISO.  “We’re looking for conservation now, from both residents
and businesses,” Stephanie McCorkle, a spokeswoman for the
operator in Folsom, California, said by telephone.  Silicon Valley, the southern region of the San Francisco
Bay in Northern California, is home to six of the 10 biggest
U.S. technology companies by sales, including  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , and thousands of startups. Companies in the
area received 41 percent of U.S. venture investing last year,
according to the National Venture Capital Association in
Arlington, Virginia.  Oil Spill  PG&E is working with other government agencies to clean up
oil spilled from damaged equipment, make repairs and assess
damage, Molica said.  “No customers have lost power as a result of this
incident,” he said. The utility is urging customers in the area
to conserve power through midnight local time, Molica said. The
Santa Clara County Sheriff’s Office is taking the lead in the
probe, Molica said.  Law enforcement investigators could not access the site
while the oil is being cleaned up, Stenderup said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  