-- California Pension May Ask for 50% Boost to Close Gap
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-04-16T21:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/california-pension-may-ask-for-50-boost-to-close-gap.html
California taxpayers may see the
municipal pension contributions they fund for the California
Public Employees’ Retirement System rise as much as 50 percent
under a plan to fill $87 billion in unfunded obligations.  Alan Milligan, the fund’s chief actuary, recommends that
the biggest U.S. pension stop spreading out losses and gains
over 15 years and instead set rates based on how much is needed
to reach 100 percent funding within 30 years.  The Sacramento-based pension, known as Calpers, is about 26
percent short of meeting its long-term commitments. The state
and cities contributed $7.8 billion in the last fiscal year,
almost four times more than a decade earlier.  In a version of pay-me-now-or-pay-me-later, Milligan said
the plan “will result in a lower probability of large increases
in employer contribution rates” in the future, according to a
report to a Calpers committee. The $257.6 billion fund’s
Pensions and Health Benefits committee approved the proposal
today. The full board will consider it tomorrow.  Smoothing out gains and losses over 15 years, rather than
accounting for them in one year, helps to ease potential spikes
in the annual contribution rates. The rates are calculated as a
percentage of the payroll of the state, cities and other local
governments, financed by taxes.  Under Milligan’s proposal, the fund would shrink its 15-year rolling period for asset smoothing to five years and
amortize gains and losses over a fixed 30-year period rather
than the current rolling 30-year period. A fixed period means
that all obligations will be fully funded by a specific date.  Increase Spread  If approved, the rates charged to governments would
increase by as much as 50 percent. The board amended the
proposal to delay implementation of its rate increase for the
state one year to 2015.  “This will reduce the risk our system currently faces,”
said the fund’s chief executive officer,  Anne Stausboll . “This
is clearly the right thing for us to do.”  Government contributions were already set to increase under
the current smoothing and amortization policy. Half of the
increase for the state, for example, would occur even under the
existing policy.  The pension fund currently has about 74 percent of the
money it needs to pay benefits over 30 years, after dropping to
61 percent in 2009 amid the global financial crisis that wiped
out more than a third of the fund’s market value. Under the
current rates and smoothing policy, the fund would reach an 80
percent funded status within 30 years.  The median funded status of state pensions, meaning how
much money a system has in order to pay its obligations, fell to
72 percent in 2011 from 83 percent in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  