-- California Gun Restrictions Clear First Hurdle in Senate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   M a r k   M e l n i c o e
-- 2013-04-16T22:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/california-gun-restrictions-clear-first-hurdle-in-senate.html
California , whose firearms laws are
already among the most restrictive in the U.S., may tighten
regulations by banning semi-automatic rifles with detachable
magazines and requiring that ammunition buyers undergo
background checks.  The measures, among a set of gun-control bills introduced
in the wake of the Dec. 14  Connecticut  school shooting that
killed 20 children and six educators, passed their first
legislative committee yesterday. They face further hearings
before going to the full Senate for a vote.  “Our children do not have a second chance,” a weeping
Paulette Brown of  San Francisco , whose 17-year-old son was shot
to death in 2006, told the Senate committee. “I have to keep
going to the graveyard.”  Lawmakers in  New York ,  Colorado , Connecticut and  Maryland 
have passed laws limiting firearms ownership after the killings
at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. Since
the beginning of the year, state legislators across the U.S.
have introduced more than 1,500 gun-related bills, according to
the Washington-based  Sunlight Foundation , which advocates for
government transparency.  “Some will say we’re overreacting to recent tragedies --
they are wrong,” Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  told
the committee. “We can’t wait for the next shooting at a day-
care center, nor can we wait for the next shooting at an
elementary school like Newtown.”  The bills presented to the Senate committee would also ban
high-capacity ammunition magazines and require ownership records
for all types of guns.  Won’t Enforce  Dean Wilson, sheriff of Del Norte County in the far
northwest of the state, told the senators he’d refuse to enforce
some of the proposed laws as unconstitutional. Law-enforcement
officers in several states including Colorado have said they’d
defy new laws in the name of protecting their constituents’
right to bear arms.  “These types of actions that we’re recommending today do
nothing to take action against the things we’re trying to
fight,” Wilson told the senators. “You are making criminals
out of decent citizens, hard-working people. As sheriff, these
are laws that I will not enforce, will never enforce.”  Bullet Tax  A day earlier, California Assembly Committee postponed
consideration of a bill to tax ammunition 5 cents a round. The
bill, sponsored by Assemblyman Roger Dickinson, a Sacramento
Democrat, would use the  tax revenue  to expand screening for
mental illness in children.  California lawmakers rejected similar ammunition taxes
twice in the last decade. Opponents  say  that if ammunition
buyers are held responsible for the actions of a small number of
mentally disturbed people, then all other products that can be
lethally used, such as gasoline and knives, should similarly be
taxed.  California passed the nation’s first assault-weapon ban in
1989 after a gunman with an AK-47 sprayed an elementary school
in Stockton, killing five children and wounding 29. A federal
ban passed in 1994 has since expired and efforts to restore it
have so far stalled in Congress.  Another of the most deadly mass shootings in the U.S.
occurred in California in 1984, when a gunman killed 21 people
at a McDonald’s restaurant in  San Diego .  California Republicans have put forward their own bills,
such as raising penalties for gun crimes and for illegally
buying, selling or possessing a firearm; state-supervised parole
for those convicted, instead of county control; increased
spending on a database of convicts, and limiting information
about concealed-weapon permit holders that can be made public.  Republicans also want to extend court-ordered mental-health
treatment from six months to one year and give counties more
control over some mental-health funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
Mark Melnicoe in Sacramento at  mmelnicoe@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  