-- California Considers Background Checks for Ammo Purchases
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-04-16T03:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/california-considers-background-checks-for-ammo-purchases.html
California  would require ammunition
buyers to pass an annual background check if lawmakers adopt a
set of new gun-control measures in the wake of the  Connecticut 
school shooting that left 20 children and six educators dead.  Eight bills to be heard in the Senate Public Safety
Committee today would ban high-capacity magazines and semi-
automatic rifles with detachable magazines, as well as kits to
modify semi-automatic rifles. The bills also would require
ownership records for all types of guns and the background
checks for ammunition sales.  Lawmakers in  New York ,  Colorado , Connecticut and  Maryland 
have passed laws limiting firearms ownership after the killings
Dec. 14 at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut.
Since the beginning of the year, state legislators across the
U.S. have introduced more than 1,500 gun-related bills,
according to the Washington-based  Sunlight Foundation , which
advocates for government transparency. Half of those bills would
weaken gun-control laws.  A California Assembly Committee yesterday postponed
consideration of a bill to tax ammunition 5 cents a round. The
bill, by Assemblyman Roger Dickinson, a Sacramento Democrat,
would use the  tax revenue  to expand screening for mental illness
in children.  California lawmakers rejected similar ammunition taxes
twice in the last decade. Opponents  say  that if ammunition
buyers are held responsible for the actions of a small number of
mentally disturbed people, then all other products that can be
lethally used, such as gasoline and knives, should similarly be
taxed.  California Ban  California passed the nation’s first assault-weapon ban in
1989 after a gunman with an AK-47 sprayed an elementary school
in Stockton, killing five children and wounding 29. A federal
ban passed in 1994 has since expired and efforts to restore it
have so far stalled in Congress.  Another of the most deadly mass shootings in the U.S.
occurred in California in 1984, when a gunman killed 21 people
at a McDonald’s restaurant in  San Diego .  California Republicans have put forward their own bills,
such as raising penalties for gun crimes and for illegally
buying, selling or possessing a firearm; state-supervised parole
for those convicted, instead of county control; increased
spending on a database of convicts, and limiting information
about concealed-weapon permit holders that can be made public.  Republicans also want to extend court-ordered mental-health
treatment from six months to one year and give counties more
control over some mental-health funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  