-- California Regulator Scolds Carmakers on EV Petition
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-04-16T17:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/california-regulator-scolds-carmakers-on-ev-petition.html
Automakers are undermining the
progress they’re making in expanding the market for electric
cars and other zero-emission vehicles by petitioning against
 California ’s mandates, a state regulator said today.  The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers and the
Association of Global Automakers filed a petition with the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency last month to block California’s
requirement that 1.4 million electric, plug-in hybrid, and fuel
cell vehicles be sold by 2025.  “Talk about shooting yourselves in the foot, or maybe I
could say, tripping over your own halo,”  Mary Nichols , chairman
of the  California Air Resources Board , said today at  SAE
International ’s World Congress, an automotive engineering
conference in  Detroit . “Rather than rehashing the same, tired
legal battles of our past, why not work together to collectively
support and develop this market?”  California is requiring automakers to sell more than 1
million of the vehicles that generate little or no greenhouse-
gas emissions through standards that are followed by more than a
dozen states. The state last year established rising annual
targets for zero-emission vehicles toward a goal of reaching 15
percent of its new-car sales by 2025.  The state regulatory agency has pushed carmakers since the
1970s to sell cleaner vehicles to reduce air pollution and has
played a role in shaping automotive tailpipe standards for more
than 50 years. Because of its severe smog pollution, California
has retained the right to issue separate environmental standards
for cars.  Sales Lagging  Compliance with California’s standards depends “almost
entirely” on consumers buying “high-technology vehicles in
substantial numbers,”  Annemarie Pender , a spokeswoman for the
Association of Global Automakers, wrote in an e-mail.  “Automakers hope that consumers will buy zero-emission
vehicles in large volumes, but so far, sales have been lower
than necessary to meet California’s aspirational goals,”  Gloria Bergquist , a spokeswoman for the Washington-based Alliance of
Automobile Manufacturers, wrote in an e-mail. “It serves no
one, not the state economy or consumers or automakers, to have
these vehicles sit unsold on dealer lots.”  California, the largest U.S. auto market, is requiring
 General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Chrysler Group LLC,  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  Nissan Motor Co. and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  to sell a
combined 60,000 plug-in, battery-electric and fuel-cell cars in
the state through 2014.  By 2018, the state’s zero-emission vehicle rules will
extend to  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)   GM, Ford, Chrysler, Toyota, Volkswagen, BMW, Mazda and
Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz are all  members  of the  Alliance of
Automobile Manufacturers .  The Association of Global Automakers, also based in
 Washington ,  counts  Honda, Nissan, Hyundai and Kia among its
members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  