-- McAlpine Set for June Trial Over Twitter Posts by Speaker’s Wife
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-04-16T12:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/mcalpine-set-for-june-trial-over-twitter-posts-by-speaker-s-wife.html
Alistair McAlpine, the former U.K.
politician wrongly accused of being a pedophile, won the right
to a June trial on the meaning of Twitter posts by Sally Bercow,
a lawmaker’s wife he is suing for libel.  McAlpine’s lawyers persuaded Judge Michael Tugendhat there
should be two court hearings in his defamation suit. The first
as early as June will deal with whether Bercow’s comments on
Twitter Inc.’s social-media service were libelous, while the
second will decide on any damages.  Bercow, who is married to House of Commons speaker John Bercow, wrote a post in November last year asking why McAlpine,
a member of the British House of Lords, was trending on Twitter.
The comments followed a false report aired by British
Broadcasting Corp., which hinted that a senior politician had
abused children without naming him.  “You would have had to have been a moron in a hurry,” not
to have understood the true meaning of Bercow’s post, McAlpine’s
lawyer Edward Garnier said at a London court hearing today. She
had about 60,000 followers on the service. “We are not talking
about some kitchen table blogger,” Garnier said.  Bercow’s lawyers argued there should only be one trial to
determine whether the comments where defamatory and how much
should be paid in compensation. Nigel Tait, one of her legal
team, declined to comment after the judge rejected their
arguments.  “Clearly the will of the court is not the will of Mrs.
Bercow,” Andrew Reid, another lawyer for McAlpine, said outside
court.  The Twitter posts could have had “any number of meanings
that won’t be defamatory,” one of Bercow’s lawyers William
McCormick told the court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  