-- Calvert Crary, Wall Street Eye on Corporate Lawsuits, Dies at 69
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-04-16T23:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/calvert-crary-wall-street-eye-on-corporate-lawsuits-dies-at-69.html
Calvert Crary, a Wall Street lawyer
who crafted a business out of providing investors an edge by
predicting the outcome of corporate court battles, has died. He
was 69.  He died on April 6 at his home in Waccabuc, New York, about
50 miles (80 kilometers) north of  Manhattan , according to his
wife, Deborah Schmidt Crary. The cause was prostate cancer.  Specializing in patents, product liability and mergers and
acquisitions, Crary geared his research to hedge funds and
institutional investors. His newsletter, “Litigation Notes,”
circulated to 35 to 60 paid subscribers, his wife said. Alan
“Ace” Greenberg, chief executive officer of the former Bear
Stearns Cos., was among those he advised during his career.  “There are times you can really make some dough” by
following litigation, Crary said, according to a 1979 New York
Times profile.  In 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s third-party
research unit,  Open Minds , began offering access to the
newsletter to its clients.  His recent reports included analysis of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
defense of its patent on the antidepressant drug Pristiq and the
U.S. Supreme Court fight over  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s patents on
genes linked to breast and ovarian cancer.  Predicting Outcomes  Based on his accurate prediction, the Times reported,
Crary’s clients made money buying shares of Berkey Photo Inc.
days before it won an antitrust verdict against Eastman Kodak
Co., a far larger competitor, in 1978. He also correctly
predicted Advanced Micro Devices Inc.’s 1994 victory over  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  in a copyright-infringement lawsuit, according to the
Times.  In “ Takeover : The New Wall Street Warriors” (1986),
author Moira Johnston tells of Crary, then working for Greenberg
at Bear Stearns Co., accurately foreseeing legal turns in T. Boone Pickens’ bid for Gulf Oil Corp. in the 1980s.  “On Wall Street, legal disputes cause significant
volatility in the price of securities,” according to the
 website  of Crary’s newsletter. “The stocks of companies with
such litigation are inefficiently priced and for this reason are
ideal trading vehicles. Thus, the implications of a single
verdict for investors can be profound.”  Crary long considered himself the only full-time litigation
analyst on Wall Street. He said he found his niche after
discovering that he “couldn’t abide the practice of law,” the
Times reported him saying in 1979 when he was working for Bache
Halsey Stuart Shields Inc., a securities company in New York.
“I hated it.”  What did fascinate him was the stock market and the
securities business.  ‘Wonderful Mind’  “He had a wonderful mind,” his wife said yesterday in an
interview. “Over the years he got to know how the judges ruled,
and he knew when it was in a certain court their proclivity to
rule one way or the other.”  Calvert Douglas Crary was born on Oct. 11, 1943, in New
York City and grew up in Scarsdale, a suburb in Westchester
County. His father was a stockbroker, his mother a history
professor.  He graduated from Deerfield Academy, a boarding school in
Deerfield,  Massachusetts , and earned an undergraduate degree
from the University of Michigan and his law degree from
Northwestern University School of Law.  He first worked at the New York City office of law firm
Brown, Wood, Fuller, Caldwell & Ivey -- today’s  Sidley Austin 
LLP -- specializing in securities and regulatory matters.  New Career  Later, at investment banking firm Legg Mason Wood Walker
Inc., he wrote a memo explaining why he believed a 1973
antitrust verdict won by Telex Corp. over International Business
Machines Inc. would be overturned on appeal, according to a 1980
article in the Wall Street Journal. When his prediction came
true, Crary stopped practicing law and began his new career.  In 1988, on CBS Television’s “60 Minutes,” Crary told
interviewer Mike Wallace that what tobacco companies most fear
is the government and the public coming to see cigarettes as “a
poisonous product, disguised as a consumer product,” that is
“killing off people like rabbits.” The day after the piece
aired, Bear Stearns, which had held a breakfast for executives
of RJR Nabisco Inc. a few weeks earlier, fired Crary, according
an account in the Journal.  Crary, who soon joined investment firm Martin Simpson & Co.
in New York, said he was convinced his comments factored in his
dismissal, adding, “I’ll never be able to prove it,” the
Journal reported. The newspaper quoted Greenberg, the Bear
Stearns CEO, as saying that Crary was let go because his
research “had a rather limited audience” and “didn’t pay for
itself.”  Highest Price  Crary  had three children with his first wife, Kinga P.
Crary; that marriage ended in divorce. They lived in a five
story, 7,000-square-foot Italianate brownstone on the Brooklyn
Heights promenade that they bought in 1972 for about $200,000
and sold in 2005 for $8.5 million, which real-estate brokers at
that time called the highest price ever paid for a Brooklyn
townhouse, the Times reported.  Survivors include his second wife, Deborah; his three
children, Gretchen P. Crary, John F. Crary and Calvert H. Crary
II; and six grandchildren.  Crary was a one-person research and writing team, meaning
his newsletter expired with him. “There’s nobody who can do it
like Cal,” his wife said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  