-- Canada February International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-04-16T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/canada-february-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s international transactions report for February
released by Statistics Canada.  Non-resident investors reduced their holdings of Canadian
securities by $6.3 billion in February, reflecting declines in
holdings of equities and, to a lesser extent, money market
instruments. Meanwhile, Canadian investors resumed their
investment in foreign securities with an acquisition of $4.4
billion, largely bonds. Canadian investment in foreign
securities has exceeded foreign investment in Canadian
securities in three of the last four months.  Merger and acquisition activity leads to a decrease in non-
residents’ holdings of Canadian portfolio shares  Non-residents reduced their holdings of Canadian equities
by $11.6 billion in February, the largest divestment since
October 2007. Cross-border mergers and acquisitions accounted
for most of the reduction, as non-resident portfolio investors
rendered their Canadian shares to foreign direct investors.
Foreign investors’ acquisitions of $1.8 billion of Canadian
shares on the secondary market moderated the overall divestment.
Canadian stock prices were up 1.1% in February to reach their
highest level since July 2011.  Non-residents add federal government and its enterprise bonds to
their holdings  Non-residents purchased $8.0 billion of Canadian bonds in
February, down from $11.9 billion in January. This activity
mainly targeted Canadian dollar-denominated short-term bonds
issued by the federal government and its enterprises, and was
led by investors from the United States and  Japan . Foreign
investment in Canadian private corporate bonds was down
significantly in the month, reflecting lower new issues of these
securities.  Foreign investors reduced their holdings of Canadian money
market instruments by $2.8 billion in February. Federal Treasury
bills and private corporate paper accounted for most of the
reduction despite the first increase in the overall supply of
federal instruments in three months. The Canadian dollar
depreciated 3.3 cents against its US counterpart to end the
month below parity for the first time since July 2012.  Canadian acquisitions of foreign bonds focus on US government
instruments  Canadian investors resumed investment in foreign bonds,
adding $3.8 billion worth to their portfolios in February.
Canadian investments in US government bonds and non-US foreign
bonds were the largest contributors to the outflows over the
month. This followed a $3.4 billion divestment led by US
government bonds in January. In February, US long-term interest
rates exceeded their Canadian equivalent for a second straight
month.  Canadians continue to acquire foreign equities, but at a slower
pace  Canadian investment in foreign equities was $0.4 billion in
February, down from $2.2 billion in January. Activity was led by
further acquisitions of US stocks by Canadian pension funds,
moderated by a divestment in non-US foreign stocks. US stock
prices were up 1.1% in February. Stock prices also increased in
Japan and the United Kingdom, but were largely lower in  Europe .  Note to readers  The data series on international transactions in securities
cover portfolio transactions in equity and investment fund
shares, bonds and money market instruments for both Canadian and
foreign issues. This activity excludes transactions in equity
and debt instruments between affiliated enterprises, classified
as foreign direct investment in the international accounts.  Equity and investment fund shares include common and
preferred equities as well as units/shares of investment funds.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  