-- Canada Economy Slowest in G-20 Outside Europe, IMF Says
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-04-16T15:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/canada-should-act-if-economy-weakens-further-imf-says.html
Canada ’s economic growth will be
the slowest among Group of 20 countries outside Europe as it
grapples with a cooling housing market and as policy makers rein
in deficits, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The Washington-based lender cut its 2013 Canadian growth
forecast to 1.5 percent, from an October estimate of 2 percent,
while boosting its projections for Japanese growth to 1.6
percent. The  U.S. economy  will grow at a 1.9 percent pace this
year, while the euro area contracts by 0.3 percent, the fund
said today in its World Economic Outlook.  Canada’s economy is  expanding  at the slowest pace since
2009 as the housing boom that helped lift it from recession
cools and high  household-debt  levels constrain demand. Canadian
policy makers, who have sought to stem increases in household
borrowing and cut  government spending , should be prepared to
take growth-supporting measures if the nation’s economy
continues to weaken, the IMF said today.  “High household debt and continued moderation of the
housing sector will restrain domestic demand,” the IMF said.
“The main challenge for Canada’s policy makers is to support
growth in the short term, while reducing the vulnerabilities
that may arise from external shocks and domestic imbalances.”  That could mean allowing budget deficits to widen and
keeping the Bank of Canada’s policy  interest rate  at 1 percent
for longer, it said.  Automatic Stabilizers  The IMF predicts Canada’s economy will grow 2.4 percent
next year. Last year, it expanded 1.8 percent.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  pledged last month to balance
his budget in the fiscal year that begins April 2015, while the
Bank of Canada has maintained a bias toward raising its
benchmark interest rate for almost a year.  “Although fiscal consolidation is needed to rebuild fiscal
space against future shocks, there is room to allow automatic
stabilizers to operate fully if growth were to weaken further,”
the IMF said in its report. “The current monetary policy stance
is appropriately accommodative, and the beginning of the
monetary tightening cycle should be delayed until growth
strengthens again.”  The IMF said risks to its forecasts for Canada are “tilted
to the downside,” citing concerns that the weakness in the U.S.
and  Europe  could hurt the economy, as well as the impact of a
decline in commodity prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  