-- Canada Dollar Gains After Largest Drop Since 2011 as Gold Rises
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-16T21:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/canada-dollar-gains-after-largest-drop-since-2011-as-gold-rises.html
The Canadian dollar rose against
its U.S. counterpart after yesterday’s largest drop in more than
a year as gold pared losses following a 14 percent two-day
plunge that damped demand for commodity-linked currencies.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, fell versus its
commodity peers, the Australian and New Zealand dollars, as gold
for immediate delivery gained 2.6 percent. Slower-than-forecast
economic data in  Canada , China and in the U.S., the nation’s
largest trading partner, is projected to lead the  Bank of Canada 
to revise down growth forecasts as it leaves its 1 percent
 interest rate  in place at its policy meeting tomorrow. Canadian
factory sales increased more than forecast in February.  “I think retracement is really the big word of the day,
for not just gold, but all commodities and the commodity
currencies, including the Canadian dollar,” said Greg T. Moore,
a currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from
Toronto. “The risks seem to be for the downside for the
Canadian dollar. The Bank of Canada is obviously going to have
to recognize the disappointing data that we’ve had through the
first quarter.”  The loonie rose 0.5 percent to C$1.0207 per  U.S. dollar  at
5:05 p.m. in Toronto. Yesterday it touched C$1.0259, a 1.2
percent drop and the biggest since Dec. 8, 2011. One loonie buys
97.93 U.S. cents.  Gold Weights  Although the world’s two biggest gold producers by market
value are Canadian,  gold miners  account for only 6.1 percent of
the Standard & Poor’s Toronto Stock Exchange Index. Goldcorp
Inc. is the biggest by market value and Barrick Gold Corp. is
the second biggest.  Futures on crude oil, the country’s biggest export, was
little changed after touching $86.06, the lowest point since
November. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks gained
1.4 percent.  “When you look through what Canada exports and who it
exports to, you can come to the conclusion that maybe the
disappointment in  China  probably wasn’t as significant as the
market thought it was yesterday,” said Jane Foley, senior
currency strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “Maybe
there is a little bit of a recovery from the selloff we had
earlier in the week.”  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds fell, with
yields rising three basis points or 0.03 percentage point to
1.74 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
lost 25 cents to C$97.83.  The Bank of Canada will announce additional details on
April 18 about an April 24 auction of securities maturing in
2015.  Economic Data  A faster-than-forecast pickup in factory sales in February
follows weaker-than-projected gross domestic product data in
China, an expected drop in retail sales in the U.S., and the
biggest monthly job loss in Canada since 2009.  Canadian  factory sales  advanced in February at the fastest
pace since July 2011, with sales rising 2.6 percent to C$49.6
billion ($48.5 billion), following a revised January decline of
0.6 percent,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. The
increase exceeded all 18 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey with a median estimate of a 0.6 percent gain.  “The market is looking for more of a dovish stance from
the Bank of Canada, potentially even going to a neutral stance
and taking any sort of hiking rhetoric out of the statement,”
said Darcy Browne  managing director of currencies at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, by phone
from Toronto. “When the Canadian dollar strengthens people will
sell that and if the U.S. dollar weakens people are looking to
buy that.”  Central-bank officials have held the benchmark interest
rate at 1 percent since September 2010 to support the economy.  Capital Flows  Canada registered a  net outflow  of securities in February
as foreigners sold a net C$6.31 billion of Canadian securities
in February, led by the biggest sale of stocks since October
2007, government figures showed.  The cost of living in the U.S. declined 0.2 percent in
March for the first time in four months after a 0.7 percent jump
in February, the Labor Department said today in  Washington .
Separate data showed a surprise 7 percent jump in U.S. new-home
construction.  The Canadian dollar has fallen 1.4 percent this year
against nine other developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index, trailing the Australian
dollar’s 1.7 percent gain and the New Zealand dollar’s 4.7
percent gain. The U.S. dollar rose 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  