-- Cardiff Secures Top-Flight Soccer Return After 51-Year Absence
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-17T02:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/cardiff-earns-promotion-to-english-premier-league-with-0-0-draw.html
Cardiff City  will play in English
soccer’s top division for the first time in 51 years next season
after securing promotion to the Premier League with a 0-0 home
draw against Charlton.  Last night’s result lifted the Welsh club to 84 points atop
the Championship, a tally that guarantees one of the two
automatic promotion places. Second-place Hull City has 77 points
after a 1-0 loss at  Wolverhampton Wanderers , and Watford in
third remains on 71 points following a 1-0 defeat to Millwall.  By securing automatic promotion, the Bluebirds ended a run
of three straight failures in the playoffs and will become the
46th different team to play in the Premier League since its
inception in 1992. With Swansea City currently 10 points clear
of the relegation positions,  Wales  is set to have two teams in
the top flight next season.  “It’s an occasion which the fans of this football club
have waited a long time for, and they’ve had a lot of
disappointment in their time,” Cardiff manager Malky Mackay
said in comments on his team’s website. “It’s a huge challenge;
we are going into one of the best leagues in the world.”  Cardiff was in the fourth tier as recently as 2001 and its
promotion to the elite division follows three straight years of
defeats in the Championship playoffs, contested by the third-
through-sixth clubs to determine the third team to go up.  Last year, accountant Deloitte LLP estimated that promotion
to the Premier League, soccer’s richest, was worth at least 90
million pounds ($138 million). Although Deloitte hasn’t yet
produced a figure for this year, it’s set to be higher, with the
start of a three-year domestic television contract worth a
record 3.02 billion pounds.  Sellout Crowds  Two days ago, Cardiff’s archrival Swansea said it  submitted
plans  to increase the size of its Liberty Stadium by 11,000 to
cater for the demands of Premier League soccer. The arena
currently seats about 20,500 and sells out each match.  Cardiff, which has topped the Championship since November,
had a controversial start to this season when Malaysian owner
Vincent Tan changed the team’s jersey colors from blue to red as
part of a re-branding exercise. Fan opposition to the move eased
when the team won its first 10 home games and the club benefited
from the experience of players such as former Premier League
strikers  Craig Bellamy  and Heidar Helguson to keep ahead of its
rivals in the division.  “The Championship is such a tough, tough league,” Bellamy
said on the team’s website. “For us, over the last three or so
years we’ve been gaining momentum as a football club, but we’ve
just not quite been able to clear that final Premier League
hurdle. This year we’ve been the best team.”  Low Point  Cardiff was demoted from the old First Division in 1962
along with Chelsea, while Liverpool and Leyton Orient moved in
the opposite direction.  Since then, the Bluebirds have had spells in the fourth
division, finishing 22nd of 24 clubs there in 1996 for their
lowest-ever league position.  Cardiff has never won the English league, though it was F.A.
Cup champion in 1927 and reached the final again in 2008. It
lost last season’s League Cup final to Liverpool.  “Every team we have played in the last 20 months we have
been competitive against,” Mackay added. “We’ve won some and
lost some but we have competed against all of them and this will
not change in the Premier League.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  