-- Carney Policy Toolkit Focuses BOE Looking at New Measures
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-04-17T10:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/carney-policy-toolkit-focuses-boe-looking-at-lower-rate-limit.html
The Bank of England is tasking its
economists to do research on the lower limits of interest rates
and credit flows as part of a focus on unconventional policy,
according to a job advertisement on its website.  The U.K. central bank’s MA Strategy Team is currently
centering its work on “frictions that affect the flow of money
and credit” and the “zero bound and unconventional monetary
policy,” according to the ad to hire an economist. It also said
the group is examining issues such as forward guidance on
interest rates.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has shaken up
the BOE in the past five months, appointing Mark Carney --
currently Bank of Canada chief -- to succeed Governor Mervyn King, and revamping the inflation-targeting remit. Minutes of
the Monetary Policy Committee’s April meeting today showed that
officials are downplaying the impact of the overhaul on their
policy thinking as they debate inflation and economic risks.  “The main customer for the job is the Monetary Policy
Committee,” the ad said. “The jobholder will advise the MPC on
a range of issues to do with monetary policy/strategy, including
the operation and design of unconventional policy actions.”  Carney has indicated he is open to further stimulus, saying
in January that central banks aren’t “maxed out” and should
achieve “escape velocity” for their economies.  Reworked Mandate  Potential unconventional measures by the BOE may include
forward guidance, a policy favored by Carney, who takes over in
July. In addition to reworking the mandate on March 20, Osborne
asked the central bank to assess the merits of such action and
report back later this year.  King said yesterday he’s not convinced about guidance
because of the risks associated with thresholds such as jobless
data that would trigger policy changes.  “You don’t want to give conditional guidance about a
variable where you’re not confident that its structural meaning
could change,” King said at an International Monetary Fund
panel discussion in  Washington . “Because then you’d have to
backtrack, and you don’t want to backtrack on a conditional
guidance because then you’ve got nothing left.”  King Defeat  The minutes of the MPC’s April 3-4 meeting showed King was
defeated for a third month in a push for more stimulus. Six of
the panel voted to keep quantitative easing at 375 billion
pounds ($575 billion), with King, David Miles and Paul Fisher
wanting to increase it by 25 billion pounds.  The meeting was the first since the BOE mandate was changed
to give officials more flexibility to meet their 2 percent
inflation target. In the minutes, the MPC said Osborne’s move
“confirmed” their decision to “look through” the bout of
above-target price growth at a time of economic weakness.  “The short-run trade-off between output growth and
inflation meant that the committee could return inflation to the
target more quickly than currently expected only by taking
policy actions that would provide less support to output,” it
said. “In responding to this trade-off, the committee was
setting policy in broadly the same way it had done since its
formation.”  At the meeting, the MPC majority that voted to keep QE on
hold said monetary policy was already “highly stimulatory” and
noted that medium-term inflation expectations “had drifted
upwards in recent months.”  “A further easing might exacerbate this movement and
prompt renewed weakness in sterling, with implications for wages
and prices,” they said. Inflation was at 2.8 percent in March.  Research Focus  The BOE’s job ad says the team’s research includes the
interactions between monetary and macroprudential policy as well
as the role of learning, credibility and inflation expectations
in monetary policy. Macroprudential issues have increased in
relevance since the BOE took on the role of ensuring financial
stability, while the topic of inflation expectations is among
those currently dividing the MPC.  The team is also “heavily involved” in following up a
review last year into the BOE’s forecasting. In a response to
the review last month, the central bank said it would examine
the issue of providing guidance on the possible future policy
path, but there was as yet “no firm decision.”  The BOE is seeking a candidate with at least a PhD in
economics for the position. The deadline is April 23 and
candidates must have a “track record” of original research,
according to the ad.  Policy makers including Ben Broadbent and Deputy Governor
Paul Tucker have suggested the BOE will continue to look at new
ways to stimulate growth, which Deputy Governor Charlie Bean
said earlier this year is part of the bank’s “blue-skies
thinking.” Markets Director Paul Fisher in February proposed a
Federal Reserve-style period of prolonged bond-buying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  