-- Central African Republic Boosts Patrols as UN Appeals for Calm
-- B y   C r i s p i n   D e m b a s s a - K e t t e
-- 2013-04-16T12:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/central-african-republic-boosts-patrols-as-un-appeals-for-calm.html
The Central African Republic
boosted patrols in the capital, Bangui, to halt looting that
erupted after a coup last month, as the United Nations urged
action to halt human-rights violations.  The situation was calm after more security forces were
deployed in Bangui, government spokesman Crepin Mboli Goumba
said by phone today. More than 20 people were killed in the city
over the weekend, including four who died when a church they
were in was struck by an artillery shell, the United Nations
human rights agency said today.  “Because of the precarious security situation, we have
asked friendly countries to provide reinforcements,” Goumba
said. About 1,000 members of a multinational regional force are
expected to be deployed in the city, he said, without providing
a timeframe.  President Francois Bozize’s government was removed from
office on March 24 by a group of rebel forces known as Seleka.
The country has been plagued by violence since independence from
France in 1960. At least four battles for Bangui took place from
1996 until 2003, when Bozize toppled predecessor Ange-Felix Patasse, whom he served as army chief.  At least 119 people have died in violence since the
government fell, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi
Pillay said in a statement e-mailed from Geneva today. Rights
violations including assassinations, arbitrary arrests and
detention, torture and the recruitment of child soldiers have
taken place, she said.  ‘Extremely Worrying’  “The situation on the ground is extremely worrying,”
Pillay said. “The current state of lawlessness, verging on
anarchy, must not be allowed to continue.”  At least 37,000 people have fled fighting in the country,
with “tens of thousands” more forced to flee their homes,
according to the UN.  Seleka is led by Michel Djotodia, who was named as
president by a transitional council on April 13, according to
Deutsche Press-Agentur. Djotodia, who was the country’s defense
minister in a unity government, has promised elections within
three years. He faces sanctions by the African Union, which has
refused to accept his takeover of power.  Seleka began its rebellion in December after accusing
Bozize of failing to honor a 2008 peace accord. An agreement
signed in Libreville in January ended the fighting and created
the unity government. The insurgents resumed combat in March,
saying Bozize had failed to meet a new set of demands.  Pangea Diamondfields Inc., an Isle of Man-based exploration
company, owns a concession in Central African Republic that is
currently on care and maintenance, according to the company’s
website.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Africa ’s biggest lender,
ended talks with  Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold explorer, over a
$100 million loan to help finance a gold mine there, the
Johannesburg-based Financial Mail magazine reported on April 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crispin Dembassa-Kette in Bangui via Nairobi at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 