-- China Vanke Bets on Singapore Property After U.S. Expansion
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-04-16T11:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/china-vanke-bets-on-singapore-property-after-u-s-expansion.html
China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest
developer listed on Chinese exchanges, is entering Singapore’s
property market in a venture with  Keppel Land Ltd. (KPLD)  as it expands
outside its home country.  Vanke (200002)  will acquire 30 percent in Keppel’s Sherwood
Development Pte for S$135.5 million ($110 million), according to
a joint statement today. The Sherwood unit will be used to co-
develop properties in Singapore and China, and the first joint
venture project will be a condominium development in Tanah Merah
in Singapore, according to the statement.  Chinese developers are starting to take advantage of demand
for real estate around the world from Chinese nationals as the
government imposes property curbs at home. Vanke, based in
Shenzhen, is expanding overseas as residential prices soar in
the mainland, and signed a deal with Tishman Speyer Properties
LP, the owner of New York’s Rockefeller Center, in February to
develop two residential towers in San Francisco that will cost
$620 million and have 655 units.  Keppel, through this venture, will seek to expand in high-
growth cities in China, Ang Wee Gee, chief executive officer of
 Keppel Land , said in the statement.  China’s new-home prices posted the largest gain in more
than two years in March, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the
country’s biggest real estate website owner. About 35 cities
issued property curbs by an April 1 deadline, with Beijing
banning single-person households from buying more than one
residence, while Shanghai prohibited banks from giving credit to
third-home buyers.  -- Editors: Rina Chandran, Khalid Qayum  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  