-- Chinese Companies Seen Seeking Brands in Overseas Investment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-16T09:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/chinese-companies-seek-technology-brands-in-overseas-investment.html
Chinese companies investing
overseas are increasingly buying businesses with technology,
brands and know-how as they move up the value chain and counter
falling margins at home, private equity fund  A Capital  said.  Europe , the top destination for Chinese investment last
year, will remain attractive due to moderate valuations, the
absence of regulatory hurdles and the “strategic match” with
areas of interest to  China  such as services, A Capital, a
Brussels- and Beijing-based fund backed by China’s  sovereign
wealth fund , said in a report released today.  China, which holds $3.4 trillion of foreign-exchange
reserves, is encouraging businesses to invest overseas to secure
energy and commodity resources, open factories and buy
technology. Mainland companies will spend an additional $600
billion in other countries by 2016, A Capital said, while the
Economist Intelligence Unit estimates China will be a net
investor in the world economy by 2017.  “This is a major trend and investment is growing twice
even three times as fast as economic growth,” Andre Loesekrug- Pietri, founder and managing partner of A Capital, said in a
telephone interview. “But when you look at the numbers, they
are still quite small and the track record for Chinese companies
investing abroad has been relatively poor.”  Chinese companies’ outbound investments rose 14 percent to
$77.2 billion last year, with mergers and acquisitions
accounting for $37.8 billion, or 49 percent of the total, up
from 44 percent in 2011, according to data compiled by A Capital.  Global Ranking  Excluding tax havens, China now holds the No. 3 spot in
global outbound investment rankings, behind the U.S. and  Japan ,
up from 16th place in 2011, according to the EIU. It put
investment outflows last year at $115 billion.  Spending by mainland firms in Europe jumped 21 percent to
$12.6 billion last year, A Capital data showed, with deals
including Bright Food Group Co.’s acquisition of 60 percent of
cereal maker Weetabix Ltd., China Investment Corp.’s purchase of
10 percent of  London ’s Heathrow Airport and Sany Heavy Industry
Co.’s takeover of Putzmeister Holding GmbH, Germany’s largest
concrete-pump maker.  Investment into the U.S. rose 48 percent to $5.4 billion
last year, accounting for 14 percent of Chinese outbound mergers
and acquisitions, while spending in Asia dropped 65 percent due
to a lack of large deals, A Capital said.  Margins Squeezed  “Chinese companies see margins being squeezed by higher
costs,” Loesekrug-Pietri said. “So if you are in the
industrial sector, in the automotive sector, either you develop
the technology in-house or you try to acquire it. It’s the same
story with consumer goods.”  Sany’s purchase of Putzmeister “was because they had so
much competition at home, that acquiring a high-end cement-pump
maker in  Germany  will help them and make a difference in
China,” he said.  The growing role of non-state-owned enterprises in overseas
investment is contributing to a shift in spending away from
developing countries toward developed economies that provide new
markets in addition to technology and brands, the Economist
Intelligence Unit said in its  report  last week.  Seven of the top 10 investment destinations for Chinese
companies are members of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, it said.  Minority Stakes  The value of Chinese outbound-investment deals last year
involving minority stakes was $21.9 billion, outpacing the $15.9
billion of takeovers and representing an “important strategic
shift,” according to A Capital’s report.  The trend shows that Chinese companies are becoming more
sophisticated and have learned from the experiences of firms who
saw their deals blocked by regulators or fail due to management
issues, Loesekrug-Pietri said.  Investors “realize that they are little known and have so
little soft credit among various stakeholders -- local investors,
the unions, the media,” he said. “It’s still complicated for
these private firms with little management expertise to go out,
so if you take a minority stake, you don’t need to manage the
whole operation.”  --Nerys Avery. Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  