-- China Set to Deepen N. Korea Ties as Yalu River Bridge Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-17T01:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/china-set-to-deepen-north-korea-ties-as-yalu-river-bridge-rises.html
Across the  Yalu River  dividing
China and  North Korea , towers that will support a sleek
suspension bridge rise south of one that U.S. bombers targeted
during the  Korean War  to prevent China from supplying its ally.  The bridge into the northeastern Chinese city of Dandong,
set to open next year, is a bet that trade will swell even as
the U.S. pressures Communist Party leaders to exert economic
leverage on the North to abandon its nuclear program. Secretary
of State  John Kerry  said last week China needs to “put some
teeth” into restraining Kim Jong Un’s regime.  On a recent visit to Dandong, a city of  2.4 million people ,
Chinese traders said their biggest concern is increasingly savvy
North Korean businesses driving down prices on clothing and
other  consumer goods , not government restrictions on commerce.
They expressed little fear that United Nations sanctions
targeting North Korea’s economy would limit their business or
threaten a bilateral trade relationship that grew to $5.6
billion in 2012.  “The political situation hasn’t had a big impact on
trade,” Yu Hao, 43, who oversees customs for Dandong Import &
Export Co., said at his office, located on a narrow street lined
with Korean restaurants and massage parlors. “Trade suffers
because of the price. The North Koreans understand too much now
about China and that pushes down profit.”  The three-kilometer bridge, which the official Xinhua News
Agency  said will cost  2.2 billion  yuan  ($356 million), will
speed commerce through a city that now handles  70 percent  of the
two countries’ trade. The span illustrates how the North is
binding itself even tighter with China as it limits economic
ties with South Korea, including by temporarily suspending work
at the jointly run Gaeseong industrial facility.  Infrastructure Links  The infrastructure build-out goes beyond the river, with
regional planners linking Dandong more closely to the rest of
China as well. A high-speed railway will connect it to the
cities of Dalian and Shenyang, and a new expressway runs to
Tonghua,  China Daily  said late  last year . China has approved a
new ore terminal for Dandong’s port.  The infrastructure may ease traffic jams like one on a
recent morning when dozens of trucks bearing excavators, wood,
coils of steel and fruit waited to cross the low-slung scaffold
Friendship Bridge that the U.S. targeted during the 1950-1953
war. Cranes were erecting the new bridge’s two main towers last
week, with the span and suspension cables still to be installed.  “We aren’t worried about war -- look how calm Dandong
is,” Wang Weidong, a website entrepreneur, said as he sipped
coffee at a hotel on the river across from the North Korean city
of Sinuiju.  Miscalculation Risk  North Korean leader Kim’s inexperience raises the risk of
miscalculation even though it is unlikely his regime will launch
a missile that directly threatens  South Korea , a U.S. military
official said.  While the test of a missile or nuclear weapon remain
possibilities given the hostile rhetoric from the totalitarian
state over the past several weeks, there are no signs North
Korean forces are mobilizing, the U.S. Forces Korea official
said yesterday in  Seoul , asking not to be named in line with
military policy. The comments came hours after Kim’s military
warned a strike on South Korea could occur any time.  China came under new pressure to exert its influence as the
North’s main economic and political ally after Kim’s regime
threatened nuclear war against the U.S. and South Korea and
restarted processing nuclear fuel at its Yongbyon site.  New Sanctions  The  United Nations Security Council  imposed new sanctions
against North Korea twice this year, targeting trade in  luxury
goods  and financial transactions. Earlier curbs made the country
more reliant on China as Chinese companies bought North Korean
minerals, and the North imported fuel and consumer goods.  “China does hold the key to this problem,”  Arizona 
Senator  John McCain  said this month on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
program. “China can cut off their economy if they want to.”  So far that hasn’t happened. China fears that the sort of
pressure that might have an effect on the regime would also
provoke instability, Andrew Gilholm, head of Asia analysis at
 Control Risks Group  in  Singapore , said in an interview.  “When you get American senators and congressmen standing
up and saying China needs to do more about this -- they’ve been
saying that since the 90’s and it doesn’t make any difference,”
Gilholm said.  Strict Customs  Shipments to North Korea fell 13.8 percent in the first
quarter of the year to $720 million,  China ’s customs
administration said this month. Imports from the North rose 2.5
percent to $590 million.  Many of the companies on the main trading strip in Dandong
sell Chinese-brand vehicles, excavators and auto parts. Other
products include solar-power systems for televisions and
computers.  “Everyday household objects can go across normally, for
example TVs and construction materials,” said entrepreneur
Wang, general manager of Dandong Good Sea Business Ltd. His firm
runs a website that helps connect Chinese companies with North
Korean businesses.  Much of the trade is conducted through barter, according to
traders, with minerals and coal from North Korea used as
payment. Other times, North Koreans pay in China’s currency or
in U.S. dollars.  Traders across the border who have access to the Internet
have driven down prices, Dandong Import & Export Co.’s Yu said.  More Trade  “In the past, you could sell something worth five yuan for
10 yuan to North Korea,” Yu said. “Now they know what’s going
on, so they say, ‘I’ll give you 8 yuan.’”  More trade is expected. Near the entrance of the bridge,
empty pastel-colored apartment towers surround manicured parks.
A commercial street full of empty offices is ready for tenants
to arrive. “The new zone is the future of Dandong,” a red
banner in the city center says.  “Many companies have already bought properties there,” Yu
said. “When the bridge is finished we’ll have no option but to
go there.”  Standing in front of a bright-green  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333) 
Wingle pickup truck that will be driven across the Friendship
Bridge, a manager at Dandong Ningshun Car Trade Co. who would
only give his surname, Xia, said the company sells about 200
cars a year to North Korea.  “North Koreans like this model the most -- they have no
car industry there,” Xia, 60, said. “Trade between Dandong and
the North is based on our relationships with our clients. We
don’t talk politics.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Dandong at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  