-- China Warns Against Countries Expanding Military in Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-16T07:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/china-warns-against-countries-expanding-military-in-asia.html
China  cautioned against countries
expanding their Asia-Pacific military presence in a veiled
warning to the U.S. as the Obama administration carries out a
foreign policy shift toward the region.  Asia has become a significant stage for interaction between
the world’s major powers, according to a defense white paper
released today. Without specifying what countries it is
referring to, the report notes in the same section that the U.S.
is “adjusting its Asia-Pacific security strategy.”  The paper stressed the army’s duty to protect national
sovereignty at a time when China is embroiled in territorial
disputes in the South China and East China Seas with  Japan , the
 Philippines  and  Vietnam . The U.S. has strengthened military ties
with all three of those counties and called on China to abide by
a legally binding maritime code of conduct.  Efforts to enhance military deployment and strengthen
alliances in the region are not conducive to upholding peace and
stability, Defense Ministry spokesman Yang Yujun said at a press
briefing in Beijing.  “We hope that the relevant parties would do more to
enhance the mutual trust between the countries in the region and
contribute to peace and stability in this region,” he said.  The report accuses the Japanese government of “making
trouble” over disputed islands in the East China Sea claimed by
both countries.  Yang said the country’s armed forces have the ability and
determination to protect the islands, known as Diaoyu in China
and Senkaku in Japan. Planes and ships from both sides have
shadowed each other for months around the islands, which lie in
Japanese-administered waters rich in fish, oil and natural gas.  Japan Protest  Japan protested to the Chinese government over the report,
Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshige Seko said, adding that
China’s assertions were “unacceptable.”  Three Chinese ships entered the waters today, Kyodo News
said, citing the Japanese Coast Guard.  China’s  defense spending  is set to rise 10.7 percent this
year, and the report said the country aims to build a armed
force that is commensurate with its international standing.
China’s military budget, second only to the U.S., has increased
175 percent since 2003, the Stockholm International Peace
Research Institute said yesterday in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  