-- Chinese Send Boston Condolences and Conspiracy Theories
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-04-16T16:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/chinese-send-boston-condolences-and-conspiracy-theories.html
Shortly before  the explosion 
yesterday at the Boston Marathon, Wang Shi, the billionaire
chairman of  China  Vanke Co., China’s largest real-estate
development company, took a photo near the finish line. The
subject was one of his 15 employees who participated in the
race, wrapped in a Chinese flag, greeting family.  He  posted  it to Sina Weibo, China’s most popular social-media platform, at 2:49 p.m. Boston time, one minute before the
explosions. He wasn’t heard from again until 3:12 p.m., when he
 posted  a photo of the scene. Smoke rises over the street as
confused spectators appear to move in the opposite direction.
Wang wrote: “Two loud bangs near the end of the course, race
terminated, evacuating.”  Elsewhere on the 500 million-member  Sina Weibo service ,
Boston-based Chinese nationals -- many of them  students  at
universities there -- were also busy reporting the story. At
2:55 p.m., an  anonymous user  in  Boston  asked: “Did an explosion
occur? Boston Marathon.” At 3:01 p.m. another Boston-area Sina
Weibo user  wrote : “Goodness, I was close to the finish line of
the Boston Marathon where there were just two explosions.” One
minute after that, JingChuiSh, another Sina Weibo user in Boston
posted an  image  of police blocking off an area,  writing :
“Police coming from all directions to Copley Square, heard an
explosion, the shopping mall has closed its doors.” After that,
 tweets and retweets  of news and rumors spread across the largely
Chinese-language site.  In China it was 2:50 a.m. when the bombs went off, so there
weren’t many netizens awake and watching the news, much less
paying attention to a rare instance of Chinese microbloggers
covering an overseas breaking news event. China’s traditional,
state and Communist Party-run media didn’t  cover  the story until
dawn. Even the Sina Weibo account associated with CCTV America,
the North American branch of China’s flagship television
network, didn’t  report  the news until 5:48 p.m. in Boston.
Chinese, especially those in the U.S., looking to traditional
Chinese news media didn’t have many options.  Chinese microbloggers who couldn’t report the story
firsthand turned to foreign news media and social media,
including Twitter, which is censored in China, and started
translating the considerable flow of fact and rumor. At 4:08
p.m. Le_Frank, the handle of a Belarus-based Sina Weibo user
 posted : “Twitter: Boston police found other bombs. Asking
people to immediately get away from the Marathon.” Photos and
video from non-Chinese sources quickly multiplied during the 4
a.m. hour in China, and by 5 a.m., Chinese netizens had access
to almost as much Chinese-language information about the bombing
as someone sitting in a U.S. Internet cafe.  The alacrity and freedom with which the traditional U.S.
media, and its social-media commentators, gathered and
distributed information on the Boston attacks didn’t go
unnoticed by Chinese nationals in the U.S., or in China,
especially by those who work in news media. At 6:13 p.m.
“Pretending to be in  New York ,” the anonymous handle for a
Chinese microblogger who identifies his location as “overseas”
 posted  his reaction to how the U.S. government and citizens were
handling the crisis, drawing a comparison to the tight control
that Chinese officials typically exert over news stories on
politically sensitive tragedies in China.  “Three hours after the Boston bombing: the websites and
televisions have live scrolls, not publicity bans; police hold a
news conference immediately to react to information and be
transparent and, as a result, there is no panic; Google
established a person finder,” he wrote. “The positive
interaction of major public events, government, media,
businesses, citizens, is something we should learn from.”  By U.S. standards, this transparency and coordinated
reaction is expected. But in China, it’s trenchant social
criticism that generated a jaw-dropping 51,000 repostings by
Tuesday night in China.  The Chinese reaction had the potential to turn political.
In the days after the Sept. 11 attacks, many Chinese publicly
 celebrated  them as a justified humiliation of a bully, and the
memory of that bitter outpouring remains a source of
embarrassment. Fortunately, the Boston attack, far from
inflaming the deep antipathy that many Chinese feel for  U.S.
foreign policy , appears to have inspired a widespread outpouring
of empathy. “As Chinese, we are praying for you,”  tweeted  a
Beijing-based graduate of Bentley College. “I almost went to
the marathon,” a music student  wrote . “Here’s wishing peace to
all of the students in Boston.” Sister Ran Xiang, the handle
for a popular microblogger in Guangzhou, wrote:  “Years ago, the whole of China applauded 911. Now in the
wake of the Boston Bombings, we see a lot of sympathy and
condemnation. A moment of silence for the dead and wounded and a
prayer for the continued recovery of China’s humanity.”  Her tweet is followed by seven emoticons depicting
flickering candles, a common way of memorializing the dead on
Chinese social media.  Yet the mood is unlikely to remain entirely reverent.
 Speculation  over whether the attack was the work of the North
Koreans is common -- and heavily censored. At the same time,
many microbloggers, ever-suspicious of U.S. foreign policy
motives, cite the U.S. attacks on  Afghanistan  and  Iraq  to
 suggest  that the U.S. might use Boston as an excuse to attack
 North Korea .  Despite the conspiracy theories, much of the postings on
Chinese social media were in support of the city of Boston and
those affected by the bombing. A single  post  by the Sina Weibo
account for  LobsBoston , a Boston-based website that  caters  to
“the large number of Chinese residents in the greater Boston
area” has been reposted more than 700 times by microbloggers
almost exclusively in China, many of whom left comments citing
concern for their friends in Boston.  “Boston is the best city in the U.S. and the world
regardless of the criteria used. It has the best university, the
most legendary teams,” the post said. “Many people don’t like
LA or New York, but nobody can deny Boston. I love Boston, and I
pray for you.”  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Kirsten
Salyer at  ksalyer@bloomberg.net .
 