-- China Southern Mulls A380 Flights to Sydney as Talks Stall
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-04-17T10:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/china-southern-mulls-a380-sydney-flights-as-beijing-talks-stall.html
China Southern Airlines Co. (1055) , the
nation’s only operator of Airbus SAS A380s, may fly the
superjumbo to Sydney as the carrier’s talks with  Air China Ltd. (601111) 
to cooperate on Beijing-Paris services are stalled.  China Southern is studying the feasibility of operating the
A380 to Sydney from its base in  Guangzhou , Chief Financial
Officer Xu Jiebo said in a telephone interview. Services to the
Australian city with the double-decker jet may begin as early as
October if talks with Air China collapse, he said yesterday.  For more than eight months the carrier has been working to
reach an agreement with Air China to gain access to Beijing
airport slots and start A380 flights to Paris. Beijing-based  Air
China (753)  has historically controlled routes in the Chinese capital.  “The A380 saga is an embarrassment to China Southern even
though it doesn’t hurt much financially,” said Kelvin Lau, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. “They
should’ve come up with a contingency plan much earlier.”  In October, China Southern missed its target of introducing
the A380 on Paris-Beijing route. The carrier has been flying its
five superjumbos mostly on domestic routes from Guangzhou
because of the lack of access to the capital’s slots.  Aviation Landscape  Air China has a lock on Beijing routes because of the
aviation landscape established by the Civil Aviation
Administration of China, according to Li Yanhua, a professor at
Tianjin-based Civil Aviation University of China.  China Eastern
Airlines Corp. (670)  similarly controls  Shanghai , the nation’s
financial capital, while China Southern has Guangzhou.  China Southern  fell  0.7 percent to HK$4 at the close in
 Hong Kong . The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.5 percent.  Air China seeks to lease two A380s equipped with cabin crew
from China Southern to avoid “cut-throat competition,”
Chairman Wang Changshun said last month. Xu didn’t say what are
the disagreements with Air China, Asia’s biggest carrier by
market value.  “At present, both sides can’t agree on some key terms and
therefore the talks have been temporally stopped.” Xu said,
without saying when the discussions will resume. “We are
evaluating the Guangzhou-Sydney flight as a back-up plan.”  Air  China  spokeswoman Rao Xinyu didn’t immediately reply to
an e-mail seeking comments.  Three-Hour Flights  Since China Southern received its first A380 in October
2011, it has mainly used the planes on the about 1,900-kilometer
(1,180 miles) flights between Beijing and Guangzhou that take
about three hours. The aircraft are designed to fly as far as
15,400 kilometers. The carrier also began A380 flights to Los
Angeles from Guangzhou in October.  China Southern has boosted capacity on Australian routes
more than 50 percent annually since 2009, the carrier said in an
April 9 statement on its website. It currently operates 38
flights a week to Australian cities including Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane. By 2015, the airline plans to have 110 flights
every week to Australia and New Zealand.  China Southern had  491 planes  in its fleet at the end of
last year, according to a company statement. It also has 10
 Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliners on order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  