-- Christie Highway Debt Exceeds Plan by 18% on Revenue Gap
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-04-16T19:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/christie-highway-debt-exceeds-plan-by-21-on-revenue-gap.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
who pledged to reduce state bonding, hasn’t been able to keep a
vow to curb borrowing for roads and bridges. Investors in the
$3.7 trillion municipal market welcome the extra debt.  The New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund Authority, which
finances roads, bridges and mass-transit, borrowed about $878
million today as transit-related munis with a similar credit
grade are set to outperform for the longest stretch since 2008.  In the two years through June, the fund is set to issue
$2.56 billion of debt for capital projects, 18 percent more than
the first-term Republican governor had planned. The state’s
revenue collections have trailed projections, leading Christie
to lower allocations to the fund and borrow instead. Still,
investors are focusing on the sale’s relatively higher yields,
said Matt Dalton at Belle Haven Investments Inc. in  White
Plains ,  New York .  “This deal feeds right into demand” for securities rated
A, said Dalton, who helps manage $1.5 billion of munis.  Christie, 50, is back on track to limit the fund’s
borrowing, as originally planned, for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, the state’s treasurer, has
said. The governor, who is up for re-election this year, is also
reviving his proposal for a 10 percent tax cut that Democrats in
the legislature had blocked.  ‘Fiscal Responsibility’  “The Christie administration is exercising fiscal
responsibility” in fiscal 2014 “by supporting $1.6 billion of
road and mass transit projects around the state with less than
$850 million in new borrowings” by the Transportation Trust
Fund agency,  William Quinn , a spokesman for Sidamon-Eristoff,
said via e-mail.  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman, referred to
testimony Commissioner of Transportation  James Simpson  made to
lawmakers this month in which he said the state has returned to
Christie’s blueprint.  Investors have been seeking munis rated four to six steps
below top-rated securities for their higher yields as  interest
rates  remain below historical averages. The transportation
fund’s A+ rating,  Standard & Poor’s  fifth-highest, falls in that
range. Twenty-year general-obligation bonds yielded  3.93 percent 
last week, below a 52-year average of 5.88 percent, according to
a Bond Buyer index.  ‘Holy Grail’  “That’s the holy grail,” said Howard Cure, director of
muni research in New York at Evercore Wealth Management LLC,
which manages about $4.5 billion. “Just a basic A rated credit
would get a little more yield, but far enough away from
potentials for having real fiscal problems,” as credits in the
triple-B range may face, he said.  Single-A transport bonds have earned 1.3 percent in 2013
through April 12, beating the 1.2 percent gain for the broader
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. It
would be the third straight year for the transport debt to beat
the market.  The  New Jersey  trust refunding deal is backed by revenue
appropriated by the legislature every year from the state’s
10.5-cent per gallon gasoline tax.  Choices Ahead  Investors have several transportation deals to choose from
this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The New Jersey
Turnpike Authority, which oversees the highway, plans to sell
$780 million today; Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission is set to
borrow $175 million; and Illinois State Toll Highway Authority
plans to issue $500 million.  The extra yield investors demand to buy transportation debt
rated A+, four levels below benchmark munis, is about  0.7
percentage point  above top-rated debt, 18 percent below the
three-year average, Bloomberg data show.  Tax-exempt trust fund bonds due in June 2024, the longest
maturity, priced with an initial yield of 2.6 percent, or 0.67
percentage point above benchmark munis, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That spread is similar to when the authority
sold in December.  The state may miss revenue forecasts by as much as $302
million in the current budget and $335 million next fiscal year,
 David Rosen  of the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services
told lawmakers April 4.  Christie announced an $8 billion transportation plan in
January 2011 that would support the fund for another five years.
The program was scheduled to run out of money in fiscal 2012 as
the full $895 million it collects from the state’s gasoline tax
was needed to repay principal and interest payments.  Limiting Reliance  The central thrust of the plan was ending the traditional
reliance on municipal bonds as the primary source of roads
funding and moving toward a larger cash component, or so-called
pay-go financing. The plan was designed to provide $1.6 billion
annually to roadwork and included $672 million for  New Jersey
Transit  and $200 million for local-government projects.  “What you have here is a plan that is fiscally
responsible, that will not burden over the long haul our
children and grandchildren with extraordinary debt payments,”
Christie told reporters in 2011.  Christie proposed a combined $4.4 billion in borrowing for
transportation over five years, starting with $1.2 billion in
fiscal 2012 and then declining each year.  To get back on track next fiscal year, the administration
has proposed using $250 million raised through prior bond sales
at a premium, while also accelerating federally funded road
projects. Those moves will allow the state to keep to the
initial plan without extra borrowing, said Quinn, the
treasurer’s spokesman.  Credit Driver  The additional bonding for this year and last shows the
budget limitations at the state level are making it difficult
for New Jersey to finance more road and bridge work with cash
rather than debt, said Baye Larsen, a Moody’s Investors Service
analyst.  “The relatively small change in their pay-go plans in and
of themselves are not a material credit driver,” Larsen said in
an interview. “But they are one more indication of changes that
the state is having to make to address its overall budget
pressures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  