-- Cities Like Boston Show Resolve After Attacks
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2013-04-16T17:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/cities-like-boston-are-resilient-to-terrorism.html
The April 15 bombings at the  Boston 
Marathon show little of the evil genius displayed on Sept. 11,
2001, only diabolical fiendishness. But the bombings  occurred  at
a place, near the finish line, and a time, four hours after the
race began, when crowds would be dense.  Terrorism needs targets, and urban environments or crowded
events are always  going  to be tempting, whether the weapons are
crude pipe bombs, as in Boston and at the Summer Olympics in
Atlanta in 1996, or the four jetliners on Sept. 11.  After the World Trade Center’s destruction, many  wondered 
whether terrorism would permanently discourage urban density.
Yet New York proved resilient and so will Boston. After millions
of square feet of central office space were destroyed in 2001,
the question was whether fear would push the people away from
urban towers, streets and subways.  While terrorists have  continued  to kill in cities such as
London and  Madrid , urban areas in the U.S. have been relatively
free from such explosions for a decade. This new attack reminds
us of the need for precautions against those risks. Cities, like
airplanes, can be made far safer, though protection comes at a
cost of both money and liberty.  The view that terrorism inevitably makes cities less
attractive understands only that they are natural targets. Yet
the compact nature of a place also means it can be defensible
and even a harbor. Urban density has also raised risks of
ordinary crime, contagious disease and devastating fire, but we
have successfully made cities healthier and safer.  Protective Walls  A primary early motivation for clustering in cities was
that they could be  shielded  by walls providing protection
against outside marauders. Constantinople was an urban giant for
the millennium before it became Istanbul because its walls and
watery defenses usually made it an island of safety in a hostile
world.  Today, it is possible to  imagine  sea walls protecting lower
 Manhattan  from some future  Hurricane Sandy , while it is
inconceivable that the entire New Jersey coastline could be
similarly defended.  Tall buildings are targets, yet they are more defensible
than sprawling suburban office parks because of their limited
entry points. More than 30 years ago, I had to go through heavy
security screening to visit my mother at work in the  Mobil
Building  in midtown Manhattan. Threats were made against the oil
company, but never did significant damage. And it proved
possible to seal the building off against outsiders.  London’s Ring of Steel is a modern urban wall -- built
after a wave of bombings by the Irish Republican Army -- that
forced cars in the inner city to slow down and be photographed.
Police officers, housed in concrete structures, manned the wall
and created a sense of permanent vigilance.  Walls have provided only limited defense against modern
terrorism, yet urban scale provides other advantages that can
also bring safety. Like New York, Boston has a police department
that has helped reduce the murder rate. The department’s
competence was on view on Boylston Street yesterday as police
acted swiftly to rescue the victims and clear the streets.  The Boston Police Department does well at the soft stuff,
too, building the community connections that create the trust
that leads to tips and testimony and that can defuse tension.
Last year, for example, the police befriended the Occupy Boston
movement, helping to engineer a peaceful end to the lengthy
sleep-in. These skills would never be built into the police
force of a small, rarely troubled suburb.  Easier Surveillance  The compact nature of cities also makes surveillance
easier. This is where we face the debate between safety and
privacy.  London  turned to a web of surveillance cameras after
the IRA bombings. Since 2007, New York has had its Lower
Manhattan Security Initiative that  relies  on “surveillance
feeds from more than 3,000 cameras and 100 license plate
readers.” Many of these cameras are privately operated but
connected to the city’s system.  There were plenty of surveillance cameras in operation
during the Boston Marathon, so clearly they don’t deter an
attack. Yet the video footage may still prove useful in tracking
down the perpetrators. On normal days, Boston doesn’t have a
London-style surveillance system, and I hope that one doesn’t
prove necessary. Still, it is always an option if we are ready
to forgo the anonymity of city streets for greater safety. After
Sept. 11, it seemed possible that terrorists could attack cities
by targeting transportation as well as skyscrapers. If urban
transit systems became particularly dangerous, this could push
people away from cities. If flying becomes excessively onerous,
it makes it more attractive for businesses and industries to
cluster in one metropolitan area and avoid the security lines.  In  research  that Jesse Shapiro and I did in the months
after Sept. 11, we looked at the history of terrorism, warfare
and urban growth, in particular in cities such as  Jerusalem , Tel
Aviv and London. We saw little evidence that the threat of
terrorism had significantly altered urban fortunes. With 10
years of hindsight, the Sept. 11 attack symbolized New York’s
resilience more than its vulnerability.  Cities exist to connect humanity and to enable us to work
collaboratively. Those urban connections only strengthen when we
are faced with an outside attack. Terrorists may have hoped to
frighten Boston. Instead, they will find that its spirit of
collaborative self-protection, which once triumphed on Concord’s
Old North Bridge, is still strong.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at Harvard
University, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 