-- Citigroup Rehires Gozdanker as Head of European Cash Trading
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-04-16T12:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/citigroup-rehires-gozdanker-as-head-of-european-cash-trading-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, rehired Yonatan Gozdanker as head of European cash
trading almost three years after he departed to join  Russia ’s
Renaissance Capital.  “He started today” in a new position at the bank, Jeffrey French, a London-based Citigroup spokesman, said in an e-mail.
Gozdanker, who didn’t return messages to his mobile phone, will
report to Mike Pringle, global head of equities trading, and
Andy Thompson, who is in charge of equities for  Europe , Middle
East and  Africa , according to French.  Gozdanker  joined  RenCap as head of global equities in July
2010 from Citigroup, where he ran equity trading for central and
eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. He worked with Gary Lennon and Vadim Varvarin, senior sales traders covering the
same region. Gozdanker left last October as the Moscow-based
bank cut personnel and costs in half because of a slowdown in
global business.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  overhauled
the firm’s operations outside the U.S. in January, naming Jim Cowles CEO of Europe, the Middle East and Africa. In February,
the firm hired former Credit Suisse Group AG banker Luigi de Vecchi for the new job of chairman of continental Europe for
corporate and investment banking. It named Tom Massey yesterday
as European head of mergers and acquisitions.  Revenue slumped 11 percent to $6.42 billion in 2012 at
Citigroup’s European securities and banking division, which
includes operations in the Middle East and Africa, the company
said on Jan. 18. Profit from continuing operations at the unit,
which includes investment banking and trading, fell 32 percent
to $1.35 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  