-- Cleaning ‘Toxic’ Assets Slovenia’s Primary Concern, Moody’s Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-04-16T23:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/cleaning-toxic-assets-slovenia-s-primary-concern-moody-s-says.html
Quickly cleaning up Slovenian banks
and transferring “toxic” assets to a new institution designed
to deal with them should be the government’s main goal, Moody’s
Investors Service said.  Slovenia, the euro-area’s fourth-smallest economy, is
trying to avoid becoming the currency-region’s sixth member to
seek a bailout after international lenders agreed to help
Cyprus. The Cabinet is offering 500 million euros ($657 million)
in 18-month Treasury bills today as it tries to raise confidence
that it can recapitalize banks without seeking outside aid.  While Slovenia’s situation isn’t as bad as Cyprus, the
“trends are certainly negative,” Jaime Reusche, a sovereign-
debt analyst at the ratings company, said in an April 15
interview in Prague.  “We’re looking for greater progress towards stabilizing
the banking system through the creation of the bad bank, and
through the implementation of its mandate,” Reusche said. “The
priority is cleaning up the toxic assets in the banking system,
that’s the primary concern.”  The cost of protecting Slovenian debt against non-payment
using credit-default swaps fell one basis point to 377
yesterday, from a six-month high the previous day, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Slovenia will need more than the two years envisioned by
the previous government to narrow a  budget deficit  that reached
3.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, according to
Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek. This year’s shortfall will widen
to 5.1 percent, the European Commission predicts.  To protect the economy, the planned bank-recapitalization
plans are “the No. 1 priority for the government,” Bratusek
has said. Funds for the bank rescue may come from the sale of
state assets announced by Bratusek on April 12. Details will be
submitted to lawmakers in the next 10 days, she said.  “The government seems committed to moving forward with the
bad bank, and the prime minister has reinforced her commitment
towards fixing the issues in the banking system,” said Reusche.
“They’re looking at the problems with a realistic perspective.
There is the intention and willingness to resolve those
problems, and this is something we take into account for
maintaining the investment-grade rating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  