-- Coca-Cola Rises Most Since 2009 on Profit, Bottler Deal
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-04-16T20:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/coca-cola-profit-tops-estimates-as-latin-america-sales-increase.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  jumped the most in
more than four years after reporting first-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates and announcing a deal to sell some
bottling distribution rights in  North America .  The shares rose 5.7 percent to $42.37 at the close in  New
York  for the Atlanta-based company’s largest gain since Feb. 12,
2009. The volume of shares traded was higher than the three-
month daily average by more than threefold.  Net income fell 15 percent to $1.75 billion, or 39 cents a
share, from $2.05 billion, or 45 cents, a year earlier, Coke
said today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit was 46
cents a share, compared with the 44-cent average of 14 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The results were helped by
higher Latin America sales volume.  Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  has introduced new
package sizes in Latin America and emphasized Coca-Cola branded
soft drinks, Del Valle juices and Powerade. In North America,
where Kent has worked to streamline distribution, the company
said today it will retain manufacturing under the new agreement
while selling and swapping some distribution rights among five
smaller franchise bottlers.  “This is a first step in their eventual divestment of much
of the U.S. bottling operations,” Thomas Mullarkey, an analyst
for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said today in a telephone
interview. “They don’t want all those capital-intensive
distribution assets sitting on their balance sheet in
perpetuity.”  Reverse Model  Kent is reversing a decades-old model in which Coca-Cola
sold franchises in the U.S. to bottlers who handled everything
from production to distribution, buying beverage concentrates
from franchisor Coca-Cola. The new structure would pull together
manufacturing plants nationally under Coca-Cola’s management.  The deals announced today begin a transfer of warehousing
and distribution to bottlers. Those distributors also may be
given a chance to “own a piece” of the national manufacturing
system, Kent said today in a telephone interview.  “We will ensure that the production is no longer
franchised out,” Kent said. “It will be kept centrally managed
coast to coast. It will be best practice.”  Coca-Cola shares have  increased  17 percent this year,
compared with a 10 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Latin America  In the first quarter, beverage volume for  Latin America 
increased 4 percent, led by Mexico and  Brazil .  “We expect Latin America to continue growing strongly,
remaining an outsized contributor to Coke’s global revenue and
profit growth,” Mark Swartzberg, an analyst at Stifel Financial
Corp. in New York, said in an April 12 note. He has a hold
rating on the shares.  Beverage volume at the company’s Eurasia and Africa region
rose 15 percent in the quarter, helped by a partnership with
Aujan Industries, the  Middle East ’s largest independent drinks
company.  Total Revenue declined 0.9 percent to $11 billion. Analysts
estimated $10.9 billion, on average.  Currency fluctuations reduced earnings per share by 4
percent in the quarter, Chief Financial Officer Gary Fayard said
during a conference call.  Coca-Cola is fully hedged on the euro, yen and sterling for
2013 and into 2014, Fayard said without elaborating on the
timing next year. The company has “near-term” hedges in place
for several additional currencies, he said. Currency fluctuation
will lower earnings by 3 percent in the second quarter and 2
percent for the full year, Fayard forecast.  Europe Weakness  Volume in  Europe  was little changed in the period amid poor
weather and “ongoing weakness in  consumer confidence  and
spending,” the company said.  “We expect Europe to remain Coke’s weakest developed
market,” Swartzberg said before the results were announced.  The five bottlers getting new, expanded territories are
Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated, Coca-Cola Bottling Company
United Inc., Swire Coca-Cola USA, Coca-Cola Bottling Company
High Country and Corinth Coca-Cola Bottling Works Inc. More
expansions could come later, the company said.  Coca-Cola didn’t disclose financial terms of the
transactions, which the company said will close in 2014. After,
Coca-Cola would distribute about 75 percent of its U.S. sales
volume.  Last month, Coca-Cola announced plans to fire 750 employees
in its U.S. division following a February decision to pare its
distribution regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  