-- Colombian Central Bank Sees Inflation Back on Target by 2014
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-04-16T13:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/colombian-central-bank-sees-inflation-back-on-target-by-2014.html
Colombia ’s  inflation  rate, the
lowest in  Latin America  after  Chile ’s, will return to the
midpoint of its target range next year, central bank Governor
Jose Dario Uribe said.  Consumer prices will probably rise less than the 3 percent
target this year because of weak internal demand, the peso
appreciation at the start of 2012 and one-time factors such as
tax changes and cheaper food, Uribe said yesterday in an
interview in Huila province. Inflation was 1.9 percent in March.  “We expect, as does the market, that inflation will end
the year a bit below 3 percent, and that’s one of the elements
we took into account in the interest rate cuts that began in
July,” Uribe said. “Our target is 3 percent, and we want
inflation returning there in a prudent amount of time.”  Uribe’s central bank unexpectedly stepped up the pace of
 interest rate  cuts at its March policy meeting, saying that
previous stimulus was reaching the economy slower than it
wanted. The government of President Juan Manuel Santos yesterday
announced a package of stimulus measures, aimed at boosting
growth by about 1 percentage point this year.  Growth will probably pick up in the second half of the
year, Uribe said. The half-point interest rate cut to 3.25
percent in March aimed to boost growth to its potential rate, he
said.  “That was the objective of this cut of an additional 50
basis points on top of our previous reductions, which is to get
inflation to 3 percent and to help get growth to its potential
rate,” Uribe said.  Growth Potential  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said yesterday that the
economy can grow at an annual rate of 4.8 percent without
generating inflation.  Gross domestic product expanded 4 percent last year, slower
than Chile and  Peru , and down from 6.6 percent growth in 2011.
Expansion in the first quarter was “in some sectors not
positive,” Uribe said.  Last month’s 1.9 percent annual rise in consumer prices
lagged economists’ forecasts for a fifth straight month. Slowing
inflation has prevented real interest rates paid by borrowers
from falling in line with the bank’s policy rate, Uribe said.  “In terms of nominal rates, the reduction in interest
rates has been transmitted in a way that wasn’t very different
from other cutting cycles,” Uribe said. “In terms of real
interest rates, the transmission has been less because inflation
has slowed.”  Policy makers cited “slower than desirable” interest rate
transmission in the statement accompanying their half-point rate
cut last month.  Credit Cards  Bancolombia (PFBCOLO) , the country’s largest bank, said April 10 it
would cut the interest rate on 1.6 million of its credit cards
by 2 percentage points. The effective annual rate on
Bancolombia’s Classic, Gold and Platinum cards fell to 28.9
percent from 30.9 percent, according to a report on its website.  Asked whether the move could cause other banks to follow
suit, Uribe said it “very probably” would.  “Competition between banks is welcome when, of course, the
competition comes with a good calculation of risk,” Uribe said.  The central bank is “permanently monitoring” the housing
market for signs of a bubble, Uribe said. Home prices rose 71
percent in the third quarter from a decade earlier, according to
the bank’s inflation-adjusted used housing price index.  “ Home prices  are historically high in some cities, but to
say from that there is a bubble is very difficult,” Uribe said.
“We believe that at the moment there isn’t a bubble, but I
repeat that this is a theme that we constantly monitor.”  Credit quality is currently “very good” and the financial
system is “strong, without a doubt”, Uribe said.  The government yesterday unveiled a 5 trillion peso ($2.7
billion) stimulus plan to revive the country’s industrial and
agricultural sectors. The measures included subsidized mortgages
for middle-income families, an expansion of a subsidized housing
program for low-income families, cheaper energy costs, tariff
reductions to cut company costs and measures to reduce loading
times at ports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  