-- Commodities Seen by IMF Dropping 2% This Year Amid Higher Supply
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-04-16T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/commodities-seen-by-imf-dropping-2-this-year-amid-higher-supply.html
Commodity prices are set to fall 2
percent this year from 2012 amid increased supplies of raw
materials from crude oil to grains, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  Energy prices probably will decline almost 3 percent as
supply rebounds from outages last year, the Washington-based IMF
said today in an online report. Food prices will drop more than
2 percent on increasing world harvests, while metals may climb
more than 3 percent on recovering world economies and increasing
demand in  China , the report showed.  An IMF index of commodity prices is down 9 percent from a
peak in April 2011 while still “elevated compared with
historical levels,” according to the report. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials climbed for a fourth year
in 2012 as drought in the U.S. lifted corn and soybean prices to
records and dryness in  Russia  and eastern  Europe  boosted wheat.  “The near-term outlook for commodity prices, as reflected
in futures prices, shows broad declines across all main
commodity groups, including oil,” the IMF said. “Recent
declines in commodity-price volatility reflect improvements in
global financial conditions.”  The GSCI has dropped 6.2 percent this year, compared with a
5.2 percent increase for the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities and Treasury returns of 0.5 percent, according to a
Bank of America Corp. index. The IMF said its commodity index is
up 12 percent since bottoming in June.  Canada, Russia  Oil production in nations outside the Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries probably will increase by 1
million barrels a day in 2013, “slightly exceeding the growth
in demand” and pushing prices lower, the IMF said. Non-OPEC
supplies rose by 600,000 barrels a day last year, primarily from
the U.S.,  Canada , China and Russia.  An index of natural-gas prices may “edge higher” this
year, led by rising costs in the U.S., the IMF said. Liquefied
natural gas in  Japan  may drop as nuclear-power generation climbs
and coal is expected to decline because of environmental
restrictions, according to the report.  Food prices may “remain elevated” during the first half
of this year as inventories of corn, soybeans and wheat are
tight after drought and heat cut harvests last year, the IMF
said. Supplies relative to consumption are lowest for corn,
leaving the grain “particularly vulnerable” to weather
problems or other risks, according to the report. Favorable
growing conditions in  Brazil  probably will spur an increase in
soybean yields, while rain delayed planting in  Argentina  and dry
weather in some areas may hurt corn and soybean output there.  Corn Harvest  “Until there is more certainty about production prospects
in the  United States  -- the largest producer of both crops --
prices are unlikely to ease significantly,” the IMF said. The
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  in February projected a rebound
in domestic corn production to a record 14.53 billion bushels.  While China’s metal-demand growth may moderate in 2013,
planned infrastructure projects still may support prices, the
IMF said. Tight supplies of copper have supported prices and
financing arrangements at aluminum warehouses have kept
inventories out of the market, it said.  Metals “prices picked up during the fourth quarter of 2012
and into early 2013 on improving macroeconomic sentiment,” the
IMF said. “The outlook for metal prices is tightly bound to
developments in China, which consumes more than 40 percent of
all metals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 