-- Credit Suisse Staff Probed in Germany in New Tax Case
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-04-16T12:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/credit-suisse-staff-probed-in-germany-in-new-tax-case.html
The homes of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
customers were raided by prosecutors as part of a tax-evasion
probe based on account data obtained by a German state
government.  The customers and employees of Credit Suisse units are both
being investigated as part of the probe, prosecutors in Koblenz,
 Germany , said in an e-mailed statement. The case is reviewing
whether bank staff helped 201 clients evade German taxes.  German lawmakers last year rejected an accord with
 Switzerland  aimed at resolving disputes over how to tax funds
held by Germans at banks in the Alpine country. The treaty would
have ended German authorities’ need to acquire bank data from
people who may have stolen it from the lenders.  Credit Suisse has been telling its German clients that they
need to “review their individual situation and, if necessary,
settle it” with the German government, bank spokesman  Marc
Dosch  said in an e-mailed statement. The lender will end its
relationship this year with clients who don’t comply, he said.  Clients of other Swiss banks are also being targeted by
German tax authorities. In November, the homes of about 100
clients of  UBS AG (UBSN)  were searched after Bochum prosecutors
purchased their data.  In today’s case, prosecutors still have to identify the
individual Credit Suisse employees who may become suspects. The
south-western State of Rhineland-Palatinate, where Koblenz is
located, bought the data at the beginning of the year,
prosecutors said.  Credit Suisse in 2011 paid 150 million euros ($197 million)
to settle a similar probe conducted by Dusseldorf prosecutors.
At the time, 1,100 Credit Suisse clients were targeted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 