-- Credit Suisse Leads Repo Funding $20 Billion of Securitized Debt
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-04-16T21:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/credit-suisse-leads-repo-funding-20-billion-of-securitized-debt.html
Credit Suisse (CS)  Group AG,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lead borrowers tapping
the largest prime money-market funds through repurchase
agreements that finance about $20 billion of securitized debt,
according to Fitch Ratings.  The three dealers provided 72 percent of the structured-
finance securities without government backing used as collateral
for so-called repo loans by the 10-biggest funds, Fitch said
today in a report, citing data through Dec. 31. The median
“haircut,” or discount to the value of the bonds, mainly notes
tied to U.S. mortgages issued before the housing crisis, was
about 8 percent, the ratings firm said. That translates into
about $18.4 billion of total borrowing.  The ability to fund holdings of securitized debt with repo
dried up in 2008 and 2009, exacerbating the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. The typically short-term
loans are now often backed by small, speculative-grade mortgage
securities trading at discounts, with a median value of
$800,000, Fitch said.  “The use of repo to fund these less liquid assets creates
potential risks for both repo borrowers and the underlying asset
class,” New York-based Fitch analysts Martin Hansen, Robert Grossman and Kevin D’Albert wrote in the report. “Repo funding
for structured finance assets largely evaporated at the height
of the U.S. credit crisis, a loss of liquidity that likely
contributed to the steep valuation declines.”  Financing Inventories  Dealers can use repo to finance their inventories or to
fund their own loans to clients. Securities are sold to a lender
with an agreement by the borrower to buy them back later.
Haircuts protect lenders against price declines in the
collateral, in the event the borrower defaults.  Credit Suisse provided 32 percent of the structured-finance
collateral for repo loans from the 10 money market funds,
according to the Fitch analysts, who cited fund disclosures and
also referenced data from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Bank of America offered 22 percent, while JPMorgan was the
counterparty on 18 percent, according to the report.  Drew Benson, a spokesman for Zurich-based Credit Suisse,
Zia Ahmed, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank
of America, and  Justin Perras , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to immediately comment on the report.  Appetites Grow  The total amount of structured-finance repo in the main,
so-called triparty portion of the market mostly held steady in
the past two years at about $75 billion, according to Fitch
calculations based on Fed data. The total was understated by
excluding so-called collateralized debt obligations, the ratings
company said. The figure is about 10 times daily trading
volumes, Fitch said.  Wall Street dealers in a quarterly survey reported
increased demand to finance purchases of mortgage securities and
a rise in the risk appetite of hedge funds in the three months
through February, the Fed said in a report on April 4.  The median yield on structured-finance repo provided by the
money-market funds was 0.63 percentage point as of Dec. 31,
compared with 0.17 percentage point for Treasury-backed repo,
according to the Fitch report. Residential-mortgage bonds
without government backing accounted for 74 percent of the
collateral, while CDOs represented an additional 9 percent,
based on disclosures covering a subset, the firm said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  