-- Daimler Exits EADS in $2.9 Billion Disposal to Fix Cars
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-17T09:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/daimler-sets-eads-exit-timing-with-61-1-million-share-sale-1-.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of luxury cars, sold its remaining stake in  Airbus
SAS (EAD)  parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. for 2.2
billion euros ($2.9 billion) to focus on its auto business.  Daimler disposed of 61.1 million shares in EADS, equal to
7.5 percent of the total, at 37 euros a share, the Stuttgart,
Germany-based automaker said in a statement today. EADS bought
16 million of the shares for 600 million euros, Daimler said.  The carmaker, which was among the founding forces behind
Toulouse, France-based EADS more than a decade ago, has lost
ground to Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi
unit in vehicle sales, a gap that Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche has pledged to close with a line-up of new models.
Daimler pushed back long-standing profit targets in October and
has initiated a cost-cutting plan amid a slowdown in  Europe ’s
automotive market.  “The EADS stake sale secures a stable dividend payment for
2013,” said Sascha Gommel, a Frankfurt-based analyst with
Commerzbank. “It’s better for Daimler to invest the money in
the company’s core business or to spend it to the benefit of the
shareholders in the form of a dividend payment.”  Daimler paid a  dividend  of 2.20 euros a share for 2012,
unchanged from a year earlier, as earnings before interest and
taxes fell 2 percent. BMW is increasing its dividend 8.7 percent
to 2.50 euros a share after reporting record Ebit in 2012.
Volkswagen is raising its payout 16 percent to 3.56 euros per
preferred share.  Disposal Gain  A revaluation of Daimler’s stake in EADS will result in an
estimated 2.7 billion-euro non-cash operating profit gain in the
second quarter, the carmaker said last month. The exact figure,
which depends on the stock price, will be announced when Daimler
publishes second-quarter earnings in July, said Florian Martens,
a spokesman. Daimler sold another 7.5 percent holding in EADS
for 1.66 billion euros in December.  “We will invest the proceeds of the sale in the global
growth of our divisions and the extension of our technological
leadership,” Daimler Chief Financial Officer Bodo Uebber, a
former EADS chairman, said yesterday. “We are pursuing a
corporate strategy with a clear focus on automotive products and
services.”  Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz brand lost the global luxury sales
lead to BMW in 2005 and fell into third place behind Ingolstadt,
Germany-based Audi in 2011. The gap has been widening since.  Mercedes Deliveries  First-quarter sales at Mercedes increased 3.5 percent to
324,898 vehicles. That compared with Audi’s 6.8 percent growth
to 369,500 cars and sport-utilities and a jump of 7 percent to
381,404 deliveries at Munich-based BMW.  Mercedes is adding the CLA coupe to its compact-car line-up
this year, complementing the A- and B-Class hatchbacks. The
company is also rolling out a heavily revamped version of the
upscale E-Class and will present a new generation of its high-
end S-Class next month. Zetsche has outlined plans for 13 new
models with no predecessor in the next eight years, including
three additional variants of the S-Class.  Daimler fell as much as 1.5 percent to 38.89 euros and was
trading down 0.6 percent at 11:04 a.m. in  Frankfurt . EADS,
Europe’s biggest aerospace company, climbed as much as 5.7
percent to 39.30 euros and was up 4.6 percent in Paris. The
stock has  gained  46 percent since Daimler announced the initial
stake sale in December.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  acted as joint
bookrunners, Daimler said.  Lagardere Withdrawal  EADS investors last month agreed to change the
manufacturer’s capital structure, clearing the way for Daimler
and Paris-based publisher  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  to exit their stakes.  Lagardere disposed of its holding on April 9 for 2.28
billion euros, with the capital gain net of taxes and
transaction costs amounting to 1.8 billion euros, the publisher
 said  April 15. EADS repurchased 1.6 percent of its stock for 500
million euros as part of that deal.  Under the new structure, EADS’s freely traded stock will
increase, even with the introduction of the German state to
replace Daimler.  France , which has a 15 percent stake, will
reduce that holding to 12 percent to match the German ownership.  EADS CEO Tom Enders has long sought a simpler shareholder
structure, and he attempted a merger with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  last
year to scale back political meddling. The plan failed after the
German government refused to endorse the combination with
Europe’s largest weapons maker.  As part of the EADS transaction, Daimler has entered into a
derivatives agreement with Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs that
will pay the carmaker any upside in EADS shares this year in
cash. The two banks bought 8 million shares of the 61.1 million
on offer to hedge themselves as counterparties in the
derivatives deal. The size of Daimler’s derivatives purchase
wasn’t disclosed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  