-- Danone Sales Top Estimates Amid Chinese Baby-Food Concern
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-04-16T10:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/danone-sales-growth-beats-analyst-estimates-on-emerging-markets.html
Danone (BN)  reported first-quarter sales
growth that beat estimates as renewed concern in  China  over the
safety of  baby-food  products caused consumers to turn to
established international brands such as Aptamil and Cow & Gate.  So-called like-for-like revenue rose 5.6 percent, the
Paris-based maker of Activia yogurt said today, sending its
shares to the highest in more than five years. The average of 14
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 4 percent.  Baby-nutrition revenue jumped 17 percent on a like-for-like
basis, with “booming” Asia-Pacific sales being led by a need
for “safety” in China, Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said. Milk safety in the country became a major issue in
2008 when a melamine contamination killed at least six infants
and concern was reignited in January when Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd. found minimal levels of a fertilizer additive in some
samples. Fonterra said there was no health risk.  “The organic growth in baby food was truly
extraordinary,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
in  Singapore , said in an e-mailed note.  Danone rose as much as 4.1 percent to 56.67 euros in Paris
trading, the highest price since Jan. 10, 2008. The stock was up
3.6 percent at 56.42 euros as of 11:55 a.m.  Safety Concern  Danone doesn’t expect demand for baby-nutrition products to
weaken in China, Terisse told analysts today.  “The conditions for safety are not really standard in this
country and therefore the need of the consumer for safety
remains very strong,” Terisse said. “It’s difficult to see any
sign for weakening of the demand at least in the short term.”  Exporting more from Europe to China isn’t a sustainable
solution for meeting rising demand and the priority is to adapt
the company’s product portfolio locally, the executive said.  Most U.K. supermarkets have introduced restrictions on
sales of powdered baby milk following a surge in exports to
China as health scandals in the country undermined confidence in
local brands, the  British Broadcasting Corp. reported  April 9.  Fonterra, based in Auckland,  New Zealand , said Jan. 24 that
the discovery of the additive may become a trade concern even
though there was no risk to health.  Danone said infant-nutrition sales also benefited from a
later Chinese New Year. Many workers based in Chinese cities
stock up on items such as baby food before returning to villages
for their celebrations, according to Exane BNP Paribas analyst
Jeff Stent. The later timing of the holiday had a positive
effect on sales of three percentage points, Terisse estimated.  Cost Reduction  Chief Executive Officer Franck Riboud said a cost-reduction
plan announced in February “is moving ahead on schedule.”  Danone, which gets more than half its sales from dairy
products, plans to cut about 4 percent of jobs in  Europe  as part
of a plan to reduce expenses by 200 million euros ($262 million)
over two years. The euro-area jobless rate rose to a record 12
percent in early 2013, a report showed this month.  The first quarter “highlighted once again the contrast
between robust growth in emerging markets and the sluggish
economy in Europe,” Riboud said in the statement.  Sales rose by more than 10 percent in emerging markets and
 North America  combined, while falling 5.1 percent in Europe.  Volume, or the quantity of goods sold, rose 3 percent in
the first quarter, beating the 2.6 percent average estimate.
Volume is going back to “positive territory” in  Portugal ,
Terisse told analysts.  Bottled Water  Currency movements reduced sales by 2.4 percent, reflecting
‘‘unfavorable trends” in the Argentinian peso, the Brazilian
real and the Indonesian rupee, Danone said.  Revenue from bottled water rose 8.6 percent on a like-for-
like basis as growth in  emerging markets  offset a slight decline
in Europe because of cold weather in March.  Fresh dairy-products sales rose 0.7 percent, also on a
like-for-like basis. Business conditions remain particularly
difficult in Italy and  Spain , while Portugal has improved
slightly, Terisse said on a call with journalists today.  “We are far from having done everything we need to do in
Europe,” Terisse told analysts today. Promotional pricing is
used “very selectively” in the region, he said.  Danone today reiterated its forecast for like-for-like
sales growth of at least 5 percent this year and operating
margin narrowing by 30 basis points to 50 basis points. The
company said it’s considering buying back shares for 100 million
euros to 200 million euros within coming weeks.  Danone’s definition of like-for-like sales growth excludes
currency changes and strips out changes in consolidation scope.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  