-- Debelle Says Aussie Supported by Resource Investment Inflows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-16T02:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/debelle-says-aussie-supported-by-resource-investment-inflows.html
The sustained strength of the
Australian dollar partly reflects international companies’
offshore funding of the nation’s resource investment boom,
central bank Assistant Governor Guy Debelle said.  “The capital inflow to the resource sector to fund
investment along with the increased purchases of government
debt, have been putting upward pressure on the currency,”
Debelle said in the  text  of a speech in Canberra today. “At the
same time, the reduction in offshore borrowing by the banking
system has been putting downward pressure on it.”  Australia ’s  biggest miners  have favored funding from
internal cash flows, rather than banks, to finance resource
projects in Australia’s north and west, and inflows are boosted
by foreign ownership of companies like  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Debelle
said three-quarters foreign ownership of BHP implies three-
quarters of BHP’s internal funding is recorded as foreign.  “Taking all this together suggests that around four-fifths
of the investment funding has been sourced from offshore,” said
Debelle, who oversees financial markets at the Reserve Bank of
Australia. “The net effect of all these flows however, is that
the Australian dollar is higher than one would expect, given
fundamentals such as the terms of trade and interest
differentials.”  The currency traded at $1.0336 at 12:20 p.m. in Sydney,
extending its longest stretch above parity with the U.S. dollar
since it was freely floated in 1983. In addition to resource
investment, the Aussie has been boosted by foreign purchases of
Australian government debt.  Rate Cuts  The foreign ownership share of Commonwealth Government
securities rose to around 70 percent from 50 percent, even as
the stock of issuance has risen fivefold, Debelle said today.  The RBA cut the  benchmark interest rate  by 1.75 percentage
points in the 14 months through December to 3 percent as the
mining boom approaches a crest and the central bank seeks to
help offset the drag on growth from the currency. It is seeking
to rebalance a two-speed economy away from mining regions in the
north and west toward industries including construction in the
south and east.  Debelle didn’t address monetary policy in the speech. In
minutes of its April 2 policy meeting released in Sydney today,
the RBA reiterated that the inflation outlook gives it room to
reduce borrowing costs to a record even as earlier cuts boost
demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  