-- Deutsche Bank Proposes Board Members to Boost Expertise
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-04-16T07:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/deutsche-bank-proposes-board-members-to-boost-expertise.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
 Europe ’s largest bank, proposed three new members for its
supervisory board as Chairman  Paul Achleitner  seeks to boost the
committee’s competencies in risk, finance and legal issues.  The board proposed the election of John Cryan, president
for Europe at Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd., Dina Dublon, the former
chief financial officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and Georg Thoma, a partner at law firm Shearman & Sterling LLP, Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Bank said today in an e-mailed statement.  Board members Karl-Gerhard Eick, the former CFO of phone
company  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , and Werner Wenning, the former
chief executive officer of drug and chemical maker  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,
will not stand for re-election at a May 23 shareholder meeting,
Deutsche Bank said. Dublon will stand to replace Tilman Todenhoefer, the former deputy CEO of auto-parts maker  Robert
Bosch GmbH , at the beginning of November, according to the
statement.  “We have successfully gained renowned experts in financial
matters, market risk and legal issues to join us on the
supervisory board,” Achleitner said in the statement. “I would
like to express my thanks to the departing members and look
forward to working together with the new members.”  In Germany, corporate law requires listed companies to be
headed by a two-tier system with a management board responsible
for day-to-day operations and a supervisory board, whose main
task is to oversee the management board and appoint its members.
Half of the supervisory board members represent employees, while
the other half is elected by shareholders. The supervisory board
chairman has two votes in case of a draw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  