-- Dish-Sprint Without Foreign Buyer Baggage Would Find U.S. Favor
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-04-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/dish-sprint-without-foreign-buyer-baggage-would-find-u-s-favor.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s bid for  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  may benefit from not involving a foreign buyer, and
could find favor with U.S. regulators eager to boost competition
among mobile providers, analysts said.  Charlie Ergen, chairman of second-largest U.S. satellite
television provider Dish, yesterday offered $25.5 billion for
Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas. The third-largest U.S.
mobile provider also is being pursued by Tokyo-based Softbank
Corp., whose $20 billion offer has attracted scrutiny from U.S.
regulators and lawmakers over whether its use of Chinese-made
telecommunications servers may pose security risks.  Ergen’s proposal doesn’t have “some of the obvious
national security and public safety issues that the Justice
Department has raised over potential concerns about Softbank,”
Bill Berkowitz, a partner with Bingham McCutchen LLP in Boston,
said in an interview.  The offer from Englewood, Colorado-based Dish wouldn’t need
to undergo the review Softbank faces by the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S., an interagency panel that scrutinizes
acquisitions of U.S. companies by foreign buyers for national
security concerns.  “We don’t see an FCC issue really, probably in either one
of the merger proposals to Sprint, but we certainly have an
advantage on the Justice Department side because we don’t go
through a foreign ownership CFIUS review, so there would be no
controversy there with us as a U.S. company,” Ergen said.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and Neil Grace, a Federal Communications Commission spokesman, declined
to comment.  Huawei, ZTE  Softbank and Sprint have said they wouldn’t integrate
equipment from China’s Huawei Technologies Co. into Sprint’s
network after they merged, Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican who leads the House Intelligence Committee,
said in an e-mailed statement March 28.  The U.S. government should block acquisitions or mergers by
Huawei and ZTE Corp., China’s two largest phone-equipment
makers, Rogers’ committee said a report in October. It said the
companies’ equipment can provide an opening for Chinese
intelligence services to use U.S. telecommunications networks
for spying.  U.S. wireless companies are chasing consumers who
increasingly use mobile devices to talk, share videos and visit
websites. Since 2011, AT&T has tried to buy smaller rival T-
Mobile USA Inc. and failed after regulators objected to
eliminating a competitor. Verizon Wireless based in Basking
Ridge, New Jersey, has bought airwaves from Philadelphia-based
Comcast Corp. and other cable providers.  Stronger Competition  Ergen’s bid, like that by Softbank President Masayoshi Son,
would enhance third-largest U.S. wireless carrier Sprint’s
potency as a challenger to market leader Verizon Wireless and
No. 2  AT&T Inc. (T)  The combination would need approval from
antitrust and telecommunications agencies.  “Regulators in general would welcome it,” Paul Glenchur,
Washington-based senior analyst with Potomac Research Group,
said in an interview. “If it’s seen as strengthening
competition to AT&T and Verizon Wireless, they would want that
deal to go ahead.”  Softbank’s bid for Sprint is being reviewed by the FCC.
Antitrust regulators at the Justice Department  cleared  the deal
in December. The same agencies would review a Dish bid for
Sprint.  “A Dish-Sprint deal, like Softbank-Sprint, would have
relatively little trouble,” Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based
analyst with Medley Global Advisors, said in an interview.
“Neither one is removing a national competitor, which is the
working baseline for antitrust authorities.”  Airwaves Policy  With a merger Dish could “market television and wireless
services the way Verizon does -- that makes the transaction pro-
competitive and I don’t see that the Justice Department is going
to have a problem,” Melissa Maxman, an antitrust lawyer with
Cozen O’Connor in Washington, said in an interview.  AT&T, based in Dallas, abandoned its bid for fourth-largest
U.S. carrier T-Mobile, based in Bellevue, Washington, in 2011
after opposition from the FCC and Justice Department.  The Justice Department in an April 11 filing at the FCC
said airwaves policies should provide opportunities for small
carriers to acquire frequencies. The Justice Department in the
filing said it would “maintain vigilance against any lessening
of competitive forces.”  The FCC on March 12 cited strengthening of T-Mobile as it
approved parent company  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s proposal to
combine the unit with Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS
Communications Inc. The deal faces an April 24 shareholder vote
after Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom sweetened its bid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  