-- LDK Delinquency Flags Chance of Another China Solar Bust
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-04-17T02:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/ldk-delinquency-flags-chance-of-another-solar-bust-china-credit.html
LDK Solar Ltd. (LDK) ’s failure to fully
pay notes this week has raised the prospect of  China ’s second
solar-industry failure this year as the company needs to repay a
loan 10 times larger by June.  The world’s second-biggest maker of wafers that convert
sunlight into power couldn’t repay all of the $23.8 million of
dollar-denominated convertible bonds that matured on April 15,
according to a company statement yesterday. Before the
delinquency, its 2014  yuan  notes dropped below 50 yuan per 100
yuan face value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield reached a six-month high of 125 percent last week,
compared with the 79 percent for Bonn-based  Solarworld AG. (SWV)   LDK, which will probably report a second year of losses
tomorrow, must repay a $240 million loan unless it spins off its
polysilicon unit by June 3, according to regulatory filings.
 Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , once the world’s largest panel
maker, was dragged into insolvency days after it defaulted on a
$541 million bond repayment on March 15.  LDK failed to repay about $7 million of bonds for which it
could not reach a settlement, and may receive a notice of
default, said Edward Guinness, a  fund manager  at Guinness
Atkinson Funds in  London  who oversees about $800 million,
including a “tiny” position in LDK.  “It’s out of LDK’s hands,” he said in an interview
yesterday. “The lenders can choose to give them an extension.
It’s up to them to push LDK into bankruptcy.”  LDK’s Position  LDK wasn’t expected to miss the bond payment, said Amit Jain, a Bangalore-based analyst at SJS Markets Ltd. “Everyone
knows that cash flows are stressed but there was a feeling that
the company would be able to manage this one,” he said.  LDK officials in  San Francisco  and at its headquarters in
Xinyu, China, couldn’t be reached for comment. Chief Financial
Officer Jack Lai wasn’t available, and phone calls and e-mails
to his office went unreturned. Two calls and an e-mail seeking
comments from Li Longji, a company spokesman in Xinyu, weren’t
answered.  LDK, which had net debt of $3.13 billion at the end of
September, was unable to fully pay the bonds due April 15
because of “a temporary cash-flow shortage,” according to the
statement. The company has reached a settlement with two
convertible notes holders on the partial payment of a principal
amount of $16.55 million to postpone the repayment of remaining
debt. The manufacturer is “ready and willing” to discuss
settlement for the remaining notes, it said.  Solar Glut  Flush with credit from state lenders, Chinese solar
companies more than tripled production between 2008 and 2011.
That helped drive a 17 percent decline in the  cost  of panels in
the past year as demand slowed, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mounting losses are making it harder for China’s five-biggest solar makers to repay more than $1.7 billion in
outstanding bonds.  At LDK, the loss for 2012 may reach $669 million, according
to estimates from China International Capital Corp., the
country’s biggest investment bank. That would be more than the
loss of $655.5 million in net income available to common
shareholders in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  LDK received its $240 million loan in June 2011 in the form
of convertible preferred shares, according to a May 15  filing  to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. China Development
Bank Corp.,  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,  Bank of China Ltd .
and their affiliates bought the shares, which are convertible
into a stake of LDK Silicon & Chemical Technology Co., a unit
that makes polysilicon, the raw material used in most solar
panels.  Repayment Rights  The three state-backed lenders can force LDK to redeem the
shares at the subscription price plus 23 percent interest if it
hasn’t spun off the polysilicon maker by June 3, according to
the filing.  The chances of LDK spinning off the unit are slim, Shyam Mehta, an analyst at GTM Research in  New York , said in an
interview. Spot  prices  of the commodity were $74 a kilogram when
the company sold the convertible shares, and haven’t been above
$50 since September 2011, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  “It’s not completely impossible, but it’s likely to be
sold for pennies on the dollar,” Mehta said.  China Development Bank  didn’t reply to an e-mail and fax
seeking comment, and calls to China Construction Bank’s
officials weren’t answered.  In December, LDK hired Citigroup Inc. to help renegotiate
its liabilities. It won agreement to amend the terms of its
notes due in 2014 to allow LDK Silicon to issue as much as $200
million of separate redeemable convertible shares.  Suntech’s Example  The lenders may be able to dilute the stake of LDK’s
shareholders and force parts of the company into a court-supervised restructuring like the one under way at Suntech. The
two manufacturers have the most debt of the eight Chinese solar-cell makers in the Bloomberg Global Large Solar Energy index of
17 companies.  “People are questioning if LDK will have a similar
endgame,” Alex Morris, analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc. in Houston.  Average yields on LDK’s 10 percent notes due in February
2014 have soared to 118.8 percent from 67.8 percent on Dec. 31.
That contrasts with the fall in borrowing costs for top-rated
Chinese companies, as the yield on AAA corporate debt due in 10
years has slid 20 basis points this year to  5.09 percent . The
benchmark 10-year government bond yields  3.4 percent .  Market Prices  Slowing growth in the world’s second-biggest economy has
pushed up the cost of insuring the country’s sovereign notes.
China’s gross domestic product rose 7.7 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter, down from 7.9 percent in the
previous three-month period.  Five-year credit-default swaps have risen 3.7 basis points
this year to 70 basis points. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a borrower defaults.  The yuan climbed to 6.1798 per dollar yesterday, the
strongest level since the government unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993. It gained 0.1 percent to
close at 6.1832 per dollar in  Shanghai , according to prices from
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The rise in borrowing costs for Chinese solar companies
follows failures of competitors overseas. Solyndra LLC, the U.S.
solar-panel maker that received a $535 million loan guarantee,
went bankrupt in 2011. Evergreen Solar Inc., the U.S.
manufacturer that blamed competition from Chinese state-backed
makers for its collapse, filed for bankruptcy the same year.  Restructuring Need  Chinese solar companies that are unable to meet payments
should also be closed down like Solyndra and Evergreen Solar,
said  Pavel Molchanov , analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in Houston.  “They need to be restructured at the plant level so that
capacity is taken out of the market,” Molchanov said. “If
Suntech got bailed out, I’d say the risk for LDK were low, but
they didn’t.”  The government is working to consolidate industries where
there’s overcapacity, the National Development and Reform
Commission, China’s top planning body, said on March 5. China
Securities Journal reported yesterday that the country may issue
entry requirements for the industry in the first quarter and
stop funding for projects that fail to qualify.  “I don’t think there is any desire on the Chinese
government’s part to support these manufacturers,” said Jigar Shah, partner at clean-energy  investment company  and developer
Inerjys Ventures Inc.  Default Trigger  Eight Chinese banks pushed Suntech’s main unit into
bankruptcy in a court in China three days after its default.
LDK’s liabilities leave it vulnerable to a similar reshaping,
said Greg Sheppard, senior director of research at IHS iSuppli,
a consulting company based in El Segundo,  California . LDK has a
50 percent chance of surviving, he estimates.  The manufacturer has agreed to sell its stake in unit LDK
Solar High-Tech (Hefei) Co. to an affiliate of the municipal
government of Hefei, in China’s Anhui province, according to a
statement yesterday. LDK expects to realize a net loss of $80
million to $90 million on the sale, it said.  China had 330 solar manufacturers in 2008 and wants no more
than 15 operating within five years, said Li Junfeng, director
of climate-change research at the NDRC. In an interview on March
13, Li blamed Suntech’s problem on “government intervention”
and said officials shouldn’t save the manufacturer.  “The government is very pro-rationalization,” said Jenny Chase, lead solar analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
Zurich. “What’s gone against that is the local governments,
which want to maintain employment. There comes a point when it’s
beyond their power to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  