-- LDK Defaults on $7.2 Million Payment Due to Cash Shortage
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-16T13:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/ldk-solar-says-it-failed-to-make-payment-on-23-8-million-bond.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-
biggest maker of wafers used to make solar cells, missed the
deadline to repay $23.8 million in bonds that matured yesterday
because of a cash shortage.  The manufacturer based in Xinyu City,  China , said it
reached settlement with two holders of the notes controlling
$16.6 million of capital, providing a partial payment and
postponing the final payment. It said it’s “ready and willing”
to discuss a settlement for the remaining notes in a statement
today.  The move takes LDK a step closer to a default on its debts,
which top $3.1 billion after the cost of solar panels plunged
and slashed the margins of panel makers across the industry. LDK
may mitigate the impact of its failure to repay if it manages to
negotiate a settlement with the rest of the holders of the 4.75
percent notes.  “Everyone knows that cash flows are stressed but there was
a feeling that the company would be able to manage this one,”
said Amit Jain, an analyst at SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore.  LDKs American depositary receipts, each worth one ordinary
share, fell 9.8 percent to $1.01 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York .
Earlier they slumped 17 percent, the most intraday since March
14.  Suntech Default  Last month, LDK’s bigger rival Suntech Power Holdings Co.
defaulted on $541 million of bonds, prompting its lenders to
push the main unit of the solar manufacturer into a  bankruptcy
court  in China. The court is now reviewing how to restructure
Suntech’s unit and its debts.  “The defaults will make others harder to raise financing
and face stricter  credit rating ,” Lian Rui, a Beijing-based
analyst at research company NPD Solarbuzz, said by phone today.
“LDK can only restructure its various debts through
negotiations.”  The company must repay a $240 million loan by June 3. Terms
of that loan require it to spin off its polysilicon unit through
a public share offering, according to regulatory filings.  LDK, which reports fourth-quarter results this week, had
net  debt  of $3.1 billion at the end of September, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  