-- Arkansas Abortion-Limit Challenge Speeds National Fight
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/doctors-sue-arkansas-over-12-week-abortion-ban-aclu-says.html
Two Arkansas doctors sued the state
over a law restricting the availability of abortions after the
first 12 weeks of pregnancy in a complaint filed in  Little Rock 
federal court, the latest in a series of challenges to a new 
set of abortion restrictions.  In the past several years, conservative state politicians
have initiated a frontal assault on federal protections of
abortion rights enshrined in U.S. Supreme Court precedent, 
with new laws passed from  Idaho  to North Dakota to Arkansas.  “This law is one of the most dangerous assaults on women’s
health that we’ve seen in decades,” Rita Sklar, director of the
 American Civil Liberties Union ’s Arkansas chapter, said in a
statement yesterday announcing the filing. “We may not all
agree about abortion, but we can all agree that this complex and
personal decision should be made by a woman, her family and her
doctor, not politicians.”  The plaintiffs are seeking a preliminary injunction barring
the law from taking effect while the suit proceeds. Arkansas is
one of at least six U.S. states to be challenged in court for
tightening abortion restrictions. It’s one of a handful to ban
abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy, around the time
women commonly get ultrasounds to screen for fetal anomalies.  The Arkansas law “has no chance of surviving a careful
constitutional challenge,” law professor Stephen Sheppard said.
“You have to protect the rights of women, and this does not,”
said Sheppard, who teaches constitutional law and is associate
dean of the  University of Arkansas  School of Law.  Unconstitutional  Louis Jerry Edwards and Tom Tvedten, doctors who are
affiliated with Little Rock Family Planning Services in the
state capital, said in the complaint that the law violates the
U.S. Constitution and requested a court order blocking
enforcement of the measure.  The Arkansas statute, passed in March over Democratic
Governor Mike Beebe’s veto, doesn’t take effect right away and
follows another state law prohibiting abortions after 20 weeks.  Aaron Sadler, a spokesman for Arkansas Attorney General
Dustin McDaniel, said the state will fight the lawsuit.  Abortion statutes vary across the U.S., according to data
from the Guttmacher Institute of  New York , which promotes sexual
and reproductive health. Thirty-nine states require a licensed
physician to perform abortions, eight states restrict insurance
coverage, 26 states have waiting periods, 38 states require
parental involvement for a minor, 46 states allow individual
health-care providers to refuse to participate, and 17 states
require counseling, according to the institute.  North Dakota  North Dakota  lawmakers voted on March 15 to ban abortions
as early as six weeks into a pregnancy, the narrowest window of
any U.S. state, and to become the first to bar terminations
sought because of genetic abnormalities. Governor Jack Dalrymple
signed the legislation on March 26.  In December, a state-court judge in Atlanta blocked a
Georgia law limiting the availability of midterm abortions. The
same month, the Oklahoma Supreme Court struck down laws that
expanded rules for doctors prescribing pregnancy-ending drugs
and required women seeking abortions to have ultrasound scans.  In March, the state petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court for
review of that outcome, said Diane Clay, a spokeswoman for
Oklahoma Attorney General  Scott Pruitt .  A federal appeals court is considering a challenge to an
 Arizona  law making it a crime for doctors to perform abortions
after 20 weeks.  Idaho Ban  In Idaho, a ban on abortions performed after 20 weeks was
overturned on March 6 by a federal judge in light of the 1973
U.S. Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade, which legalized
abortion, and a 1992 ruling that says states cannot impose an
undue burden or a substantial obstacle to a woman seeking an
abortion.  In September a three-judge federal appeals panel in  San
Francisco  upheld a lower court ruling barring an Idaho
prosecutor from enforcing a state law criminalizing some
abortions.  The Idaho law makes it a felony for a woman to purposely
abort a pregnancy unless the procedure is performed in the first
trimester and by a doctor. The state attorney general’s office
has asked for a larger panel of judges to review the case.  States including Texas and  Indiana  have passed laws cutting
funding to  Planned Parenthood  because the group performs
abortions in addition to providing  health services  to women.
Those measures have also been challenged in the courts.
Mississippi’s last abortion clinic is suing the state over
regulations that it said will force it to close.  ‘A Choice’  “Women do have a choice -- up until the 12th week,” said
Jerry Cox, executive director of the Arkansas Family Council in
Little Rock. He said in a March 11 phone interview that women
can also consider adoption or raising the child.  He said his group, with about 4,000 core supporters, helped
modify the original bill to exempt possible  birth defects  and
instances of rape, incest or medical threats to the life of the
mother.  The case is Louis J. Edwards v. Joseph Beck, 13-cv-00224,
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of  Arkansas  (Little
Rock).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware 
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  