-- Draghi’s Pledge Means More to Euro Than Lower Rates
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a ,   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-04-16T16:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/draghi-s-pledge-means-more-to-euro-than-lower-rates-currencies.html
Mario Draghi ’s pledge to safeguard
the euro is proving a more powerful elixir for traders than the
potential for lower  interest rates  as the region struggles to
exit its second recession in four years.  The 17-nation currency has climbed an average 2.1 percent
against the dollar, yen and U.K. pound since the European
Central Bank president left the door open to further cuts in the
main  refinancing rate  on April 4. While suppressing borrowing
costs usually weakens a currency, options traders reacted by
pushing bearish bets on the euro to the least in more than a
month as they chose to focus instead on the benefits to the
economy of an accommodative monetary policy.  Europe ’s common currency has climbed against 14 of its 16
most-traded peers since Draghi said in July that he would do
whatever it takes to safeguard the currency union, three weeks
after policy makers lowered rates to a record 0.75 percent.  “The stability of the euro against the dollar shows that
people trust what the ECB has done so far to resolve the
crisis,” James Kwok, the London-based head of currencies at
Amundi Asset Management, which oversees $947 billion, said in a
phone interview. “People trust what Draghi is doing. As long as
that’s the case, then the euro will remain supported.”  Italy, Cyprus  The euro has proved resilient as Italian elections in
February left the nation without a government and Cyprus’s raid
on  bank deposits  undermined confidence across Europe. The euro
is now above its average for the past year.  After climbing to a six-week high of $1.3138 on April 11,
the euro traded at $1.31888 at 12:24 p.m. in  New York . It rose 2
percent to 128.72 yen and gained 0.7 percent to 85.88 pence.  Europe’s shared currency will remain in a range of $1.25 to
$1.35 this year, Kwok predicted. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 57 forecasters shows it ending the year
at $1.28, up from an estimate of $1.27 at the end of 2012.  The currency averaged $1.2341 and 97.81 yen in the month
before Draghi’s July 26 speech in  London , when he said the ECB
“is ready to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro.”
Against the pound, it averaged 79.21 pence that month, 7.6
percent weaker than today’s price.  Underperforming Economy  Investors are taking on the risk that Draghi’s pledge will
leave the region with an overvalued currency that weighs on the
recovery and hampers efforts to restore competitiveness.  The $13 trillion  euro-area economy  will underperform the
U.S. by an average of 1.1 percentage points in the three years
through 2015, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists. The
region shrank 0.6 percent in the three months through December,
declining for a fifth consecutive quarter, the same length of
time it shrank in its  last recession  ending June 2009.  “The fundamentals of the European economy still require
further easing in monetary policy,” said Ken Dickson, an
Edinburgh-based director at Standard Life Investments Ltd.,
which manages about $264 billion. “In time, we would expect the
euro to weaken to reflect that easier monetary path. The recent
moves have been surprisingly resilient given that sentiment and
tone has been more negative for the euro area.”  Standard Life,  Scotland ’s second-biggest money manager, is
“underweight” the euro in its long-term portfolios, and the
currency should be about 10 percent to 15 percent weaker than
current levels, Dickson said.  Option Premiums  The ECB’s promise of support, combined with the  Bank of
Japan (8301) ’s unprecedented monetary stimulus this month that includes
bond purchases, shored up confidence in the euro area and
encouraged options traders to scale back risk premiums,
according to New York-based Alvise Marino, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The premium for six-month options granting the right to
sell the euro against the dollar relative to those allowing for
purchases narrowed to 1.3 percentage points on April 9, the
lowest since Feb. 21. That’s down from a high for the year of
1.77 percentage points on Feb. 27, according to the so-called
25-delta option risk reversal rate.  The premium on euro puts, which grant the right to sell the
17-nation currency versus the greenback, averaged 2.3 percentage
points since 2011.  ECB ‘Deterrent’  Draghi followed up his July comments by outlining a plan
known as Outright Monetary Transactions in September. The
program allows the ECB to buy short-maturity notes issued by
euro-area nations that request aid, though no country has yet
activated the plan.  For the bears, the ECB’s backstop “has been a deterrent,
even as it hasn’t been accessed,” Marino said in an April 10
phone interview. “The Bank of  Japan ’s actions have made a big
difference, with flows going out of Japan and into Europe, as
well as a broad rise in risk appetite.”  Draghi’s pledge is helping lure foreign demand for
 government bonds , supporting the euro. Asian investors bought 29
percent of the 8 billion euros ($10.5 billion) of five-year
notes sold by Europe’s rescue fund on April 9, according to a
person with knowledge of the issue, who asked not to be
identified because the deal wasn’t public.  Borrowing costs for the region’s most indebted nations are
sliding as central-bank liquidity pushes investors to higher-
yielding assets. Spanish 10-year bond yields dropped last week
to the lowest since November 2010 while the rate on similar-
maturity Irish debt sank to a six-year low.  Receding Threat  “The promise of OMT is still working,”  Ulrich Leuchtmann ,
head of currency strategy at Commerzbank,  Germany ’s second
largest bank, said in a phone interview on April 8. “It’s
something that makes the crisis coming back in a way that it did
in 2011 and 2012 quite unlikely, because we no longer have this
threat of spiraling bond yields.”  Implied volatility, used in option pricing models and a
gauge of traders’ expectations of future currency swings, fell
to 8.35 percent yesterday on three-month contracts, from 8.85
percent at the beginning of the month and 14.7 percent at the
start of 2012.  Implied volatility on euro options that hedge exchange-rate
risks over the next year is 0.6 percentage point greater than
three-month insurance, as the risk of euro swings persisting
over the longer term ease. In July, the gap between long- and
short-term implied volatility, the so-called volatility curve,
reached 2 percentage points, the most since the euro was
introduced in 1999.  Relative Value  Even after declining 1.2 percent since the beginning of the
year through yesterday, the euro was still 5.5 percent too
strong against the dollar, according to an index developed by
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in
Paris that uses relative costs of goods and services.  It was overvalued by 1.3 percent versus the pound and
should have been trading 0.2 percent lower to the yen, the OECD
gauge shows.  Richard Benson , an  executive director  at Millennium Global
Investments Ltd. in London, attributes the euro’s continued
strength to the region’s healthy trade balance, as well as to
U.S. monetary policy.  The  Federal Reserve  expanded its balance sheet by more than
$2.3 trillion since 2008 and is stepping up purchases of
Treasury and mortgage debt to spur growth. The euro region’s
current-account surplus, the broadest measure of trade because
it includes investments, reached 14.9 billion euros in the six
months through December, the most on a rolling-average basis
since the currency union began in 1999.  “We’ve been surprised by the resilience of the euro around
$1.30,” said Benson, whose firm oversees about $15 billion of
currency funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  