-- Dubai Supremacy Challenged as Global Banks Move to Rivals
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-04-16T12:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/dubai-supremacy-challenged-as-global-banks-move-to-rivals-1-.html
When Saad Iqbal left Deutsche Bank
AG in Dubai two years ago as European banks scaled back amid the
debt crisis, he turned to  Riyadh  as a construction boom makes
 Saudi Arabia  a hub for project finance.  “Saudi Arabia was not initially my first choice, but I
found Dubai had contracted,” said Iqbal, a director of project
finance at  Riyad Bank (RIBL) , the nation’s third-biggest lender. Saudi
Arabia and Qatar are “where the deals are,” he said.  Riyadh climbed 32 places to 33rd in the Global Financial
Centers Index published March 25 by London-based consulting firm
Z/Yen. That made the Saudi capital the biggest gainer on an
index led by  London  and  New York . Dubai dropped one position to
No. 23, with Qatar advancing five places to 30th on the list.  While Dubai is the Middle East base for banks including
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Deutsche Bank and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,
Riyadh is mobilizing the region’s biggest stock market and a
$500 billion Saudi government spending spree to bolster its
credentials as a financial hub. Bankers in Riyadh and the Qatari
capital, Doha, can also tap some of the greatest concentrations
of the world’s super-rich, according to  Boston Consulting Group .  “Dubai’s main disadvantage is that the big money clients
and markets are elsewhere,” said Farouk Soussa, chief economist
for the  Middle East  at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in Dubai. “Clients want
their bankers close. That creates a gravitational force that
pulls bankers close into places like Doha, Riyadh and Abu Dhabi,
despite them being otherwise less competitive than Dubai.”  Regional Equities  Morgan Stanley and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are among the
banks shifting regional equities teams to Riyadh as trading
volumes on Saudi Arabia’s stock market surge. The nation’s
capital, a congested metropolis of more than 5 million, is
developing the King Abdullah Financial District to the north of
the city as it seeks to attract more financial services firms.  Qatar, ranked third behind Singapore and Switzerland for
the proportion of millionaire households, according to Boston
Consulting, is also working to capture business from Dubai.  It’s offering cash from its sovereign wealth fund to asset
managers setting up in the country, Qatar Financial Centre
Authority Managing Director Abdulrahman Al Shaibi said on March
11. The nation, with a population of 1.76 million, may also set
up a reinsurer and sell shares to the public as part of its bid
to become a regional financial hub, he said.  Oil and Gas  Lacking the oil and gas of its neighbors, Dubai can’t
afford to give up its lead in  financial services , which
accounted for 11.3 percent of gross domestic product in 2011.
Finance, insurance and real estate contributed only 3 percent of
Saudi Arabia’s GDP and 4.7 percent of Qatar’s in the third
quarter of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The city of 2.1 million people became a regional banking
hub after opening the Dubai International Financial Centre in
2004 to attract international banks, asset managers and insurers
with promises of zero taxes for 50 years. The DIFC, as it’s
known, is targeting financial institutions from  Asia  and
reported a 16 percent increase in registered employees in 2012.
 Agricultural Bank of China  opened a branch last month.  “Dubai is extremely competitive,” DIFC Chief Executive
Officer Jeffrey Singer said in an interview yesterday. “If
you’re coming new to the region, you have to justify why you
wouldn’t come to Dubai.”  Dubai said in January it would create an  Islamic finance 
council to regulate equity and fixed-income products to boost
the industry’s role in the economy. Sales of Islamic bonds in
the emirate have jumped almost 50 percent this year.  Dubai Ahead  The emirate’s bond underwriting still exceeds Saudi Arabia
and Qatar, with about $6 billion of issues by the Dubai
government and related companies in the first quarter. Saudi
issuers have raised $4.9 billion in bond sales this year, while
Qatari issuance totals about $1.3 billion. Dubai accumulated
about $113 billion of debt to develop finance and tourism.  While Boston Consulting figures show Riyadh’s bankers can
tap the world’s highest concentration of households worth more
than $100 million, constraints on women stemming from the
Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam may make it difficult to persuade
expatriates to work in Saudi Arabia’s financial center.  Men and women are segregated in public, including at
schools, restaurants and lines at fast-food take outs. Women
also need permission from a male guardian to go to school or get
married, and are barred from driving. Dubai has no such
restrictions and tolerates alcohol.  Financial Center  “For a financial center to flourish you need human
capital, which will be a challenge for Riyadh given its various
restrictions,” said Emad Mostaque, a London-based strategist at
Noah  Capital Markets . “Dubai has the best infrastructure to
attract human capital: schools, good housing, recreational
activities.”  The second largest of seven sheikhdoms in the U.A.E., Dubai
was the region’s top placed city for infrastructure, ranking
34th, according to a 2012 survey by New York-based consultancy
Mercer.  Abu Dhabi  came 72nd and Doha 102nd.  It also has the highest quality of life ranking in the
Middle East, according to Mercer. The city-state ranked 73rd in
the world with Abu Dhabi at No. 78, while Doha and Riyadh were
ranked 106 and 157 out of 221 cities surveyed. Vienna and Zurich
topped the index.  “In terms of development, in terms of infrastructure, the
openness and ease of business, there’s nothing like Dubai in the
region,” said Khaled Sifri, chief executive officer of Emirates
Investment Bank PJSC. “It’s way ahead and it will take a long
time for anyone else to try and catch up.”  Other Competition  That isn’t stopping other regional centers from trying.
Apart from Saudi Arabia and Qatar, Turkey is building the
Istanbul International Financial Center as part of Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s strategy to boost the country’s
regional status and make the economy one of the world’s 10
biggest by 2023. Istanbul is No. 57 on the Z/Yen index.  While Abu Dhabi is constructing a financial center called
Sowwah Square, the largest emirate in the U.A.E. fell one place
in the Z/Yen ranking to No. 39. Bahrain, which crushed a Shiite
Muslim revolt against its Sunni rulers in 2011, fell three
places to 64th and is 23 positions below its 2010 ranking.  Qatar and Credit Suisse are strengthening ties after the
holder of the world’s third-largest gas reserves took a 6
percent stake in the second-biggest Swiss bank, bought its
London headquarters and formed asset manager Aventicum Capital
Management.  Credit Suisse is shifting its regional investment banking
headquarters to Doha, a person with knowledge of the matter said
in December. It has also cut three equity positions in Dubai and
transferring another to Riyadh, the person said.  Aggressive Qatar  “The financial services sector in Qatar is expanding
aggressively and is hiring more than we’re seeing in the U.A.E.
at the moment,” said Matthew Gribble, Dubai-based managing
director of  Michael Page International Plc (MPI) , a recruiter that
operates in 32 countries. “It’s never easy getting people to
Qatar compared to many markets, but it’s attracting people who
are coming out of stressed markets in Europe and the U.K.”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has moved part of its Middle East equities
business to Saudi Arabia and cut three positions in Dubai,
according to a banker with knowledge of the matter. A spokesman
for the New York-based bank declined to comment. Russia’s VTB
Capital is also considering an equities business in Saudi,
Makram Abboud, CEO in the Middle East and  Africa , said Jan. 15.  Saudi Arabia’s $393 billion stock market is the Arab
world’s largest bourse and three times the size of those in the
United Arab Emirates and Qatar. While non-resident foreigners
are only permitted to trade through share-swap transactions and
exchange-traded funds, the country may soon allow overseas money
managers to invest directly in shares of local companies,
Deutsche Bank said in February.  The Kingdom may attract as much as $30 billion of inflows
once it opens the market,  John Burbank , founder of San
Francisco-based hedge fund Passport Capital, said in February.  Qatar Plans  With Qatar’s plans to invest $140 billion in infrastructure
before hosting the soccer  World Cup  in 2022, Doha shares
Riyadh’s edge in project finance over Dubai, which was on the
brink of default in 2009 after racking up debt to transform
itself into a banking and tourism hub. Qatar is planning to
build a metro network, roads, hotels and stadiums.  “Dubai will still be the preferred destination for
companies and individuals in the short term,” said Angus Blair,
Chairman of the Signet Institute, a Cairo-based regional
research group. “As Doha and Riyadh develop and deepen their
capital markets and financial services, it’s clear that this
increased competition is a sign of the evolution of financial
services in the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  