-- Dudley Favors Continuing QE After March Job-Market Slowdown
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-16T14:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/dudley-favors-continuing-qe-after-march-job-market-slowdown.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said a slowdown in the pace of
employment growth in March highlights the need to maintain the
pace of bond purchases.  “After an encouraging pickup in the pace of  job creation 
around the turn of the year, the employment report for March
showed a gain of only 88,000 jobs,” Dudley said today according
to prepared remarks for a speech in  Staten Island . “While I
don’t want to read too much into a single month’s data, this
underscores the need to wait and see how the economy develops
before declaring victory prematurely.”  Dudley expressed support for continuing Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s $85 billion a month of bond purchases in a speech
last month. That was before the March jobs report from the Labor
Department showed the unemployment rate fell to 7.6 percent, as
people abandoned the  labor force , and the pace of employment
creation slowed from the 268,000 jobs added in February.  The slowdown, “along with the large amount of fiscal
restraint hitting the economy now, makes me more cautious,”
Dudley said. “We have seen only a moderate improvement in labor
market conditions over the past six months or so.”  Dudley’s depiction of “moderate” labor-market improvement
falls short of the “substantial” gains that Fed officials have
identified as their goal for winding down their record monetary
stimulus.  Treasuries Fall  Treasury 10-year notes fell for the first time in four days
as investors sought higher yielding assets amid a recovery in
gold and equities, damping the refuge appeal of government debt.  The U.S. 10-year yield rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.73 percent at 8:22 a.m. in  New York  after
falling as low as 1.67 percent yesterday, the lowest level since
Dec. 12. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in June
added 0.9 percent to 1,557.0. The equity benchmark plunged 2.3
percent yesterday.  “I see the current pace of asset purchases as
appropriate,” Dudley said at a Staten Island Chamber of
Commerce breakfast. He devoted about half of his remarks to a
discussion of regional economic conditions, saying that some
Staten Island neighborhoods are “not yet back to normal”
following Superstorm Sandy, which struck the region in October.  “The situation is improving, and I expect that this
recovery will continue over the coming year,” Dudley said of
the storm’s aftermath. “We are going to continue to examine
where we can provide assistance in supporting this effort.”  Dudley’s remarks on monetary policy echoed his views from a
March 25 speech at the  Economic Club of New York .  Costs, Benefits  “I remain confident that the benefits of a stronger and
earlier economic recovery will trump the costs associated with
our unconventional monetary policy measures,” Dudley said in
that speech.  Dudley said today that he expects the economy to grow 2
percent to 2.5 percent this year and the  unemployment rate  to
“decline only modestly through the rest of the year.”  Improvements in housing and consumer and business spending
are being overshadowed by a “fiscal drag” of government
spending cuts and tax increases, he said. A decline in retail
sales in March indicated that “the tax increases that occurred
at the start of the year may be beginning to have a material
effect.”  Uncertain Outlook  “In the near term, there is considerable uncertainty about
the outlook, particularly because the multiplier effects from
fiscal drag” and budget cuts in Washington are still unclear,
he said. “This uncertainty should gradually decline -- for
better or for worse -- over the coming months.”  Dudley said “underlying measures of inflation are
subdued” and expectations for future price increases “well
anchored.”  “The risk that inflation could significantly exceed our 2
percent objective is quite low over the next few years, even if
the economy were to strengthen considerably.”  Answering audience questions after his speech, Dudley said
the eventual return to more normal monetary policy will have to
be done in a “well-considered way.”  Ending asset purchases will just be “the first part of a
very long process” and it will be “on us to communicate
clearly so people don’t overreact to whenever that first move
comes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  