-- EDF Faces ‘Uncertainty’ on Nuclear Reactor Life Spans, ASN Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-16T21:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/edf-faces-uncertainty-on-nuclear-reactor-life-spans-asn-says.html
Electricite de France SA ,  Europe ’s
biggest nuclear operator, faces “uncertainty” about how long
it can operate its French reactors, the country’s regulator
said.  “We are a long way from making a decision,” on whether
EDF will be able to operate its nuclear reactors beyond 40
years, Pierre-Franck Chevet, head of the  Autorite de Surete
Nucleaire , said at a parliamentary hearing in Paris late
yesterday. The life span of the plants is uncertain because “we
are at the very beginning of a process.”  EDF Chief Executive Officer Henri Proglio backs investment
in the utility’s 58 working reactors to allow them to operate
for as long as six decades. The oldest 30-year models have been
given approval by the regulator to generate electricity for an
additional decade, to 40 years. At the same time, President
Francois Hollande has pledged to lower the country’s dependence
on atomic power and shut the oldest plant at Fessenheim.  The ASN may provide a “technical indication” in 2015 of
what EDF would have to do to extend the lifespan of its
reactors, Chevet said. The safety requirements for so-called
third generation reactors will frame these decisions.  EDF’s French reactors currently provide about three
quarters of the country’s power output. The utility is building
a new generator at Flamanville in Normandy.  The ASN yesterday published its  annual report  on safety at
 France ’s nuclear reactors, waste and fuel-processing sites, and
medical and industrial sites that use radioactive materials. The
report examines technical safety as well as policy.  The French government is currently spearheading a debate on
the country’s energy mix, the outcome of which may determine
whether EDF has to close more reactors in the coming decade.  “Whatever the outcome, there will be nuclear in France for
years to come,”Chevet said.  The government must ensure sufficient capacity is available
in the event of safety problems that would require the shutdown
of as many as 10 atomic reactors, he said. “The French power
system has to be able to deal with this.”  EDF’s nuclear plants at Chinon, Cruas-Meysse and Paluel
need to improve safety, according to the report.  Areva SA (AREVA)  must
improve waste storage at its oldest installations at La Hague in
northern France and the  Commissariat a l’Energie Atomique et aux
Energies Alternatives , which carries out nuclear research, has
to improve its performance on dismantling because it relies too
heavily on sub-contractors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  