-- EFG-Hermes Jumps Most in 9 Months on QInvest Deal Report Boost
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-04-16T14:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/efg-hermes-jumps-most-in-9-months-on-qinvest-deal-report-boost.html
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO)  advanced the
most in nine months after a newspaper reported that procedures
to allow QInvest LLC to take over Egypt’s biggest investment
bank will be completed this week.  The shares gained 4.7 percent, the most since July 2, to
11.11 Egyptian pounds at the close in Cairo on volume of 5.1
million shares, more than triple the three-month daily average.
That takes the stock’s increase this month to 14 percent. EFG-
Hermes was the  biggest gainer  in percentage terms on the
benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) , which climbed 0.4 percent.  The Al Borsa newspaper report, which cited Prime Minister
Hisham Qandil, came as EFG-Hermes said today it’s waiting for a
no-objection from the markets regulator to start transferring
assets under the agreement’s terms. The company said last week
that the deal may be at risk because it expires 12 months after
its initial signing in May.  “The shares moved on speculation after the Prime
Minister’s comments,” said Wafik Dawood, director of
institutional sales at Mega Investments Securities. “There’s no
sign of any development in the QInvest deal on the ground.”  Qandil’s spokesman, Alaa El-Hadidi, said by text message
that he had “no information on that subject.”  The agreement, which will create an investment bank with
operations in the  Middle East ,  Africa , Turkey and  Asia , is
unlikely to expire before a decision is made, Ashraf El Sharkawy, head of the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority,
was quoted in Al-Mal newspaper as saying this week. He didn’t
respond to requests for comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  