-- Egypt’s IMF Loan Talks in Cairo End Without Agreement
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-04-16T05:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/egypt-s-imf-loan-talks-in-cairo-end-without-agreement.html
Egypt’s talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  ended without an agreement for a
$4.8 billion loan yesterday, failing to live up to comments from
government officials that an accord would be reached.  Officials, including Planning and International Cooperation
Minister Ashraf El-Araby, fueled expectations an agreement was
imminent in the days before the talks. Egypt says the loan is
needed to restore investor confidence and the talks had helped
Egypt’s benchmark Eurobonds rally this month.  The country’s bid to conclude the agreement has been
prolonged amid political bickering and unrest that made it
harder to implement IMF-backed changes like tax increases and
subsidy cuts. The economy is still struggling to recover from
the turmoil that followed the 2011 uprising that ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak .  Egypt has taken “valuable first steps” to address energy
subsidies, the IMF said in an e-mailed statement at the
conclusion of its visit. “They intend to build on these steps
with further actions to address, in a socially balanced way, the
country’s fiscal and balance of payments deficits, and create
conditions for a sustained recovery of the economy.”  Egypt’s $1 billion bonds due April 2020 halted their rally
yesterday for the first time in nine days. The yield climbed two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to about 7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield tumbled 139
basis points this month.  Foreign Reserves  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said yesterday IMF talks would
continue in  Washington . Egypt’s economic reform program “will
be executed with or without the IMF” deal, he said in an
interview in Cairo.  The IMF, which didn’t specify yesterday when talks would
resume, said “discussions with the authorities will continue
with the objective of reaching agreement on a possible Stand-By
Arrangement in support of Egypt.”  Egypt’s foreign currency reserves have plunged more than 60
percent since the end of 2010, reaching $13.4 billion last
month. The government is seeking to raise money from other
sources at the same time as negotiating with the IMF.  Libya  this month announced a $2 billion deposit with
Egypt’s central bank, and Qatar pledged an additional $3 billion
in aid on top of the $5 billion it has already provided. Qandil
said the money will strengthen  Egypt ’s position in talks with
the Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  