-- Batista’s OGX Said to Seek $1 Billion Petronas Deal by May
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-04-16T14:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/eike-batista-s-ogx-said-to-seek-1-billion-petronas-deal-by-may.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista 
is seeking to sell 40 percent of the Tubarao Martelo oil block
in  Brazil ’s Campos Basin for $1 billion as soon next month, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil producer
controlled by Batista, is in advanced talks with Petroliam
Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s state-owned oil and natural gas
company known as Petronas, said the person, who requested
anonymity because the negotiations are private.  Batista, 56, is selling assets and reshuffling management
teams at his interlinked commodities and logistics units amid
investor concern that the billionaire’s businesses are losing
access to financing. Shares at his public companies have
declined as much as 90 percent in the past year after OGX cut
oil output targets, erasing more than $27 billion of Batista’s
personal fortune since March 2012.  OGX doesn’t comment on market speculation, its press office
in  Rio de Janeiro  said in a statement, adding that it’s always
looking for new business opportunities including possible sales
of stakes in fields, or so-called farm outs. Azman Ibrahim, a
Kuala Lumpur-based spokesman for Petronas, declined to comment
on Batista and OGX, saying that Petronas doesn’t comment on
speculation.  Petronas has been linked to Batista before with Chief
Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas last month denying that it
was in talks to buy a stake in OGX Petroleo & Gas as reported by
Sao Paulo-based newspaper Valor Economico.  OGX rose  1.5 percent to 1.37 reais at 11:01 a.m. in  Sao
Paulo  after gaining as much as 5.2 percent. Yields on OGX’s
bonds due in 2018 fell 21 basis points to 17.60 percent.  Hammerhead Shark  OGX plans to start output at the Tubarao Martelo field,
whose name means hammerhead shark, in the fourth quarter, it
said in a March 27 presentation. The Rio de Janeiro-based
company has already drilled six wells at the field and is
waiting for  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , Batista’s shipbuilding unit, to
deliver a production vessel to begin pumping the crude.  “Brazil is quite an interesting place,” Shamsul said
March 7 after Petronas reported a 57 percent decline in fourth
quarter profit. “The only thing is there’s a lot of hype over
the last couple of years. We need to be extra careful when we
get into Brazil.”  Batista in March signed an agreement with Grupo BTG
Pactual’s  Andre Esteves  to co-run a strategic and financial
management committee for his six publicly traded companies.
Batista’s holding EBX Group Co. said the agreement includes
future investments in projects. At first, BTG provided EBX with
$1 billion  credit line , a person with direct knowledge of the
accord said March 7.  Record Low  Batista is seeking to sell assets to pay debt, people
familiar with the matter said March 18. He used shares of his
publicly traded firms as collateral for loans that helped build
his commodities and energy businesses, held as units of EBX. The
holding company needs money from the divestitures to finance
multiple projects.  “All EBX Group’s companies have the necessary funding
established for the coming years and their debt profile is
largely long term,” EBX said in a statement to  Bloomberg News 
on April 13. “There is no pressure from creditors to execute
the companies’ guarantees,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  