-- Emerging-Market Equities Rebound After Valuations Slump
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-16T21:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/emerging-stocks-slip-to-four-month-low-after-metal-prices-fall.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
led by Brazilian and Indian equities, after valuations reached
the lowest level versus developed markets since 2005 and falling
energy prices boosted transportation companies.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s biggest private lender, reached a
one month-high and the rupee gained on speculation yesterday’s
oil and gold price declines will spur the central bank to cut
 interest rates . China Southern Airlines Co. rose the most since
Feb. 20 as oil fell, while  Eike Batista ’s MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA jumped in  Sao Paulo . Turkish bond yields slid to a
record low after a larger-than-expected interest rate cut.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.6 percent to
1,008.92 in  New York , after slumping the most since July
yesterday. The decline drove the index down to 1.5 times net
assets, compared with 1.9 for the MSCI World Index, the biggest
gap since August 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Brent crude  dropped below $100 a barrel for the first time since
July as West Texas Intermediate oil was little changed.  “There’s a case to be made for a little bit faster growth
and very cheap valuations on the emerging market space,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which
manages about $700 million of investments, said by phone from
Lisle,  Illinois . “Some people are saying ’the U.S. markets have
had a great run, let’s look for some laggards.’ Emerging markets
are one place you may find them.”  Nine out of  10 groups  in the developing-nations gauge rose
today as healthcare shares had the biggest gain. The emerging-
markets index has lost 4.4 percent this year as government
intervention in the biggest developing nations curbed profits
and economic growth slowed from  South Korea  to  Poland . The MSCI
World Index has gained 7.5 percent.  U.S. Data  Stocks also joined gains in the U.S. after data showed that
new-home construction jumped more than forecast in March.  The
iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded fund climbed
2.1 percent to $41.70 in New York. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slumped 8.7 percent to 20.09.  Brazil’s Bovespa index rebounded from its biggest slump
since 2011, adding 2 percent, as MMX rose 9.3 percent. Mexico’s
IPC Index snapped a two-day drop. Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB
shares and bonds plunged as the Mexican homebuilder faces
complaints from Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG that it
failed to make payments on derivatives contracts.  Venezuelan bonds fell the most in 15 years as seven people
died in street protests demanding a vote recount of President-
elect  Nicolas Maduro ’s victory, adding to concern that
instability will undermine the economy.  Russian Shares  Russian stocks fell a fourth day as OAO LSR Group, a
property developer, slid 1.1 percent after Citigroup Inc. cut
its estimate for global depositary receipts. Turkey’s Borsa
Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index had its first drop in
four days. Poland stock market was closed as the  Warsaw Stock
Exchange  switched to NYSE Euronext’s new trading system.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex surged 2.1 percent, the biggest one-
day gain since Sept. 21. ICICI Bank advanced 3 percent in its
sixth day of gains.  China’s stocks rebounded from a three-month low, as
property shares jumped on speculation the government won’t
impose any more real-estate curbs as growth slows and lower oil
boosted airlines. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
retreated 0.1 percent.  China Southern Airlines (1055) , the country’s
biggest domestic carrier, jumped 4.1 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.1 percent, while the
Bank of New York Mellon Korea ADR Index jumped 3.4 percent in
New York, the biggest gain since June 29.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 291 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  