-- Enel Green to Invest $5.5 Billion to Tap Emerging Market Growth
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-04-16T10:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/enel-green-to-invest-5-5-billion-to-tap-emerging-market-growth.html
Enel Green Power SpA (ENEL)  will invest
about 4.2 billion euros ($5.5 billion) through 2017 in  emerging
markets  such as Turkey, South Africa,  Morocco ,  Peru , Colombia
and Brazil, Chief Executive Officer Francesco Starace said.  “Given the circumstances, we are very pleased to say that
we keep investing,” Chief Executive Officer Francesco Starace
said in an interview today. “Countries like Turkey and Brazil
have endless growth potential.”  Starace confirmed the company’s overall investment plan of
6.1 billion euros in the next four years. The growth will be
“organic” and the projects will be self-financed, he said. By
2017 installed capacity in emerging markets will grow fourfold
from last year to 3,600 megawatts, according to a company
statement released today.  The clean-energy unit of  Italy ’s biggest utility is taking
advantage of growth in emerging countries to offset weaker
demand at home because of recession and lower subsidies. Power
demand in Latin America will increase 4.9 percent this year,
according to Enel data.  Enel Green is also diversifying its energy mix taking
advantage of sources like geothermal and biomass, Starace said.  “It’s a good hedge against risks,” he said. “It’s a lot
less risky to put in a solar plant and a lot of people can do
that, whereas it’s more difficult to install geothermal and so
we are investing in this.”  The Rome-based company forecast its earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization targets of 1.8
billion euros this year, around 2.4 billion euros in 2015, and
up to 2.7 billion euros in 2017, according to the new 2012-2017
strategic plan presented to analysts today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 