-- Energy Future Issues Opening Salvo as KKR, TPG Seek Stake
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-04-16T21:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/energy-future-issues-opening-salvo-as-kkr-tpg-seek-stake.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp.’s pre-
packaged bankruptcy proposal is the opening salvo in talks as
 KKR & Co. (KKR)  and TPG Capital LP, backers of the largest leveraged
buyout, seek to salvage their failed utility takeover and force
creditors to accept billions in losses.  The company has been in confidential talks to restructure
about $32 billion in debt held by its Texas Competitive Electric
Holdings subsidiary, according to a  filing  yesterday. The
initial proposal, rejected by creditors, asked them to forgive
debt in exchange for equity in Dallas-based Energy Future and $5
billion in cash or new debt. KKR, TPG and the other private-
equity sponsors said they want to retain a 15 percent  equity
stake .  “What the sponsors are trying to do, they are saying I
want to pay as little as I can to own 15 percent of the
company,” Joseph DeSapri, a Chicago-based credit analyst at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a phone interview yesterday. “I’m not
sure that’s the valuation the creditors believe is true.”  The company formerly known as TXU Corp., which Moody’s
Investors Service called “too big to liquidate,” has been
struggling with debt since its $48 billion takeover in 2007 led
by KKR and TPG. Declining natural gas prices have depressed
wholesale power rates, hampering plans to reduce the debt and
capitalize on its low-cost nuclear and coal-fired output.  Creditor Agreement  Creditors have “directed their advisers to continue to
work with the companies and their advisers to explore further
whether the parties can reach an agreement on the terms of a
consensual restructuring,” according to the filing.  “This means nothing until the creditors agree to it,”
DeSapri said.  Texas  Competitive’s $1.2 billion of 15 percent second-lien
notes due in April 2021 fell 4.5 cents to 26 cents on the dollar
at 3:55 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  A $3.8 billion loan for Texas Competitive coming due in
October 2014 fell 1.25 cents on the dollar, the most in a month,
to 74.3 cents, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Senior lenders  at Texas Competitive include Franklin
Resources Inc., Apollo Global Management LLC, Oaktree Capital
Group LLC and GSO Capital Partners LP.  Creditors told Energy Future they would be willing to
accept a pre-packaged proposal if they got more debt and equity
and the company addressed negative cash flows, according to
yesterday’s filing.  “The cards are on the table,” said James Hempstead, a New
York-based analyst for Moody’s. “The company has basically
spelled out their opening offer.”  Gas Price  The buyout, which left the biggest power producer in Texas
with more than $40 billion in debt, was a gamble that natural
gas prices would rise. Instead, they fell to a 10-year low last
year in New York.  “With no significant debt maturity until October 2014, we
continue to proactively evaluate possible transactions and
initiatives to achieve a more sustainable  capital structure , as
previously disclosed under our liability management program,”
 Allan Koenig , a spokesman for Energy Future, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  Energy Future and its units have retained  law firm  Kirkland
& Ellis LLP and restructuring advisers Evercore Partners, while
creditors have retained law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP and Millstein & Co., according to the filing.  Bankruptcy Terms  Under the proposal, Texas Competitive would get a $2
billion first-lien revolving line of credit, a $1 billion letter
of credit facility and $5 billion of new long-term debt upon
completion of the restructuring.  “Creditors are saying there’s too much equity being
retained by the private equity guys, and if we’re going to take
a haircut then they’re going to keep precious little,” Kenneth Klee, a professor at the  University of California , Los Angeles
School of Law, said in a phone interview today.  “It’s going to be an interesting battle,” Klee said. “My
guess is KKR and TPG would make a deal to take a smaller
percentage of the equity in order to get a consensual deal.”  Energy Future’s filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission complies with a confidentiality agreement the power
producer made with creditors on March 18, stipulating a public
acknowledgment of the restructuring talks.  ‘Material Restructuring’  Energy Future faces a “material restructuring” within six
to 12 months, Moody’s said in a March 26 note.  The ratings company said a bankruptcy filing is likely at
Energy Future’s Texas Competitive unit, which has $3.8 billion
of loans maturing in October 2014. Investors have previously
refused to extend the payment date.  KKR, TPG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. contributed an $8.3
billion equity stake in Energy Future, they disclosed in 2008.
By March 2012, KKR had written down its equity in the company to
5 cents on the dollar, according to a regulatory filing.  Energy Future’s losses may widen as hedging contracts used
to shield against fluctuations in gas prices disappear by the
end of 2014. Energy Future lost $3.36 billion last year, 76
percent more than its $1.91 billion net loss in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s competitive unit expects its adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to drop to $1.83 billion in 2017 from $2.75 billion in 2013,
according to yesterday’s filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  