-- Merkel’s Majority for Cyprus Aid Grows as Greens Signal Support
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-04-16T09:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/merkel-s-majority-for-cyprus-aid-grows-as-greens-signal-support.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
chances of securing majority backing in parliament for Cyprus’s
rescue improved as the opposition  Green Party  joined the  Social
Democrats  in signaling their support.  The bailout accord brokered this month for Cyprus “in the
main” fulfills the demands of the Greens, Priska Hinz, the
party’s budget spokeswoman, said in an interview yesterday in
Berlin. Thomas Oppermann, chief whip of the main opposition
Social Democrats, said in an interview two days ago that there
were “positive tendencies” in his party toward the plan.  The prospect of broad support for Cyprus aid in a German
parliamentary vote due on April 18 underscores the opposition’s
dilemma in countering Merkel’s crisis policy before elections on
Sept. 22. With  Germany  the largest country contributor to euro-
area rescues after having committed as much as 211 billion euros
($275 billion), a poll last week showed almost two-thirds of
Green and SPD voters approve of Merkel’s crisis handling.  “We want to help Cyprus and see the accord as a means for
it to help itself on the road to recovery,” said Hinz. While
“there has to be a quid pro quo for aid,” the Greens “are a
pro-European party,” she said, indicating that she expected a
majority of the 68 Green lawmakers in the  620-seat lower house 
to vote for the rescue package.  German parliamentary groups will discuss Cyprus at regular
meetings in Berlin today before a vote on the bailout in the
lower house, the Bundestag. Opposition backing would ensure the
package passes easily amid consensus over the need for Cyprus to
reduce the banking sector’s role in its economy and cap
taxpayer-funded bailout loans to 10 billion euros.  Cyprus Needs  Total aid for Cyprus, including a bail-in, stands at 21
billion euros after varying from 17.5 billion euros to 23
billion euros, Michael Grosse-Broemer, the chief whip of
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc, told reporters today. The
international aid component remains 10 billion euros, he said.  Each of the five parties represented in the Bundestag are
due to hold individual straw polls on the package today after
they are briefed by Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble . The
all-party budget committee scrapped an internal vote that would
have indicated the probable outcome of voting in the plenary
session until after the parties are briefed later today.  Green lawmakers sought three main conditions in the accord:
a monitored plan to tackle  money laundering ; adoption in Cyprus
of a “fairer” corporate  tax rate ; and the harnessing of large-
scale deposits and shareholdings to help pay for the
restructuring of Cyprus’s two largest banks, Hinz said.  Merkel should back the efforts of the European Commission
and the  European Central Bank  to speed banking union, a measure
that could have ameliorated or even prevented the Cyprus
situation, Hinz said.  “If we’d had an effective banking union up and running
now, we’d have been better able to anticipate and tackle
Cyprus’s problems,” said Hinz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  