-- Merkel Whip Says CDU Plan for Women on Boards Trumps Opposition
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-04-16T11:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/merkel-whip-says-cdu-plan-for-women-on-boards-trumps-opposition.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition will probably defeat an opposition-led push to force
large German companies to reserve as many as 40 percent of board
seats for women after devising an alternative proposal, the
chief whip for Merkel’s bloc said.  Under the agreement, at least 30 percent of the supervisory
board of publicly traded companies must be reserved for women
from 2020, Michael Grosse-Broemer said. That deal scraps a party
commitment made in December for a “flexible” quota system.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union caucus agreed on a
binding minimum representation for women after some lawmakers,
led by Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen, threatened to vote
for the opposition-sponsored bill, Bild newspaper reported
today.  “We found a good compromise” that also has the support of
the women’s lobby in Merkel’s party, Grosse-Broemer told
reporters in Berlin today. “As a caucus, one has to make sure
to stand united.”  The compromise is a reversal for Merkel, who has previously
rejected legally binding steps to ensure more women sit on
corporate boards even while expressing frustration at the pace
of change under the current voluntary system. Von der Leyen has
previously argued for legal measures, saying that voluntary
quotas aren’t working.  Dissent in Merkel’s bloc at the April 18 parliamentary vote
would risk handing a victory to the  Social Democrats  and Greens
little more than five months before federal elections. The two
parties plan to support a bill put forward by the opposition-
controlled upper house of parliament that foresees a quota of 20
percent from 2013 and 40 percent from 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  