-- Tesla Surges on Morgan Stanley Output Report: Mover
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-04-16T20:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/tesla-surges-on-morgan-stanley-output-report-mover.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the maker of
electric cars led by billionaire Elon Musk, surged to a record
closing price after Morgan Stanley raised its outlook for
deliveries of the company’s battery-powered Model S.  Tesla rose 5.3 percent to $45.59 at the close in New York,
topping the previous record of $44.34 on April 2.  The electric-car maker, based in Palo Alto,  California ,
should deliver 18,000 Model S sedans this year, Morgan Stanley
analyst Adam Jonas said in a report today. While that’s up from
Morgan Stanley’s previous forecast of 16,000 cars, it’s below
Musk’s goal of 20,000 deliveries this year, said Jonas, who
rates the shares overweight, in a phone interview.  The report “may have been taken as a positive,” said Ben Schuman, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities who rates
Tesla shares sector perform. “This is one of those cases where
perhaps people just read the headline and don’t really go into
all the details of the report.”  Shares of the company named for inventor Nikola Tesla have
traded at record highs this month after Musk said on March 31
the carmaker attained its first profit in the quarter that ended
that day. Tesla hasn’t yet said when it will announce first-
quarter results.  Along with discussing earnings details, Tesla should offer
an update on Model S reservations, Jonas said in the interview.
While “they don’t want to talk about the order book,” this
will be a critical issue during the earnings conference call
with analysts, he said.  Schuman, based in  Portland ,  Oregon , said the company’s
guidance of 20,000 Model S deliveries “is still reasonable.”
By comparison, Morgan Stanley’s Jonas said today he doesn’t
expect Tesla to reach that volume level until 2014.  Tesla shares have gained 35 percent this year compared with
an 11 percent rise in the Russell 1000 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  