-- EU Banks Face Basel Rule Overhaul That Goes Beyond Bonus Curbs
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-16T10:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/eu-banks-face-basel-rule-overhaul-that-goes-beyond-bonus-curbs.html
European Union banks will be forced
to boost capital, disclose more information on their activities
than ever before, and face tougher scrutiny of how they measure
risks, after lawmakers formally endorsed a law to overhaul the
bloc’s financial rulebook.  The European Parliament backed the sweeping changes, which
also include a cap on banker bonuses at twice fixed pay, at a
meeting in Strasbourg,  France . The EU’s biggest banks had a
combined 112.4 billion-euro ($147.3 billion) shortfall as of
June 2012 in the reserves needed to meet the tougher capital
standards, according to European Banking Authority data.  Parliament’s approval of the law, which is supposed to
apply international agreements, is a “critical” step, Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Washington-based Federal
Financial Analytics Inc., said in an e-mail. The vote means it’s
“put-up-or-shut-up time for the U.S.” which had “been able to
delay action without endangering the global framework because it
could point to the EU as a notable laggard,” she said.  The assembly’s vote follows 18 months of talks in which
lawmakers insisted on expanding the scope of the legislation to
include tougher banker pay rules, while governments baulked at
provisions that would transfer some responsibility for setting
 capital requirements  to the Brussels-based European Commission.
The agreement will now be sent to ministers to be rubber-
stamped.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has said
the legislation, which runs to more than 1,000 pages, is a
cornerstone of the bloc’s response to the financial crisis
unleashed in 2008, which forced EU nations to inject 1.7
trillion euros into their banking systems.  Core Capital  The new rules, which are scheduled to apply fully starting
in 2019, more than triple the core capital that  banks  must hold
compared to previous international standards. They will also
force banks to maintain stocks of easy-to-sell assets that they
could use to generate cash in a crisis, and hand powers to the
London-based EBA to police the mathematical models lenders use
to calculate their capital needs.  Other parts of the text will compel banks to publish
country-by-country figures on the taxes they pay, profits they
make and subsidies they receive.  The legislation was proposed by Barnier in 2011 to apply a
regulatory overhaul, known as Basel III, that was drawn up by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  While marking a milestone in the EU’s response to the
financial crisis, today’s vote also opens a new chapter of
tussles over how the bloc applies Basel rules, said  Richard
Reid , a research fellow for finance and regulation at the
 University of Dundee  in  Scotland .  Diverse Implementation  “Many technical aspects of the CRD IV proposals still
remain to be worked out,” Reid said in an e-mail, in reference
to the EU law. “My guess is that the passage of the CRD IV
legislation only heralds a prolonged period of difficult and
diverse implementation of complex regulatory rules.”  Barnier was pushed onto the defensive last year when the
Basel committee warned of “material” inconsistencies between
early drafts of the EU law and Basel III. The committee said the
European text wasn’t strict enough in limiting which securities
banks can count as capital, was too lenient in its treatment of
bancassurers, and allowed banks too much scope to escape holding
reserves against their stocks of sovereign debt.  The Basel group, which brings together regulators from 27
nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China , has said that it
will subject the final EU rules to a similar public review. The
EU and the U.S. both missed an international Jan. 1, 2013,
deadline to begin phasing in Basel III.  Legal Adoption  The U.K. has also criticized the EU text, because it
considers the bonus rules as running counter to efforts to
bolster  banks’  resilience. The U.K. lacks the power to block the
measures, which have already been endorsed by the 26 other EU
governments.  Some key battles over the details of the legislation will
now shift to the London-based EBA, which co-ordinates the work
of national regulators in the EU and has some power to set
technical standards.  EBA tasks in the law include assessing which assets banks
should be allowed to count toward meeting the liquidity rule,
potentially opening up another area of divergence with Basel,
and defining which classes of employees should be hit by the
bonus rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  