-- EU’s Groote Sees Carbon Rescue Plan Support as Parliament Votes
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-04-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/eu-s-groote-sees-carbon-rescue-plan-support-as-parliament-votes.html
The European Parliament is likely
to back a plan to bolster carbon prices, paving the way for the
first element of the measure to become law by June, said the
lawmaker steering the proposal through the bloc’s legislature.  The assembly is voting today on a change in the bloc’s
emissions trading law to enable the European Commission to
postpone the sale of some carbon permits in the 54-billion-euro
($71 billion) cap-and-trade program, the world’s biggest. The
so-called backloading plan, designed to bolster prices by
temporarily alleviating an oversupply of emission allowances,
has divided Parliament, governments and industry.  “I’m optimistic because there was more and more positive
feedback last week,” Matthias Groote, the chairman of the
European Parliament’s environment committee, said yesterday in
an interview in Strasbourg,  France . “The initiative by
ministers to support backloading was useful.”  Environment and climate chiefs from six EU countries
including the U.K.,  Germany  and France stepped up pressure on
members of the bloc’s Parliament to back the rescue of the
eight-year-old emissions trading system in a letter last week.
Opponents include the Parliament’s biggest political group, the
European People’s Party, which argues it will hamper  economic
recovery  by raising energy costs and undermining companies’
competitiveness.  “We have a negative climate in the European Parliament and
it was not easy to negotiate with one party,” Groote said,
without being more specific.  Price Slump  EU carbon permits for delivery in December fell 0.2 percent
to 4.76 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London  yesterday. They slumped to a record-low 2.81 euros a ton
in January from an all-time high of 31 euros in April 2006 as a
recession curbed industrial output, damping demand for emission
rights.  “Our base-case expectation is that the plenary will
support the backloading plan with a narrow majority, in which
case we anticipate that emission allowances rise to 5.80 euros
to 6 euros a ton by the end of the week,” Bloomberg New Energy
Finance said in a note yesterday.  Europe’s emissions trading system is the bloc’s main tool
in meeting greenhouse gas-reduction targets, which it does by
issuing companies with tradable permits that they must surrender
to cover their carbon output.  First Vote  The 754-member Parliament is scheduled to cast its vote on
the amendment to the  emissions trading law  that will enable the
commission to decide the timing of carbon auctions at 12 p.m. in
Strasbourg. If approved by the assembly and national
governments, the measure opens the way for the EU to vote on
rules to delay the sale of permits covering 900 million tons of
emissions over the next three years and reintroducing, or
backloading, them to the market in 2019 and 2020.  “Backloading is a political necessity at this stage,”
said Andrei Marcu, a Brussels-based adviser at the Centre for
European Policy Studies think-tank. “If it fails, the price may
fall to 1.50 to 2 euros. The dynamics then become
unpredictable.”  The backloading strategy, which doesn’t change the total
number of allowances to be issued, is meant to be an exceptional
measure before  Europe  decides on a deeper overhaul of the carbon
market.  “If backloading doesn’t pass it will be more a political
than economic issue,” said Georg Zachmann, a researcher at
Bruegel, the Brussels-based economic think tank. “The measure
doesn’t affect the scarcity of allowances in the system. It is a
signal of political will. It is just a placebo that has no
direct healing consequences. I’m surprised by how controversial
it is.”  Trilogue Talks  The Parliament will make several decisions related to the
carbon law fix today, including a vote on a proposal from
members of the European People’s Party to reject backloading and
an amendment to restrict the commission’s strategy.  The assembly will also decide whether to authorize the
Parliament’s Groote to start talks with member states on the
final wording of the legal change in a process known as a
trilogue, which also involves the commission.  In the trilogue, member states will be represented by
Ireland, which holds the 27-nation bloc’s rotating presidency in
the first half of this year. The outcome of the negotiations
will be subject to final approval by the Parliament and national
governments before the amended emissions law enters into force.  “I hope we can start and finish the trilogue immediately
so that we can vote on the results in May or June,” Groote
said. “Ireland wants to finish work on this issue during its
presidency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Strasbourg at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  