-- EU to Propose New Labeling Measures After Horse-Meat Scandal
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-04-16T14:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/eu-to-propose-new-labeling-measures-after-horse-meat-scandal.html
The European Union will propose new
rules on meat-product labels after EU-wide meat testing showed
“fraudulent labeling” and no food-safety issues.  “On average there was 4.6 percent presence of horse meat
through fraudulent labeling, which is a fraud against the
consumer,” EU Health and Consumer-Policy Commissioner Tonio Borg said today in Strasbourg,  France . Calling this percentage
‘‘relatively low,’’ Borg said he nonetheless will propose ‘‘new
measures to member states in order to decrease the possibility
of abuse in the future.’’  The Europe-wide testing of meat products showed ‘‘no food-
safety issues’’ from horsemeat DNA and the veterinary drug
phenylbutazone, the EU said. Less than 5 percent of the tested
products had horse DNA and about 0.5 percent of the equine
carcasses tested were found to be contaminated with
phenylbutazone, known as bute, it said.  The EU indicated that ‘‘tougher penalties’’ should apply in
the future for instances of fraudulent labeling.  Borg said his proposals would include ‘‘persuading member
states to impose penalties, particularly pecuniary penalties,
which would be proportionate to the economic gain which is made
by those who indulge illegally in fraudulent labeling.’’ The
proposed measures also will include ‘‘a second look at the horse
passport system,’’ Borg said.  The horse-meat scandal surfaced in Ireland in mid-January
and has affected other countries in  Europe  and beyond. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said on April 4 that it is increasing
testing on meat imports to confirm that shipments don’t contain
horse meat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  