-- Europe’s Future Central Bankers Confront Draghi’s Dilemma
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w ,   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-04-17T08:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/europe-s-future-central-bankers-confront-draghi-s-policy-dilemma.html
Europe ’s central bankers of
tomorrow already know how hard  Mario Draghi ’s job is.  High school students from across the euro area spent the
past six months analyzing the state of the 17-nation economy and
preparing proposals on how Draghi’s  European Central Bank  should
respond to the region’s debt crisis. The winners of the second
annual “Generation Euro Students’ Award” will attend an awards
ceremony hosted by Draghi in Frankfurt today.  “There is no clear solution,” Alejandro Goffa Martinez, a
winning student at IES Josep Sureda i Blanes school in Palma de
Mallorca, Spain, said in an interview. “The lack of credit is
decisive because credit is the mechanism that is essential for
growth. Lowering interest rates even more wouldn’t really
help.”  Yet Draghi has signaled a rate cut is one of the few
options left to the ECB as it struggles to find ways to boost
lending in the recession-hit economy and doubts about a recovery
grow. While students from euro-area periphery nations were
mainly concerned about low  interest rates  failing to reach the
economy, participants from the core warned against cutting
borrowing costs further.  ‘No Grounds’  There is “no need or justification” for the ECB to cut
its  benchmark rate  from 0.75 percent, already a record low,
Finnish winners from Etelae-Tapiola High School in Espoo wrote
in their essay for the competition. “A rate cut would have a
momentary stimulating impact on the economy, but there are no
grounds for a rate cut in the medium and long term.”  More than 3,500 students aged 16 to 19 from 11 euro nations
participated in this year’s competition. The winners receive a
trip to the Eurotower in Frankfurt, a handshake from the ECB’s
president and small cash awards. Their tasks include completing
a monetary-policy quiz, writing an essay predicting the outcome
of an ECB policy meeting, and holding a presentation at their
national central banks.  Today, the ECB also presented its third online game
designed to increase knowledge about monetary policy in the
region. “Top Floor - Make your way up!” is an interactive quiz
targeted at 18 to 25 year-olds and is available on the central
bank’s website in 22 languages.  Germany ’s winning team in the Generation Euro contest
started their analysis with the question of whether interest
rates should be increased.  Spanish Concerns  “Expansive monetary policy can lead to a lot of problems
in the long term,” Lara Lechner, a 17-year-old student at
Internatsschule Schloss Hansenberg, said in an interview. “But
given the economic situation, an interest-rate increase is not
an option at the moment,” she said. “Indicators would actually
even support a cut, but rates are so low already that keeping
them unchanged has similar effects.”  Martinez said he’s worried about the “huge” impact the
lack of funding has on households and small businesses.  “Many of them had to close down in  Spain ,” he said. “Not
necessarily because they weren’t solvent, but because they
couldn’t continue their business without access to credit. This
has led to job destruction and the economy’s current
situation.”  The Spanish economy is struggling to recover from a six-
year slump that’s left more than a quarter of the population
without a job. The European Commission forecasts a contraction
of 1.4 percent this year and an expansion of 0.8 percent in
2014.  Economists have brought forward expectations for lower
interest rates after Draghi said on April 4 that the ECB
“stands ready to act,” with 11 of 37 respondents in a
Bloomberg News survey anticipating a cut in the second quarter.  “Lowering the benchmark rate is a very powerful tool,”
Finnish students including Tatu Suontausta wrote. “Given that
rates are at such a low level, this tool should be saved in case
the situation suddenly deteriorates further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  