-- Euro-Area March Inflation Slows for Third Month on Energy Costs
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-04-16T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/euro-area-march-inflation-slows-for-third-month-on-energy-costs.html
The euro-area inflation rate fell
for a third month in March as energy-cost growth slowed and the
currency bloc’s recession and record unemployment eroded
 consumer spending .  Annual  price growth  in the 17-nation economy was 1.7
percent last month, down from 1.8 percent in February, the
European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
Energy prices rose 1.7 percent in March after a 3.9 percent gain
in the prior month. The overall inflation rate moved below the
 European Central Bank ’s 2 percent ceiling in February for the
first time in more than two years.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on April 4 that “inflation
expectations are firmly anchored and in line with  price
stability  over the medium to long term.” The recent decline in
inflation rates “mainly reflects the energy component of the
 price index ,” he said. The ECB that day kept its  benchmark
interest rate  at a record low of 0.75 percent.  The euro-area economy has  contracted  for five straight
quarters and is forecast to shrink 0.1 percent in the first
three months of 2013 before returning to growth, the median of
25 economists’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey shows. The
European Commission sees the economy shrinking 0.3 percent this
year.  Austerity measures across the euro area, coupled with
record unemployment of 12 percent, have driven down demand for
imports.  Consumer confidence  increased less than economists
forecast in March amid signs the economy is struggling to pull
out of the recession.  The annual core inflation rate, excluding volatile costs
such as energy, alcohol and tobacco, rose to 1.5 percent in
March from 1.3 percent a month earlier, today’s report showed.
The cost of services rose 1.8 percent after a 1.5 percent gain
in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Henry in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  