-- Europe’s Top Airlines Squeezed by Emirates-Ryanair Growth
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-04-16T07:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/europe-s-top-airlines-squeezed-by-emirates-ryanair-growth.html
European network carriers including
 Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  face a heightened
challenge from both local discount airlines and Gulf operators
serving routes to Asia, analysis by  Amadeus IT Holding SA (AMS)  shows.  Low-cost carriers led by  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  lifted their
share of European traffic 4 percent to 38 percent in 2012, while
travel from Europe to Asia via the hubs of Emirates, Qatar
Airways Ltd. and Etihad Airways PJSC grew 20 percent, according
to data from Madrid-based Amadeus’s global booking system.  Air France, Lufthansa and Iberia of  Spain  are among former
flag-carriers revamping short-haul operations in an effort to
end losses and stave off the advances of Ryanair and its peers.
Cologne-based Lufthansa said last month it might also establish
a low-cost operation to Asia in response to airlines that have
exploited the Gulf’s geographical position to grab a growing
share of lucrative inter-continental transfer traffic.  “These figures are quite worrying for the network
carriers,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo Securities in
Paris with a “neutral” rating on Lufthansa and IAG SA, parent
of Iberia and British Airways, and a “buy” on Air France-KLM.
“They’ve begun to take action in Europe, where the challenge is
crystal clear, but they’re going to have to do more to maintain
market share in long-haul, which has been quite profitable.”  More Competition  Low-cost penetration is greatest in Europe, according to
Amadeus. The nations there with the highest proportion of
departing passengers using discount airlines are Spain, on 57
percent, and the U.K., home country of  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  and the
location of Ryanair’s biggest base, with 52 percent.  In the long-haul market, Gulf airports in Dubai, Doha and
Abu Dhabi have already grabbed a 15 percent share of air traffic
from Europe to the Asia-Pacific, according to the report.  “The Middle East airlines have been successful at
delivering high levels of service to cater to the needs of
premium passengers,” Cyril Tetaz, Amadeus’ head of marketing,
said by e-mail.  While IAG’s British Airways has maintained some room for
maneuver by recruiting  Qatar Airways  to its Oneworld alliance,
Air France-KLM and Lufthansa will “have to fight” to stave off
the Middle Eastern challenge, Oddo’s Derocles said.  Airlines everywhere face heightened competition,  Amadeus 
said, with 38 percent of total traffic involving routes served
by four or more airlines, rising to 75 percent in Asia, where 27
percent of travel involves markets with at least five carriers.  Only 35 percent of traffic worldwide is on routes with one
or two operators -- a four-point drop in the past two years --
falling to 25 percent in Asia.  Seven of the world’s 10 busiest routes by passenger volume
are in Asia, according to the report, with the globe’s busiest
link being between the South Korean island of Jeju and  Seoul ,
followed by flights between Sapporo, Japan, and  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  