-- European Union Funding 5-Year Safe Drinking Water Project
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/european-union-funding-5-year-safe-drinking-water-project.html
The European Union is funding a new
research initiative to improve the safety of drinking water and
reduce outbreaks of waterborne diseases.  The five-year, 9 million-euro ($11.8 million) Aquavalens
project will be led by Paul Hunter of the University of East
Anglia’s  Norwich Medical School  in eastern  England , the school
said today in a statement. It will seek to develop more rapid
methods of detecting viruses, bacteria and parasites in water
before they make people sick, according to the statement.  Globally, about 2 million deaths a year are attributed to
unsafe water, sanitation and hygiene and almost 1 billion people
lack access to safe drinking water, according to the  World
Health Organization .  “With the technologies we currently have it can take two
or more days to identify infectious risks in drinking water and
by then the affected water is likely to have been consumed,”
Hunter said. “This project will develop more rapid methods so
that problems can be identified earlier.”  The project hopes to find low-cost testing technologies
that can monitor water supplies year-round to identify
unacceptable levels of viruses or bacteria instead of weekly or
in some cases even less frequent spot checks, Hunter said.  Gene probes, nano-technologies and bio-sensors will be
explored, he said.  “Although the focus is on  Europe , hopefully the
technologies that will be developed will have applicability that
is far wider than just Europe,” Hunter said. “The main
activity will be development of water technologies that could be
used globally.”  The European Union’s  Framework Programme 7 , which supports
scientific and technological research in the region, is
providing funding for the project. Academic groups and
biotechnology companies in 13 European countries will be
participating in the project, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  