-- Ex-Aeropostale CEO Says He Fired Finazzo Over Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-16T22:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/ex-aeropostale-ceo-says-he-fired-finazzo-over-deal.html
Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) ’s former chief
executive officer testified that he fired Christopher Finazzo
from his job as a merchandise executive in 2006 after learning
about his secret dealings with a vendor.  Ex-CEO Julian Geiger, who oversaw more than 14-fold growth
in sales at the teen clothing retailer, told jurors at Finazzo’s
fraud trial today in federal court in  Brooklyn ,  New York , that
he was “incredulous” when he found out about the side deals.  “I loved Chris. He was like a brother,” Geiger, 67, said
under questioning by Assistant U.S. Attorney Winston M. Paes. In
a recording of the Nov. 7, 2006, termination meeting, played in
court, Geiger could be heard telling Finazzo: “My heart is
broken.”  “What you’ve done is some terrible judgment,” Geiger
could be heard saying on the recording.  Finazzo, 57, is accused of conspiring with the owner of T-
shirt supplier South Bay Apparel Inc. to overcharge  New York- 
based Aeropostale and split the profits. The scheme netted
Finazzo as much as $25 million from about 1996 until he was
fired, according to prosecutors.  Geiger, now CEO of  Crumbs Bake Shop Inc. (CRMBU) , told jurors he
met Finazzo in 1988 while the two were working for the Macy’s
department-store chain.  ‘Very Impressed’  “I was very impressed with him. He was dedicated and
hardworking,” Geiger said. Geiger hired Finazzo in 1996 after
he became CEO of Aeropostale, which was at the time a unit of
Cincinnati-based Federated Department Stores Inc., now known as
 Macy’s Inc. (M)   Geiger testified that he oversaw Aeropostale during a
buyout of the company in 1998 and an initial public offering in
2002. From 1998 to 2010, sales at the retailer grew to
$2.23 billion from $141 million, according to the company’s
financial  statements .  The retailer is the fourth-largest teen specialty apparel
company by market capitalization.  Throughout his time at Aeropostale, Finazzo appeared to
have a close relationship with  South Bay  and reacted harshly to
criticism of it, Geiger said. The former CEO said he knew shirts
could have been purchased for 30 percent less from another
supplier and had asked Finazzo to lower his costs.  “He was a staunch advocate of theirs,” Geiger said.  No Questions  “He told me I wasn’t allowed to ask him any questions
about graphic T-shirts for a month,” Geiger said.  Geiger’s testimony came in the second week of a trial
before U.S. District Judge Roslynn R. Mauskopf. Finazzo is
facing 16 counts, including conspiracy, mail fraud and wire
fraud charges. He could be sentenced to as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of a fraud charge.  South Bay owner Douglas Dey, a friend of Finazzo’s, pleaded
guilty to a conspiracy charge in September.  When the trial began on April 9, defense lawyer Robert J.A. Zito told jurors that his client wasn’t aware he was doing
anything wrong by making deals with Dey. The relationship with
the vendor, a major supplier to Aeropostale, helped boost the
retailer’s sales to $1.4 billion in 2006, Zito said in his
opening statement.  Hotel Suite  Geiger and others at Aeropostale first learned of Finazzo’s
side arrangements following an unrelated investigation sparked
by the former CEO’s use of a Las Vegas hotel suite which served
as a location for  MTV ’s “Real World” program in 2002.  Wanting to rent the suite for his son to celebrate a
birthday, Geiger discovered it was unavailable except as a
complimentary lodging for serious gamblers, he told jurors
today. Geiger said he asked for help from a vendor, who was also
a gambler, in securing the suite. Although Geiger said he
repeatedly attempted to pay, the vendor told him the $18,000
charge was waived.  While the investigation didn’t result in repercussions for
Geiger, it did turn up an e-mail to Finazzo from his personal
attorney which included a list of assets with items labeled
“South Bay,” according to records shown in court.  Confronted Executive  At the November 2006 meeting, Geiger and Aeropostale
General Counsel Edward Slezak confronted Finazzo with their
findings and told him they would have to restate filings with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and issue a press
release on his termination.  The relationship with South Bay violated Aeropostale
policies and should have been disclosed to investors under
securities regulations, Geiger told jurors today.  According to the recording of the meeting, Finazzo said he
lent Dey money for operations in  Peru  and participated with him
other partnerships. Finazzo told the other executives he “never
profited” from South Bay, according to the recording.  The case is U.S. v. Finazzo, 10-cr-00457, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  