-- Ex-MF Global Broker Sentenced to 5 Years for Rogue Trades
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-17T17:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/ex-mf-global-broker-sentenced-to-5-years-for-trades-correct-.html
Former  MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc. broker Evan Brent Dooley was sentenced to five years in prison for making
unlawful unauthorized trades that caused the now-defunct futures
firm to lose more than $141 million in 2008.  The sentence, half of what the government sought, was
imposed by U.S. District Judge Robert M. Dow in  Chicago . Dooley,
who pleaded guilty in December to two counts of violating
speculative position limits under the Commodities Exchange Act,
was also ordered to serve one year of supervised release and to
pay $141 million in restitution.  “I stand before you today broken, humbled, a deeply
remorseful man,” Dooley told Dow in a choked voice before being
sentenced yesterday. “I ask that you have mercy on me.”  Dooley was indicted in 2010, more than a year before the
bankruptcy filing of brokerage parent MF Global Holdings Ltd.
Still, the incident was cited as an example of risk management
weakness in a 124-page report released this month by trustee
 Louis Freeh  analyzing the firm’s failure.  “MF Global suffered immediate and severe negative
consequences from the Dooley incident,” which wiped out a
year’s worth of profit, Freeh said. “In the aftermath of the
Dooley incident, the company adopted a written framework for
 managing risk . This framework was never fully implemented.”  Bankruptcy Filing  MF Global Holdings filed for bankruptcy in October 2011
after making a $6.3 billion wrong-way trade on its own behalf of
the bonds of some of Europe’s most indebted nations. The company
won final approval April 5 of its plan to repay creditors,
paving the way for the eighth-largest bankruptcy in U.S. history
to wind down under court protection.  The failure to adequately supervise Dooley, who worked in
the firm’s Memphis,  Tennessee , office, was referenced by both
sides and the judge at yesterday’s hearing.  “The supervision was bad,” Dow said. “MF Global has had
its comeuppance.”  While the defendant wants to share his blame with his
employer, “It begins and ends with Brent Dooley,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Clifford Histed said. Histed called Dooley, “the
most infamous American rogue trader of the last 10 years.”  Dooley, 45, formerly of  Olive Branch ,  Mississippi , was
associated with the New York-based firm from September 2006 to
February 2008 and allowed to trade on his own account and for
clients, prosecutors said in announcing his indictment in April
2010.  ‘False Information’  Patrick Fitzgerald, the Chicago U.S. attorney at the time,
said Dooley “allegedly induced MF Global to open a trading
account and act as his financial guarantor by providing false
information about his financial condition on his account
application.”  The case was brought in Chicago because the transactions
were conducted through  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s Chicago Board of Trade.  In an overnight session in January 2008, Dooley allegedly
executed a series of large buy and sell orders for about 1,500
wheat futures contracts, according to the indictment. Each
contract comprises 5,000 bushels.  Though without funds to cover potential losses, he was able
to liquidate his position that night for a profit of about
$37,000, prosecutors said. Confronted by an MF Global supervisor
the next day, Dooley said the activity was inadvertent,
according to the indictment.  Limits Exceeded  A month later, with a negative-$3,000 balance in his
account, Dooley executed buy and sell orders for almost 32,000
contracts, including more than 24,000 for May 2008 wheat
futures, exceeding positional limits set by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  He was unable to successfully liquidate his position. When
MF Global authorities learned of Dooley’s trading the night of
Feb. 26, 2008, into the next day, they deactivated his account
and liquidated the rest of his position, according to the
indictment, incurring a loss of more than $141 million.  Six percent of the company disappeared because of Dooley’s
trades, Histed said yesterday.  Dooley told the court he has struggled with alcoholism his
entire adult life and was drinking excessively as he traded that
night.  “I panicked,” he said, recounting how the situation
spiraled beyond his control. The following morning, he said, he
“sobbed like a baby” in his wife’s arms.  Citing Dooley’s continued employment as a consultant for a
 Florida  firm that imports skincare products from  Europe  and his
need to support two daughters from two different marriages --
one failed, one failing -- defense lawyer Keri Ambrosio had
asked Dow to give her client probation.  ‘Staggering’ Restitution  The $141 million restitution order was punishment for a
lifetime, Ambrosio said.  Histed said the restitution wasn’t punishment. Rather it
was to make the victim whole, he said. Prosecutors asked for
that sum to be paid to James Giddens, MF Global Inc.’s
liquidation trustee.  In ordering the restitution, Dow called the sum
“staggering.”  “No one could ever pay that back,” the judge said.  Dooley must report to prison on June 18. Ambrosio asked the
court to recommend to the U.S. Bureau of Prisons that her client
be incarcerated near  Memphis  or in northern Florida, where he
has family. Dooley now lives in Mount Pleasant, Tennessee,
prosecutors said in a statement issued late yesterday.  “We’re obviously disappointed,” she said after the
sentencing. Dooley declined to comment.  Outside the courtroom yesterday, Histed called the
punishment “a significant and substantial sentence.”  The case is U.S. v.  Dooley, 1:10-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  