-- Ex-Times of London Editor James Harding Named News Chief at BBC
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-04-16T09:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/ex-times-of-london-editor-james-harding-named-news-chief-at-bbc.html
James Harding , the former editor of
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s The Times of London newspaper, was named head of
news at the British Broadcasting Corporation, as the U.K.
broadcaster seeks to restore public confidence following child
sex-abuse reporting scandals.  Harding, who took over at The Times at age 38, stepped down
in December saying it was clear News Corp. executives wanted a
new editor, the London-based BBC said on its  website  today.
Harding previously served as Washington bureau chief at the
Financial Times.  “I believe James will give News a renewed sense of purpose
as it moves on from what has been an undeniably difficult
chapter,” BBC Director General Tony Hall said in the  BBC 
statement.  Harding inherits a news desk coping with reporting
missteps, including at the “Newsnight” program. The BBC
replaced senior editors at the current-affairs show in December
after errors in investigative reports. One involved the decision
to cancel a broadcast looking into claims that former BBC host
Jimmy Savile abused children, and a second involved the
publication of an erroneous report linking a former Conservative
party treasurer to child molestation.  Then Director General George Entwistle resigned in the wake
of the reports after only two months on the job. The BBC’s
former head of news, Helen Boaden, is now in charge of BBC
Radio, the broadcaster said today on its website.  A probe into the Savile case, led by former  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  head of news Nick Pollard, faulted the
BBC’s “rigid” management structure and sharing information as
contributing to a breakdown in decision-making at the news desk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 