-- Factory Production in U.S. Unexpectedly Decreased in March
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-04-16T13:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/factory-production-in-u-s-unexpectedly-decreased-in-march.html
Factory production in the U.S.
unexpectedly dropped in March, adding to recent signs that
manufacturing is cooling.  Output at factories fell 0.1 percent, figures from the
 Federal Reserve  showed today in  Washington , compared with 0.1
percent increase forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
Total industrial production, which includes manufacturing,
mining and utilities, climbed 0.4 percent as colder-than-normal
temperatures drove the  biggest gain  in electricity and natural-
gas use in six years.  Output is slowing as companies try to limit inventories
amid concern the world’s largest economy will slow as automatic
cuts in planned federal spending take effect. Manufacturers such
as rail-car maker  Greenbrier Cos. (GBX)  project an improvement in the
second half of the year, a sign business investment is unlikely
to retrench.  “The details look pretty weak, but that came after
strength in February,” said  James O’Sullivan , chief U.S.
economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla,  New York , the
second-best industrial production forecaster over the past two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “Manufacturing
will certainly continue to grow.”  Stocks rose, with the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rebounding from its biggest drop since November, as housing
starts and corporate earnings topped estimates. The  S&P 500 
climbed 0.8 percent to 1,564.19 at 9:55 a.m. in New York.  Survey Results  The median estimate for total industrial production of the
82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.2 percent
gain. Projections ranged from a drop of 0.5 percent to an
increase of 0.7 percent. The prior month was revised up to a 1.1
percent increase from a previously reported 0.8 percent advance.  Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of total
production and accounts for about 12 percent of the economy, was
restrained by declines in production last month of metals,
computers, electrical equipment and furniture.  One of the bright spots in March was auto making. The
output of motor vehicles and parts increased 2.9 percent after a
2 percent gain a month earlier, today’s report showed. Excluding
autos and parts, manufacturing production dropped 0.3 percent,
the biggest decline since October, after a 0.8 percent rise.  Cars and light trucks sold at a  15.2 million  annual pace in
March, capping the strongest three months for purchases since
early 2008, data from Ward’s Automotive Group showed.  Capacity Use  Today’s Fed report also showed that  capacity utilization ,
which measures the amount of a plant that is in use, climbed to
78.5 percent from 78.3 percent the prior month.  Utility output jumped 5.3 percent, the biggest gain since
February 2007, after a 2.5 percent advance the previous month.
The average temperature last month was 40.8 degrees Fahrenheit
(4.9 degrees Celsius), making it the coolest March since 2002,
according to the National Climatic Data Center.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, decreased
0.2 percent.  Businesses benefiting from gains in orders include
Greenbrier, a  Lake Oswego , Oregon-based rail-car maker. First-
half results were ahead of expectations and the company is
“looking forward to a solid second half” of the year, Chief
Executive Officer William Furman said in an April 4 earnings
conference call.  “There is demand out there,” Furman said on the
teleconference. “We’re pretty pleased about the quarter’s
momentum and the momentum going forward into the third
quarter.”  Housing Rebound  The rebound in housing is underpinning demand. Builders
broke ground on 1.04 million houses at an annualized rate in
March, the most since June 2008, a Commerce Department report
showed today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 930,000 pace.  Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest maker of construction
and mining equipment, is among businesses watching economic
developments in the U.S. and overseas for signs of improvement.  “While we’re encouraged by some recent improvements in
economic indicators, there are still uncertainties in the world
and the company is ready for any circumstances,”  Doug
Oberhelman , chief executive officer of Peoria, Illinois-based
Caterpillar, said in a statement on April 10.  The economy probably grew at a 3 percent annualized rate
from January through March, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey of economists from April 5 to April 9. The
expansion will cool this quarter, to a 1.5 percent pace, then
reaccelerate to an average 2.4 percent rate in the last six
months of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  