-- Fairway Seeks Premium to Supermarket Rivals in U.S. IPO
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-04-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/fairway-seeks-premium-to-supermarket-rivals-in-u-s-ipo.html
Fairway Group Holdings Corp. (FWM) , the
grocery-store chain focused on greater  New York , is seeking to
go public at a valuation that’s more expensive than  peers 
including  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)   The IPO, scheduled to price today, would  value  the New
York-based company at $453.6 million, or about 15 times adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
for the fiscal year ended April 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with 13 times Ebitda for Whole Foods
and 5.2 times Ebitda for  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , the second-largest U.S.
supermarket chain. Fairway’s Ebitda was adjusted to exclude the
costs of opening new stores.  Fairway, which started as a small neighborhood market in
the 1930s, is moving ahead with the IPO after expansion in
suburban New York,  New Jersey  and  Connecticut  helped boost sales
for at least three years in a row. Sales at Fairway rose 14
percent to $554.9 million in the year ended April 1, 2012. The
company had a net loss of $11.9 million that year.  The food seller, which has 12 locations, said in a
regulatory filing that it’s planning to add stores in
population-dense metropolitan areas and has the potential for
more than 300 new U.S. shops.  “The concept could work outside of New York,”  Joe Feldman , a New York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, said
in an interview. “It feels like a discount-oriented space with
really quality stuff.  ‘‘You can go and get Cheerios and Frosted Flakes, but you
can also get some of that organic stuff that you would find at a
Whole Foods,’’ he said.  Grocery Sales  Sales at U.S. grocery stores may begin to increase after
falling 2.1 percent in 2012, according to a report from industry
researcher IBISWorld Inc. in  Santa Monica , California. Revenue
is projected to rise 0.4 percent a year, on average, and reach
$500.9 billion in 2017, the data show.  Fairway is offering 13.7 million shares for $10 to $12 each
and at the midpoint of the  price range , the company would have a
market value of $453.6 million. The shares offered are equal to
a 33 percent stake in the grocery retailer.  Fairway joins companies in industries from technology to
energy that are taking advantage of greater investor appetite
for new equities as U.S. stocks  surge  to record highs this year.
U.S. IPOs raised 37 percent more last quarter than they did in
the year-earlier period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Blackhawk IPO  Safeway, based in Pleasanton, California, announced earlier
this month that its gift-card company, Blackhawk Network
Holdings Inc., would seek to raise as much as $220 million in a
U.S. IPO. At the midpoint of the offering range, Blackhawk would
be valued at $1.09 billion, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Sprouts Farmers Market LLC, the Phoenix-based grocery-store
operator with about 150 locations, is in discussions to proceed
with an IPO as early as May, people familiar with the matter
said this month.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  is paying itself
and other shareholders a dividend of $280 million from Sprouts
as the chain prepares to go public, said the people, who asked
not to be named because the discussions are private.  Fairway, which gets about 65 percent of its sales from
produce, organic items and prepared foods, competes with Austin,
Texas-based Whole Foods and closely held Trader Joe’s, as well
as big-box discounters  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
Fairway stores sell organic milk and  baby food , as well as
gluten-free breads and pancake mix.  Consumer Interest  ‘‘It’s not just value that’s driving consumer interest” at
food sellers, said Todd Hale, Cincinnati-based senior vice
president of consumer and shopper insights at Nielsen. “It’s
health and wellness, better for you and alcoholic beverages --
wine, in particular, has done extremely well,” he said.  Of the 12 Fairway locations, three are Fairway Wines &
Spirits stores, which sell craft liquors and gluten-free wines,
as well as traditional alcohol.  Fairway’s valuation, including the cost to open new stores,
would be 89 times Ebitda, according to the data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Kroger Co. (KR)  is the largest U.S. grocery-store chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  