-- FDA Can Be More Aggressive With Pharmacies, Hamburg Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-16T19:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/fda-can-be-more-aggressive-with-pharmacies-hamburg-says.html
U.S. regulators failed to act as
aggressively as they could against compounding pharmacies like
the one at the center of the deadly meningitis outbreak, Food
and Drug Administration Commissioner Margaret A. Hamburg said.  A review of past practices shows that “even in the face of
litigation and continuous challenges by industry to our
authorities, we can nonetheless be more aggressive in pursuing
enforcement actions,” Hamburg said in  written testimony 
presented today to a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee. “I
can assure you that we are being more aggressive now.”  The FDA had cited conflicting legal decisions on its
authority over drug compounders to deflect criticism by
lawmakers that the agency didn’t act early enough to shut down
New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc., the company at the center
of the meningitis outbreak that killed more than 50 people.
Republican lawmakers said the FDA already has the power to act
when these pharmacies stray from traditional practices of mixing
personalized medicines for individual prescriptions.  “We now know that there was nothing in the law that
prevented the FDA from acting,” said Representative  Tim Murphy 
of  Pennsylvania , the Republican chairman of the subcommittee.  Republicans on the subcommittee  released documents 
yesterday that they said show the agency received a litany of
complaints about New England Compounding, or NECC, and a related
business called Ameridose LLC. Some of those complaints involved
the safety and sterility of the companies’ products, they said.  NECC Complaints  Republicans have questioned whether the FDA could have shut
down the pharmacy based on incidents dating as far back as 2002.
They also want to know why the FDA didn’t re-inspect NECC after
stating it would in a 2006 warning letter and related
correspondence two years later.  “They were under the nose of the FDA for decades,” Murphy
said at today’s hearing. “Ten years of warning signs, alarm
bells, and flashing red lights were ignored.”  Democrats on the committee came to the FDA’s defense,
citing a law that left the agency with ambiguous authority over
compounding pharmacies, as well as industry lobbying to
undermine federal regulation and failures by states to oversee
the businesses adequately.  Conflicting court decisions on FDA’s ability to oversee
compounding pharmacies led to the lack of follow-up on
complaints about NECC, panel Democrats  said  in a review of the
27,000 pages of documents dating from 2000 to 2012 that the FDA
gave the committee.  Increased Enforcement  Compounding pharmacies traditionally prepare personalized
prescriptions and are regulated by state health authorities. The
meningitis outbreak revealed some companies go beyond that task
to produce larger amounts of medicines, acting more like a drug
manufacturer overseen by the FDA.  NECC suspended operations in October and recalled about
17,676 doses of the pain-killing steroid methylprednisolone
acetate after regulators determined that tainted vials of the
drug were responsible for fungal meningitis infections.  The practice of compounding drugs has evolved and outgrown
the law, and the FDA should have the authority to enforce U.S.
manufacturing standards similar to those drugmakers must meet,
Hamburg told the subcommittee in  Washington . The agency is
seeking the ability to inspect those facilities and obtain
samples of medications and records, she said.  Murphy said he isn’t interested yet in further legislation
and wants to focus on whether the FDA did all it could with its
existing authority. He asked Hamburg to find out who made
decisions that kept NECC from being inspected.  This is Hamburg’s second appearance before the House
subcommittee to ask for greater federal oversight since the
meningitis outbreak.  Industry Lobbying  The agency has stepped up enforcement efforts in the
meantime, conducting 55 inspections and issuing reports
detailing shortcomings at 43, Hamburg said. During those
inspections, some pharmacies attempted to delay the FDA and deny
them access to their records.  Since NECC, there have been seven additional recalls of
sterile compounded and repackaged drugs, Hamburg said.  New guidelines that would have cleared up confusion and
unfrozen enforcement actions against pharmacies that mix their
own drugs were on the verge of going public before last year’s
meningitis outbreak, Democrats on the House subcommittee said in
a memo released yesterday. Delays issuing the guidance stemmed
from at least 2006.  The agency had finished work on draft guidance in 2010 yet
didn’t receive final clearance, according to the memo.  Proactive Inspections  The FDA suspended proactive inspections in 2011 that
weren’t the result of a specific complaint against a compounding
pharmacy until the guidance was complete, including inspections
some at the agency suggested were needed of NECC and Ameridose.  Hamburg said she wasn’t involved in the decision.  “I regret that we didn’t do more,” she said. “And I
regret that I wasn’t directly engaged but I am now.”  The International Academy of Compounding Pharmacists should
have been made to testify today, Democrats said last week. They
said documents collected from the pharmacists group show “that
for almost two decades, the organization lobbied aggressively
and successfully to restrict FDA authority over compounding
pharmacies.”  Democrats outlined the pharmacy group’s guidance to its
members for avoiding broad FDA inspections.  They also released a report yesterday claiming states have
largely failed to oversee compounding pharmacies based on a
survey of state regulators. Hamburg admitted the FDA could
improve its communication with states after she couldn’t tell
lawmakers which, if any, complaints against NECC were shared
with Massachusetts officials.  “Our current system for regulating compounded medicines is
in disarray,” Representative  Henry Waxman , a Democrat of
 California , said in a statement. “There are no clear lines
governing whether it should be FDA or the states overseeing
compounding pharmacies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  