-- Fed’s Alvarez Says More Work Needed to Eliminate Too Big to Fail
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-04-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/fed-s-alvarez-says-more-work-needed-to-eliminate-too-big-to-fail.html
Federal Reserve General Counsel
 Scott Alvarez  said “more work remains to be done” to curb the
perception that the largest banks are too big to fail.  “The perception that some institutions are too big to fail
reduces the incentives of shareholders, creditors, and
counterparties of these firms to constrain excessive risk-
taking,” the Fed attorney told the House Financial Services
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations at a hearing today.  While the Dodd-Frank Act’s preamble says its intent is to
“end ‘too big to fail,’” some of the largest banks may still
benefit from the perception that they would be rescued by the
government, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told lawmakers in
February.  “We need to be working in the direction of eliminating it
entirely,” Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee
on Feb. 27.  U.S. regulators and lawmakers are searching for ways beyond
Dodd-Frank to limit the risk that a large bank failure will
result in another taxpayer-funded bailout. Senate Republicans
and Democrats are discussing new legislation that would boost
capital standards, while Fed officials are discussing ways to
limit the safety net and curb balance-sheet expansion at the
largest banks.  Alvarez said in the text of his remarks that the Fed and
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are discussing the merits of
a minimum long-term debt requirement for large banks that would
help the FDIC fund the holding company of a failed firm.  Long-Term Debt  “Parent-level, long-term debt could lend greater
confidence that the combination of equity owners and long-term
debt holders would be sufficient to bear all losses at the
consolidated firm,” Alvarez said in the text of his remarks.  Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher proposes that deposit
insurance and the Fed’s discount window be limited to only
banking units, and not extended to insurance or brokerage
subsidiaries or the bank holding company.  Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker said regulators need
to help banks draft credible resolution plans, or living wills,
showing they can be resolved through a bankruptcy process
without temporary government support. One flaw in Dodd-Frank is
that it has provisions for temporary government support, Lacker
said in an April 9 speech in Richmond.  “The FDIC does have the ability to deviate in some
important ways from what might occur under bankruptcy,” Lacker
said. “In particular, it can make payments to creditors it
deems ‘necessary,’ and it can draw on funds from the Treasury to
do so.”  That provision “opens the door” for creditors to believe
there is the possibility they could be bailed out leading them
to “pay less attention to risk than they should.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  