-- Fed Officials Stress Need for QE After Jobs Slowdown
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-16T20:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/fed-officials-stress-need-for-qe-after-jobs-slowdown.html
Two voting members of the  Federal
Reserve ’s policy-setting panel stressed the need to maintain
record stimulus to keep the expansion going, and they cited a
job-market slowdown as evidence of risks to the economy.  The slowest payrolls growth in nine months in March
“underscores the need to wait and see how the economy develops
before declaring victory,” William C. Dudley, president of the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York , said today in a speech in
 Staten Island . “I don’t think we should be complacent,”
 Charles Evans , president of the Chicago Fed, said separately.
“Unemployment is unacceptably high.”  The need for continued stimulus also found support from Fed
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , who repeated the central bank’s view
that the benchmark interest  rate  should remain low for a
“considerable time” after the recovery strengthens. In a
speech in  Washington  today, she said she doesn’t see “pervasive
evidence of rapid credit growth, a marked buildup in leverage,
or significant asset bubbles that would threaten financial
stability.”  Members of the  Federal Open Market Committee , which next
meets April 30-May 1, are debating how long to maintain $85
billion in monthly asset purchases. Evans told reporters in
Chicago today that he expects the Fed to keep buying bonds at
least until late this year, while Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser , who isn’t a voting member of the panel, said last week
that purchases should be scaled back in the next few months,
barring a slump in the economy.  Employers added 88,000 workers to payrolls last month, the
smallest gain in nine months, a Labor Department report showed
April 5.  ‘Discouraging’ Data  “The last employment report was discouraging,” Evans told
reporters today after a speech. “I don’t think we’ve seen
substantial improvement in the labor market to lead me to want
to think about” winding down the quantitative easing program.  The slowdown, along with federal spending cuts and tax
increases, “makes me more cautious,” Dudley said. “We have
seen only a moderate improvement in labor market conditions over
the past six months or so.”  Reports today showed that new-home construction climbed to
the highest level in almost five years, while factory production
cooled. At the same time, data showed that consumer prices
unexpectedly dropped last month, indicating that the Fed has
leeway to keep pumping money into the financial system.  Stocks rallied and Treasuries fell after the reports, while
gold rebounded from its biggest slump in three decades. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.4 percent 1,574.57 at 4:18
p.m. in  New York . The U.S. 10-year yield rose four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.72 percent.  Summer Slowdown  In his speech today, Evans said job growth accelerated the
past years, only to stall and require additional stimulus from
the Fed.  “We’ve been disappointed before,” he said. Still, “it’s
too early to say that the labor market isn’t continuing to
progress,” he added to reporters.  Several Fed officials said the central bank should begin
slowing the pace of its asset purchase program later this year
and halt it entirely by year end, according to minutes of the
March 19-20 FOMC gathering.  Dudley and Evans today both signaled their support for the
Fed’s current approach, with the New York official calling the
existing pace “appropriate” and Evans saying monetary policy
was in “a pretty good place.”  “I’m going to be looking for payroll employment growth to
be comfortably above 200,000 per month for quite a number of
months,” Evans said. “I would not be surprised if we end up
doing this until late 2013, ultimately ending the program in
2014 at some point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Chicago  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Zumbrun in Staten Island at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  