-- First Solar Sees Mideast Renewable Power Accelerating From 2014
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-04-16T16:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/first-solar-sees-mideast-renewable-power-accelerating-from-2014.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the largest thin-
film panel manufacturer, sees “significant growth” in
renewable energy projects being developed in the  Middle East  and
North  Africa  by the end of 2014.  Solar power projects with planned cumulative capacity of
500 megawatts to 1,000 megawatts will be under development or
tendered by governments by then, Ahmed Nada, the Middle East
vice president for business development, said today in Dubai.
First Solar will seek to win some of those projects, he said.  “Any company of our size would aim to have a substantial
market share” of the power plants to be developed, he said.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa are
developing renewables to meet the growing energy demands of
burgeoning populations and economies. Adding clean-power
generators may help oil-rich nations in the region to conserve
more of their crude and gas for export.  Saudi Arabia  will be the region’s biggest market for solar
projects. The kingdom, the world’s largest crude exporter, plans
to add 800 megawatts of photovoltaic generation per year over
the next two decades, said Matt Merfert, First Solar’s director
of projects for the Middle East and Africa.  “Oil exporters have understood the opportunity cost of
using fossil fuels to generate subsidized electricity,” Nada
said. “Importers see the value in diversifying their energy
supplies and being able to reduce purchases of crude oil or
refined products, which are often more expensive.”  Abu Dhabi , the capital of the  United Arab Emirates , last
month started a 100-megawatt power plant using concentrated
solar power technology, making it the region’s largest. The
emirate is also developing a photovoltaic plant of the same
size. Saudi Arabia hasn’t yet tendered plants under its national
renewable energy plan and other regional states like  Kuwait  are
studying programs, Nada said.  First Solar is building a 13-megawatt photovoltaic plant in
Dubai, the U.A.E.’s second-largest emirate. The plant will be
complete by October and produce power at a cost of between 10
cents to 14 cents per kilowatt hour, Merfert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  