-- Florida Teachers Union Sues Over State Evaluation Law
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J o r d a n   S e x t o n
-- 2013-04-16T18:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/florida-teachers-union-sues-over-state-evaluation-law.html
Florida ’s largest teachers union
and its national affiliate sued the state seeking to overturn a
law that ties teacher salaries to job performance, measured in
part by standardized test scores.  The union, the Florida Education Association, and seven
Florida teachers alleged the 2011 law violates their due process
and equal protection rights under the U.S. Constitution because
their grades are based on the test results of students they
didn’t teach, according to a complaint filed today in
Gainesville federal court. The law also creates separate classes
of public school teachers by eliminating tenure for newly hired
teachers while maintaining tenure for older teachers, according
to the plaintiffs.  The law was supported by Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a
Republican who at the time said it would give “Florida the best
educated workforces to compete in the 21st century economy.”  John Tupps, a spokesman for Scott, also declined to
immediately comment on the complaint. Named as defendants in the
case are the Florida Board of Education and Florida Commissioner
of Education Tony Bennett. Cheryl Etters, a spokeswoman for the
board, also declined to immediately comment.  This is the second lawsuit the union has filed challenging
the law. In the first case, filed in state court in Tallahassee,
the union alleged the law violates teachers’ collective
bargaining rights and is unconstitutional. That case is pending.  Ratings  The law requires all school personnel to be evaluated
annually using a scale of highly effective, effective, needs
improvement or unsatisfactory. For classroom teachers, half of
the evaluation must be based on student learning gains. For
administrators, 40 percent of the evaluation must be based on
learning gains and for non-classroom personnel, 30 percent of
the evaluation is based on classroom gains.  The law is phased in over a three year-period and changes
to salaries based on the new performance guidelines become
effective July 1, 2014.  Some of the named plaintiffs in the suit teach orchestra,
art and  health sciences , which aren’t included in the
standardized tests, called the Florida Comprehensive Assessment
Test or the FCAT. Other plaintiffs teach core subject areas,
such as math, but either don’t teach the concepts that are
included in the FCAT because the math is advanced or don’t teach
the grades where math skills are tested.  Similar Bill  A similar bill passed the state legislature in 2010 but it
was vetoed by then-Governor  Charlie Crist , a Republican at the
time.  Tallahassee attorney Ron Meyer, an attorney for the union,
said the law is harming “solid professionals.”  The legislature is meeting in its annual 60 day session and
there have been bills filed to address some of the unions’
issues, Meyer said, adding that they aren’t gaining “any
momentum.”  “I hope this lawsuit will be a catalyst to some
legislative change,” he said.  The case is Kim Cook et al v.  Tony Bennett , Florida
Commissioner of Education, 13-cv-00072, U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of Florida (Gainesville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jordan Sexton in Tallahassee at   christinesextonwork@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  