-- Hollande Ministers Join French Electors in Shunning Stock Market
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-04-16T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/france-s-politicians-like-country-s-electors-shun-stock-market.html
When it comes to stocks, French
politicians mirror the population at large: they shun them.  The 38 members of the French cabinet this week were forced
to disclose their assets by President Francois Hollande, who is
seeking to overcome public anger over a minister who hid an
overseas bank account. The declarations reveal that while the
government has as many as eight millionaires, their investments
like those of their compatriots show a preference for real
estate, life insurance, and savings accounts.  “They seek security, and have an aversion to risk,” said
Nathalie Leaute, director of the finance department at pollster
TNS Sofres, which publishes an annual survey of how the French
invest their savings. “Members of the government are fairly
representative of the population as a whole.”  Only 12 percent of the French  own stocks  or equity funds,
down from 17 percent in 2010, according to a CSA poll in January
2013 that questioned 1,009 people. The poll showed that 74
percent had tax-free savings accounts, and 28 percent had life
insurance contracts.  Forty-three percent said that tax-free savings accounts are
the best investment, 42 percent said real estate, and only 5
percent said stocks.  In contrast, 45 percent of Americans and 43 percent of
Australians are invested in equity markets, according to a 2010
study by the Australian Stock Market. The proportion stands at
18 percent for Britain and 13 percent for  Germany .  ‘Evil’ Capitalism  The French unease with markets was evident during the
presidential election campaign last year. In a speech in
January, Hollande, the Socialist Party’s candidate, said his
“adversary is finance,” pledging to rein in markets.  Members of the government avoid stocks because financial
markets have a bad name, said Marc Fiorentino, a partner at
financial adviser Monfinancier in Paris.  “They’re afraid of the image that the stock market has with
the public,” he said. “No stock market investments. Not one.
As if it’s a crime. It’s as if the stock market is the
manifestation of the evil of Big Capital.”  Like the French in general, property accounted for the
biggest proportion on ministers’ assets.  French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault owns two houses
valued at 1.2 million euros ($1.6 million). Foreign Minister
Laurent Fabius has a 1.2 million-euro stake in a family
business. Interior Minister Manuel Valls has artworks by his
father worth 80,000 euros. Labor Minister Michel Sapin holds
farmland worth 590,000 euros. Government spokeswoman Najat
Vallaud-Belkacem has an Italian scooter she values at 500 euros.  Stocks Aversion  Only four members of the French government don’t own
lodging.  Fifty-eight percent of the French own their home, according
to state statistical institute Insee, which said 62 percent of
the assets of the French are in real estate  Prime Minister Ayrault declared a net worth of about 1.5
million euros, with no equity investment.  Sapin has three houses, one apartment, various rural
properties, and no equity investments.  Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici is worth just 240,000
euros, all of it in an apartment and bank accounts.  Foreign Minister Fabius has an apartment worth 2.75 million
euros in Paris, a stake in a family art dealership worth 1.2
million, and just 34,000 euros in mutual funds. He had no direct
investments in companies on the stock market.  The only other cabinet minister to declare assets linked to
the stock market was Transport Minister Frederic Cuvillier, who
said 22,000 euros of his 670,000-euro net worth in a Banque
Postale mutual fund.  U.S. Comparison  In contrast, most of the members of U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration have holdings in the markets.  Secretary of State John Kerry is worth about $240 million
and holds  direct stakes  in more than 100 companies, according to
Washington D.C.-based Center for Responsive Politics.  The center estimates Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew’s assets
at between $748,000 and $1.3 million, almost all of it in bond
and equity mutual funds and retirement accounts. He additionally
has $50,000-$100,000 in Israeli bonds.  Attorney General Eric Holder is worth at least $3.8 million,
mostly in U.S. government bonds but also some mutual funds,
according to the center. The $56 million in assets of Jeffrey Zients, director of The Office of Management and Budget is
mostly held in a mix of equity and bond investment funds.
Education Secretary Arne Duncan’s net worth of about $1.3
million, almost all in stock mutual funds.  The poorest cabinet member is Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood with a negative worth because of loans. Even he has
between $31,000 and $195,000 in equity mutual funds.  Less Comfortable  “Polls have shown that French investors are much less
comfortable than anglophones with stocks or any other
investments seen as risky,” said Leaute at TNS-Sofres. “They
don’t feel comfortable with  managing risk .”  The ministers’ wealth declarations are part of a series of
measures to “moralize politics” that Hollande announced after
former Budget Minister Jerome Cahuzac admitted April 2 that he’d
been lying for months about a secret Swiss bank account. The
account was first reported last December by an online newspaper,
and Cahuzac quit last month when he was placed under formal
investigation.  Members of parliament will also have to announce their
assets once Hollande’s measures become law. Hollande, elected 11
months ago and facing joblessness at a 15-year high, is the
least popular president ever so early in his term.  The poorest member of his cabinet is women’s affairs
minister and the government spokeswoman Vallaud-Belkacem, 35,
with 110,000 euros, including her 500 euro Piaggio scooter.  “I’m neither proud nor ashamed,” she said yesterday in an
RMC Radio interview. “It just is. We’ve all had different
careers and are at different stages in our life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  