-- Gensler-Wheatley Panel Aims to End Conflicts in Benchmark Rates
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-16T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/gensler-wheatley-seek-to-eliminate-conflicts-in-benchmark-rates.html
Regulators will seek to eliminate
conflicts that have led to manipulation of benchmark lending
rates while investigations into Libor continue around the world.  A panel led by U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman  Gary Gensler  and U.K. Financial Conduct Authority Chief
Executive Officer Martin Wheatley will issue a report as soon as
today with draft recommendations on how rates should be set and
what oversight regulators should have.  The panel is looking at how benchmarks can be strengthened
after an investigation by U.S. and U.K. regulators uncovered
widespread attempts by banks to manipulate the London interbank
offered rate.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG, and
Barclays Plc have been fined around $2.5 billion and at least a
dozen firms remain under investigation.  “There are hundreds of benchmarks with different features,
but a common issue with some of the indices not based on actual
transactions is the potential conflict of interest by the
administrator who represents the market players and submitters
themselves,” said Rosa Abrantes-Metz, an economist with New
York-based consulting firm Global Economics Group Inc. and a
professor at  New York  University’s Stern School of Business.
“Part of what the CFTC” and the FCA “are undertaking is to
try and make sure these conflicts are minimized.”  Overarching Principles  The International Organization of Securities Commissions,
which is issuing the report, will focus on overarching
principles rather than specific rules in the draft proposals,
according to two people familiar with the process who declined
to be named because the report hasn’t been published. After the
report is released, IOSCO will seek industry views on the plans
before issuing final standards this year.  Madrid-based IOSCO, which represents regulators in more
than 100 countries, responded to the interbank-rate scandal last
year by announcing the  task force , which is reviewing benchmarks
across different financial sectors.  Gensler has said that the challenge for regulators is how
to improve rates that rely on input from panel members and where
there isn’t an underlying market on which to base it.  Organizations in charge of setting benchmark rates should
seek to “verify the accuracy and plausibility” of the data
they receive from banks and other market participants, IOSCO
said in a paper in January. Current processes raise concerns
over “potential inaccuracy or manipulation.”  The recommendations will focus on the governance of data
submitters. IOSCO has previously said that allowing rate-setting
panels to select their own members may “give rise to conflicts
of interest.”  FSB Enforcement  Enforcement of the new rules may fall to another group of
global regulators at the Financial Stability Board, which was
created by the Group of 20 nations at the height of the
financial crisis in 2009. The FSB may conduct so-called peer
reviews to ensure nations have adequately adopted the IOSCO
principles.  “It will start to be a benchmark in its own right,” said
 Simon Morris , a regulatory lawyer at  CMS Cameron McKenna  in
London. “Any laggard jurisdiction may find itself getting a
poke in the ribs.”  Regulatory oversight of Libor was handed to Wheatley’s FCA
about six months after he proposed wide-ranging changes to the
benchmark  interest rate  in September. The so-called  Wheatley
Review  recommended scrapping more than 100 Libor rates tied to
currencies and maturities where there isn’t enough trading data
to set them properly and creating a code of conduct for lenders
contributing to the rate.  More Rates  The IOSCO proposals will extend to dozens more rates than
the Libor-style interest benchmarks that the Wheatley report was
limited to. Rates used as a reference for commodity spot and
futures prices as well as those underpinning the pricing of
 repurchase agreements  will fall under the latest report.  IOSCO in October asked companies involved in setting  price
levels  used in the oil market to adopt robust controls and to
protect the reliability of the benchmarks by introducing
conflict-of-interest policies, providing audit trails to
regulators and establishing a formal complaints process.  “IOSCO will be looking much more at criteria for setting
standards for setting benchmark regulation,” Morris said.
“It’ll be them saying, we think that when you set about
regulating benchmarks or benchmark providers, these are the
kinds of principles you should bear in mind.”  Examples of specific benchmarks other than interbank
lending rates include the Overnight Index Swap and ISDAfix rates
used in derivatives markets.  ISDAfix Probe  The CFTC has started a probe of possible ISDAfix
manipulation, sending subpoenas to current and former brokers at
ICAP Plc’s rates-swap desk in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , as well
as to the International Swaps & Derivatives Association and as
many as 15 Wall Street dealers,  Bloomberg News  reported April 8.  The ISDAfix probe is only the latest of dozens of
investigations into benchmark rates such as Libor and Euribor
around the world.  Authorities in  Japan ,  Switzerland ,  Canada ,  Hong Kong ,
 Singapore , and the European Union are also investigating how
derivatives traders worked together to rig rates in order to
benefit their own trades, in some instances paying bribes to
brokers for their help influencing rate submissions from other
banks.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  and the U.K. Serious Fraud
Office are conducting criminal investigations that have resulted
in three arrests and charges against two former UBS bankers in
America.  While fines have been levied against UBS, RBS and Barclays,
politicians are still saying tougher punishments should be meted
out.  “I would be most surprised if we don’t see charges brought
and if at some point see someone serve a custodial sentence,”
Chuka Umunna, a Labour opposition member of the U.K. Parliament,
said in a speech in  London  yesterday. “We need to see strong
action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  