-- ZEW April Investor Confidence Dropped More Than Forecast
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-04-16T10:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/german-investor-confidence-dropped-more-than-forecast-in-april.html
German investor confidence declined
more than economists forecast in April, suggesting the recovery
in  Europe ’s largest economy may struggle to gain momentum.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, fell to
36.3 from a three-year high of 48.5 in March. It was the first
drop in five months. Economists forecast a retreat to 41,
according to the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Business sentiment weakened in March amid renewed concerns
about the sovereign debt crisis and the recession in the euro
area, Germany’s largest export market. Still, the German economy
probably returned to growth in the first quarter after shrinking
0.6 percent in the final three months of 2012.  “I wouldn’t see this as a turnaround, but it does raise
doubts about the strength of the economy,” said ZEW President
Clemens Fuest. “It’s another piece of evidence that euro-area
weakness is affecting  Germany .”  ZEW’s gauge of the current situation slipped to 9.2 from
13.6 in March. Economists had predicted an increase to 14.  Market Reaction  The euro dropped after the report before recovering to
trade at $1.3079 at 11:49 a.m. in  Frankfurt , up 0.3 percent
today. Europe’s benchmark  Stoxx 600 index  fell 0.5 percent to
288.93, while the yield on Germany’s benchmark 10-year bond rose
2 basis points to 1.26 percent.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said on April 13 he
doesn’t “share the pessimism over the German economic outlook”
and sees no need to revise his institution’s forecasts.  The Frankfurt-based Bundesbank predicts German gross
domestic product will grow 0.4 percent this year. By contrast,
the European Central Bank forecasts that euro-area GDP will
contract 0.5 percent.  A gauge of German manufacturing output unexpectedly showed
contraction in March, unemployment increased, and the benchmark
 DAX share index  has declined more than 4 percent in the past
month. At the same time, factory orders rebounded in February
and retail sales rose for a second month.  “The data haven’t been overwhelming, but much speaks for
the fact that the German economy has passed the trough,” said
Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover. “Growth wasn’t
super strong in the first quarter but it will stabilize in the
course of the year.”  Sales Decline  Sales at  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest maker of
auto parts, fell more than anticipated in the first quarter and
operating profit declined from a year earlier, spokeswoman  Antje Lewe  said yesterday.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , will update its targets for 2013 when it reports
first-quarter earnings later this month after many auto markets
started the year weaker than expected.  Since the beginning of the year, demand “has fallen more
sharply than expected and we don’t anticipate much tailwind in
the coming months either,” Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said on April 10.  Euro-area inflation slowed to 1.7 percent in March from 1.8
percent in February amid record unemployment and recession.  U.K. Inflation  Elsewhere in Europe, U.K. inflation was unchanged in March
at 2.8 percent, extending its run above the Bank of England’s
target and maintaining a squeeze on consumers. Factory-gate
prices rose 0.3 percent from February and were up 2 percent from
a year earlier.  In  Asia ,  South Korea  unveiled a 17.3 trillion won ($15.4
billion) supplementary budget to support exporters. The  Reserve
Bank  of Australia said the inflation outlook gives it room to
reduce borrowing costs to a record low even as earlier rate cuts
boost demand.  Sri Lanka  kept  interest rates  unchanged for a
fourth month.  U.S. industrial production probably rose in March while
core consumer prices were unchanged from a month earlier, two
separate Bloomberg surveys showed. Data may show builders in
March began work on the second-highest number of U.S. homes in
almost five years.  “In the first four months of the year, we’ve hit every
stumbling bloc on the way to a recovery” in Germany, said
 Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “But
I’m rather relaxed. We’re not ringing in another slump.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  