-- Germany’s Concerns About a Banking Union Lack Credibility
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-16T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/germany-s-concerns-about-a-banking-union-lack-credibility.html
Germany  is  hitting the brakes  on a
banking union crucial to the long-term survival of the euro, on
the grounds that it needs a better legal foundation. That
position would be a lot more convincing if Germany were doing
more to reduce the threat its largest financial institutions
pose to the European economy.  The banking union, which European Union leaders agreed in
December to create, is supposed to help sever the unhealthy link
between banks and governments. Empowering the  European Central
Bank  to supervise financial institutions throughout the euro
area could discourage cozy and often corrupt relations at the
national level between banks and politicians. Centralizing the
authority and money needed to take over and recapitalize banks
could keep the troubles of large banks from ruining a nation’s
finances -- an all-too-real danger for euro countries such as
Ireland and  Spain .  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  threw this
project into doubt last week, saying that a proper banking union
would require time-consuming changes in the European Union’s
founding treaties -- changes that the European Commission, the
treaties’ official guardian, has said are unnecessary. A
charitable explanation would be that Schaeuble is being too much
of a stickler for detail. A less-charitable  analysis  is that
Germany is balking at ceding power to oversee its banks to a
supranational authority and on sharing the costs of healing the
euro-area economy.  Potential Threat  Germany’s concerns might be defensible if it were doing a
better job of supervising its banking system. German officials,
for example, have resisted EU demands to dismantle failed
regional banks known as Landesbanken. More troubling is the
potential threat presented by Deutsche Bank AG, the largest bank
in the euro area, with assets of 2 trillion euros ($2.6
trillion). The bank’s tangible equity -- the bedrock layer of
capital -- is so thin that a mere 2 percent decline in the value
of its assets could render it insolvent.  A genuine danger of a banking union is that it could
encourage institutions such as Deutsche Bank to get even larger.
The more havoc their failure would wreak, the more certain they
could be that the banking authority would be forced to bail out
their creditors at the expense of euro-area taxpayers. The best
solution is to require banks to finance their activities with
much more equity from shareholders, who would be first in line
to absorb any losses. Germany has instead focused on making
creditors share losses, a generally good idea that becomes
implausible in the case of an institution as large and globally
interconnected as Deutsche Bank.  In short, one can’t help but wonder whether Germany is less
concerned about the banking union’s effectiveness than about
what a truly effective banking union would mean for its largest
financial institution. Any sensible regulator would demand that
institutions such as Deutsche Bank raise large amounts of
equity, a move that -- while good for the health of the
financial system and economy -- would adversely affect certain
measures of profitability. In turn, that could strengthen calls
to break up giant banks into smaller, more manageable units.  As Bloomberg News reports,  Europe ’s leaders are planning to
congratulate themselves on their  crisis management  at this
week’s meeting of the Group of 20 developed and developing
nations. Yet judging from the state of their banking union, they
have a lot of work to do. We hope other nations’ finance
ministers will remind Germany that, as Europe’s self-appointed
voice of prudence, it should be leading the way instead of
finding reasons to stall.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 