-- Ghana Pursues Kosmos, Rlg to Go Public on World’s Best Index
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-04-16T16:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/ghana-pursues-kosmos-rlg-to-list-shares-on-world-s-best-index.html
The Ghana Stock Exchange, the
world’s best-performing bourse this year, is pursuing companies
including  Kosmos Energy Ltd. (KOS)  to list shares in a bid to boost
trading and sustain the growth.  State-owned alcoholic beverage producer Gihoc Distilleries
Co. and Rlg Communications Ltd., an Accra-based maker of
computers and mobile phones, are among the companies the bourse
wants to go public, Managing Director Kofi Yamoah told reporters
and brokers today.  No stocks have listed since  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , which pumps
crude at the Jubilee oil field, started trading in July 2011.
Kosmos, which also has a stake in Jubilee, delayed a plan to
offer shares in West Africa’s second-biggest economy last year
and a move to sell the government’s stake in Agricultural
Development Bank Ltd. was put on hold before a December
election.  “Rlg wanted to list last year, but later decided to put it
on hold,” Yamoah said. “Now that the elections are behind us
we will pursue them about the chances of revisiting it.”  The Ghana Stock Exchange  Composite Index (GGSECI)  has gained 48
percent this year. The gauge added 0.1 percent to 1770.64 by the
close today.  Agricultural Development Bank may get government approval
this year for its listing, while an insurance company that
Yamoah declined to identify also has plans to sell shares this
year, he said.  IFC Bonds  Exchange officials are also looking to bonds as a way to
boost buying opportunities on the market, which has no corporate
debt listings currently and only some two-, three- and five-year
government securities.  The World Bank’s International Finance Corp. has obtained
regulatory approval to list cedi-denominated bonds, which are
targeted at financing Ghanaian projects and companies, Yamoah
said. The IFC bonds will have a minimum duration of three months
and will be sold in series when there are projects to finance,
he said.  The IFC debt will help pull extra cedis from the local
market and shore up the currency, which has depreciated 2.1
percent this year against the dollar, following a 14 percent
drop in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I expect the securities to be priced to government bills
and bonds and for that matter to bring about some competition in
the bills and bonds market in  Ghana ,” Sadiq Abubakar, a bond
trader at Accra-based International Commercial Bank Ltd., said
by phone. The yields on Ghana’s  three-month  Treasury bills eased
less than one basis point to 22.98 percent at the last auction
on April 12.  The IFC sold bonds in Nigeria in February, raising 12
billion naira ($80 million) at a yield of 10.2 percent with
maturity in February 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  