-- Glencore-Xstrata Deal Nears Completion on China Approval
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-04-16T18:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/glencore-xstrata-deal-nears-completion-on-china-approval.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, said it expects to
close the $30 billion takeover of  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  next month after
agreeing with Chinese regulators to sell a Peru copper mine.  The Ministry of Commerce in Beijing yesterday approved the
deal, provided the new company disposes of the Las Bambas mine,
according to a statement on the ministry’s website. BMO Capital
Markets values the asset at $6.5 billion, while Liberum Capital
Ltd. estimates it is worth $4.4 billion.  China’s signoff removes the last obstacle to completing the
14-month-old acquisition. Glencore’s largest shareholder and
Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg is poised to create the
fourth-biggest mining company by adding coal, copper, nickel and
zinc mines to a commodities trading empire. He will run the
combined group from its inception, after Xstrata’s Mick Davis
yesterday dropped a plan to do the job for six months.  “This seems to me another master-class of Ivan
demonstrating why he’s smarter than everybody else,” Paul Gait,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said by phone. “At
the bare minimum, he breaks even on the capex that Xstrata have
already sunk on Las Bambas which is arguably already baked into
the Xstrata share price.”  Xstrata is building the Las Bambas mine at a cost of $5.2
billion, the Zug, Switzerland-based company said in January. The
site is expected to produce 400,000 tons of copper a year
starting 2015 for at least the first five years. Xstrata has
spent about $2 billion at the site so far, Liberum analyst Ash Lazenby estimates.  China Scrutiny  China’s scrutiny of the takeover had focused on the
combined entity’s influence within the copper market, Glasenberg
said last month. Glencore Xstrata Plc will be the world’s third-
biggest producer of mined copper.  The concession required by China “is going to be seen as a
clear positive for the company and it’s a task that’s very
achievable,”  Jeff Largey , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
 London , said by phone. “There’s probably a lot of companies out
there who could be interested in buying that asset.”  The agreement with China requires Glencore to pursue the
sale of Las Bambas to a buyer approved by MOFCOM by Sept. 30
next year. The sale price will be the higher of two scenarios --
either an evaluation by two independent investment banks, or the
total of all costs incurred by Glencore and Xstrata at the
project, Glencore said.  Potential Buyers  “MOFCOM have to approve the buyer, so it’s got to be a
Chinese state-owned player,” Bernstein’s Gait said. Aluminum
Corp. of  China  Ltd. and China Minmetals Corp. may be interested
in the mine, he said.  Should Glencore fail to sell the project, it is required to
auction its interest in one of four projects -- Tampakan, Frieda
River, El Pachon or Alumbrera -- within three months of Oct. 1,
2014, according to China’s conditions.  Glencore rose 1.3 percent to close at 325.10 pence in
London trading yesterday. Xstrata gained 2 percent to 986 pence.
The takeover is scheduled to be completed by May 2, with the new
shares trading the following day.  Davis, 55, will be paid 4.63 million pounds ($7.1 million)
after terminating an October agreement to be CEO of the combined
group for six months, Glencore said. He will act as a consultant
to the group until June 30, and be entitled to 30 hours of
private use of an Xstrata aircraft in lieu of a consultancy fee,
Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore said.  Departing Executives  Senior Xstrata executives including  Charlie Sartain , head
of copper, nickel chief Ian Pearce and Loutjie Smit, interim CEO
of Xstrata alloys, will leave the company once the deal is
completed. Strategy and corporate affairs head Thras Moraitis
and chief legal counsel Benny Levene will also depart after
acting as consultants for six months, Xstrata said.  “With the majority of the Xstrata executive committee now
departing, it leaves the new company with a potentially
difficult task of managing a number of complex projects and
operations without the existing divisional heads,” BMO Capital
Markets analyst  Tony Robson  said in a note to clients.  Xstrata Chief Financial Officer Trevor Reid said in
December he won’t stay on at the combined company, while
Chairman John Bond said in November he won’t take on the role at
the new group as originally envisaged. Glencore is yet to name
Bond’s replacement.  Glencore undertook to supply China with set amounts of
copper, zinc and lead concentrate for 8 years starting Jan. 1
this year.  Zinc Accord  Glencore separately agreed to pay  Nyrstar (NYR)  NV 44.9 million
euros ($55.9 million) to end the commodity trader’s accord to
sell Nyrstar’s zinc in Europe. Balen, Belgium-based Nyrstar said
it will use the funds to buy Glencore’s stake in the company, a
figure equating to 3.39 euros a share.  Billionaire Glasenberg owns about 16 percent of Glencore.
He has been CEO since 2002 and worked for the company for 28
years. The takeover comes less than two years after he steered
the group through a $10 billion initial public offering that
ended more than three decades of operating as a closely held
company.  The combined group will be the world’s largest zinc miner
and the biggest exporter of power-station coal. Revenue this
year will be about $250 billion, Bernstein’s Gait estimates.  The company will have about 11 percent of the 13 million-
metric-ton global zinc market and about 40 percent of the 1.9
million tons of the metal produced in  Europe , and employ 130,000
people worldwide.  It will have interests in about 35 coal mines in Colombia,
Africa and  Australia , and make up about 10 percent of global
seaborne exports of the fuel.  Glencore has been advised by Citigroup Inc. and Morgan
Stanley on the deal. Xstrata hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank
International Plc. Lazard & Co. advised Qatar Holding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  