-- GM Vehicle Sales Rise 3.6% to Retain Lead Over Volkswagen
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-04-17T00:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/gm-vehicle-sales-rise-3-6-to-retain-lead-over-volkswagen.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , armed with its
best vehicles in a generation, reported a 3.6 percent increase
in global sales during the first quarter, keeping its lead over
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  by about 90,000 vehicles.  Chevrolet  sales in the U.S. and Buick demand in China
helped GM deliver 2.36 million cars and trucks in the first
three months of 2013, the Detroit-based company said yesterday
in an e-mail. VW said April 12 that sales during the period rose
5.1 percent to 2.27 million.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which outsold
both companies last year, hasn’t reported global delivery
figures yet.  “Our goal is not to be just No. 1 on a sales basis,” Dan Ammann, GM chief financial officer, said yesterday during an
interview for a taping of “Autoline This Week.” “Our goal is
to be profitable in every segment in which we operate around the
world.”  GM faces increased pressure to maintain its standing as the
world’s second-best selling automaker ahead of VW. Toyota retook
the lead position from GM last year as the Toyota City, Japan-
based company recovered from natural disasters in Asia in 2011.  Volkswagen, based in Wolfsburg,  Germany , reported a 5.9
percent sales decline in  Europe  that was offset by gains in the
U.S. and China. The company, with brands including Audi and
Porsche, said its U.S. sales rose 15 percent to 142,800 and
China deliveries increased 21 percent to 633,900.  Global Brands  “This is Chevrolet’s 10th consecutive record-breaking
quarter of global sales,”  Mark Reuss , president of GM’s North
American operations, said yesterday in Detroit in advance of the
SAE World Congress, an auto-engineering conference, at an
industry breakfast held by Dawda Mann, a Bloomfield Hills,
Michigan-based law firm. “Chevrolet is, in fact, being
reborn.”  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is pushing to refocus
GM’s efforts around two global brands, Chevrolet and Cadillac,
as the company competes with VW and Toyota for worldwide scale.  Toyota, which introduced 19 new or refreshed vehicles in
the U.S. last year, regained the sales lead from GM in 2012,
selling 9.75 million vehicles. GM sold 9.29 million vehicles
last year, more than half in its two largest markets: 2.6
million in the U.S. and 2.84 million in  China .  The U.S. automaker finished No. 2 last year, outselling VW
by more than 200,000 deliveries. VW aims to become the world’s
biggest by 2018.  GM’s first-quarter sales in the U.S. rose 9.3 percent to
664,963 and GM in China gained 9.6 percent to 816,373, the
company previously said. China sales include deliveries with its
joint-venture partners.  New Models  As head of GM’s North American operations, Reuss is
overseeing GM’s effort to bring out about 20 new vehicles in the
U.S. this year after its shares of the home market slipped to an
88-year-low in 2012. The Impala full-sized sedan is arriving in
showrooms this month and will be followed by a redesigned
Silverado pickup.  The company’s revamped Corvette has also been garnering
attention after it was revealed in January in  Detroit . An early
review by Motor Trend in its March 2013 issue said the new
Corvette “has it where it counts,” noting that “the radical
new bodywork is jet-inspired and race-tested” while the
interior has been improved with a cabin that’s been “bathed in
soft-touch materials.”  Mid-Size Pickups  Reuss told reporters that new Chevrolet and GMC mid-size
pickups would be revealed this year and go on sale in the U.S.
in 2014. GM hasn’t decided yet whether it will use the old
Chevrolet Colorado and GMC Canyon names, he said.  The Chevy version will be aimed at taking on the Toyota
Tacoma and the GMC version will achieve 95 percent of the duty-
cycle of a bigger Sierra full-sized pickup with better fuel
efficiency, Reuss told the audience during his presentation.  “We’re going to really target different buyers with these
two trucks” than who buys the full-sized pickups, he told
reporters. “We’d love to have a truck like a Chevrolet mid-
sized truck to go really attract the West Coast with a lifestyle
truck that is really beautiful and fun.”  GM gained 1.9 percent to $29.47 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 2.2 percent  this year , trailing the S&P
500 Index’s 10 percent rise. VW has dropped 14 percent, while
Toyota, aided by the weakening yen, soared 36 percent.  Ammann’s interview on “Autoline This Week” will be
broadcast beginning May 17 on PBS stations or at
 www.autoline.tv .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  