-- Gold Fall an Opportunity for Central Banks to Buy, Cabraal Says
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2013-04-16T05:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/gold-fall-an-opportunity-for-central-banks-to-buy-cabraal-says.html
Falling gold prices amid the worst
selloff in more than three decades provide an opportunity for
monetary authorities to increase their holding of the metal,
Central Bank of Sri Lanka Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said.  The South Asian island will also be examining “quite
favorably” the opportunity to purchase more gold to bolster its
foreign-exchange reserves, Cabraal said today in an interview
with  Rishaad Salamat  on Bloomberg Television.  “Overall, gold prices coming down is giving an opportunity
to various central banks across the world to improve on their
holdings,” Cabraal said. “An opportunity that provides us with
space to purchase a little more quantities and hold in our own
reserves would be an interesting one.”  Slowing economic  growth  in  China , Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s recommendation to sell gold and speculation the U.S.
Federal Reserve will taper off its bond-buying program have
contributed to a tumble in commodities. Gold has dropped 19
percent since the end of December after rising for 12 years, and
plunged 9.1 percent yesterday, the biggest loss since 1983.  The  Bank of Korea  today said price moves in the short term
are an “unavoidable risk” and the gold price drop is “not a
big concern,” as its holdings are part of its long-term
strategy for asset diversification.  Increased imports of gold could add some pressure on  Sri
Lanka ’s balance of payments, which the central bank would be
“watching closely,” said Cabraal, after leaving benchmark
 interest rates  unchanged for a fourth month to support economic
growth and contain  inflation . The central bank raised borrowing
costs in February and April last year and let the rupee weaken
to tackle a trade deficit that pressured currency reserves.  “Sri Lanka as a community is interested in holding gold
stock,” Cabraal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  