-- Gold Dive ‘Extremely Concerning,’ S. Africa’s Marcus Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-04-16T12:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/gold-plunge-extremely-concerning-marcus-says.html
The biggest drop in  gold prices 
since 1983 is “extremely concerning” and reflects the
uncertain outlook for the global economy, South African  Reserve
Bank  Governor Gill Marcus said.  The central bank will continue to accumulate bullion as
part of its reserves and won’t adjust its policy, Marcus told
reporters in Cape Town today. Gold dropped 14 percent in the two
days through yesterday.  The decline is “a reflection of the uncertainty in the
global environment,” she said.  The central bank has been buying foreign currency and gold
reserves to protect against swings in the rand, the most
volatile of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
world’s central banks hold about 19 percent of all bullion ever
mined and boosted holdings of the metal last year by the most
since 1964.  South  Africa ’s gold and foreign currency reserves dropped
0.7 percent to $50 billion in March, according to the Reserve
Bank. Gold holdings rose 0.8 percent from a month earlier to
$6.45 billion.  “We already hold a significant level of gold in our
reserves and would continue to do so,” Marcus said. “We have
been a country that encourages gold as part of reserve holdings.
It’s been quite volatile. It’s certainly very significantly
higher than it was a few years ago, even at these levels.”  Labor Unrest  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and Sibanye Gold Ltd. have
operations in South Africa, the world’s fifth-biggest gold
producer. Even before metal prices slumped, mining companies in
the country had to contend with months of labor unrest and
rising wage and electricity costs.  “Our mining sector is under pressure, there is no
question,” Marcus said. “The big factor has been the labor
relations over the last few months.”  The mine disruptions have weighed on growth in Africa’s
largest economy and undermined government efforts to cut a 25
percent  unemployment  rate. The central bank last month kept
 interest rates  at their lowest level in more than 30 years to
buoy  consumer spending , even as a weaker rand caused inflation
to accelerate to near the top of its 3 percent to 6 percent
target band.  The inflation rate climbed to 6 percent in March, according
to the median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Statistics  South Africa  is scheduled to release the data
tomorrow.  Weaker Rand  “You’ve got slowing growth and rising  inflation ,” Marcus
said. “It’s not a place you want to be in. The challenge for us
is how do we improve growth and how do we look at containing
inflation in a better way. At the moment, you are affected by a
depreciating currency.”  The rand has slumped 7.4 percent against the dollar this
year, the second-worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. It gained 0.6 percent to 9.1456 per dollar at 2:30
p.m. in Johannesburg, after weakening 2.9 percent yesterday.  “The rand tends to trace back,” Marcus said. “A lot of
this is related to global issues, not just domestic issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  