-- Goldman’s Pay Pool Shrinks 1% in First Quarter After Job Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-04-16T11:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/goldman-s-pay-pool-shrinks-1-in-first-quarter-after-job-cuts.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  set aside
$4.34 billion to pay employees in the first quarter, about 1
percent less than a year earlier, as the firm employed 400 fewer
people.  The compensation expense was equal 43 percent of revenue,
down from 44 percent in the first quarter of 2012, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. The sum, which covers
salaries, benefits and accruals for year-end bonuses, is enough
to give each of the bank’s 32,000 employees $135,594 for the
first three months of the year.  Wall Street firms including Goldman Sachs, the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, are cutting costs and jobs to
improve shareholder returns. The company, led by Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 58, has trimmed compensation
expenses by more than a third in the five years through 2012,
while revenue fell 26 percent.  The stock  climbed 41 percent  last year, showing that
shareholders were “relatively happy” with the firm’s
compensation decisions in 2012, President Gary Cohn said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in January.  “You’ll never get it perfect, but I think we got it
right,” said Cohn, 52. “Relative to the competitive landscape
that we operate in, our people got paid relatively fairly,
relative to the contribution they made to the firm and to our
share price.”  Compensation at New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
corporate and investment bank fell 7 percent to $3.4 billion in
the first quarter, amounting to about 34 percent of revenue,
according to figures posted on the lender’s website last week.  Wall Street firms typically set aside a portion of revenue
throughout the year for bonuses, enabling companies to adjust
pay in line with performance. Average pay is derived by dividing
total compensation and benefits by the number of employees and
doesn’t represent what workers actually receive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  