-- Google Outlines Web Glasses Specification Ahead of Sales
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/google-details-web-glasses-specification.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  released technical
specifications for its Glass wearable computing device,
encouraging software developers to create applications for the
Web-enabled spectacles as they get closer to mainstream sales.  Google, which is stepping up its challenge to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and other smartphone makers, said Glass devices will feature
about a day of battery life, a high-resolution display and a
five megapixel camera, according to a  statement  on its website.
The digital eyeglasses feature voice-recognition technology,
avoiding the need for keyboards.  Google is betting that it can convince consumers to adopt a
wearable computer offering some of the same capabilities as a
smartphone. Glass may compete against a wristwatch-like device
being developed by Apple that may perform some of the tasks now
handled by the iPhone and iPad. Apple has a team of about 100
product designers working on its device, two people familiar
with the plans said in February.  “Google Glass has a great opportunity to make a solid
first impression,” said  Brian Blau , an analyst with Gartner
Inc. “They’re definitely making progress.”  The ability of Google Glass to respond to voice commands
opens up a big opportunity for developers and hardware partners
to create new software and services, Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said yesterday at an AllThingsD conference in  New York .  “I always thought I’d be typing for the rest of my life,”
Schmidt said.  Early Adopters  By encouraging early developers to examine Glass, Google is
incubating a software ecosystem similar to those that now exist
for Android and Apple’s iOS. As of January, Apple had more than
800,000 apps on its store, while Google had more than 700,000.
The digital eyeglasses will communicate with smartphones via
Bluetooth wireless capability and an application called MyGlass
that runs on newer versions of Android, Google said.  Google Glass, which is in use by a limited number of early
adopters, will be available later this year and cost less than
$1,500, Google co-founder  Sergey Brin  said at an event earlier
this year. Brin, in making his pitch for the devices, described
smartphones as “emasculating.”  Google plans to make digital eyeglasses in the U.S. with
Foxconn Technology Group, a person familiar with the plans said
last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  