-- Google-EU Deal Wouldn’t Target Global Solution, Almunia Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-17T11:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/google-eu-deal-wouldn-t-target-global-solution-almunia-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s competitors,
clamoring for the European Union to press the search company to
make global changes, face disappointment after the bloc’s
antitrust chief said any settlement would focus on  Europe .  While confined to Google’s competition issues there, any
accord to end the EU’s antitrust probe that started in 2010 must
stand the test of time and be impossible to circumvent,  Joaquin Almunia  said. Google this month submitted an offer to the
Brussels-based European Commission that would create more
distinction in Internet searches between its own services and
those of its competitors, according to a person familiar with
the talks.  “The U.S. and the EU have different systems and, on top of
that, Google has a very different market position in the U.S.,
where its competitors have a market share of around 30
percent,” Almunia said in response to written questions. “In
Europe, Google’s market share is more than 90 percent.”  Rivals, such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , want the EU to extract
changes after the U.S. closed a 20-month investigation into
whether  Mountain View , California-based Google unfairly promoted
its own services in search results. The Federal Trade Commission
in January concluded that Google was motivated more by wanting
to improve its search results than by a desire to stifle
competition.  ‘Ineffective’ Remedy  Although the EU commission’s jurisdiction is limited to the
European Economic Area, it can order remedies that reach beyond
Europe if the disputed conduct has an anti-competitive effect
within the region,  Thomas Vinje , a Brussels lawyer for the
FairSearch Coalition, a group of technology companies including
Microsoft,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  The EEA encompasses the
27-nation EU plus Iceland,  Norway  and  Liechtenstein .  “One can argue that an effective remedy here must be
global because a remedy limited to Europe would be ineffective
in eliminating the anti-competitive effects of Google’s conduct
in Europe,” Vinje said by e-mail.  “I believe Google actually could territorially limit its
compliance,” said Vinje. “It -- or its systems -- usually know
where a search result is being served, and it can limit the
serving of remedy-compliant results to those delivered in the
EEA.”  The company “continues to work cooperatively with the
European Commission,” said Al Verney, a Brussels-based
spokesman for Google.  Justice Department  Assistant Attorney General  William Baer , the head of the
U.S.  Justice Department ’s antitrust division, said yesterday at
a Senate hearing he didn’t rule out the department starting
another probe of Google’s business practices if new allegations
emerge. The antitrust division and the FTC have split
investigations of Google for the past two years.  In the EU, Almunia has urged Google to address four points,
including allegations that the company promotes its own
specialist search services, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant
reviews, and has agreements with websites and software
developers that stifle competition in the advertising industry.  The EU commissioner said he’s preparing to seek responses
to Google’s recently submitted remedies from rivals and
consumers. This so-called market test “should happen shortly”
and will provide “extremely valuable” information, he said.  Google’s Proposals  “In our analysis of Google’s proposals we will look very
carefully at the opinions expressed during the market test,
including of course the opinions of the complainants,” said
Almunia. “The market players are well placed to know what
possible solutions to our concerns could work in practice and
what cannot work, so their opinion will be extremely helpful.  “Therefore, we are not yet at the end of the process, but
at the beginning of a new stage in our investigation,” said
Almunia.  Early indications are that Google’s offer may draw
criticism from its competitors once it is circulated for comment
and published in the EU’s Official Journal.  “If what has been proposed is labeling or a modified form
of labeling, frankly that’s a non-starter,” David Wood, a
lawyer for Brussels-based industry group ICOMP, which includes
Microsoft and and Foundem, said on April 15. “We haven’t seen
the proposals and the commission hasn’t explained them to us.
We’re in the dark.” he said.  Almunia said he hopes a settlement will be possible to
allow for “quick solutions to the competition problems we have
identified.”  “On the other hand, as I have always said, if such an
outcome is not possible I will decide to go back to the normal
antitrust procedure,” he said in his e-mailed response.  “Don’t worry, our Google investigation continues,”
Almunia said on his Twitter account yesterday, in answer to a
user that suggested he had let the company off the hook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  