-- GranBio Buys Into American Process, Plans Brazil Chemical Plant
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-04-16T20:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/granbio-buys-into-american-process-plans-brazil-chemical-plant.html
GranBio Investimentos SA, a
Brazilian cellulosic-ethanol maker, bought 25 percent of
technology developer American Process Inc. and will use its
equipment to turn sugar-cane residues into chemicals.  The company will install the technology at a new plant it
expects to start construction on next year and have operating in
2015, Bernardo Gradin, chief executive officer of Sao Paulo-
based GranBio Investimentos, said today in a telephone
interview. He didn’t disclose the value of the share purchase or
the capacity of the new plant.  Granbio plans to produce so-called specialty chemicals that
may be used in paints or lubricants and sell them at more than
five times the price of ethanol, which is typically produced
from cane juice in  Brazil . The company plans to build the
nation’s first large-scale ethanol plant that will also run on
cane waste.  “These chemicals may sell for anything in between $2,500
to $4,000 a ton compared to $700 for ethanol,” Gradin said.
“The investment though is much more than that required for a
cellulosic-ethanol plant.”  The chemical plant may be built in the states of Sao Paulo,
Bahia, Minas Gerais or Alagoas, where it plans to build its 82
million-liter (21.6 million-gallon) a year cellulosic-ethanol
facility, he said. The company intends to build one new chemical
plant for every new three ethanol-fuel plants.  GranBio Investimentos is 85 percent owned by
GranInvestimentos, a holding company for the Gradin family, he
said. The investment arm of national development bank Banco
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social owns the
remainder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  