-- Tiger Woods Listed as Oddsmakers’ Heavy Favorite for U.S. Open
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-16T04:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/tiger-woods-listed-as-oddsmakers-heavy-favorite-for-u-s-open.html
Tiger Woods is the 5-1 favorite of
Las Vegas oddsmakers to end a five-year major championship
drought at golf’s U.S. Open after tying for fourth place at the
Masters Tournament two days ago.  Woods, 37, finished 5-under par at Augusta National Golf
Club, four shots behind winner Adam Scott, after entering the
season’s first major as the favorite.  Woods’s Masters appearance may be remembered most for a
two-stroke penalty for a rules violation that may have damaged
his golfing integrity.  The controversy hasn’t impacted how Woods is regarded among
oddsmakers, who make him the heavy favorite to win a fourth U.S.
Open title at this year’s tournament, which is scheduled for
June 13-16 at Merion Golf Club in Ardmore,  Pennsylvania . Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland is the second-favorite at 10-1,
followed by Lee Westwood of  England  at 20-1, according to the
Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book.  “I had my opportunities to finish with some good
numbers,” Woods said after the Masters. “I played the way I’ve
been playing all year, and that’s a good sign.”  Woods has won three of his seven starts this season, though
he’s winless in the sport’s four major championships since the
2008 U.S. Open at Torrey Pines outside San Diego. Woods remains
four majors shy of Jack Nicklaus’s record.  Scott, after becoming the first Australian to win in the
77-year history of the Masters, has 25-1 odds of adding a second
major title at the U.S. Open. Also at 25-1 are Phil Mickelson
and Brandt Snedeker of the U.S., and Englishman Justin Rose.  Single Shot  Woods’s chances of winning a fifth Masters title may have
been derailed by a single shot during the second round, as his
third shot at the par-5 15th hole caromed backward off the flag
stick and into a pond in front of the green. It turned a
potential birdie into a bogey and Woods was later assessed a
two-stroke penalty by the rules committee after he said in a
televised interview that he intentionally dropped his ball two
yards behind the original location.  While the committee cleared Woods of any wrongdoing, many
questioned why he didn’t withdraw for the rules violation. Woods
said he never considered it.  Woods hasn’t said which tournaments he’ll enter before the
U.S. Open, though last year he played in the  Wells Fargo (WFC) 
Championship, the Players Championship and the Memorial
Tournament ahead of the season’s second major. This year’s Wells
Fargo Championship is scheduled for May 2-5 in  Charlotte , North
Carolina, followed by the Players Championship the next week in
Ponte Vedra Beach,  Florida . The Memorial Tournament is May 30 to
June 2 in Dublin,  Ohio , two weeks before the U.S. Open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  