-- Milk Powder Prices Rise at Slower Pace on Signs Drought May Ease
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-16T20:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/milk-powder-prices-rise-at-slower-pace-on-signs-drought-may-ease.html
Whole milk powder climbed at a
slower pace amid signs that New Zealand’s most widespread
drought in at least 30 years may ease, according to  Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG)   Powder for June delivery gained 4.4 percent, according to a
trade-weighted index on the company’s  GlobalDairyTrade  website.
Prices rose 13 percent at the April 2 auction and 23 percent on
March 19. The near-term contract for New Zealand product rose to
a record $6,283 a metric ton. The previous record was $5,998 on
April 2.  Prices have surged 93 percent since Jan.16 as a drought
declared across the entire  North Island  including Waikato
province, the country’s biggest milk producer, curbed milk
collection. The nation may receive near-normal rainfall through
June, the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research
said earlier this month.  Fonterra last month raised its forecast payout to farmers
for the current season citing rising global demand at a time of
restrained supply. Milk collection in March fell 16 percent from
a year earlier, the Auckland-based company said April 11.  Fonterra, which accounts for about a third of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole, skim and butter-milk
powder, dried-milk fat, lactose, butter, cheese and casein at
its GlobalDairyTrade auctions. The company offers monthly
contracts with delivery starting from two months after the sale.
Casein is a protein found in milk.  Whole-milk powder for July delivery rose 1.3 percent while
prices across all five product contracts out to October rose 2.4
percent, Fonterra said.  In other auctions, prices for June  delivery of milk fat,
casein, butter, cheddar, skim and butter-milk powder also
increased. Lactose and milk protein concentrate weren’t offered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  