-- Time Warner Cable to Offer Live Mobile TV for Apple Devices
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-04-16T20:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/time-warner-cable-to-offer-live-mobile-content-for-apple-devices.html
Time Warner Cable Inc., the second-
largest U.S. cable operator, is adding live out-of-home
programming for the first time to its TWC TV application,
letting customers watch shows on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  mobile devices.  Time Warner Cable will make as many as 11 live national
news, sports and entertainment channels available outside the
home starting at 10 a.m. New York time tomorrow, according to
 Maureen Huff , a company spokeswoman. They include the Big Ten
Network, the Pac-12 Network, TV Guide Network and BBC America.
In addition, customers will have access to some local channels,
including NY1 for New Yorkers. The programming will be available
for Apple’s iPad, iPad Mini, iPhone and iPod Touch.  The New York-based cable provider is following the lead of
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable operator, and  DirecTV (DTV) , the
nation’s biggest satellite-TV provider, in giving customers
certain live and on-demand content on mobile apps. It’s part of
a cable-industry shift toward a concept known as “TV
Everywhere,” where subscribers can watch television in any
location with a wireless connection.  “This is a paradigm shift, and it’s only going to
accelerate,” said Porter Bibb, managing partner at Mediatech
Capital Partners, a New York-based merchant bank. “TV
Everywhere is a short-term answer. If you’re under 30,
especially, you don’t want to pay a full cable bill to get
content out of the home.”  TV’s Future  The TV Everywhere movement is driving changes throughout
the industry.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s $25.5 billion bid for  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S) , announced yesterday, is centered on the premise
that consumers want the same TV-viewing experience inside and
outside of the house, Charlie Ergen, chairman of the satellite-
TV company, said in an interview.  The trend could add about $1.7 billion a year of revenue to
pay-TV operators by allowing them to leverage mobile TV to
increase subscriber fees, Needham & Co. estimated last year.  Billionaire Barry Diller’s Aereo Inc. startup, meanwhile,
is offering broadcast content over the Internet to mobile
devices for $8 to $12 a month. The company is engaged in
lawsuits with networks such as News Corp.’s Fox and  CBS Corp. (CBS) 
over whether it has the right to use the programming.  The threat from Aereo prompted News Corp. Chief Operating
Officer  Chase Carey  to say last week he may transform Fox into a
pay-TV network to protect control of its content.  Time Warner Cable shares  rose 0.6 percent to $93.07 at the
close in New York. The stock has fallen 4.2 percent this year.  Through the mobile app, customers will also be able to
watch some on-demand programming from networks such as Comedy
Central, MTV and Nickelodeon, which are owned by  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)   Time Warner Cable was the first company to bring live TV to
the iPad inside the home in March 2011. Viacom sued Time Warner
Cable later that year, claiming the cable operator didn’t have
the proper legal rights to broadcast content on devices such as
iPads. The companies later settled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  