-- IMF Raises Sub-Saharan Africa Growth Forecast to 6.1%
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-04-16T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/imf-raises-sub-saharan-africa-growth-forecast-to-6-1-.html
Sub-Saharan  Africa ’s economy will
expand faster than previously forecast next year as the global
economic recovery strengthens, the  International Monetary Fund 
said.  The region’s economy will grow 6.1 percent in 2014, more
than the previous estimate of 5.7 percent and the 5.6 percent
projected growth for this year, the Washington-based IMF said in
its World Economic Outlook released today. The global economy
will expand 4 percent next year, up from 3.3 percent in 2013,
the report said.  “A main driver of growth in 2014 will be the strengthening
of activity in South Africa and other middle-income countries,
predicated on improvements in the external environment,”
according to the report. “Similarly, some low-income and
fragile countries are expected to do better, including those
currently experiencing internal conflict.”  Export demand is set to improve as  Europe  emerges from a
recession and growth in China fuels demand for commodities such
as copper,  iron ore  and oil from sub-Saharan Africa.  Inflation will probably slow to an average of 6.3 percent
in 2014 from an estimated 7.2 percent this year and 10 percent
in 2011 as central banks in East Africa raised borrowing costs
to curb price increases, food prices fell and output increased,
the IMF said.  “The success in reducing inflation has provided room for a
gradual easing of the monetary policy stance in several
countries,” the IMF said.  The economies of Ivory Coast, the world’s largest producer
of cocoa, and Mozambique, the site of the world’s biggest gas
discovery in the past decade, will both expand 8 percent next
year, the fastest pace in the region, according to the report.  Nigeria , Africa’s top oil producer, will expand 7 percent
in 2014, down from an estimated 7.2 percent this year, the IMF
said. Growth in  South Africa , the continent’s largest economy,
will probably accelerate to 3.3 percent from 2.8 percent this
year as mining production rebounds, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  