-- IMF Says Deficits to Shrink Faster While Cautioning on Debt Load
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-04-16T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/imf-says-deficits-to-shrink-faster-while-cautioning-on-debt-load.html
Budget deficits in advanced
economies will narrow at a faster pace this year than in 2012
even as countries including the U.S. and  Japan  lack clear plans
to reduce their debt, the International Monetary Fund said.  Fiscal shortfalls will shrink to 4.7 percent of gross
domestic product in advanced nations this year, the narrowest
since 2008, compared with a 5.9 percent gap last year, the  IMF 
said in its Fiscal Monitor report released today.  Many developed countries including the U.S. relied on
government-relief efforts in the aftermath of the global
financial crisis to help revive growth. Attempts to cut back on
spending have been met with warnings, including from the Obama
administration, that too much austerity could harm economic
recoveries.  “Continued progress in reducing advanced economy deficits
and a gradually improving external environment have lowered
short-term fiscal risks,” the report said. “But global
prospects nevertheless remain subdued, and many advanced
economies face a lengthy, difficult, and uncertain path to
fiscal sustainability.  The U.S.’s overall  fiscal gap  will narrow to 6.5 percent of
GDP from 8.5 percent in 2012, the euro area’s will decline to
2.9 percent from 3.6 percent and Japan’s will be 9.8 percent of
GDP compared with 10.2 percent, the fund said.  ‘Credible Plan’  The absence of a ‘‘clear and credible plan to bring debt
ratios down over the medium term” in the U.S. and Japan is a
“significant concern,” according to the report.  The falling deficits in advanced economies don’t negate the
long-term impact of high debt, the Washington-based IMF said.  “High debt -- even if stable -- retards potential growth,
constrains the scope for future discretionary policy, and leaves
economies exposed to further market shocks,” the lender said.
“Sharp increases in public debt have not yet provoked a surge
in interest rates in many advanced economies, but lower rates
are unlikely to persist indefinitely, especially as they reflect
in part very relaxed monetary conditions that must eventually be
reversed.”  Central banks from across developed economies have deployed
unorthodox and little-tested stimulus plans to fuel economic
growth. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  earlier this month embarked on record
easing.  Fed’s QE  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee in March reiterated
its plan to buy  $85 billion  in bonds every month until the labor
market outlook improves “substantially,” while pledging to
monitor the costs and benefits of unprecedented accommodation.  A plan to reduce debt could allow the U.S. “to avoid the
excessively large tightening in fiscal policies that would
result” if across-the-board spending cuts known as
sequestration go beyond this fiscal year, the IMF said.  The Obama administration sent to Congress a $3.8 trillion
budget last week, calling for more tax revenue and slower growth
for Social Security benefits in a political gamble intended to
revive deficit-reduction talks.  The president is proposing to replace sequestration cuts
with what White House budget officials say is $1.8 trillion in
additional deficit reduction over 10 years that includes
collecting more taxes from the wealthy and trimming some federal
programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  