-- IMF Cuts Brazil GDP Forecast as Supply Constraints Accumulate
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-16T14:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/imf-cuts-brazil-gdp-forecast-as-supply-constraints-accumulate.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its forecast for growth in Brazil, saying supply constraints
could limit the pace of a recovery under way in Latin America’s
biggest economy.  Gross domestic product should expand 3 percent this year,
down from a forecast of 3.5 percent made in January, the IMF
said in its World Economic Outlook today, in which the fund also
trimmed forecasts for U.S. and global growth. The Washington-
based lender has cut its Brazil forecast three times since
predicting 2013 GDP growth of 4.6 percent in July 2012.  A slower recovery in Brazil, which expanded less than 1
percent last year even as President Dilma Rousseff’s government
slashed taxes and  interest rates , is weighing on the rest of the
region’s outlook. The IMF expects Latin American and Caribbean
nations to grow 3.4 percent this year instead of the previously
forecast 3.6 percent.  Mexico , the region’s No. 2 economy, will
expand 3.4 percent, versus a previous forecast of 3.5 percent.  Domestic demand remains robust in much of  Latin America ,
buoyed by easy financing conditions and high commodity prices,
the IMF said. Still, the region’s governments need to strengthen
their fiscal buffers, limit financial vulnerabilities and focus
on growth-enhancing policies to prepare themselves in case
sentiment reverses, the IMF said.  Brazil Constraints  The IMF said its forecast for Brazil’s growth this year
reflects the lagged impact of monetary policy easing and
measures targeted at boosting private investment. Brazil cut its
benchmark policy rate 525 basis points since August 2011, more
than any Group of 20 nation.  While the IMF didn’t specify what supply constraints are
holding the country’s growth back, near record-low  unemployment 
has been behind annual wage increases in excess of 6.5 percent
inflation. That’s making it harder to carry out a backlog of
infrastructure upgrades ahead of the country’s hosting of the
FIFA soccer World Cup next year and the  Summer Olympics  in 2016.  Mexico’s growth of 3.5 percent in both 2013 and 2014 is
close to potential and reflects sustained business and  consumer
confidence  as well as resilient exports, the IMF said.  Paraguay  is expected to expand 11 percent this year, the
fastest pace in the region, while Venezuela will grow the
slowest, 0.1 percent, after its February devaluation and
tightening of currency controls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 