-- India’s Nifty Futures Decline on Profit Concerns as Growth Slows
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-04-16T02:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/india-s-nifty-futures-decline-on-profit-concerns-as-growth-slows.html
Indian stock-index futures
declined, signaling losses in benchmark indexes, on concerns
that corporate profits will slow amid signs global economic
growth is weakening.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for April delivery fell 0.6
percent to 5,520 at 10:15 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
advanced 0.7 percent to 5,568.40 yesterday. The S&P BSE Sensex
index rose 0.6 percent to 18,357.80. The Bank of New York Mellon
India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares fell 2.3 percent to the
lowest level since Nov. 21.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped for a second day as
industrial production in China and manufacturing in the New York
region grew less than forecast. Net incomes for the 30 companies
on the S&P BSE Sensex may fall 0.8 percent from a year ago in
the quarter ended March 31, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That would be the first decrease since the three
months ended June 2010.  “This quarter earnings are not likely to be encouraging,”
Manishi Raychaudhuri, head of  Indian (SENSEX)  equity research at BNP
Paribas Securities (Asia) Ltd., told Bloomberg TV India
yesterday. “We may see relatively low or no earnings growth
this year. During the results season, we may actually see
markets drifting down more.”  Indian ADRs  Indian stocks  traded in New York fell to the lowest level
since November as slowing Chinese growth clouded the global
economic outlook. Tata Motors Ltd. sank the most in two months
and Infosys Ltd. dropped to a 2013 low.  Indian American Depositary Receipts slipped in “a global
selloff, which is caused mostly by China’s weaker GDP data as
well as soft U.S. data,” Gregory Lesko, managing director at
Deltec Asset Management LLC, where he helps manage about $750
million, wrote in an e-mail.  Shares of jewelry makers and gold-loan companies like
 Gitanjali Gems Ltd. (GITG) ,  Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN) ,  Muthoot Finance Ltd. (MUTH) 
and  Manappuram Finance Ltd. (MGFL)  may be active as a slump in  gold
prices  to a two-year low is poised to revive jewelry demand
among Indian housewives and brides before the wedding and
festival seasons, according to Gitanjali and  Rajesh Exports Ltd. (RJEX)   Gold extended the biggest decline since 1983 yesterday,
deepening a  bear market . The plunge has already revived interest
among retail buyers, said Rajesh Mehta, chairman of Rajesh
Exports Ltd.  Falling prices may discourage speculators and help India,
the world’s biggest consumer, curb a record current-account
deficit, according to Ambit Capital Pvt.  Reliance Earnings  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the second-biggest company on the
Sensex by weighting, may report net income for the quarter ended
March 31 grew to 55.3 billion rupees ($1.01 billion), from 42.4
billion a year earlier, according to the median estimate of 20
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The Sensex has dropped 5.5 percent this year amid concern
over the weakest economic growth in a decade, a record current-
account deficit and the highest  inflation  rate among major
emerging nations. The index is valued at 12.3 times  projected
12-month profits , compared with this year’s peak of 13.8 times
in January. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index trades at 10 times,
the lowest level since November.  Foreign funds bought a net $17.1 million of Indian shares
on April 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Overseas investors
have bought a net $10.2 billion of Indian stocks this year, a
record for the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Inflows last year totaled $24.5 billion, the most among 10 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  