-- Indonesia May Increase Private-Car Fuel Price by as Much as 56%
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-04-16T10:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/indonesia-may-increase-private-car-fuel-price-by-as-much-as-56-.html
Indonesia  is considering raising
gasoline prices for privately owned cars by as much as 56
percent, as the government seeks to reduce the amount it spends
on fuel subsidies.  The price of gasoline for private cars may increase to
6,500 to 7,000 rupiah ($0.67 to $0.72) a liter, Energy and
Mineral Resources Minister Jero Wacik told reporters today after
a meeting with provincial governors in Jakarta. Subsidized
gasoline is currently sold at 4,500 rupiah a liter.  “Subsidies for middle- to higher-income consumers may be
reduced,” Wacik said. Motorcycles and public transportation
would still pay current prices, he said, adding that no final
decision has been made and the proposal needs further discussion.  The government has been reviewing changes to its fuel
policy as officials seek to cut subsidies that have increased
oil import costs, depleted foreign-exchange reserves and
weakened the rupiah. Some 211.9 trillion rupiah was spent on
subsidizing fuel last year, rising from 45.1 trillion rupiah in
2009, government data show.  Authorities have been considering options to cut subsidies
including introducing a new, more expensive, gasoline called RON
90 and raising prices across the board. Coordinating Minister
for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said last week that RON 90 was no
longer being looked at and that a blanket price increase was not
a favorable option.  The administration has budgeted to subsidize 46 million
kiloliters of oil products this year, consisting of low-octane
gasoline, diesel oil, kerosene, biodiesel and liquefied
petroleum gas. Consumption may exceed 49 million kiloliters if
the fuel is sold at 4,500 rupiah a liter, Ali Mundakir,
spokesman at state-owned oil and gas company PT Pertamina, said
today in Jakarta.  Editors: Andrew Janes,  Mike Anderson   To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  