-- Investors Most Bullish on Japan Stocks Since 2006
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-04-16T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/investors-most-bullish-on-japan-stocks-since-2006.html
Investors are the most bullish on
Japanese stocks for more than six years, while they are selling
euro-area equities amid renewed concern about the region’s debt
crisis, a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  survey showed.  A net 20 percent of global money managers, who together
oversee about $578 billion, said they were overweight  Japan  this
month, the highest proportion since 2006 as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe increased stimulus in the world’s third-biggest
economy. A net 8 percent said they held less euro-region
equities than benchmark indexes for the first time in eight
months. Managers’ allocations to U.S. equities jumped to the
highest level since June.  “Abenomics signals that Japanese policy makers are joining
the fight against deflation,”  Michael Hartnett , Bank of
America’s chief global strategist in  New York , said in a report
today. “This reinforces our expectation of a great rotation
into equities from fixed income.”  Fund managers cited deflation in European Union economies
as the biggest risk to investing, the survey showed. The  Euro
Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  has slipped 4.3 percent from its high on March 14
as Cyprus had to impose losses on the largest depositors in its
banks as a precondition for a bailout from the EU.  Investors cut their total allocations in equities for the
first time in eight months, the survey showed. A net 47 percent
said they were overweight the asset class in April, compared
with a two-year high of 57 percent in March.  Stocks Drop  Stocks fell around the world this week as a report showed
 China’s economy  grew more slowly than forecast. The  MSCI All-
Country World Index (MXWD)  has dropped 1.8 percent so far this week.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 2.3 percent yesterday,
its biggest retreat in five months.  “Positioning has slumped a lot more quickly than the
measures of risk at a sentiment level,” John Bilton, European
investment strategist at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit,
said at a press conference in London today. “This does seem
like a bearish survey.”  Emerging-market equities fell out of favor with investors,
as they cut their holdings to an 18-month low. About 13 percent
of money managers were overweight in the shares.  Bank of America conducted the survey of 200 professional
investors between April 5 and 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  