-- Iran Hit by Magnitude 7.8 Quake Felt From Dubai to Delhi
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-04-17T05:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/iran-hit-by-7-8-earthquake-near-pakistan-border.html
Iran  and Pakistan were hit by a
major earthquake centered on the region straddling their common
border and felt as far away as Dubai and Delhi.  The quake struck at 3:14 p.m. local time yesterday and was
measured at 7.8 by the U.S. Geological Survey. Iranian
seismologists put it at 7.7, and said its epicenter was in the
mountainous eastern province of Sistan-Baluchistan, according to
state-run television. State media gave conflicting reports on
the numbers of dead and injured.  Much of Iran lies close to geological fault-lines and is
prone to earthquakes. A major tremor in 2003 flattened the
southern city of Bam and killed about 40,000 people. A smaller
quake last week hit the province of Bushehr and raised concerns
about the safety of the nuclear plant located there.  Hedayatollah Mir-Moradzehi, a lawmaker who represents
Saravan, together with Iran’s  Press TV  initially said that 40
people had died, though Iranian state television said later that
the number came from foreign media. A woman died in Iran after
she was hit by falling mountain debris, the  Iranian Students
News Agency  said today, citing local officials.  Mohammad-Sharif Khalegi, governor of Saravan, told the
channel that the number of injured people was 27. The injured
totaled 12 and only four had to be hospitalized, state
television  said  late yesterday, citing Hatam Narouei, the Sistan
and Baluchestan governor. At least 21 people died in Pakistan,
state-run television said.  Casualties may be limited because the region is sparsely
populated, said Mohamed Sarvar, deputy head of emergency
services, according to Fars news agency. Morteza Moradipour, a
Red Crescent official, said because the quake had a depth of 95
kilometers (59 miles), its impact was similar to that of a
magnitude 4 event, state-run Mehr said.  Water Restored  Water services, electricity and telephone communications
were fixed in 30 minutes, Narouei told state television. He said
the center of the quake was an unpopulated desert area and that
urban areas of Saravan suffered minor damage.  There are about 1,700 villages in the Saravan area, state
television reported, and Fars said many houses there are made of
mud brick that can easily crumble in a quake.  “Much of the population in the region probably live in
buildings particularly vulnerable to ground shaking, such as
adobe or other unreinforced structures,” Steven Godby,
earthquakes expert at Nottingham Trent University, said in an e-
mailed response to a question yesterday.  Pakistan Casualties  In the Bam earthquake of 2003, large numbers of these kinds
of structures collapsed, including essential buildings, such as
hospitals and fire stations, Godby said. Secondary hazards such
as landslides may also add to the economic losses by affecting
critical infrastructure and making access to remote areas
difficult, he added.  Iranian state television reported the Bushehr plant, which
is about 1,140 kilometers from the epicenter of yesterday’s
quake, is functioning normally.  In  Pakistan , at least 21 people were killed, 150 injured
and 100 buildings destroyed in southwestern Baluchistan, state-
run PTV reported yesterday. “Hundreds of two-room mud houses in
the province have collapsed,” said Farooq Kubdani, coordinator
for the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan in Mashkel, a town
of about 70,000.  “Several people are still missing and we suspect they are
buried under the debris of the houses,” Kubdani added. “Also
the main bazaar of the town Mashkel has completely collapsed.”  In Karachi, Pakistan’s financial center, residents ran into
the streets, and buildings also shook in northern  India .  On the other side of the Persian Gulf, buildings were
evacuated in Dubai and other cities where the quake was felt.  Iranian state television said 2,000 emergency tents had
been sent to Saravan.  Turkey ’s Red Crescent said it was sending
aid for Iran, including tents, blankets and food.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Dubai at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  