-- Kenny Suffers Biggest Defeat as Irish Unions Reject Pay Cuts
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-04-17T13:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/ireland-s-kenny-faces-biggest-defeat-as-unions-reject-pay-cuts.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
suffered his biggest setback since taking power two years ago,
as unions rejected his plans to cut pay for state employees.  The nation’s most powerful labor group, SIPTU, yesterday
rejected government proposals to reduce salaries for some of the
best-paid public workers by at least 5.5 percent. A wider vote
of the union movement confirmed the rejection of the proposals
in Dublin today, the Irish Congress of Trade Unions said, adding
it would resist any unilateral imposition of pay cuts.  Ireland thus far has avoided clashes over government
austerity measures compared with other crisis-hit economies such
as Greece and  Spain . Under Kenny, Ireland is leading the race to
become the first country to exit its bailout since the euro-debt
crisis erupted in  Athens  in late 2009.  “The rejection of the deal raises the prospect of
industrial action and disruption in the public sector for the
first time during this crisis,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , in Dublin.  Kenny had scored victories including winning lower  interest
rates  on bailout loans, getting more time to repay them, as well
as an agreement to ease the cost of the nation’s bank rescue.
The government estimates that the rebuffed pay cuts would have
generated annual savings of 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) by
2015, as it seeks to tame the fiscal deficit.  ‘Bottom Line’  Irish Public Expenditure Minister Brendan Howlin,
responsible for making budget savings and negotiating the pay
accord, told Dublin-based RTE yesterday he’ll have to explain
the impact of the vote to the country’s bailout partners.  “The bottom line here is absolutely clear: We have to, we
must and we will find 300 million euros of extra savings this
year from payroll,” Kenny told lawmakers today. “That’s the
challenge the government now faces.”  SIPTU rejected the proposals, which provide for at least a
5.5 percent pay cut on salaries exceeding 65,000 euros a year,
with 54 percent of the votes cast. The labor union accounts for
25 percent of public-sector ballots on the accord.  “The result reflects the degree to which working people,
and public-service workers in particular, are profoundly
aggrieved at the way in which they have been required to
shoulder the lion’s share of the burden of the adjustment while
wealthy people are seen not to have contributed to the degree
that they are capable of,” O’Connor told reporters.  Promissory Deal  In February, Ireland swapped so-called promissory notes
used to rescue Anglo Irish Bank Corp. with 25 billion euros of
long-term  government bonds  with maturities of as long as 40
years. As recently as last weekend, European finance ministers
decided to give the nation more time to repay its bailout loans,
adding to Ireland’s momentum.  The yield on Irish five-year debt was at 2.83 percent
today, down from more than 17 percent in July 2011, when Moody’s
Investors Service cut the nation to non-investment grade.  “There’s no question that this is a setback but it’s more
like a skirmish than an event that changes everything,” said
 Austin Hughes , an economist at KBC Ireland in Dublin.
“Ireland’s consensus model with unions has marked it out as
being different from the more divisive circumstances we’ve seen
in other countries pushing through austerity.”  ‘Disappointed’  Ireland has so far avoided the large strikes that have
beset Greece and  Portugal  even after successive governments cut
state workers’ pay by an average 14 percent since 2008.  Kenny has now to decide if he wants to take on the unions.
The government has said it may legislate for across-the-board
public sector pay reductions if the proposals are rejected. He
told lawmakers yesterday he was “disappointed” with the
outcome, with opportunities for savings “limited.”  Gerald Nash, vice chairman of the parliamentary  Labour
Party , which governs in coalition with Kenny’s Fine Gael, told
RTE Radio today that the government needs to “scope out the
potential” for tweaking the deal.  “We are in unchartered territories now in the context of
setting of public sector pay and public pay agreements,” he
said. “It is not a situation that we have experienced before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  