-- Irish Pay Accord Faces Defeat as Biggest Union Rejects More Cuts
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-04-16T15:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/irish-pay-accord-faces-defeat-as-biggest-union-rejects-more-cuts.html
Ireland’s most powerful labor union
rejected the latest round of proposed public sector pay cuts,
leaving the government’s plans to save over 1 billion euros
($1.3 billion) facing defeat.  SIPTU rejected the proposals, which provide for at least a
5.5 percent pay cut for those earning more than 65,000 euros a
year, by 54 percent, the Dublin-based union said in an e-mailed
statement today. SIPTU accounts for a 25 percent share of
public-sector votes on the accord,  Goodbody Stockbrokers  said.  “It’s dead in the water now, the deal can’t pass,” said
 Dermot O’Leary , chief economist at Dublin-based Goodbody. “This
may cause uncertainty in Irish bond markets as it’s the first
real setback we’ve seen in quite a while.”  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s government has said it may
legislate for across-the-board public sector pay reductions if
the proposals are rejected. Ireland has avoided the large-scale
strikes that have beset Greece and  Portugal  even after
successive governments cut state workers’ pay by an average 14
percent since 2008.  “We urge the government not to proceed with legislation to
cut the pay of public service workers as it would inevitably
precipitate a major confrontation,” said  Jack O’Connor , general
president of the union.  Today’s result mean the proposals will be rejected in a
wider union vote tomorrow, O’Connor told reporters in Dublin
today. The union “will fight if needs be,” he said.  Pay Cuts  The pay cuts are part of the government strategy to narrow
its  budget deficit , as it races toward exiting the bailout
entered in 2010. They would produce 300 million euros of savings
this year, rising to 1 billion euros by 2015, according to the
government. A spokeswoman for the Public Expenditure Ministry
said a statement will be issued “shortly.”  Yields on Ireland’s 2017 bond were little changed at 2.58
percent after the union released the result of the ballot.  “It might take a little time to see what the government’s
next step is,” said O’Leary at Goodbody. “They have said that
they’d legislate for pay cuts but they don’t want to go down
that route. We’ll see whether the unions have called
government’s bluff or not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  