-- Irish Public Pay Accord Hangs on ‘Knife Edge’ as Unions Vote
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-04-16T10:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/irish-public-pay-accord-hangs-on-knife-edge-as-unions-vote.html
Ireland’s most powerful labor union
will deliver its verdict on the latest round of public sector
pay cuts as soon as today, with the government threatening wider
reductions should the plan be rejected.  SIPTU, which has over 200,000 members in all, is due to
announce the result of its ballot about 2 p.m. in Dublin. That
will feed into a wider union vote tomorrow on the proposals,
which provide for at least a 5.5 percent pay cut for those
earning more than 65,000 euros ($85,000 euros) a year.  The outcome remains on a “knife edge,” according to
Dermot O’Leary, an economist at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin.
He said the agreement may pass by a majority of 50.2 percent to
49.8 percent.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s government has said it may
legislate for across-the-board public sector pay reductions if
the proposals are rejected. Ireland has avoided the large-scale
strikes that have beset Greece and  Portugal  even after
successive governments cut state workers’ pay by an average 14
percent since 2008.  “We’ve had a huge adjustment in terms of public sector
spending and taxes, and despite that we’ve had quite harmonious
relations,” O’Leary said in a phone interview. “This puts that
to the test.”  Longer Hours  Under the proposals, government employees will also have to
work longer hours and face overtime pay cuts. While eight unions
have already rejected the agreement, the outcome of tomorrow’s
vote will be determined by the result of ballots of larger
unions such as SIPTU, the country’s biggest trade union. SIPTU
leaders urged its members last month to back the deal.  Ireland is set to exit its 67.5 billion-euro bailout at the
end of this year. A rejection of the pay agreement may have an
impact on Ireland’s funding costs over time by increasing
“political and industrial relations risks,” according to
Goodbody’s O’Leary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  