-- Mississippi Ordered Not to Enforce Part of Abortion Law
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/mississippi-ordered-not-to-enforce-part-of-abortion-law.html
Mississippi  was barred by a judge
from enforcing a regulation requiring abortion clinic doctors to
have hospital admitting privileges, which may allow the state’s
only abortion clinic to remain open while it fights the law in
court.  U.S. District Judge Daniel Jordan in Jackson, Mississippi,
said the Jackson Women’s Health Organization faces closure after
its physicians were rejected by hospitals. That would place an
undue burden on women seeking the procedure because they’d have
to travel to another state for a legal abortion, according to
Jordan’s order yesterday.  Mississippi’s law, initially set to take effect July 1 of
last year, requires physicians associated with an abortion
facility also to be certified or eligible in obstetrics and
gynecology. Jackson Women’s Health Organization filed suit on
June 27, arguing the regulations would violate a woman’s
constitutionally protected right to be able to obtain an
abortion. The state would be the first in the U.S. without a
dedicated abortion clinic if the facility is forced to close.  “The court concludes that the irreparable injuries alleged
are sufficiently imminent to justify preliminary injunctive
relief at this time,” Jordan wrote. “The threatened injury
outweighs any harm that will result if the injunction is
granted.”  Jan Schaefer, a spokeswoman for Mississippi Attorney
General Jim Hood, didn’t immediately return a call and an e-mail
after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on the
ruling.  The case is Jackson Women’s Health Organization v. Currier,
12-00436, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Mississippi
(Jackson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  