-- Hites Retreats on Concern Card Claims to Reduce Profit
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-16T20:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/hites-retreats-on-concern-card-claims-to-reduce-profit.html
Empresas Hites SA (HITES)  declined as Banco
de Credito e Inversiones said profit may be reduced by as much
as 37 percent if it has to eliminate credit card charges that
Chile’s consumer rights agency claims are excessive.  Hites, the country’s sixth-largest retailer by market
value, fell 3.2 percent to 449.82 pesos at the close of trading
in Santiago, the lowest since Jan. 11. The benchmark Ipsa index
advanced 0.7 percent.  The stock has fallen 19 percent since April 12 after the
country’s consumer rights agency, known as Sernac, said it would
file a class-action lawsuit against the retailer for
overcharging its credit card customers. Scrapping the disputed
charges could reduce revenue by as much as 20 billion pesos
($42.4 million) and lower its estimated profit for this year by
37 percent to 8.84 billion pesos, BCI said in an e-mailed report
today.  “Potential risks and a reduction in earnings generation
capacity could also lead to lower access to funding for Hites,”
BCI analysts including Veronica Perez wrote.  Sernac said in a statement that Hites had wording in its
credit card contracts allowing the company to charge special
commissions when their cards were used to buy items in
installments. The agreements also allowed Hites to charge
management commissions twice, according to Sernac.  An official at Hites’s external public relations firm said
the retailer wouldn’t comment. The company said in an April 12
statement that it hadn’t been officially notified of the lawsuit
and its credit agreements are in line with regulations.  Hites’s credit card business accounted for 71 percent of
its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
last year, according to calculations done by Bloomberg based on
the company’s most recent annual  filing  to  Chile ’s securities
regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  