-- Mitsubishi UFJ May Raise Dividend for First Time in 6 Years
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-04-16T06:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/mitsubishi-ufj-may-raise-dividend-for-first-time-in-6-years-1-.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
may lead  Japan ’s biggest banks in raising dividends by
increasing its payouts for the first time in six years as
government stimulus measures improve earnings prospects.  Mitsubishi UFJ will boost its  dividend  for the year ending
March 2014 to 14 yen a share from 12 yen previously, according
to seven of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-biggest lender, is expected
to set  payouts  ranging from 110 yen to 120 yen, after keeping
them at 100 yen since the year ended March 2010.  The banks’  shares  have gained more than 80 percent since
November on speculation that loan demand will pick up as the
government and central bank intensify efforts to end deflation
and revive the world’s third-largest economy. This month’s
unprecedented Bank of Japan stimulus fanned a market rally that
has boosted the value of lenders’ stock and bond holdings.  “Earnings have been stabilizing at the two banks,” said
Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.
“They need to increase shareholder return to some extent,”
said Yamada, who sees Mitsubishi UFJ increasing dividends to 14
yen this year and  Sumitomo Mitsui  raising payouts to 110 yen.  Beat Targets  Mitsubishi UFJ probably posted net income of 726.2 billion
yen ($7.5 billion) for the year ended March, surpassing the
company’s 670 billion yen target, according to the median
estimate of 16 analysts in a separate  survey . Sumitomo Mitsui’s
 profit  probably rose to a record 688 billion yen, more than its
540 billion yen forecast. The Tokyo-based banks are scheduled to
report earnings in mid-May.  Japanese banks’ dividend yields trail those of their U.S.
peers. The average yield of the 85 lenders on Japan’s  Topix
Banks Index (TPNBNK)  has fallen to 1.25 percent from 1.74 percent a year
ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Among the 24 large U.S.
banking companies tracked by the  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , the average is
little changed at 2.35 percent.  Rising capital buffers at Mitsubishi UFJ may encourage it
to buy back its stock to return gains to shareholders, the
survey showed. Five of the nine analysts said Japan’s largest
bank will probably repurchase shares as well as increase
dividend payouts during the current fiscal year.  Giving Back  “There is no doubt that giving back to shareholders is
becoming more important,” Mitsubishi UFJ president Nobuyuki Hirano said in an interview on April 8. “We will review plans
based on last fiscal year’s earnings and those of the current
fiscal year,” he said, without elaborating.  Sohei Nishimaki, a Tokyo-based spokesman at Sumitomo
Mitsui, declined to comment on plans for dividend payouts and
buybacks.  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ fell 3.6 percent to 639 yen at the
close in  Tokyo  today as Asian stocks declined on concern growth
in the U.S. and  China  is losing momentum. The stock has advanced
85 percent since Nov. 14, when an election campaign began that
ushered Prime Minister Shinzo Abe into office on a pledge to
stoke inflation. Sumitomo Mitsui dropped 3.4 percent to 4,355
yen today and has gained 84 percent in the same period.  The two banks have built capital by accumulating retained
earnings and raising about 3 trillion yen from share sales in
the aftermath of the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. They are
expanding abroad to make up for shrinking profitability on
domestic loans amid record-low  interest rates .  Capital Buffers  Mitsubishi UFJ had a common equity  capital ratio  of about
10 percent at the end of December, higher than its 8.5 percent
requirement under the Basel III regime developed since the
crisis, according to figures on its website. Sumitomo Mitsui’s
ratio was about 8 percent, while smaller  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411) ’s was the lowest at around 6 percent, bank data show.  None of the nine respondents expect buybacks by Sumitomo
Mitsui, and Mizuho won’t raise dividends either, the results
showed. In addition to the seven analysts who see Mitsubishi UFJ
boosting payouts to 14 yen, one sees an increase to 13 yen,
while another estimates no change.  “Mitsubishi UFJ’s capital level is high enough to
repurchase shares even after the bank carries out mergers and
acquisitions,” said Katsunori Tanaka, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “It’s ready for more purchases
overseas,” said Tanaka, who expects the lender to buy back 100
billion yen of shares by March 31, 2014.  U.S. Loans  Mitsubishi UFJ said on April 8 that its San Francisco-based
UnionBanCal Corp. unit will buy $3.7 billion of U.S. real-estate
loan assets from Deutsche Bank to boost commercial lending,
mainly on the east coast.  Combined losses from shares held by the two banks narrowed
to 158.2 billion yen in the nine months through Dec. 31 from
306.5 billion yen in the six months ended Sept. 30, based on
their earnings data.  The value of their government bond holdings is also rising
following  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s decision to
expand purchases of the securities. Japanese sovereign debt
returned 1.4 percent this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  “Recent declines in bond yields will allow banks to
generate trading income from JGBs, and together with a stocks
rally, the investments will also boost unrealized gains,” said
Chikako Horiuchi, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Fitch Ratings
Ltd. “This is a favorable environment for Japanese banks at the
moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  