-- Japan, Australia Stock Futures Rise as U.S. Home Building Jumps
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-16T23:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/japan-australia-stock-futures-rise-as-u-s-home-building-jumps.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures rose as new home construction in the U.S. jumped more
than forecast, boosting optimism in the global economic
recovery.  American Depositary Receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker, advanced 0.8 percent as the yen
weakened. Shares of Tokyo Electron Ltd. may be active among
companies that supply to  Intel Corp. (INTC)  after the world’s No. 1
semiconductor maker forecast second-quarter sales that would
exceed some analysts’ estimates. ADRs of Woodside Petroleum
Ltd.,  Australia ’s second-biggest oil producer, rose 0.3 percent
as the price of crude gained.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June traded at 13,340 in  Chicago  yesterday, up from 13,310 at
the close in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
13,330 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
 S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  advanced 0.7 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index rose 0.6 percent.  “The U.S. economy is due to reaccelerate,” said Praveen Singh, a Bangalore-based strategist at Societe Generale SA,
France’s second-largest bank. We recommend you “switch out of
U.S. equities and into markets where monetary policy remains
expansionary, such as  Japan .”  Investors are the most bullish on Japanese stocks for more
than six years, while they are selling euro-area equities amid
renewed concern about the region’s debt crisis, a Bank of
America Corp. survey of global money managers who oversee about
$578 billion showed yesterday.  BOJ Stimulus  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, gained 5.5 percent this year through yesterday
amid signs the U.S. economy is recovering and as Japanese
equities rallied on speculation the Bank of Japan will step up
efforts to stimulate its economy. That left the gauge trading
yesterday at 14.3 times average estimated earnings compared with
14.2 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.5 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.2
percent. The measure climbed 1.4 percent yesterday, rebounding
from its biggest drop since November, as housing starts and
earnings from Coca-Cola Co. to Johnson & Johnson topped
estimates.  New-home construction in the U.S. jumped more than forecast
in March, according to Commerce Department figures. Another
report showed the cost of living declined in March for the first
time in four months as cheaper gasoline and clothing kept
inflation in check. Factory production unexpectedly dropped,
adding to recent signs that manufacturing is cooling.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 1.8 percent in New York
yesterday.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil rose 0.3 percent and the
yen fell 0.1 percent to 99.66 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  