-- Japan Apartment Real Estate Proving Best: Riskless Return
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-04-16T16:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/japan-apartment-real-estate-proving-best-riskless-return.html
Investing in Tokyo apartments beat
putting money into office buildings, malls and the domestic
stock and bond markets over the past five years as a housing
shortage cushioned rental incomes from years of deflation.  Apartment real estate investment trusts produced the best
returns, adjusted for price swings, of Japanese REITs in the
five years through March, the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING
shows.  Daiwahouse Residential Investment Corp. (8984)  led all REITs
with a 5.5 percent risk-adjusted return, followed by  Advance
Residence Investment (3269)  with a 5.4 percent gain.  REITs that buy apartments benefited from a shortage of new
supply and a stable number of tenants in a nation where less
than half of Japanese under the age of 40 own their own  home .
 Japan  has accelerated efforts under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to
end deflation and boost the world’s third-largest economy,
including measures to revive the property industry, which has
been struggling since an asset bubble burst two decades ago. The
government has a target to increase assets owned by REITs by 40
percent by 2020.  “It’s all about stability,” said Hideyuki Shinkai, who
helps oversees 51.4 trillion yen ($528 billion) in assets at
Norinchukin Trust & Banking Co. in  Tokyo  and owns residential
REITs he declined to name. “If you are looking for mid- to
long-term investments, residential REITs are your best bet
because they provide a stable yield.”  Property Revival  REITs pool investor money to buy real estate and are
publicly traded like stocks. Japanese apartment REITs gained a
risk-adjusted 3.2 percent in the five-year period, followed by
offices at 0.9 percent and retail REITs at 2.3 percent.  The gains compared with declines of 1.7 percent for  10-year
Japanese government bonds  and 0.2 percent by the  Topix (TPX)  index, a
benchmark for domestic stocks.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing the total return by the volatility, or
the degree of daily price variation, giving a measure of income
per unit of risk. A higher volatility means the price of an
asset can swing dramatically in a short period, increasing the
potential for unexpected losses.  The ranking compared 39 members of the  Tokyo Stock Exchange (1345) 
REIT index, 44 publicly traded property companies, the stock
benchmark and the 10-year JGBs. The 44 companies had an average
0.7 percent risk-adjusted return in the past five years.  Six of the top 10 performers in the ranking were REITS that
invest in residential real estate. Daiwahouse had the best total
return, with a cumulative gain of 275 percent over the five-year
period, before adjusting for price swings. Advance Residence had
the fourth-highest total return, at 129 percent, and the fourth-
lowest volatility.  Tokyo Apartments  The supply of new apartments in Tokyo this year will reach
the highest level since 2007 because of expectations of an
economic recovery, according to an estimate by  Real Estate
Economic Institute Co.  in December. The inventory will rise 9.6
percent in 2013 to about 50,000 units, according the Tokyo-based
industry researcher.  “The supply of rental apartments is extremely low at the
moment,” said Tokyo-based Tomoyuki Kimura, director and general
manager of the corporate management department at Advance
Residence, Japan’s biggest residential REIT by market value. “A
lack of supply in Tokyo has boosted our occupancy rate.”  Advance Residence manages 16,127 apartments across 190
buildings and had an occupancy rate of 96 percent as of July 31,
according to the company.  REITs get most of their profit from rental income, paying
the majority of it as dividends. While investors receive a yield
that is competitive with bonds, they can also benefit should the
value of the underlying properties rise.  Supply Shortage  Residential REITs have an average yield of 4.6 percent,
compared with 3.4 percent for office REITs and 4.4 percent for
retail REITs that hold shopping malls and retail stores,
according to Nomura Securities Co.  In a weak market, rents at residential REITs tend to
decline less than office REITs and are less likely to suffer
from sharp declines in occupancy rates, according to Kimura.
Commercial REITs tend to be directly affected by the revenue of
tenants, he said.  Housing rents in Tokyo’s 23 wards rose or fell as much as
five percentage points since 2008 on average, according to
Recruit Co., a housing-data provider. Office rents had more than
10 percentage points of fluctuation, according to  data  compiled
by broker CBRE Group Inc.  The supply of new apartments in the city’s metropolitan
area averaged less than 43,000 a year since the global financial
crisis in 2008. That was about half of the more than 81,000
units in the 10 years to 2007, according to the institute.  Market Rally  REITs still outperformed stocks and bonds in the first
three months of this year, as Abe’s push to revive the economy
prompted the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to introduce unprecedented asset
purchases that fueled a stock market rally. The Tokyo Stock
Exchange REIT Index gained a risk-adjusted 2.1 percent in the
first quarter, compared with a 1 percent increase for the Topix
and a 0.7 percent decline for 10-year  government bonds .  Nippon Prologis REIT Inc. (3283) , which invests in distribution
centers and warehouses, and started trading in the first
quarter, was the best performer in the period with a risk-
adjusted return of 2.5 percent.  Activia Properties Inc. (3279) , which
invests mainly in commercial and office buildings in the Tokyo
metropolitan area, ranked number two, with 2.2 percent.  “Office REITs are likely to outperform because they are
the only type of asset that tends to benefit when the economy
enters into an inflationary stage,” said Tomohiro Araki, a
Tokyo-based senior analyst at Nomura. “Having said that, as
time goes by, when office rents fail to rise and large tenants
continue to move out, people will rediscover the attractiveness
of residential REITs.”  First REITs  About 61 percent of Japanese own their own home, based on a
survey by the statistics bureau. About 46 percent of people
between 35 years and 39 years have their own home, while home
ownership for people between 30 years and 34 years is at 30
percent, the data shows.  Japan started the REIT market in September 2001 when  Nippon
Building Fund Inc. (8951)  and  Japan Real Estate Investment Corp. (8952) , which
both invest in offices, were first listed. The securities were
pioneered in the U.S. in the 1960s.  Nippon Residential Investment Corp., listed in 2004, was
the first residential REIT to go public and was merged with
Advance Residence in March 2010, according to  the Association
for Real Estate Securitization.   An index of residential land prices has slid by half from
its 1991 peak, according to Japan Real Estate Institute. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average is about one-third of its peak in 1989,
while the 10-year Japanese government bond yield is 0.62 percent
compared with 8.685 percent in 1990.  High Occupancy  Housing starts fell 23 percent in the 10 years to the end
of 2012 from the previous decade, according to land ministry
data. They gained for a third year in 2012, up 5.8 percent, the
fastest pace since 1996.  REITs that hold housing properties have 20 tenants on
average per building, almost double the average 12 for an office
building, according to Nomura. The average occupancy rate of
residential REITs was 96 percent as of December, according to
Japan’s  Investment Trusts Association . It was 95 percent for
office buildings.  “The risk of residential REITs not being able to pay their
dividend as promised is extremely low because of stable
income,” said Nomura’s Araki, who favors residential REITs over
all other real estate investments. “So from that angle, the
risk of investing in residential REITs is the same as investing
in JGBs.”  Tokyo’s Growth  Starts Proceed (8979)  Investment Corp., a Tokyo-based residential
REIT that focuses on cheaper apartments mainly for singles, had
an occupancy rate of 97 percent as of October, according to
company material. The valuation of the REIT’s properties has
increased for two years because rental income helped boost the
value of its assets.  A lack of new apartments in Tokyo as the population grows
will continue to support residential REITs, said  Yoji Otani , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo. The population in the
capital has increased 6 percent to 13.1 million in the past
decade, while the number of households has risen 17 percent to
about 6.6 million, according to the  Tokyo Metropolitan
Government .  “Even though residential REITs may underperform in the
early stage of an economic recovery, they are likely to pick up
speed by boosting dividends when the economic growth
accelerates,” Otani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  