-- Johnson & Johnson Wins Hip Implant Jury Trial in Chicago
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-17T02:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/jury-finds-for-johnson-johnson-in-chicago-hip-implant-trial.html
A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit defeated
at trial an Illinois woman’s claim she was harmed by a
defectively designed metal-on-metal hip implant.  The jury of seven women and five men in state court in
Chicago deliberated for slightly more than a day before
returning its verdict today in favor of DePuy Orthopaedics Inc.
Plaintiff Carol Strum’s lawyers had asked the panel for an award
of at least $5 million.  Jurors had sent a note earlier today to Cook County Circuit
Judge Deborah Mary Dooling, who presided over the five-week
trial, asking if they must be unanimous in their verdict. Four
jurors wanted to side with Strum, forewoman Ameenah Muhammad-
Williams said outside the courtroom after the trial was over.  “There was a majority that was for DePuy and a minority
that was for the plaintiff,” said Muhammad-Williams, 55, of
suburban Park Forest,  Illinois . “Their case was not strong
enough for all 12 of us to agree.”  Strum’s case was the second to go trial of almost 11,000
filed in the U.S. The J&J unit on March 8 was ordered to pay
$8.3 million in compensatory damages by a Los Angeles jury that
found the design of its ASR XL hip implant was defective and
that the company had properly warned of associated risks. The
jury rejected punitive damages in that case.  World’s Largest  Johnson & Johnson, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , is
the world’s largest seller of health-care products.  “DePuy’s actions concerning the product were appropriate
and responsible, including the program to address patients’
medical costs related to the recall,”  Lorie Gawreluk , a DePuy
spokeswoman, said in a statement e-mailed after the verdict.  J&J recalled the implants in August 2010 after 93,000 were
sold, when it said 12 percent failed within five years. Data
last year showed 44 percent failed in  Australia  within seven
years. Analysts have said the cases could cost J&J billions of
dollars.  Strum, a 54-year-old nurse, had an ASR XL implanted in her
in 2008. It was replaced three years later.  Chromium, Cobalt  While her attorneys told jurors the chromium and cobalt
implant shed metal into her body, poisoning tissue and sending
metal ions into her blood stream, defense lawyers argued Strum
had a hyper-sensitivity to the implant and that she got no pain
relief when it was replaced with a different device.  Defense lawyers Richard Sarver and Michael Conner told
jurors yesterday that their client’s product wasn’t defectively
designed.  “I really do feel for Mrs. Strum,” her lead lawyer,
Denman Heard, said after the verdict was read. “We’ll go and
talk about what we’re going to do. This is one of many cases.
We’ll be back soon.”  In finding for DePuy, Strum’s jury also rejected Heard’s
plea to impose punitive damages.  “There were a lot of unanswered questions,” said juror
Charles Adeyanju, 35, of  Chicago , who had also favored finding
for Strum. “It just wasn’t substantial enough,” he said of her
case.  While the jurors siding with Strum stopped to answer
questions, others on the panel declined to comment on their
deliberations.  About 500 of the cases against DePuy are pending in
Illinois. Heard said he will try another later this year.  The case is Strum v. DePuy, 2011-L-9352, Circuit Court of
Cook County (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Cook County Circuit Court in Chicago at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  