-- Keystone Emissions Seen as Equal to 46 Coal Power Plants
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-16T21:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/keystone-emissions-seen-as-equal-to-46-coal-power-plants.html
The Keystone XL pipeline would
increase greenhouse-gas emissions by 181 million metric tons,
groups fighting the project said in a report, the equivalent of
more than 46 coal-fired  power plants  or 34 million vehicles,  The finding, at odds with the environmental review by the
U.S. State Department, said total emissions from the pipeline
through 2050 would be greater than total U.S. carbon-dioxide
emissions in 2011. The project to carry almost a million barrels
of Canadian tar sands oil a day to the U.S. Gulf Coast would
increase emissions of gases tied to global warming, the groups
said in a statement.  “What’s clear is that we cannot burn all of the fossil
fuels without causing significant problems,”  James Hansen , the
former U.S. space agency scientist who has been urging policy
makers to combat global warming since the 1980s, said today on a
conference call. “We do have to affect this by adding a fee to
fossil fuels, but in the meantime we have to stop these crazy
projects like the tar sands.”  The analysis assesses the emissions from producing,
transporting, refining and using the oil from  Alberta , Canada,
to come up with 181 million metric tons, which the groups said
is equal to emissions from 51 coal plants and 37.7 million
vehicles. According to the  Environmental Protection Agency , the
tonnage would be equivalent to the annual output of 46.5 coal-
fired plants, 34 million passenger vehicles or the electricity
used to power 24.5 million homes.  Minimal Impact  The Keystone pipeline being proposed by Calgary-based
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , would carry the oil across six U.S. states,
including Nebraska, to U.S. refineries. Legislation to issue a
permit for the project without presidential approval was
advanced today by a subcommittee of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee.  The State Department analysis, released March 1, said that
Keystone would have minimal impact on  climate change  because the
 oil sands  would be mined and developed with or without Keystone
XL. The environmental groups say that mining and development
isn’t inevitable.  “Without Keystone XL, with strong and growing opposition
to other tar-sands pipelines, and with continued decline in U.S.
oil demand, America simply does not need this extreme source of
oil,” the groups said. “And we do not need and cannot afford
the additional climate risk of this pipeline.”  House Votes  The pipeline is designed to carry about 830,000 barrels a
day of  tar sands  oil from Alberta and oil from shale rock
formations in the U.S. The administration has previously given
approval for the pipeline’s southern leg to relieve an oil glut
in Cushing, Oklahoma.  In the U.S. House today, Republicans and oil-industry
groups pushed for swift approval of Keystone, while opponents of
the project said it continues to pose an environmental risk to
the U.S.  “If the president refuses to act on this project, which is
clearly in the best interests of the United States, and which
will bring tremendous benefits to our country, Congress must act
and must do so quickly,” said Representative Doug Lamborn of
Colorado, chairman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee
on Energy and  Mineral Resources .  The panel is reviewing a bill to proceed with the $5.3
billion project. The legislation, sponsored by Representative
 Lee Terry , a Nebraska Republican, would let the pipeline be
built without President  Barack Obama ’s approval by expediting
judicial reviews and limiting further environmental analyses.  ‘Bad Deal’  Officials from Washington-based industry groups including
the  National Association of Manufacturers  and the American Fuel
& Petrochemical Manufacturers said the U.S. review has been
exhaustive, determining the project to be safe.  Environmental groups say a spill would jeopardize U.S.
lands and that extraction of the crude will increase  carbon
emissions  and yield relatively few jobs after construction is
complete.  “For dozens of jobs, no benefit, we accept the
environmental risk,” Representative Rush Holt of  New Jersey ,
the top Democrat on the panel said. “That sounds like a bad
deal to me.”  In a separate meeting, the House Energy and Commerce
subcommittee on Energy and Power voted 17-9 to approve Terry’s
bill, sending the legislation to the full committee. Democratic
Representatives John Barrow of Georgia and Gene Green of Texas
joined all Republicans on the panel in supporting the measure,
according to  Charlotte  Baker, a committee spokeswoman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  