-- King Signals Caution on Guidance as BOE Undergoes Policy Revamp
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-04-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/king-says-central-bank-crisis-policies-have-independence-risks.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said he’s not convinced about the merits of forward
guidance because of the risks associated with thresholds such as
jobless data that would trigger policy changes.  “What happens if the structural interpretation of a given
measured unemployment rate changes,” King said in response to
questions at an International Monetary Fund panel discussion in
 Washington  yesterday. “You don’t want to give conditional
guidance about a variable where you’re not confident that its
structural meaning could change. Because then you’d have to
backtrack, and you don’t want to backtrack on a conditional
guidance because then you’ve got nothing left.”  King is due to retire at the end of June and his final
months have been marked by some of the biggest changes in the
BOE’s history. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
appointed the first foreigner,  Mark Carney , to lead the
institution, revamped its remit and asked the central bank to
review the merits of forward policy guidance.  Carney, currently the Bank of Canada chief and due to take
over in July, has previously promoted the benefits of giving
investors more insight into the future path of policy.  King said yesterday that while it’s sensible to give
guidance in an economic model, there are risks in application.
“So I’d be a little bit cautious about it,” he said.  Real Shocks  With the U.K. in the midst of a debate on potential new
stimulus measures to  revive the economy , King said the main
challenge facing monetary policy “is not frameworks or
communications, it’s the real factors that have occurred in the
crisis and the shocks we’ve experienced.”  “When I talk about the limits to monetary policy, I talk
very much about what are the real factors driving weak aggregate
demand,” he said. “And I think they are very much related to
people adjusting to imbalances. The shocks we have to worry
about now are shocks to the banking system, shocks to
productivity.”  The BOE held its  bond-purchase program  at 375 billion
pounds ($576 billion) this month, and minutes of the decision to
be published in London today will show whether King was defeated
for a third month in a push to expand purchases.  Still, in prepared remarks at the IMF event, King said that
solving current economic problems will require more than another
round of stimulus.  “There are limits on the ability of domestic monetary
policy to expand real demand in the face of the need for changes
in the real equilibrium of the economy,” he said. “In common
with many other countries, our problems also reflect the
underlying need to rebalance our economy, requiring a
reallocation of resources both within and between nations.”  Inflation Trade-Off  In its overhaul of U.K. monetary policy, the government
reworked the BOE’s remit of keeping inflation at 2 percent to
give it greater scope to ease policy with inflation above the
goal. Inflation was 2.8 percent in March, extending a stretch
above the goal that started in 2009.  “The experience of recent years suggests that there may be
circumstances in which it is justified to aim off the inflation
target for a while in order to moderate the risk of financial
crises,” King said.  King also said an economic recovery will be limited until
banks have built up their buffers against potential shocks and
losses. The BOE’s Financial Policy Committee said last month
that U.K. lenders should raise 25 billion pounds of additional
capital.  “No matter how much liquidity is thrown at the banking
system, lending and the economy will not recover if the banking
system is inadequately capitalized and suffering from excessive
leverage,” he said. “It is not surprising that the more
strongly capitalized banks in the U.K. are expanding lending and
the poorly capitalized banks are contracting lending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  