-- Kony Solutions Weighs Public Offer as Early as This Year
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/kony-solutions-weighs-public-offer-as-early-as-this-year.html
Kony Solutions Inc. , a provider of
mobile-application platforms, has talked to banks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  about selling
shares in a public offering as early as this year.  The company, which has its headquarters in  Orlando ,
 Florida , as well as in  London , plans to select bankers this year
after introducing a service that will provide easier access to
its app platforms, Chief Executive Officer  Raj Koneru  said in an
interview yesterday. The share sale will take place this year or
in 2014, he said.  “We are talking with a lot of bankers,” Koneru said. The
company hasn’t decided how much stock to sell or the amount of
funds to raise, he said.  Kony, which has yet to make a profit, expects to record $80
million to $100 million in revenue this year, about double its
2012 sales, Koneru said. An initial public offering could raise
at least $120 million for Kony, valuing the company at more than
$700 million,  Tom Taulli , an analyst who covers IPOs, said in an
interview.  “Enterprise is really hot right now,” Taulli said.
“Right place at the right time -- that always helps with an
IPO. I suspect they’ll do well.”  Spending on app-development tools for multiple mobile
operating systems  will grow  at an average annual rate of 39
percent to reach $8.2 billion in 2016, according to Smith’s
Point Analytics LLC.  Founded in 2007, Kony sells annual subscriptions for its
app platform-service, which allows developers to customize
products to their own specifications.  The company  has raised  about $35 million from Georgian
Partners and Insight Venture Partners and may use proceeds from
an IPO to improve its software and for research and development,
Koneru said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  