-- N.Y. Mayor Candidate Backers Face Jury Over Fake Donors
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/n-y-mayor-candidate-backers-face-jury-over-fake-donors.html
Two of New York City Comptroller
 John Liu ’s supporters are set to face a jury that will decide
whether they conspired to use straw donors to illegally funnel
thousands of dollars in contributions to his 2013 campaign.  Federal prosecutors and lawyers for the two are scheduled
to make their opening statements today in the criminal trial of
Jia “Jenny” Hou, 26, Liu’s former campaign treasurer, and Xing
Wu “Oliver” Pan, 47, a fundraiser. Liu, who is seeking the
Democratic nomination to succeed Michael Bloomberg as mayor,
hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan  yesterday
asked more than 40 prospective jurors their opinions of  law
enforcement , politicians and campaign financing. He also told
them that the case involves Liu.  “There is too much money being spent on the political
system,” said one man, who remained in the jury pool.  Karen Wong, from suburban Scarsdale,  New York , said she
donated about $50 to Liu’s campaign. She was excused after
saying she had a negative experience when Liu staffers asked her
to fill out compliance paperwork tied to the contribution.  “As an Asian-American, I think it was great he was running
for higher office, but it was tainted by these investigations,”
she told the judge.  The owner of a printing business in Manhattan’s Chinatown
section said he met Liu several times and had a “very
favorable” impression of him.  ‘Stand-Up Guy’  “He’s a pretty stand-up guy based on his behavior,” the
man, Subhas Prashad, said. “As comptroller, he has done a
pretty good job. He wouldn’t tolerate what this case is about.”  Sullivan excused Prashad after he said he didn’t think he
could be fair to prosecutors.  The judge, who read a list of more than 150 people and
places that may emerge during the trial, said he expected 12
jurors and two alternates to be picked today and lawyers for
both sides to then begin delivering opening statements. The
trial, set to begin in February, was delayed after  Pan  was
involuntarily committed for what Sullivan called a “mental
health condition.”  Both defendants are charged with conspiracy and attempted
 wire fraud  and face as long as 20 years in prison if convicted
of either charge. Hou also faces a count of obstructing the
government’s investigation by failing to produce documents
sought by a grand jury investigating the case.  Deny Wrongdoing  Hou’s lawyer, Gerald B. Lefcourt, and Pan’s,  Irwin Rochman ,
have said their clients did nothing wrong. Both declined to
comment on the trial.  Prosecutors said their case includes recorded phone
conversations and thousands of pages of campaign documents, e-
mails and records.  The U.S. said Pan used the straw donors -- people whose
contributions were reimbursed by others -- to arrange for a
$16,000 contribution to Liu’s campaign from a purported Texas
businessman who called himself “Richard Kong.” Kong was
actually John Chiue, an undercover agent with the  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation.  At an August 2011 meeting that was secretly recorded, Pan
discussed with Kong how to circumvent the city’s $4,950-a-person
campaign donation limit, the U.S. said. Pan was allegedly
recorded instructing Kong to find 20 straw donors who would
purport to make contributions of $800 each in their own names.
Pan used the money he received from the undercover agent to
reimburse the straw donors, the U.S. said.  $16,000 Cash  The agent gave Pan $16,000 in cash, and on the recording
the two discussed an event for which people were recruited to
post as real donors, the U.S. said.  “Would they get matching contribution?” prosecutors quote
the agent as asking.  “Uh huh,” Pan replied. He later added: “Yeah, legally,
in theory it comes from everybody, but...it’s your event,”
prosecutors said, citing the recording.  Hou is accused of using dozens of people to pose as
legitimate campaign donors. As part of the scheme, she obtained
reimbursements for people who gave at Liu fundraising events,
prosecutors said. They haven’t said how much money was allegedly
collected under the donor scheme.  Pan’s lawyers last year lost a bid to get the charges
dismissed on the grounds that the government engaged in
“outrageous and conscience-shocking” conduct to “manufacture
a crime involving campaign finance laws by the comptroller and
Mr. Pan.”  ‘They Promised’  “They promised that they would not arrest him if he agreed
to cooperate with the government in manufacturing a criminal
case against Mr. Liu and/or his staff,” Rochman said in a
September court filing. When the U.S. probe failed, Pan was
arrested and charged, according to the defense.  At a Jan. 29 hearing, Rochman said he intended to have the
jury hear recordings of conversations secretly made by an
undercover agent “for the purpose of showing they are
inducements by the undercover of Mr. Pan.”  Prosecutors called the defense claim that authorities
attempted to manufacture a case against Liu with Pan’s help
“fervent speculation.”  Defense lawyers said in court papers that federal
investigators obtained court-authorized wiretaps in 2010,
allowing agents to listen to Liu’s phone conversations for more
than a year and a half.  Tapped Phones  The U.S. obtained 10 wiretaps on six different phones
belonging to Liu and an aide who hasn’t been charged with
wrongdoing, the defense said.  Paul Shechtman, a lawyer for Liu, said the case originated
from an informant’s 2009 tip that remains unsubstantiated.  “This case started with a hearsay allegation that three
years, numerous witnesses, several subpoenas and one undercover
investigation later remains uncorroborated,” Shechtman said in
a phone interview. “Whatever the outcome, the evidence will
show that John Liu, as much as anyone ever in public life,
sought to run a clean campaign.”  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Brian Jacobs and Justin Anderson
said the trial should take about two weeks.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  The case is U.S. v. Pan, 1:12-cr-00153, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  