-- N.Z. Consumer Prices Rise Less Than Forecast; Currency Falls
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-16T22:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/n-z-consumer-prices-rise-less-than-forecast-currency-falls.html
New Zealand  consumer prices rose
less than economists forecast last quarter as a strengthening
currency makes imports cheaper, adding to signs a period of
record-low  interest rates  will be prolonged. The kiwi fell.  Consumer  prices  increased 0.4 percent from the fourth
quarter, when they fell 0.2 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said
in Wellington today. That’s less than the 0.5 percent median
estimate in a  Bloomberg News  survey of 14 economists.  Prices
gained 0.9 percent from a year earlier, matching estimates.  Annual inflation was slower than the central bank’s 1
percent to 3 percent target for the third straight quarter,
matching the central bank’s forecasts. Reserve Bank Governor
Graeme Wheeler last month said he expected to leave borrowing
costs unchanged at 2.5 percent this year because of the effects
of a drought and the strong currency on growth.  “The continued deflationary impact of the elevated  New
Zealand dollar  suggests inflation will remain subdued over the
first half of 2013,”  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB Bank
Ltd. in Auckland, said in an April 15 note. He forecasts no
change in rates until March 2014.  New Zealand’s dollar has gained 2.5 percent this year, the
best-performing Group of 10 currency. It fell to 84.67 U.S.
cents as of 10:47 a.m. in Wellington from 84.82 cents
immediately before the report.  Nine of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this week
expect no change in rates this year. Six see a rate rise by Dec.
31. None forecast a rate cut.  Wheeler started in his role in late September after signing
an agreement with Finance Minister  Bill English  requiring him to
keep annual inflation in a 1 percent to 3 percent range, with a
focus on the 2 percent midpoint.  The central bank on March 14 estimated prices rose 0.9
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier. It projected
annual inflation would pick up gradually in the next two years,
and won’t reach 2 percent until the second half of 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  