-- News Corp. Plans to Call Entertainment Spinoff 21st Century Fox
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-04-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/news-corp-will-call-entertainment-spinoff-21st-century-fox-1-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s entertainment
business, due to be spun off from the rest of the company in the
next few months, will go by the name 21st Century Fox, giving a
modern-day twist to the company’s 78-year-old film-studio brand.  News Corp. announced the plan in a  statement  yesterday,
reversing a previous decision to call the business Fox Group.
Billionaire  Rupert Murdoch , the founder of News Corp., will
become chairman and chief executive officer of the new company,
which will include film and television units.  Murdoch, who began his media empire more than a half-
century ago with newspapers, gave in to shareholder pressure
last year to separate the declining publishing division from his
more profitable television and film businesses. The
entertainment spinoff will include cable and broadcast networks,
as well as the Twentieth Century Fox studio, which will retain
its existing name.  “21st Century Fox is a name that draws upon the rich
creative heritage of Twentieth Century Fox, while also speaking
to the innovation and dynamism that must define each of our
businesses through the 21st century,” Murdoch wrote in a note
to employees yesterday. “Our new name is inspired by the very
first company we acquired nearly 30 years ago as our initial
foray into the awe-inspiring world of entertainment.”  The movie studio was formed from the merger of Fox Film
Corp. and Twentieth Century Pictures in 1935. Murdoch acquired
control of the company in 1985, the same year he became a U.S.
citizen and bought six TV stations to lay the foundation for his
TV network.  At the dawn of the 21st century, Twentieth Century Fox
opted to keep its name -- even as companies such as 20th Century
Insurance Co. and Gateway 2000 updated their monikers. The Doors
also brought fame to the Twentieth Century Fox name by releasing
a song by that title in 1967.  The publishing side of News Corp., which includes the Wall
Street Journal and the  New York  Post, will retain that name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  