-- Nordic Power Price Falls After EU Rejects CO2 Market Fix
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-04-16T14:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/nordic-power-price-falls-after-eu-rejects-co2-market-fix.html
Nordic electricity prices for next
quarter fell to an eight-week low after the European Parliament
rejected a proposal to temporarily curb the supply of carbon
permits, causing emission allowances to drop to a record.  The region’s benchmark power contract fell 4.3 percent to
36 euros ($47.27) a megawatt-hour, the lowest closing price
since Feb. 19, on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s energy exchange in
Oslo. Power for May lost 4.6 percent to 36.50 euros a megawatt-
hour, the lowest since Mar. 13.  Carbon permits for December dropped as much as 45 percent,
the most ever, to 2.63 euros a metric ton after the EU
Parliament voted against a measure that would allow the European
Commission to temporarily withhold 900 million metric tons from
the market in a bid to prop up prices and spur low-carbon
investments. The contract traded at 3.25 euros a ton at 3:02
p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London .  “Nordic power is under lots of pressure from the CO2 vote,
which creates negative sentiment,” Martin Jansson, commodities
strategist at Handelsbanken said by phone from  Stockholm .
“Wetter and milder weather, which is spelling an end to a
prolonged dry and cold period, is also weighing on Nordic power
prices.”  The Nordic next-quarter power contract may drop by an
additional 1 or 2 euros, Jansson said.  The amount of water and snow available to generate
electricity in the region in two weeks may be 19.3 terawatt-
hours below normal for the time of year, with the deficit
narrowing from today’s minus 24.2 terawatt-hours, Markedskraft
data on Bloomberg showed.  Nordic power for delivery around the clock tomorrow will
 cost  45.23 euros a megawatt-hour on average, following today’s
auction on the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange in Oslo. That’s 10
percent less than yesterday’s price for today. Forward prices
can track movements in prompt prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  