-- Northern Trust Profit Rises 1.7% as Market Boosts Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-04-16T11:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/northern-trust-profit-rises-1-7-as-market-boosts-assets.html
Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-
biggest independent U.S. custody bank, said first-quarter profit
rose 1.7 percent as stock-market gains boosted the value of
assets the company oversees.  Net income increased to $164 million, or 67 cents per
diluted share, from $161.2 million, or 66 cents a share, a year
earlier, the Chicago-based company said today in a statement.
Results missed the 72-cent average estimate of 16 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “We have a better macro backdrop with higher market levels
this quarter, and we saw good organic growth across all three”
of the largest publicly listed custody banks, Brian Bedell, a
New York-based analyst at ISI Group Inc., said in an interview
before results were released.  The custody banks, under pressure to improve profitability
hurt by record-low interest rates, are benefiting as global
equity markets climb for the second straight year. Northern
Trust, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Frederick H. Waddell, followed larger rivals  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
and  State Street Corp. (STT)  with job cuts in 2012 that, combined with
technology initiatives, are designed to increase annual pretax
income by $250 million by the end of this year.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks returned 14
percent in the 12 months ended March 31, and global stocks, as
measured by the MSCI ACWI Index, advanced 11 percent, with
reinvested dividends.  Rate Impact  Low rates hurt custody banks by reducing the return they
make on lending and on their own investments. The U.S. Federal
Reserve has held its benchmark interest rate at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008 in an attempt to stimulate borrowing
and economic growth.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors, including mutual funds,
pension funds and hedge funds. Northern Trust also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  Results were announced before the start of regular U.S.
trading. Northern Trust gained 7.3 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 15 percent advance by the Standard &
Poor’s 20-company  index  of asset managers and custody banks.  BNY Mellon is scheduled to released earnings tomorrow,
followed by State Street on April 19.  (Northern Trust is scheduled to hold a conference call for
investors at 10 a.m.  New York  time. The call can be accessed at
 http://www.northerntrust/financialreleases .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  