-- Obama Threatens Veto of Revised House Cyber Measure
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-04-16T20:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/obama-threatens-veto-of-revised-house-cyber-measure.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration threatened to veto revised cybersecurity
legislation backed by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) , saying it
doesn’t do enough to protect the privacy of U.S. citizens.  The bill, scheduled to be debated in the House tomorrow,
would give companies immunity from lawsuits if they share
information with each other and with the U.S. government about
threats to  computer networks .  “Citizens have a right to know that corporations will be
held accountable -- and not granted immunity -- for failing to
safeguard personal information adequately,” the White House
said today in a statement. “The Administration still seeks
additional improvements and if the bill, as currently crafted,
were presented to the President, his senior advisors would
recommend that he veto the bill.”  Congress is renewing a push to pass cybersecurity
legislation following warnings by U.S. intelligence officials
that electronic attacks could disrupt the nation’s banks,
utilities, telecommunications networks and other essential
services.  The threat of cyber attacks has for the first time become a
greater concern than terrorism,  James Clapper , the top U.S.
intelligence official, told the House Intelligence Committee
during an April 11 hearing.  The Chinese army may be behind the hacking of at least 141
companies worldwide since 2006, according to a Feb. 19 report
from Alexandria, Virginia-based Mandiant Corp.  Information Sharing  The House measure, H.R. 624, would authorize the government
to share classified cyberthreat data with companies that own or
operate vital computer networks.  Those companies would be guaranteed legal protections when
it comes to sharing cybersecurity information with each other
and the government, including the National Security Agency.
Shared information would be exempt from public disclosure,
according to the bill.  The Intelligence Committee voted 18-2 to approve the bill
April 10 after making changes designed to safeguarding privacy
and aimed at winning over the White House and some lawmakers.  The changes included requiring the government to minimize
collection of information that could identify citizens, and
clarifying that companies could use cybersecurity data only to
protect their networks, not for marketing purposes.  Bill Changes  Other changes included denying firms legal protections if
they use cyberthreat information to hack each other, and
dropping language allowing agencies to use the information for
national security purposes.  “We have produced a balanced bill that provides strong
protections for privacy and civil liberties, while enabling
effective cyberthreat sharing,” Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican and chairman of the intelligence panel, said
in a statement after last week’s vote.  The House passed a version of the bill 248-168 a year ago
in April after the White House threatened to veto it. The
legislation died when the Senate didn’t take it up. A different
cybersecurity bill in the Senate was blocked by Republicans who
said it would lead to regulation.  Obama issued an executive order Feb. 12 outlining policies
for wider sharing of government data on cyber attacks. The order
directs the government to develop voluntary cybersecurity
standards for businesses and instructs U.S. agencies to consider
adding the standards to existing rules.  Privacy Concerns  Rogers has said Obama’s executive order, because it
promotes information sharing, could encourage the Senate to take
up and pass the House bill.  The revised bill is still opposed by some lawmakers
including Democratic Representatives Adam Schiff and  Anna Eshoo 
of  California ,  Jan Schakowsky  of  Illinois  and Rush Holt of  New
Jersey .  The bill “has major shortcomings and would undermine the
interests of citizens and their privacy,” the lawmakers wrote
in an April 15 letter to all members of the House.  They said the bill doesn’t require companies sharing
information to remove data that could identify citizens; would
let companies share data about citizens with the National
Security Agency; and won’t stop companies from hacking each
other.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  encouraged lawmakers to
vote against it in an  April 15 letter .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  