-- Lockheed, Reignwood to Build Ocean Thermal Power Plant for China
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-04-16T19:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/lockheed-reignwood-to-build-ocean-thermal-power-plant-for-china.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  China ’s
Reignwood Group will build a plant to generate electricity from
differences in ocean temperatures, using technology the U.S.
defense company previously worked on in the 1970s.  The 10-megawatt facility powered by ocean thermal energy
conversion, or OTEC, may spur use of a technology that has the
potential for billions of dollars of projects, Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed said on its  website . The plant will
produce power for a Chinese resort being built by Reignwood.  “Benefits to generating power with OTEC are immense,” Dan
Heller, vice president of new ventures for Lockheed Martin
mission systems and training, said in yesterday’s statement.
“Constructing a sea-based, multimegawatt pilot OTEC power plant
for Reignwood is the final step in making it an economic option
to meet growing needs for clean, reliable energy.”  While OTEC systems are able to produce round-the-clock
power, clean drinking water and hydrogen for use in electric
vehicles, there are no commercial-scale plants in operation.  The agreement with Reignwood may be the foundation to
develop OTEC power plants from 10 megawatts to 100 megawatts,
Lockheed said in the statement. A commercial-scale plant would
have the capability to power a small city, it said.  Lockheed already has tested an OTEC plant that ran for
three months and produced 50 kilowatts of electricity. It got
$12.5 million from the U.S. Navy to develop a pilot facility.  The company is working with Atlantis Resources Corp., a
London-based ocean turbine maker, to build a tidal turbine to
install at the Bay of Fundy in  Canada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  