-- Hog Glut Gains as U.S. Exports Drop Most in Decade: Commodities
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-17T19:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/hog-glut-gains-as-u-s-exports-drop-most-in-decade-commodities.html
U.S. hog farmers are poised to
produce a record amount of pork at a time when exports are
slumping the most in more than a decade, prolonging a global
glut into a fifth consecutive year.  The 10.66 million metric tons produced will be the most
since at least 1970, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. Exports fell 14 percent in the first two months, the
most for the period in government data since 2000. Futures may
drop 20 percent to 72 cents a pound by the end of the year on
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, based on the median of nine
trader and analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for pork from the U.S., the biggest exporter, is
weakening as importers from  South Korea  to  Japan  expand domestic
output. Exports are also retreating as  China  and  Russia , the
largest buyers after Japan, curb purchases of meat produced with
ractopamine, a feed additive used in the U.S. Farmers are
expanding output because costs are dropping as grain prices
tumble from records set during last year’s drought.  “It’s hard to be very bullish right now,” said  Ron Plain ,
a livestock economist at the  University of Missouri  in Columbia
who has studied the industry for about three decades. “2014 is
likely to have more pork if the corn outlook turns out the way
we expect it to.”  Futures Contracts  Hogs for settlement in June, the most widely held contract
on the CME, declined 7.7 percent to 90.35 cents this year. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight commodities
fell 5.8 percent, and the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities rose 4.6 percent. Treasuries returned 0.6 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The U.S. hog herd reached 65.91 million head March 1, 1.5
percent more than a year earlier and the most for the date since
2008, USDA data show. The supply of breeding animals, an
indication of future supply, was the most since 2009. Corn
futures fell 25 percent in  Chicago  since reaching a record in
August, as farmers prepare to plant the most acres since 1936.  Global pork  production  will rise 0.3 percent to an all-time
high of 104.71 million tons this year, according to data from
the USDA in  Washington . Demand is estimated at 104.25 million
tons, the highest level on record.  The U.S. shipped 820.8 million pounds (372,300 tons) in the
first two months of 2013, USDA data show. Exports to China
slumped 43 percent. The Asian nation said in February it would
tighten import controls to ensure meat excluded ractopamine,
used by some farmers to add lean muscle in livestock. The
Chinese market remains open to U.S. pork, said Joe Schuele, a
spokesman for the Denver-based U.S. Meat Export Federation.  Beef Products  Russia banned U.S.  pork  and beef products in January,
citing ractopamine. The country also barred some pork from
 Germany , the Netherlands,  Spain ,  Mexico  and  Canada  in the last
several months because it said production facilities failed to
meet safety standards, according to Rosselkhoznadzor, the food
safety regulator.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators are betting on
higher prices again for the first time since February, after
being bearish for five consecutive weeks, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. Their net-long  position  of 2,967
futures and options contracts is still only about 13 percent of
the average bullish wager over the past five years. One futures
contract is currently valued at $35,610, bourse data show.  Futures Prices  The anticipated slump in prices may be curbed by a seasonal
surge in U.S. demand as warmer weather spurs more grilling
outdoors. Production typically drops to its low each year from
May to July because animals tend to gain less weight when
temperatures rise. Futures will have a “spring rally into the
summer” and exceed 90 cents a pound, said David Kruse, the
president of CommStock Investments Inc., a brokerage in Royal,
 Iowa , who has tracked the market since the 1970s.  Lower futures prices won’t necessarily mean cheaper meat
for consumers, according to the USDA, which is predicting a 3
percent to 4 percent gain in retail costs this year, the same as
its outlook for overall food inflation. Global  meat prices  fell
2 percent in March, the most since June, the  United Nations ’
Food & Agriculture Organization said April 11.  Retail pork-chop prices rose 1.9 percent in the U.S. this
year, compared with an 8.2 percent rally in ground beef and a
2.2 percent gain for boneless sirloin steak, according to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. Pork consumption will rise 2 percent
to a three-year high of 46.8 pounds per person, as beef demand
retreats 3 percent to the lowest since at least 1970, USDA data
show.  Largest Exporter  Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc. (CBRL) , the operator of 622
restaurants across 42 states, expects food commodity  costs  to
rise 4 percent to 5 percent this fiscal year, with pork among
the biggest increases, Chief Financial Officer Lawrence E. Hyatt
said on a conference call in February.  Declining output in the European Union, the second largest
exporter, may also limit world supply. The 27-nation bloc will
produce 3 percent less than last year because farmers will cull
herds in response to new regulations increasing the amount of
space required for breeding sows, Rabobank International
estimates. The EU Commission, the administrative arm, expects
 exports  to retreat 14 percent.  The U.S. is “well positioned” to make up for any drop in
EU sales,  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  Chief Executive Officer C. Larry Pope told analysts on a conference call March 7. The Smithfield,
Virginia-based company is the world’s biggest hog and pork
producer. Its shares rose 19 percent to $25.57 this year and
will reach $29.89 in 12 months, the average of nine analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Frozen Stockpiles  Prices are already falling outside the U.S. China’s hog
 production , the world’s biggest, may climb to a record 690
million animals this year, the USDA estimates. The government is
stockpiling frozen pork across more than 20 provinces to stem
the plunge in prices, the National Development and Reform
Commission said April 7.  “Assuming we get a more normal year weather-wise then feed
prices are more likely to come down than go up,” said Stephen
Howarth, a senior analyst at the U.K. Agriculture & Horticulture
Development Board’s pig unit in Kenilworth,  England . “There
will be opportunities for expansion fairly quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  