-- Studios Respond to Mass Shootings With Film Ratings Campaign
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-16T20:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/hollywood-updates-film-ratings-with-more-information-for-parents.html
Hollywood studios , responding to
calls for less violence in films following mass shootings last
year, unveiled a campaign to help parents screen what children
see in movie theaters.  The effort will highlight descriptions that explain
industry ratings including PG-13 and R,  Chris Dodd , chairman and
chief executive officer of the  Motion Picture Association  of
America, and  John Fithian , president of the  National Association
of Theatre Owners , said today in  Las Vegas .  “We listen very carefully, not just when events occur, but
all the time to provide this kind of support to parents,” Dodd,
a former U.S. senator, said in an interview.  The updated approach follows January talks between industry
representatives and Vice President  Joe Biden  in the wake of mass
shootings in Newtown,  Connecticut , in December and at a cinema
in Aurora, Colorado, in July. Dodd, who had ruled out mandatory
curbs on gun violence in movies, suggested more information to
help parents choose film for children.  “My understanding is that it was in response to the Sandy
Hook shootings and their agreement with the vice president at
the time to review the system,”  Eric Wold , a B. Riley & Co.
analyst in  San Francisco , said in an e-mail.  New ratings materials will highlight terms as “drug
references” and “violent sequences” along with the letter
designations moviegoers have seen for years, according to a
public service announcement unveiled with the campaign. Dodd and
Fithian were in Las Vegas for the movie exhibitors’ annual
CinemaCon convention.  Ratings System  “The campaign we are announcing today focuses on these
descriptors, giving parents the information they need to
navigate the rating system and movies coming to their
theaters,” according to a transcript of Dodd’s remarks provided
by the MPAA. “We’ve produced something we believe you will be
proud to showcase at your theaters.”  Following the July shooting at a Colorado theater screening
“The Dark Knight Rises,”  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.
studio deleted a scene of a movie-house shooting in the film
“Gangster Squad.”  Films rated PG or higher have included such descriptions
since 1990, according to Dodd. The campaign is built around a
“Check the Box” theme that gives parents a snapshot of the
content in each film.  “These changes make the rating and advertising process
more transparent and user-friendly for parents and we are happy
to support that endeavor,” Fithian said in prepared remarks.  The  MPAA system  includes five ratings. G is for general
audiences, while PG suggests parental guidance. PG-13 says some
material may be inappropriate for children under 13, and R
requires an adult to accompany moviegoers under age 17. Films
with NC-17 ratings shouldn’t be shown to teens under age 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  