-- Onassis Heir’s Equine Crush Gives Lufthansa $1.3 Million Leg Up
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-04-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/onassis-heir-s-equine-crush-gives-lufthansa-1-3-million-leg-up.html
Aristotle Onassis’s only surviving
descendant is providing a boost to  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s cargo
unit with a regular contract to transport dozens of show jumping
horses to Brazil at a cost of as much as $1.3 million.  Athina Onassis de Miranda , the main heir to her shipping
magnate grandfather, funds the transfer of horses to Rio de
Janeiro for a tournament she helped set up and which bears her
name, said Axel Heitmann, head of Lufthansa’s animal-cargo unit.  “Once a year she invites the community to her big event,”
Heitmann said in an interview. In total, Lufthansa transports
about 2,000 horses a year in what has become a “very profitable
business,” since the size and bulk of a consignment determines
the price, he said at the company’s Frankfurt Animal Lounge.  Flying one horse across the Atlantic can cost 10,000 euros
($13,000), as much as a first-class return for a two-legged
passenger, and as many as 100 attend the South American event,
Heitmann said. While animal transport contributes 2 percent of
Lufthansa’s annual freight revenue, the market is less volatile
than the cyclical cargo business and helps stabilize earnings.  Lufthansa’s South American legs are among the longest flown
with horses, with Frankfurt-Sao Paolo and Frankfurt-Buenos Aires
taking 12 hours. Animals headed to the Americas from the Middle
East also pause in  Europe  because the distances would otherwise
be too great, while some originating in Asia go via the longer
westbound route because of the level of service, Heitmann said.  Amsterdam Appeal  About 24,000 horses travel by air each year, with Lufthansa
ranked second in the market globally behind  Air France-KLM
Group (AF) , which moves about 12,000, aided by its so-called  Animal
Hotel  in Amsterdam, according to spokesman Jean-Claude Raynaud.  Cargolux Airlines International SA is also a major player,
with other competitors including  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , Dubai-based
Emirates,  El Al Israel Airlines (ELAL)  Ltd. and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)   Athina Onassis moved to Brazil after her 2005 marriage to
 Alvaro Affonso de Miranda Neto , a two-time Olympic bronze medal
winner, establishing the show jumping event two years later.  Transport and accommodation for the world’s top 30 horses
and riders is ultimately funded by sponsors, as is the practice
for all events awarded five-star status under a ranking system
approved by the International Federation for Equestrian Sports,
according to Alice Furtado, a spokeswoman for Onassis.  Coca-Cola, Petrobras  Current backers include Coca-Cola Co.,  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) , watchmaker Longines, the Brazilian government,  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  -- or Petrobras -- and phone company  Oi SA. (OIBR4)   “The main reason the event exists is that Brazil --despite
having an Olympic equestrian champion and two bronze medals for
teams -- didn’t have a five-star event,” Furtado said “The
idea is to bring the country closer to the sport.”  The Athina Onassis Horse Show began as part of the Global
Champions Tour, a show-jumping circuit founded by Olympic gold
medal winner  Jan Tops  in 2006 that’s among the most lucrative in
a sport known to attract European and Arabian royals and U.S.
socialites including Bruce Springsteen’s daughter Jessica.  While the GCT will make its London debut this summer at an
event organized by Peter Phillips, Queen Elizabeth II’s eldest
grandchild, Onassis’s Brazilian contest has been an independent
since 2012 and will this year take place in October.  French-born Onassis was raised in Switzerland, where  Bilanz 
estimated in 2011 she was worth 3 billion Swiss francs ($3.2
billion), making her the country’s youngest billionaire. The
magazine removed her from the ranking after the move to  Brazil ,
and Furtado said Onassis had no comment on her wealth.  Lizards, Fish  The 28-year-old is the only child of the late Christina
Onassis, whose brother Alexander died without any offspring.
Aristotle Onassis’s second marriage to Jacqueline Kennedy, widow
of the assassinated U.S. president, was childless.  Onassis, herself an accomplished rider, and her Brazilian
husband have won prize money in GCT competitions totaling $1.3
million since 2006, according to its  website . Edwina Tops-
Alexander, wife of the founder, leads the tally on $3 million.  Lufthansa transports 110 million creatures a year in total,
ranging from lizards and tropical fish through cats and dogs to
farm and zoo animals. The Cologne-based company has ordered 24
boxes from Van Riemsdijk Rotterdam BV able to hold three horses
apiece, which it helped develop. The containers fold for loading
in the bellies of passenger planes, where pets usually travel.  The busiest routes include those to and from the U.S.,
Beijing,  Singapore  and Dubai, Sharjah and Qatar in the Gulf.  Private clients must use specialist shipping agents such as
industry leader Peden Bloodstock of the U.K., which handles
import procedures and health documentation and provides so-
called flying grooms who care for animals during transport.  “Demand is continuously climbing as the sport enthuses
more and more people, especially in Asia,” said Isabelle Atock,
a senior consultant at Peden, which transports horse for the
Olympics and most major championships, including the Onassis
show in Rio, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  