-- London Marathoners Won’t Quit as Sports Review Security Plan
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-17T14:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/london-marathoners-won-t-quit-as-sports-world-reviews-security.html
Marathon runners in  London  say the
bombings in  Boston  that killed three people and injured at least
175 won’t deter them from taking part in one of the world’s
biggest races this weekend.  Law enforcement authorities in London are continuing their
review of security plans for the 26.2-mile (42-kilometer) race
from Blackheath in south London to near  Buckingham Palace , two
days after a pair of bombs went off at the finish line of the
Boston Marathon. An 8-year-old boy was among those killed.  Organizers confirmed the April 21 London race, with 37,000
entrants, will be held. Runners including Alice Pedder, a 28-
year-old attorney at Travers Smith law firm in London, say
they’re comfortable with the city’s record in stopping attacks.  “It is impossible to police 26 miles of a city
completely,” said Pedder, who has run as many as 40 miles a
week during one of London’s coldest winters to prepare. “It
makes you want to run even more. It’s privilege, and if people
are going to try and stop people doing something so amazing then
you’ve got to do it all the more, and not let people who want to
blow up things stop you.”  London’s experience with terror attacks from religious
extremists and Irish nationalists and successfully guarding the
2012 Olympics gives the city an advantage in preparing for big
sporting events, said Jennifer Cole, a senior research fellow at
the  Royal United Services Institute  in London. No increase in
officers or closed circuit television cameras can stop all
attacks, she added.  Video Cameras  “You can never have 100 percent security,” Cole said.
“There are only so many numbers of CCTV cameras that you can
have alongside the route, there are only so many numbers of
police and security analysts that you can put onto looking for
information about any potential threats. Everything that can be
done is being done, but you will never get to a point of zero
threat.”  Mark Novak, president and chief operating officer of New
York-based Global Security Group, said there are a number of
precautions organizers can take for a lengthy course, such as a
marathon or motorcade route. They include sealing mail boxes
along the route, removing nearby trash cans, increasing the
number of people on patrol and limiting obvious hiding spots.  “It’s problematic because the nature of a marathon is that
you have all these runners discarding bags, discarding clothes
along the route,” Novak said in a telephone interview. “It’s a
huge challenge and I don’t envy them, quite honestly.”  Security Costs  Harvey Schiller , chief executive of New York-based
 GlobalOptions Group Inc. (GLOI) , which provides high-end security to
companies, governmental organizations and individuals, said
yesterday that extra measures come with a cost.  “These incidents -- you learn from each one and you start
to put things in place that you didn’t before,” Schiller said.
“Each one leads to another level of security, which takes away
more freedom.”  No one had claimed responsibility for the bombings at the
116-year-old Boston race, and police said they had no suspects
or motive.  The London Marathon will conduct registration today as
planned, while organizers meet with the Metropolitan Police.
Race officials announced there will be a 30-second moment of
silence before each of the three starts, and runners will be
given black ribbons to wear when they pick up their numbers.  “We are determined to deliver an amazing event that will
focus on one of the core pillars of the London Marathon, which
is ‘to have fun and provide some happiness and a sense of
achievement in a troubled world,’” race director Hugh Brasher
said in a statement.  London Upbringing  Darren Yarlett, an operations manager at equities broker
Redburn Partners, said he’s used to living with the idea of a
possible terrorist threat because he was born and raised in
London.  “The bottom line is, if someone wants to do something bad,
then they will,” said Yarlett, 31. “But I feel safe.”  Runner Lucy Land has confidence in security arrangements,
although she said the race will feel different.  “There is something very exciting and unique about
competing with elite marathon runners,” said Land, a 40-year-
old founder of clothing company Zulucow in Dulverton in
southwest  England . “I am sure it’s all going to be fine, but
what happened in Boston will be at the back of your mind now.”  Sporting events worldwide are looking to increase security
after the bombing in  Massachusetts .  Super Bowl  Organizers of the 2014  Super Bowl , to be played in MetLife
Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey , in February, said
security already is so tight after the terrorist attacks on
Sept. 11, 2001, that the bombings probably won’t change
anything, said Wayne Hasenbalg, president and chief executive of
the New Jersey Sports & Exposition Authority.  “It’s obvious that security issues in this new world, with
the reality of what happened over a decade ago and what happened
yesterday, have to be one of the primary components of any
planning for any big event,” Hasenbalg said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  The authority, designated to coordinate New Jersey’s role
in hosting the  National Football League ’s championship game, had
a previously scheduled meeting yesterday with host committee
Chief Executive Al Kelly to discuss security.  Securing events in a stadium or arena -- with limited entry
and exit points -- is easier than at more open venues, said
Dennis Robinson, chief operations officer of Port Imperial
Racing Associates LLC, which is staging a Formula 1 race next
year in Weehawken and West  New York , New Jersey.  “We’re trying to operate this as close to a bricks-and-
mortar venue as possible, utilizing many of the same policies
and procedures such as bag checks and sweeps, that takes place
at fixed venues,” Robinson said in an interview. “The
difference is our primary area will be spread over a mile and a
half.”  Event Planning  He said security procedures lay the foundation for
everything involved in event planning.  “Everything flows from that -- how you lay out your
facility, how you staff your facility, where you put your
guests,” he said. “Everything flows based upon public
safety.”  In  Brazil , where soccer’s  World Cup  will be held next year
and the Olympics in 2016, security officials said they hope to
learn from the bombings in the U.S. The country is expecting
600,000 foreign visitors for the  soccer tournament , which runs
from June 12 to July 13, 2014.  “We’re following very closely what happened in Boston,”
Jose Monteiro, director of operations of Brazil’s special
secretariat of safety for major events said by telephone from
Brasilia yesterday. “As an experience, it is rather useful to
reinforce that we’re doing things right, that we’re preparing
for any possible attack or incident.”  Continuing to hold and participate in large venues is a way
to resist efforts of terrorists to weaken public resolve, Cole
said.  “Being able to show that we are able to stand up to that
kind of threat is far more important than to show we are afraid
of it,” said Cole, of the Royal United Services Institute, a
London-based research group specializing in defense and security
research. “We cannot be frightened into changing so
significantly that we get to a zero-tolerance situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  