-- OTC Market Dearth Means PZU Shuns Corporate Bonds: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-04-17T10:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/otc-market-dearth-means-pzu-shuns-corporate-bonds-poland-credit.html
Investors should shun zloty-
denominated debt sold by Polish companies because an undeveloped
secondary market hampers liquidity and skews pricing, according
to the country’s biggest mutual fund.  The trading volume of corporate bonds both on the Catalyst
market, set up in 2009 by the  Warsaw Stock Exchange (GPW) , and
directly between banks and funds was 1.77 billion zloty ($565
million) in the first quarter, or 3.4 percent of the total
outstanding company debt, according to the bourse and  Fitch
Ratings . Polish corporate securities  returned  23 percent in the
past year in dollar terms, the most after  Venezuela  among 37
 emerging markets , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes .  Trading of corporate bonds in the so-called over-the-
counter market is hindered by lenders holding the notes to
maturity. Central bank Governor Marek Belka said last week he
wanted to boost the market by making more debt usable as
collateral. Polish company bonds stood at 6.7 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with as much as 300 percent in
western  Europe , as bank loans dominate, Warsaw bourse data show.  “We recommend avoiding zloty corporate bonds until there’s
a market that ensures liquidity and fair valuations,” Tomasz Stadnik, who oversees the equivalent of $5.4 billion as chief
investment officer at PZU TFI SA, Poland’s largest mutual fund,
said in an April 11 interview in Warsaw. The lack of development
of trading in the secondary market and the inability to bundle
debt for resale makes it difficult to value securities, he said.  Debt Sales  Domestic companies sold 2.89 billion zloty of notes in the
first quarter, increasing the total debt outstanding to 52.2
billion zloty, according to Fitch. That compares with a 1
billion zloty increase in bank loans to companies in the first
two months bringing the total to 273.3 billion zloty at the end
of February, according to  Poland ’s financial market regulator.  Banks have a lot of cash and are attracting the best
borrowers for their loans, according to Tomasz Puzyrewicz, head
of debt capital markets at Bank Zachodni WBK SA.  “There are also a lot of good companies that choose bank
loans because of the longer maturities they can get,” he said
by phone yesterday.  Broadening Collateral  The Polish central bank will be “proactive” in broadening
collateral at its cash operations, Belka said on April 10. It
currently lends cash to banks in exchange for securities issued
by the central government and some municipalities, road bonds
sold by state-owned lender Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego as well
as some mortgage-backed assets, according to its website. No
corporate notes are presently used as collateral, the bank said.  Companies sold a record 24.9 billion zloty of bonds last
year as utilities from Poland’s dominant gas distributor Polskie
Gornictwo Gazowe i Gazownictwo SA to Energa SA, the country’s
fourth-largest power group, diversified financing to upgrade
aging facilities.  Poland’s second-largest power utility  Tauron Polska Energia
SA (TPE) ,  rated  at BBB by Fitch, the second-lowest investment grade,
may sell 1.5 billion zloty of bonds this year while PKN Orlen
SA, the country’s biggest oil refiner, plans to offer as much as
1 billion zloty of debt within 12 months.  “For securities with investment-rating potential liquidity
is quite good and there rather shouldn’t be any problems with
exiting,” Marek Marciniak, a Warsaw-based senior debt market
analyst at ING PTE SA, the nation’s largest pension fund, with
the equivalent of $20 billion in assets, said by phone
yesterday. “Last year saw a handful of new, big issuances with
investment grade, which improved liquidity.”  Market Makers  Marciniak, whose fund almost doubled its corporate debt
portfolio to 2.78 billion zloty in March from a year earlier,
said ING requires the bonds it’s buying to have market makers
that ensure trading on Catalyst.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish  dollar-
denominated bonds  rather than U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at
128 at 12:30 p.m. in Warsaw, indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase
& Co. show. The additional yield on 10-year zloty notes over
German bunds declined two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 225, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The zloty strengthened less than 0.1 percent to 4.1091
against the euro, reducing this year’s decline to 0.7 percent.  Default Risk  The cost to protect Polish debt against non-payment for
five years using  credit-default swaps  fell one basis point to
81, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts, which
decline as the perception of creditworthiness improves, pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a borrower renege.  The absence of entities to buy so-called distressed assets
and a bankruptcy law that makes is difficult to recover losses
is hurting development of the  bond market , according to Marcin Zoltek, who oversees an equivalent of $19 billion of assets as
chief investment officer at Aviva PTE SA, Poland’s second-
biggest pension fund, said in an interview on March 11.  ----With assistance from Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw. Editors:
Stephen Kirkland, Wojciech Moskwa, Peter Branton  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  