-- Hou, Pan Corrupted Campaign Using Straw Donors, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-16T22:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/hou-pan-corrupted-campaign-using-straw-donors-u-s-says.html
Two of  New York  City Comptroller
John Liu’s supporters conspired to corrupt his campaign by using
straw donors to try to funnel thousands of dollars in
contributions, a prosecutor told a federal jury in  Manhattan .  Jia “Jenny” Hou, 26, Liu’s former campaign treasurer, and
Xing Wu “Oliver” Pan, 47, a fundraiser for him, attempted to
hide the true source of some campaign contributions and then
conspired to obtain matching funds provided by  New York City ’s
Campaign Finance Board, Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian Jacobs
told the panel of seven women and five men today.  The scheme was discovered after an agent with the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation , posing as a businessman known as
“Richard,” approached  Pan  seeking to make a $16,000 donation
to the Liu campaign. Jacobs told jurors they would see and hear
secretly recorded conversations and videos of sessions which the
agent had with Pan and Hou. The agent, John Chiue, would be the
second witness called by the U.S., Jacobs said after court
today.  “This is a case about how these two defendants, Oliver Pan
and Jenny Hou, tried to corrupt an election here in New York
City,” Jacobs said. “It’s about how they conspired to hide the
true sources of campaign contributions and to obtain thousands
of dollars in improper matching contributions from New York
itself.”  Liu, who is seeking the Democratic nomination to succeed
 Michael Bloomberg  as mayor, hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing.  Matching Funds  Pan’s lawyer, Irwin Rochman, told jurors today that his
client had raised the money for the Liu campaign and never
intended that any matching funds be sought as part of the fund-
raising efforts.  “Whatever purpose or objective, the evidence will show
that whatever Mr. Pan did was as a result of the extensive
involvement and inducement of the government agent,” Rochman
said. “But for that extensive involvement and inducement by the
government agent, Mr. Pan would never have agreed to create
those straw donor donations.”  Jacobs told jurors that an FBI agent posed as an out-of-
state businessman named “Richard” and approached Pan seeking
to open several restaurants in New York City. The undercover
agent offered to give a $16,000 donation to the Liu campaign,
which Jacobs said was above the maximum permitted by the city
campaign finance laws. Richard was actually FBI Special Agent
John Chiue, prosecutors said in court papers.  Campaign Worker  Gerald Lefcourt, a lawyer for Hou, said she only was a
campaign worker for Liu and insisted she had no knowledge about
what Pan and the FBI agent had been discussing.  “She was simply an administrator,” Lefcourt said. “She
had no knowledge,” he said. “Why did they want to meet  John
Liu ? He wanted to meet him, to be alone with Liu and see if
there was any wrongdoing. They thought that through Oliver Pan
they could get to John Liu. Not Jenny Hou. She had nothing to do
with it. She had not spoken to the undercover agent. She didn’t
know what the undercover agent and Oliver Pan had been talking
about.”  Prosecutors said their case includes audio and video-
recorded conversations and in-person meetings as well as
thousands of pages of campaign documents, e-mails and records.  Both Pan and Hou are charged with conspiring to use the
straw donors -- people whose contributions were reimbursed by
others to inflate the amount of money funneled to Liu’s
campaign, Jacobs said.  Attempted Fraud  Both defendants are charged with conspiracy and attempted
 wire fraud  and face as long as 20 years in prison if convicted
of either charge. Hou also faces a count of obstructing the
government’s investigation by failing to produce documents
sought by the federal grand jury that was investigating the
campaign.  Paul Shechtman, a lawyer for Liu, has said the case
originated from an informant’s 2009 tip that remains
unsubstantiated.  “This case started with a hearsay allegation that three
years, numerous witnesses, several subpoenas and one undercover
investigation later remains uncorroborated,” Shechtman said in
a phone interview. “Whatever the outcome, the evidence will
show that John Liu, as much as anyone ever in public life,
sought to run a clean campaign.”  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  The case is U.S. v. Pan, 1:12-cr-00153, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  