-- Housing Starts in U.S. Probably Increased as Progress Sustained
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-04-16T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/housing-starts-in-u-s-probably-increased-as-progress-sustained.html
Builders probably began work on
more  new homes  in March, a sign one of the bright spots of the
U.S. expansion is making steady progress, economists said before
a report today.  Housing starts increased to a 930,000 annualized pace, the
second-strongest in more than four years, from a 917,000 pace in
February, according to the median  estimate  of 78 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Other figures may show factory production
rose in March and consumer prices were little changed.  A recovery in housing, driven by near record-low mortgage
rates and pent-up demand from growing households, is spilling
over into other areas of the economy and generating sales at
manufacturers such as  Hooker Furniture Corp. (HOFT)  An even stronger
pickup will depend on whether the job market regains its footing
after employment cooled in March.  “Housing is going to be a continued source of growth,”
said Richard Moody, chief economist at Regions Financial Corp.
in Birmingham,  Alabama . “The underlying demand is there, and as
long as the labor market continues to improve, we should see the
rate of household formation increase.”  The Commerce Department will release the data on housing
starts at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from a rate of 885,000 to 985,000.  Building  permits , a proxy for future construction, will
also be included in the report. Economists estimate applications
climbed to a 942,000 annual rate, the most since June 2008, from
939,000 in February, according to the survey  median .  2012 Rebound  Builders  began work  on 780,000 homes in 2012, a 28 percent
gain from the prior year and the third straight annual increase.
Even with the improvements, starts are short of the 2.1 million
in 2005 at the peak of the boom, which was a three-decade high.  Starts jumped to a 982,000 annualized pace in December, the
most since June 2008, when milder-than-normal temperatures
enabled builders to begin projects during a typically slow time
of year.  “The momentum from the housing rebound during 2012 has
remained strong in the early months of 2013,” John Stumpf,
chief executive officer at Wells Fargo & Co., said on an April
12 earnings call. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo funded one in
four U.S. mortgages in 2012. “Our near-term outlook is for
steady gains in home sales, building activity, and price
appreciation. Housing affordability remains excellent.”  A rebound in home construction may generate as many as
500,000 jobs in 2013 and 700,000 in 2014, including related
services, according to Russell Price, a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . Residential investment
could bolster U.S. economic growth by 0.5 percentage point this
year,  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York, estimated in an April 10 note to clients.  Spilling Over  Demand for building materials, along with gains in spending
on new equipment by U.S. companies, is also helping keep workers
on factory floors busy.  “We’re encouraged by the sustained improvement in housing
sales, new-home construction, rising housing prices, reduced
inventories, historically low mortgage rates, and the best
housing affordability in years, all of which combined to create
a positive environment for our company and our industry,” Paul Toms, chief executive officer at Martinsville, Virginia-based
Hooker Furniture, said during an April 15 earnings call.  A report yesterday showed builder confidence unexpectedly
fell in April for a third month, restrained by rising costs for
materials and financing restrictions. The National Association
of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index dropped to 42, the
lowest since October, from 44 in March.  The Fed’s report on industrial production, due at 9:15
a.m., will probably show output increased 0.2 percent last
month, according to economists’ median estimate.  Factory Production  Manufacturing, making up 75 percent of total production,
probably gained 0.1 percent after a 0.8 percent in February.  The forecast points to a pause in recent manufacturing
momentum as companies slowed the pace of inventory accumulation
and consumer spending cooled.  Another report today is projected to show cheaper gasoline
is limiting inflation. Economists forecast the consumer-price
index was little changed in March after a 0.7 percent gain in
February. The Labor Department will release the data at 8:30
a.m. in  Washington .  The cost of living rose 1.6 percent over the past 12
months, down from a 2 percent gain in the year ended February,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed.  Subdued price gains are allowing central bank officials to
keep stimulating the economy. Fed policy makers, who are
pressing on with $85 billion in monthly bond buying until the
labor-market outlook has “improved substantially,” aim for a
long-run goal of 2 percent inflation.  Investors’ expectations for inflation, as measured by the
breakeven rate between Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
and nominal bonds, have fallen during the last two months. The
expected rate of inflation in the next 10 years  dropped  to 2.40
percent yesterday from 2.59 percent on March 14, which was the
highest level since September.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  