-- Lowest Lending Rate in Region Slows Mexico’s Economic Comeback
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-04-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/lowest-lending-rate-in-region-slows-mexico-s-economic-comeback.html
Gonzalo Garcia, 45, thought 10
years as a branch manager for Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit in
 Mexico  would help qualify him for a loan to start up an herbal
medicine business. He was wrong. Banamex, along with two other
leading lenders, turned him down.  “I felt utter frustration,” said Garcia, who obtained
credit through the government. “From inside we were constantly
denying loans. From outside I wasn’t able to get one.”  Mexico’s commercial credit market, the smallest of any
country in Latin America, has weighed on the nation’s economy,
which expanded less than its regional peers over the past
decade. Improving lending rates would boost gross domestic
product expansion by about 1 percentage point a year in Latin
America’s second-biggest economy, says Jose Perez, associate
financial services regional director of Standard & Poors’.  Commercial bank lending as a percentage of GDP is  19
percent  in Mexico, half the rate of  Brazil ’s and the lowest of
any Latin American nation, according to the most recent
comparable data compiled by the International Monetary Fund.  After four months in office, President Enrique Pena Nieto
wants to revive risk taking in an industry that lends less money
as a percentage of GDP than it did before its banking system
collapsed in 1995,  according  to BBVA Bancomer, with most of its
business loans going to large, established companies.  A bill to be introduced in congress soon will boost
competition in the financial industry and make it easier to
seize debtors’ assets, according to Finance Minister Luis Videgaray. The changes are part of a plan to double the nation’s
2.5 percent average growth in the past decade. The region grew
at a pace of 3.6 percent in the period.  Not Enough  “Mexican banks don’t lend enough,” Videgaray said at
Bloomberg’s Mexico Economic Summit in Mexico City on March 21.
“The figures become particularly dramatic when we look at how
little access micro, small, and especially mid-sized companies”
have to credit.  Small and mid-sized businesses, which account for 98
percent of companies in Mexico and employ 70 percent of its
workers, bear the brunt of the credit scarcity, according to Eva Gutierrez, an analyst at the World Bank.  Banks prefer to dole out credit cards at high interest
rates, amass government bonds or lend to larger companies, while
smaller enterprises suffer, Gutierrez, the bank’s lead regional
financial sector specialist, said in a telephone interview from
 Washington .  Smaller firms receive 15 percent of business loans offered
by commercial banks, Videgaray said April 9.  Risk Averse  “Why are the banks so risk averse?,” Gutierrez said.
“Because executing collateral in Mexico is expensive.”  It may take as much as 5 years for creditors to collect on
a defaulted loan, Roberto Galarza, the Mexican banking
association’s coordinator of credit to small and mid-size
businesses, said in an interview.  Establishing courts that specialize in recovering defaulted
debt and creating a faster process for creditors to register
guarantees would bring down the cost of loans, Galarza said.  Under the plan to be presented this month, development
banks, which lend a quarter the amount of Brazil’s as a
percentage of GDP, will offer more guarantees through commercial
lenders, and the government will improve regulatory frameworks,
said Enrique Jacob Rocha, president of the  Economy Ministry ’s
entrepreneurs institute.  Mexico Optimism  The nation’s growing exports, record-low interest rates and
the second-lowest inflation rate helped the economy expand 3.9
percent in 2012.  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB forecasts the economy will
grow faster if Pena Nieto carries out his pledge to increase
private investment in the state-owned oil industry and close
loopholes to lift tax revenue. Nomura Holdings Inc. predicts the
economic overhaul may help the nation’s GDP surpass Brazil’s
within a decade after being overshadowed by Latin America’s
biggest economy since 2005.  Mexico’s economy will outpace Brazil’s for a third straight
year in 2013, expanding 3.6 percent, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on government peso debt due 2024 has fallen 72
basis points, or 0.72 percentage point, to 4.80 percent since
Pena Nieto took office Dec. 1, dipping to a record low of 4.75
percent last week. Foreign funds tracked by the EPFR Global
index invested a record $8.78 billion in Mexican debt last year.
Under the new administration,  stocks  have risen 2.75 percent,
reaching an all-time-high on Jan. 28, while the peso has
strengthened 4.6 percent this year, the most of any major
currency tracked by Bloomberg.  Lack of Credit  The drought in commercial loans keeps many businesses in an
informal economy that already employs 60 percent of the labor
force and where below-average productivity levels are a drain on
growth, said Lisa Schineller, an S&P sovereign ratings director.  Lack of credit and the informal sector “feed on each
other,” Schineller said by phone from New York.  Felipe Gutierrez, a 29-year-old street vendor who sells
Adidas backpacks near Chapultepec Forest, Mexico City’s central
park, said he tried to take out a loan to turn his informal
stall into a tax-paying storefront. He said BBVA Bancomer and
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  turned him down because he had no receipts
to prove his income.  “The government says we should commit to paying taxes but
they don’t give us a way to do it,” Gutierrez said. “I’m not
asking for a handout. I just want a loan.”  The president’s press office declined to comment on
Mexico’s poor loan access, as did Banamex, Bancomer and
Scotiabank. The Finance Ministry didn’t respond to a phone
request and message seeking comment.  Turning Point  Lending may be reaching a turning point. Healthy
capitalization of banks and faster economic growth put Mexico in
a “sweet spot” to boost financing 20 percent on average, up
from 12 percent last year, according to Credit Suisse.  Nomura says Pena Nieto’s economic changes will boost growth
as much as 1.5 percentage points, allowing banks to sustain a 15
percent to 17 percent loan-growth rate through 2020.  Banorte is well-positioned to reap the benefits of a credit
boom, according to the April 4 Nomura report and Credit Suisse’s
April 2012 report.  Banorte extends more loans to small business than any other
institution operating in Mexico, granting 28 billion pesos in
credit to more than 20,0000 firms through government guarantee
programs, said Galarza of the banking association, who’s also
deputy director general of small and medium enterprises at
Banorte. Banks in general are paying more attention to smaller
enterprises, boosting credit to such firms by 30 percent last
year, Galarza said.  Holistic Solutions  Gonzalo Garcia, whose business generates enough profit for
him to send his daughter to private school, plans to have four
holistic drug stores running with 10 employees by the end of the
year, and 20 pharmacies by 2018.  After being denied commercial bank credit from 2009,
Banorte granted him his first loan last year at 12 percent
interest under a special entrepreneurs’ program. Banamex
followed with another loan shortly after.  “Banks are just waking up” to lending to small
businesses, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  