-- Parker Drilling Settles U.S. Bribe Probes for $16 Million
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-04-16T21:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/parker-drilling-settles-u-s-bribe-probes-for-15-million.html
Parker Drilling Co. (PKD) , a Houston-
based oil services company, agreed to pay $15.9 million to
settle U.S. allegations it tried to bribe a Nigerian government
panel to reduce fines for violating the country’s customs laws.  The company gave a middleman $1.25 million knowing it would
go to a foreign official to lower a legally imposed fine, the
U.S. said in a filing today in federal court in Alexandria,
 Virginia . Parker Drilling agreed to pay $11.8 million to settle
prosecutors’ charges it violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act.  The company also agreed to pay $4.1 million in disgorgement
and interest to settle a civil complaint by the  Securities and
Exchange Commission  that alleged violations of anti-bribery and
record-keeping provisions of the FCPA, the  Justice Department 
said in a statement.  “After an extensive investigation, with which we fully
cooperated, we are pleased to have reached agreement with the
DOJ and SEC, and we will continue to maintain a vigorous FCPA
compliance program,” Gary Rich, Parker Drilling’s president and
chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  The SEC settlement is contingent on approval by a federal
judge, according to a company announcement accompanying Rich’s
statement.  Panalpina Probe  The investigation of Parker Drilling grew out of a Justice
Department probe of freight forwarder  Panalpina World Transport
Holding Ltd. (PWTN) , the government said. In that investigation,
Panalpina, along with five oil and gas service companies, agreed
to pay about $236 million to settle civil and criminal FCPA
investigations in 2010, according to a Justice Department
statement at the time.  In the Parker Drilling case, Basel, Switzerland-based
Panalpina, working on Parker’s behalf, trimmed costs associated
with Nigerian customs law by fraudulently claiming that drilling
rigs had been exported and then re-imported into  Nigeria ,
according to court documents.  The Nigerian government subsequently fined Parker Drilling
$3.8 million. The company responded by paying the middleman, who
succeeded in getting the fine reduced to $750,000, court papers
show.  Under the terms of the settlement of the criminal case, the
government can prosecute Parker Drilling if it fails to maintain
compliance standards and to cooperate in ongoing investigations
over the next three years.  The case is U.S. v. Parker Drilling, 13-cr-00176, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  