-- Pat Summerall, Voice of Super Bowls, Masters, Dies at 82
-- B y   L a r r y   D i T o r e   a n d   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-04-16T23:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/pat-summerall-voice-of-super-bowls-masters-dies-at-82.html
Pat Summerall, the former National
Football League player who teamed with  John Madden  to form one
of the most popular broadcasting duos in television history, has
died. He was 82.  He died yesterday at a Dallas-area hospital, said  Lou
D’Ermilio , a spokesman for the Fox Sports network. No further
details were provided.  Summerall was involved with the NFL for 50 years. He was a
kicker and tight end for 10 years, most of them with the Chicago
Cardinals and then the  New York Giants , and was one of
football’s premier announcers for 40 years.  He broadcast a record 16  Super Bowls  for television and
contributed to radio coverage of 10 of them. He also worked 24
Masters golf tournaments and 26 tennis U.S. Opens.  During their 21 years together, Summerall’s succinct style
complemented Madden’s rambling observations. Once, as Madden was
trying to describe a juggling, acrobatic catch by a wide
receiver, Summerall observed, “That guy should’ve been a
waiter.”  After spending 14 seasons together at CBS, they were hired
by Fox Sports when that network acquired football’s broadcasting
rights in 1994. Their partnership ran through the 2001 season,
after which Madden moved to ABC’s Monday Night Football and
Summerall focused on regional broadcasts of Dallas Cowboys
games.  ‘Good Guy’  “Pat Summerall is as easy to work with as he is to be
with,” Madden wrote in “Hey, Wait a Minute,” his 1984 book.
“He’s easy to hang out with, to tell stories with, and I think
that comes across to the viewer. He’s just a good guy.”  Summerall struggled with alcoholism and entered the Betty
Ford Clinic in 1992. Four years later, he became a born-again
Christian. He underwent a  liver transplant  in 2004.  George Allen Summerall was born on May 10, 1930, in Lake
City,  Florida . His parents divorced before he was born, and he
was raised by an aunt and uncle, who had a son, Mike. He became
Pat, he once said, so they would have names commonly used in
Irish jokes.  Summerall’s interest in football began early, and his
skills earned him a scholarship to the  University of Arkansas .
He was drafted by the  Detroit Lions  in 1952, but spent most of a
career that included 100 field goals with the Cardinals and
Giants.  After he retired as a player in 1961, Summerall moved into
the CBS broadcast booth and was originally a color analyst
teamed with Jack Buck. He and Buck were split up after a CBS
executive said they sounded too similar.  Madden Pairing  Summerall paired with former NFL player  Tom Brookshier  to
form CBS’s top football announcing team for the 1970s. The pair
spent seven years together before the network put Summerall and
Madden together in 1981.  In 1994, Summerall was given the Lifetime Achievement Award
for Sports by the National Academy of Television Arts and
Sciences and won the Pro Football Hall of Fame’s Pete Rozelle
Radio-Television Award.  After splitting with Madden, Summerall continued calling
some college and professional games for Fox. He also endeared
himself to a younger generation of fans through his work with
Madden on “Madden NFL Football,” the popular video game
series.  With his first wife, Kathy, Summerall had a daughter,
Susan, and sons Jay and Kyle. That marriage ended in divorce. He
married his second wife, Cheri, in 1995.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Larry DiTore at 
 lditore@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  