-- Patriot Coal Creditors Oppose Control Extension
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-04-16T22:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/patriot-coal-creditors-oppose-control-extension.html
Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ)  should lose
control of its reorganization next month, opening the bankrupt
mining company to proposals from outside investors or a buyer,
creditors and noteholders said.  A committee of unsecured creditors, noteholders Aurelius
Capital Management LP and Knighthead Capital Management LLC, and
the United Mine Workers of America today filed separate
objections to Patriot’s bid to extend exclusive control over its
bankruptcy by about four months.  “When exclusivity comes to an end on May 5, 2013, parties
in interest should be free to file viable plans of
reorganization and move these cases promptly toward a successful
reorganization,” unsecured creditors said in a filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in St. Louis.  Patriot filed for bankruptcy in July, citing falling coal
demand and $1.6 billion in lifetime health-care obligations for
its 8,100 retirees. Patriot, based in St. Louis, is seeking to
trim costs by negotiating with unionized employees. The company
has said it must shed at least $150 million more in labor
expenses to avoid liquidating in bankruptcy, an outcome it says
would be worse for retirees, employees and creditors.  Patriot seeks 120-day extensions to deadlines of May 5 to
file a plan and July 4 to win creditor support, giving the
company those exclusive rights until Sept. 2 and Nov. 1.  Exit Strategy  The company needs an exit strategy to leave bankruptcy,
requiring an investor to repay the bankruptcy loan, pay top
priority claims in full, fund a trust Patriot has proposed to
pay retirees, and give the company working capital to stay in
business, creditors said. Ending exclusivity may allow a buyer
or investor to step forward, said the UMWA, which represents
about 42 percent of Patriot’s 4,000 employees.  “After 10 months and one previous extension of
exclusivity, the debtors have no buyer and no investors, having
barely commenced a search for them, and no plan to reorganize on
a standalone basis, and are poised on the brink of a
confrontation with the majority of their mining workforce,” the
union said.  The two noteholders said Patriot’s failure to file a
reorganization proposal by now shows the company has made
“little headway.”  ‘May Default’  “Meanwhile, the debtors lurch towards liquidation,”
Aurelius and Knighthead said. “By their own account, they may
default on their post-petition financing facility as soon as
this July -- barely more than 60 days from now.”  The noteholders have proposed an independent trustee to
oversee the case, and seek to have the company separate some
units from others. Of Patriot’s 99 units in bankruptcy, 86 have
no liability to the company’s unions, they said.  Patriot’s exclusivity request and bid to cut costs by
changing its UMWA agreements are set for a court hearing April
23. Patriot has proposed giving the union a 35 percent stake in
the reorganized company.  The case In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-51502, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of  Missouri  (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  