-- Penn State Loses Bid to Toss Ex-Coach’s Suit Over Firing
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-04-16T16:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/penn-state-loses-bid-to-toss-ex-coach-s-suit-over-firing.html
Pennsylvania State University lost
a court bid to dismiss a lawsuit by former assistant football
coach  Mike McQueary  over claims he was fired because of his
cooperation in the Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse case.  Judge Thomas Gavin overruled the university’s preliminary
objections to the complaint in a ruling today in state court in
Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.  Penn State  had sought to toss the suit
arguing allegations that the school had defamed McQueary and
made him a scapegoat in the Sandusky scandal were groundless.  “Upon review of the complaint, McQueary has sufficiently
pled facts of outrageous conduct on the part of Penn State,”
Gavin wrote in his ruling. He gave the school 20 days to respond
to the complaint.  McQueary, who was terminated in July, sued Penn State in
October for $4 million in lost earnings. He claims the
university fired him for his cooperation with state prosecutors.
He was a key witness in a June trial against Sandusky and his
testimony is at the center of a related case against three
former school officials: President  Graham Spanier , Vice
President  Gary Schultz  and Athletic Director Tim Curley.  Sandusky, a defensive assistant football coach under the
late  Joe Paterno , was sentenced in October to at least 30 years
in prison for sexually abusing 10 boys over a 15-year period.  McQueary alleged in his complaint that he was ostracized
and defamed by school officials including Spanier, who came out
in support Schultz and Curley when charges against those men
were first announced.  The case is McQueary v. Pennsylvania State University,
2012-1804, Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas, Centre County
(Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  