-- Peugeot Bank Cut to Junk at Moody’s on Europe Car Market
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-04-16T10:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/peugeot-bank-cut-to-junk-at-moody-s-on-europe-car-market.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s wholly owned
bank was cut to one level below investment grade by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said the auto-financing unit can’t
escape the European car-market contraction plaguing its parent.  The long-term rating on Banque PSA Finance’s debt was
lowered by one step to Ba1 from Baa3, Moody’s said in a
statement today. The outlook is stable, indicating the rating
won’t be reduced again soon.  Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-largest carmaker, arranged last
year for French state guarantees on as much as 7 billion euros
($9.1 billion) of Banque PSA Finance’s new bond sales, as well
as 11.5 billion in refinancing, to maintain an investment grade
for the unit at Moody’s. The division remains hampered by the
vehicle sales drop at Paris-based Peugeot because its lending is
restricted to the parent company’s brands, Moody’s said today.  “BPF’s rating is eventually constrained by its lack of
business diversification and inherent credit linkages with its
lower-rated industrial parent, as its activities are exclusively
linked to those of PSA,” Guillaume Lucien-Baugas, an analyst at
Moody’s in Paris, said in the statement.  Peugeot  rose  as much as 1.4 percent to 5.60 euros and was
trading up 0.3 percent at 12:21 p.m. in Paris, reversing a
decline of as much as 1.3 percent earlier in the day. The stock
has gained 1.3 percent this year.  Sales Drop  The carmaker’s group sales in France fell 19 percent in the
first quarter. The Peugeot brand’s car registrations in  Germany ,
Europe’s biggest economy,  plunged  38 percent in the period,
while the Citroen nameplate’s sales fell 27 percent. Europe’s
car market is likely to shrink a sixth consecutive year in 2013
amid a recession in the region, with Peugeot predicting an
industrywide drop of 3 percent to 5 percent.  Peugeot posted a 576 million-euro operating loss last year,
when the company consumed an average 200 million euros a month
in cash. Its earnings-restoration strategy includes eliminating
11,200 jobs in  France , or 17 percent of its domestic workforce,
and closing a car factory in Aulnay near Paris.  The  carmaker  allocated a board seat each to the French
state and to labor representatives in return for the guarantees
of the banking unit’s bond sales.  The European Union is reviewing the guarantees because of
rules limiting state aid to private companies. It granted
temporary approval in February to French government coverage of
a 1.2 billion-euro debt sale. Those bonds aren’t affected by the
downgrade today, Moody’s said.  Refinancing Accord  The separate refinancing from Banque PSA Finance’s lenders
includes an agreement in January on a 4.1 billion-euro five-year
term loan and an extended 1.2 billion-euro revolving credit
line. Peugeot Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon
said in March that the bank will begin offering  savings accounts 
to raise funding for dealerships and other automotive
operations.  The bank unit’s debt at  Standard & Poor’s  was cut in
February to BB+, also the first junk grade, with a negative
outlook. S&P grades Peugeot’s parent-company debt at three
levels into junk while  Fitch Ratings  has it at four levels below
investment grade.  Today’s move “is an automatic downgrading,” Pierre- Olivier Salmon, a Peugeot spokesman, said by phone. “Moody’s
has put forward several positive elements, such as BPF’s high
margins and the increase of its penetration rate. Thanks to the
French government guarantee, the refinancing pool and a bank
securitization program, BPF is now protected against any further
downgrade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  