-- Porsche Faces Crucial Court Day in Suits Over VW Trades
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-04-16T15:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/porsche-faces-crucial-court-day-in-suits-over-vw-trades.html
Hedge funds  and institutional
investors seeking 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) from Porsche SE
over its failed takeover of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  may be hoping, unlike
most plaintiffs, that three German civil court suits take a long
time to resolve.  After U.S. judges largely rebuffed similar suits, investors
will focus on  Germany , where a court in Braunschweig is
scheduled to hear three cases tomorrow. Drawn-out criminal
probes into former executives Wendelin Wiedeking and Holger Haerter, that have spread to board members Wolfgang Porsche and
his cousin  Ferdinand Piech , may eventually give the plaintiffs
an advantage, said  Robert Heym , a lawyer at Graf von Westphalen.  “There is the danger that, the longer the civil cases
take, criminal proceedings may reveal one or the other fact
which may have the potential to damage Porsche or Volkswagen,”
said Heym, a Munich lawyer who isn’t involved in the cases.
“The plaintiffs are certainly gambling to win additional
arguments from the criminal case to beef up their position.”  Ever since Porsche, the maker of the 911 sports car,
disclosed on Oct. 26, 2008, it controlled 74.1 percent of
Volkswagen’s common stock and was seeking another 1 percent to
reach the threshold usually required for a takeover under German
law, the company has battled allegations it lied about its plans
and tried to manipulate the price of VW stock. The announcement,
made on a Sunday, caused the  shares  to surge to record highs as
short sellers scrambled to cover positions.  Executives Fired  In the aftermath, Wiedeking, the chief executive officer,
and Haerter, the chief financial officer, were fired and Porsche
agreed to be acquired by Volkswagen after racking up more than
10 billion euros of  debt  during the hostile bid.  The merger between the companies was scrapped in 2011
because of uncertainty from the litigation. Volkswagen instead
reduced Porsche to a holding company for 50.7 percent of VW’s
common stock. The Wolfsburg, Germany-based manufacturer in
August acquired the Porsche unit that assembles the sports cars.  The Stuttgart criminal probe started in 2009 after the
Porsche takeover bid faltered. The homes of the former
executives and offices were raided. The probe was extended in
February to Porsche’s 2008 supervisory board including Wolfgang
Porsche and Piech, members of the two family branches of Porsche
founder  Ferdinand Porsche .  Indictments, Probe  “Because of the recent developments in the criminal case,
the indictments and the probe against Piech, who was and still
is on Volkswagen’s supervisory board, we’re still convinced
about our cases,” Franz Braun, the lawyer for plaintiffs on two
of the three cases in Braunschweig, said last week.  The three suits scheduled to be heard tomorrow are the
biggest in Germany over the failed VW bid. One case, seeking
1.96 billion euros, was filed by seven funds, including Elliott
International LP, the Liverpool Limited Partnership and Perry
Partners LP.  The claims are unfounded and Porsche has responded to them
in court briefs,  Albrecht Bamler , a spokesman for Stuttgart-
based Porsche said in an e-mailed statement last week.  Two of three hearings may be postponed after Braun told the
court that he fell ill. The judges will likely reschedule the
hearings originally planned for noon and 12.30 p.m., a
spokeswoman for his  law firm  CLLB in Munich said today. The
third hearing scheduled for 11 a.m. in the 1.96 billion euros
suit won’t be affected as the case is technically separate.  Wiedeking and Haerter were charged with market manipulation
in December, after more than three years of investigation. A
Stuttgart court now has to decide whether the charges may go to
trial. Haerter is also standing trial on fraud charges over the
refinancing of a 10 billion-euro loan for the Volkswagen bid.
All suspects have denied the allegations.  Press Releases  The scheduled hearings will center on two press releases
Porsche issued in 2008. On March 10 of that year, the company
denied it was seeking to acquire a 75 percent majority stake in
VW only to reverse the message half a year later on Oct. 26.  The plaintiffs claim Porsche lied both times. In March, the
company already planned to acquire VW and was building up
options. In October, it had already given up the idea after the
financial crisis thwarted the plan, the plaintiffs said in their
lawsuits.  Investors dropped most of their U.S. litigation after the
country’s  Supreme Court  ruled such cases can only be brought in
the U.S. if the stock is listed on American exchanges or the
transactions were made there. Some of the funds could refile the
claims in Germany and may use this week’s hearings to gauge
their odds.  While the U.S. funds may dodge jurisdiction issues in
Porsche’s home country, stricter standards here may hamper their
ability to recover damages.  Contested Information  When rejecting two smaller cases in September, the
Braunschweig court said that plaintiffs must show trades were
based on the contested information. In the U.S., investors don’t
need to show they took notice of misleading information because
courts follow the theory that in an “efficient market”
publicly available information is reflected in prices, said  Lars
Kloehn , a corporate law professor at Munich University.  In the U.S., courts assume that “the price acts as the
unpaid agent of the investor,” Kloehn said. “German courts
still have the somewhat unrealistic view that even small
investors are following each and every piece of information that
comes via the Bloomberg ticker and then trade upon it.”  The Braunschweig judges may also follow findings favorable
to Porsche from the last year’s cases. In one September ruling,
the court said the March 2008 press release wasn’t wrong because
it mentioned the VW takeover as one possible strategic option.
In the second case, the judges didn’t determine whether the Oct.
26 release was misleading, saying the plaintiff didn’t show the
release prompted the transactions.  “It’s always difficult for plaintiffs to show exactly how
and why they lost money because of particular market
information,” said Graf von Westphalen’s Heym. “The counter
argument is, of course, that whoever speculates on the market
can also suffer losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 