-- PSG Wants to Sign Rooney, Nani for $61 Million: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-16T08:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/psg-wants-to-sign-rooney-nani-for-61-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Double Swoop  Paris Saint-Germain is convinced it will sign  Wayne Rooney 
for 25 million pounds ($38.2 million) in the offseason and also
wants to acquire his Manchester United teammate Nani, the  Sun
reported .  England striker Rooney is PSG’s top transfer target and the
French league leader is set to offer 15 million pounds for
Portuguese winger Nani, who hasn’t extended an existing deal
that expires after next season, the newspaper added.  Staying Put  Rooney, 27, doesn’t want to leave United and will begin
negotiations over a contract that will keep him at the club
until his early 30s, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  While United would consider selling Rooney should a
suitable offer be made, he sees his future with the Premier
League leader, the newspaper added.  Gomez Alternative  Chelsea and  Manchester City  are tracking Bayern Munich
striker  Mario Gomez  as an alternative if bids for Napoli’s
Edinson Cavani fail, the  Daily Mail reported .  With Bayern willing to listen to offers for Gomez, the club
that misses out on Cavani could turn its attention to the 27
year-old Germany striker, the Mail added.  Spurs Left-Back  Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas has instructed his
scouts to find a left-back, raising doubts over the future of
Benoit Assou-Ekotto, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Assou-Ekotto, a 29-year-old Cameroon international, is
trying to line up a move to a club in  France , the newspaper
said. Villas-Boas has been checking on the availability of Inter
Milan’s  Alvaro Pereira , who he worked with during Porto’s
treble-winning season, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  