-- Psy’s ‘Gentleman’ Sends YG Shares to Six-Month High: Seoul Mover
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-16T06:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/psy-s-gentleman-sends-yg-shares-to-six-month-high-seoul-mover.html
YG Entertainment Inc. (122870) , the agent
for South Korean rapper Psy, rose to the highest level in six
months in Seoul trading as the popularity of the singer’s new
music video boosted the company’s earnings prospects.  YG Entertainment  rose  1.9 percent to 86,600 won at the
close on the Korea Exchange, the highest level since Oct. 10,
following a 13 percent gain yesterday. The  Kosdaq Index (KOSDAQ) , where
the company is listed, added 0.9 percent.  Psy’s “Gentleman” music  video  has been viewed more than
86 million times on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube website, after it was
released globally on April 13. It comes nine months after the
singer’s release of “Gangnam Style,” YouTube’s most-watched
video of all time with more than 1.5 billion views.  “The stock is rallying on expectations the latest single
will become the next hit,” Han Sang Ung, an analyst with Korea
Investment & Securities Co., said by phone in Seoul. Psy’s new
album and concerts will boost the company’s earnings, Han said.  Advertising revenue from Psy’s YouTube clips is estimated
at 200 million won ($179,000) a month, including the licensing
fee that goes to Google, according to Han Youp Lee, an analyst
at Samsung Securities Co. Psy also appears in TV commercials in
South Korea for companies such as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG
Uplus Corp. (032640)   The 35-year-old singer, whose real name is Park Jae Sang,
will tour the U.S. in April,  Europe  in May and  Asia  in June to
promote the new single, Hwang Min Hee, a spokeswoman for YG,
said by phone today.  Gangnam Style , which featured satirical lyrics about the
habits of wealthy South Koreans, propelled Psy to global fame,
earning him appearances on U.S. television programs including
“The Ellen DeGeneres Show” and NBC’s “Today Show,” and a
nomination for Time magazine’s 100 most influential people.  Similar to Gangnam, Psy again makes himself the butt of the
joke in Gentleman, which matches a throbbing electronic beat
with catchy Korean lyrics climaxing in a chorus of “I’m a
mother father gentleman.”  YG’s operating profit may rise to 38 billion won this year
from 21.5 billion won, Korea Investment’s Han estimates. The
company reports first-quarter earnings in May.  YG shares have surged 41 percent this year, compared with a
13 percent gain in the Kosdaq.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yewon Kang in  Seoul  at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  