-- Rand Rebounds From Biggest Slump in Six Months as Metals Rally
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-04-16T07:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/rand-rebounds-from-biggest-slump-in-six-months-as-metals-rally.html
The rand gained for the first time
in three days, rebounding from the biggest one-day slump in six
months, as some metal prices rallied and investors gauged the
currency’s decline was overdone.  South Africa’s currency strengthened 0.6 percent to 9.1458
per dollar by 8:57 a.m. in Johannesburg. The rand sank 2.9
percent yesterday, the most in a day since Oct. 5. Yields on
benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.09 percent.  Gold rebounded as some investors deemed a 14 percent plunge
over two days to be excessive and after an Asian central banker
said that policy makers may take the opportunity to buy. Silver,
platinum and palladium advanced, boosting the currencies of
commodity-producing countries including South Africa, Australia
and  Canada . Metals and other mining commodities accounted for 53
percent of South Africa’s exports in 2012, according to
government data.  “The Australian and Canadian dollars have gained ground
this morning on a combination of a firmer gold price and a
generally weaker U.S. dollar, and it follows that the rand will
follow suit,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst
at ETM Analytics, said in e-mailed comments.  Gold for immediate delivery traded as much as 2.4 percent
higher in  Singapore  after dropping as much as 9.9 percent
yesterday. Platinum climbed 2.7 percent, rebounding from an 18-
month low.  The rand’s plunge yesterday came after third-quarter
economic growth unexpectedly eased in  China , the biggest buyer
of South African commodity exports including iron ore and coal.
The currency’s decline may be overdone given the outlook for the
economy, said John Cairns, a currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg.  “It seems oversold at current levels and the downward
slide should lose momentum,” Cairns wrote in e-mailed comments.
“However, the fact that Asian markets continued to weaken
overnight suggests the downside risk to the local unit remains
high today.”  Deadly bomb blasts near the Boston Marathon’s finish line
may also spur further rand weakness, Bertenshaw at ETM said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  