-- RBA Repeats Rate-Cut Scope as Past Reductions Spur Demand
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-16T01:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/rba-repeats-rate-cut-scope-as-past-reductions-spur-demand-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
reiterated that the inflation outlook gives it room to reduce
 borrowing costs  to a record even as earlier cuts boost demand.  “Interest-sensitive parts of the economy were responding
to the historically low levels of lending rates and it remained
likely that this had further to run,”  minutes  of the April 2
meeting released in Sydney today showed. “At the same time, the
factors weighing on the economy -- including the high  exchange
rate , the waning growth of mining investment, and fiscal
consolidation -- were likely to persist. The key issues were
what the balance of these factors would turn out to be.”  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board held the cash rate at
3 percent after reducing borrowing costs in six steps for a
total of 1.75 percentage points in the 14 months through
December. Policy makers are trying to buoy industries outside of
mining and are grappling with a  currency  that has reached its
highest level on a trade-weighted basis since early 1985.  “Members again noted that the exchange rate remained high
despite the terms of trade having declined significantly since
peaking about 18 months earlier,” the minutes showed, referring
to a measure of export prices relative to import prices.  The Australian dollar weakened to $1.0328 as of 11:37 a.m.
in Sydney, from $1.0338 before the announcement, paring its
advance from $1.0313 yesterday in  New York .  Stevens is aiming to rebalance a two-speed economy, where
mining regions in the north and west thrive while manufacturers,
builders and retailers in the south and east struggle. He has
said the loosening of monetary policy is designed to offset some
of the drag on growth from the currency and spur industries
including construction.  Stronger Housing  “Stronger conditions in the established housing market
more generally were expected to support moderate growth of
dwelling investment this year,” policy makers said in the
minutes. “Firms in some industries had shown a willingness to
add to their workforce -- including in the  construction industry 
-- and recent labor market data had been mixed.”  Australian employers cut  payrolls  more than forecast in
March, with the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly increasing to 5.6
percent, the highest level since November 2009, government data
showed last week. Employment dropped by 36,100 after a 74,000
gain in February.  Growth Forecast  “With growth forecast to be a little below trend in 2013,
and inflation close to target, members judged that it was
appropriate for the stance of policy to be accommodative,” the
minutes showed. “The outlook for inflation, as currently
assessed, would provide scope for further easing should that be
necessary to support demand.” The RBA targets inflation of
between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  Traders priced in a 32 percent chance the central bank will
lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to a record
2.75 percent at the May 7 meeting, according to  interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  The RBA noted in the minutes that global economic
conditions were consistent with growth close to average, while
adding that  Europe  remains the main source of weakness.
“Indications were that the Chinese economy had continued to
grow at a steady pace and signs of improved economic conditions
across the rest of  Asia  had emerged over the past six months or
so,” it said.  Government data released yesterday showed that the economy
in  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner, grew slower than
forecast last quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  