-- RBA’s Fifth Female Board Member Sees Firms Adjusting to Currency
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-16T22:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/rba-s-fifth-female-board-member-sees-firms-adjusting-to-currency.html
Incoming Australian central bank
board member Kathryn Fagg, who has worked in the manufacturing,
services and resource industries, said companies have accepted
the need to adjust to the sustained strength of the currency.  Firms “have recognized that they can’t assume it will just
revert to a much lower level,” Fagg, 51, said of the elevated
local dollar in an interview by telephone yesterday from
Melbourne. “So certainly most of the sectors I have seen, and
the sectors I know, have actually done a lot of work in
restructuring their businesses over the last few years.”  Australia’s defiance of the global slowdown is backfiring
on manufacturing after the currency soared 73 percent against
the  U.S. dollar  and 82 percent versus the yen from late October
2008.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden division said last week it
will cut about 500 jobs in Australia, citing the Aussie’s
strength and currency devaluations in competing markets. Even
so, Fagg is optimistic about the nation’s position.  “We are clearly in a much more robust position and have
come through the GFC in a much better way than most of the
world, particularly in terms of employment levels,” she said.
“We are very fortunate to be located in the Asian growth region
and that continues to be very helpful to Australia.”  Fagg will be the fifth woman to serve on the 53-year-old
board of the  Reserve Bank  of Australia when she takes up her
role May 7. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  announced her appointment on
the same day he extended Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s term by three
years.  Fifth Woman  She brings experience from stints at Linfox, Australia’s
largest privately owned logistics company,  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) ,
its largest steelmaker,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) , the No. 3 bank by market value, and Esso Australia, now
part of Exxon Mobil Corp.  “I have a diverse set of experiences,” she said. “I have
worked across sectors from resources through manufacturing into
services and I’ve done that in Australia and in  Asia  in
particular.”  Fagg is a member of  Chief Executive Women of Australia  that
comprises more than 270 of the nation’s leading business women,
according to its website. She says that while progress has been
made in the number of women on boards, there are still not
enough women in senior executive roles.  Women comprise 9.2 percent of executives in the 500 biggest
publicly listed companies in  Australia , compared with 16.1
percent for the U.S. Fortune 500 Index, according to a
government-commissioned report.  Women Executives  “We need to have a real focus on bringing women into
executive roles,” she said. “Fifty percent of the population
is women, more than half our female graduates are women and it
just is wasteful that we’re not tapping into that talent and
fully utilizing it.”  On monetary policy, Fagg declined to identify herself as
either a hawk or dove, saying she is “very data and logic
driven and would always just try to do my best in terms of what
is the right balance.”  Traders priced in a 30 percent chance the central bank will
lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to a record
2.75 percent at the May 7 meeting, according to  interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  