-- Real Estate Fund Alternatives Stealing Spotlight
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-04-16T21:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/real-estate-fund-alternatives-stealing-spotlight.html
Investors in builders from  PDG (PDGR3) 
Realty SA to  Brookfield Incorporacoes SA (BISA3)  are swapping their
shares for real-estate investment funds as developers struggle
under mounting debt from cost overruns and delays.  Investments in FIIs, the Brazilian equivalent of a REIT,
surged to 29.3 billion reais ($15 billion) at the end of the
first quarter, from 14.3 billion reais a year ago, according to
BM&FBovespa. The  IFIX index  of 49 funds in  Brazil  returned 19
percent in the 12 months through yesterday,  compared with  drops
of 57 percent for Brookfield and 50 percent for PDG. Sao Paulo-
based Cyrela Brazil Realty SA, the nation’s biggest builder by
market value, posted a gain of 12 percent.  Four of the top six homebuilders -- MRV Engenharia &
Participacoes SA, PDG,  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  and Brookfield --are
still burning through cash almost a decade after going public,
data compiled by Bloomberg show, prompting investors who want to
benefit from Brazil’s building boom to seek alternatives. FIIs
offer a defensive strategy because they hold mortgage-backed
securities that provide steady returns, and rents on offices and
malls are inflation-indexed, said Renato Damaso Maruichi, a
Banco Fator SA analyst.  “This model may be where we are going,” Marcelo Mesquita,
a  fund manager  who helps oversee 650 million reais at Leblon
Equities, said in an interview in  Rio de Janeiro . “Real estate
funds are growing because investors are not buying company
stocks. These funds are buying projects. For investors, they are
a much better deal.”  Worst Margins  Rio de Janeiro-based PDG posted the Bovespa index’s worst
operating margin in the fourth quarter at a negative 835 percent
as negative  cash flow  from operations swelled to 1.79 billion
reais. Rio-based Brookfield and Belo Horizonte-based MRV also
had negative cash flow, spending more cash than they brought in.  PDG rose 0.8 percent to 2.59 reais at 4:37 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, while Brookfield gained 1.8 percent to 2.23 reais. MRV
rose 1.1 percent to 8.88 reais.  After going public in the mid-2000s and capturing investor
attention by promising rampant growth, homebuilder shares are
tumbling as the companies face higher-than-expected labor costs
and delays. The businesses are restructuring to focus on their
areas of expertise, said Joao Arruda, an analyst at Votorantim
Corretora.  PDG, MRV, and Brookfield did not return requests for
comment on their strategies to bolster returns for investors.
Rossi’s press office in  Sao Paulo  declined to comment.  PDG is focused on slimming down after growing “out of
control,” Chief Executive Officer Carlos Piani said on a call
with analysts on March 27.  ‘Geographically Smaller’  “We don’t want to look back to the past anymore,” Piani
said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo on the same day. “Our
objective is to be geographically smaller, focusing on the areas
that have the best potentials.”  Mexico ’s largest homebuilders are also falling in stock and
bond markets on concern a shift in government policy favoring
construction of apartment buildings, which require more upfront
capital than single-family homes, is cutting into cash flow.
Corp. Geo SAB said last week it will seek to restructure debt, a
day after a person familiar with the matter said competitor Urbi
Desarrollos Urbanos SAB had hired Rothschild to provide advice
on a possible restructuring.  Urbi confirmed yesterday that it hired Rothschild and other
advisers to analyze alternatives to improve its liquidity and
restructure its financial liabilities.  Credibility ‘Problem’  “The problem with this sector is credibility,” Andre Parize, head of research at Votorantim Corretora, said about
Brazilian homebuilders in a Sao Paulo interview. “The multiples
are cheap, but you don’t know what hole will come next.”  Brookfield traded at 5.4 times estimated 2013 earnings
yesterday and Rossi at 6.5 times, making them the cheapest
stocks on the Bovespa index after state-run utility  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA. (ELET6)  MRV and Cyrela traded at 7.3 and 8.9
times earnings, respectively, compared with an average of 16 for
all stocks on the gauge.  Brookfield is “adjusting to the new realities of the
sector,” Alessandro Vedrossi, executive director of
Brookfield’s Rio de Janeiro business unit, said April 4 by
telephone from Sao Paulo. “2012 is a year for readjustment for
the industry and for Brookfield.”  Cyrela, which reported 424 million reais in cash flow in
2012, began restructuring in 2011 to correct “operational
problems,” said Chief Financial Officer Jose Florencio.  ‘Superior Margins’  “We have shown investors that we are capable of generating
superior margins,” he said in a written response to questions.
“Cyrela was the first company to go to the market and
communicate that it had operational problems. This transparency
is part of our culture. Since then, we have executed a broad
operational restructuring plan that has shown consistent
results.”  Funds are gaining in popularity amid an explosion in
mortgages after regulatory changes boosted access to borrowing,
said Antonio Barbosa, head of real estate mortgages for HSBC
Holdings Plc. Since the rules were passed in 2004, mortgages
have risen 20-fold to 80 billion reais, he said.  “This is a market that can continue to grow 15 to 25
percent,” he said in an interview in Sao Paulo.  Interest Rates  Low vacancy rates at offices, apartments and malls and good
management help explain the sudden upsurge of interest in the
funds, said Jose Diniz, director of real estate investments at
Rio Bravo Investimentos, which created its first fund for
Shopping Patio Higienopolis in 1999. It has returned almost 30
percent every year since, Diniz said.  Stalling economic growth and the specter of rising  interest
rates  as inflation accelerates may pare returns, he said.  “Since the economy is stagnant, there is some risk that
there could be vacancies,” Diniz said in a telephone interview.
“This is temporary and maybe investors won’t find big returns,
but we still think it’s a good investment.”  The total volume traded in FIIs in Brazil reached 2.2
billion reais in the first quarter, more than two-thirds of the
volume negotiated in all of 2012, according to the BM&FBovespa.  “If you want to be in the industry, you can have a good
return and your risk is diversified,” said Maria Eduarda
Lassance, a partner at Jardim Botanico Investimentos, which
manages 800 million reais, in Rio de Janeiro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  