-- Benchmark Rates Should Be Anchored in Real Data, Iosco Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-04-16T13:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/regulators-must-end-conflicts-in-benchmark-rates-iosco-says.html
Global regulators said interbank
lending rates and other so-called market benchmarks should be
based on data from actual trades in a bid to restore credibility
of indexes tarnished by price-fixing scandals.  A panel led by U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman  Gary Gensler  and U.K. Financial Conduct Authority Chief
Executive Officer Martin Wheatley is also pushing for banks
involved in benchmark setting to sign up to a code of conduct as
part of a drive to make the process more robust.  “To promote market integrity, it is critical that
benchmark interest rates be anchored in observable transactions
and supported by appropriate governance structures,” Gensler
said in a statement on the  International Organization of
Securities Commissions’  website. Iosco will seek views on the
proposals before publishing final standards later this year.  The panel is looking at how benchmarks can be strengthened
after an investigation by U.S. and U.K. regulators uncovered
widespread attempts by banks to manipulate the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS
AG (UBSN) , and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have been fined around $2.5 billion and at
least a dozen firms remain under investigation.  Other interbank lending rates, as well as benchmarks used
in the $379 trillion swaps market, have also come in for
scrutiny. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is
probing suspected rigging of the ISDAFix rate used as reference
for derivatives trades.  Derivatives Traders  Authorities in  Japan ,  Switzerland ,  Canada ,  Hong Kong ,
 Singapore , and the European Union are also investigating how
derivatives traders worked together to rig rates in order to
benefit their own trades.  Iosco, which brings together markets regulators for more
than 100 nations to coordinate their rule-making, will seek
industry feedback on the proposals through May 16, 2013.  Benchmark setting is a process with “opportunities for
abusive conduct,” through submission of “false and misleading
data” or attempts to influence personnel charged with compiling
data and publishing the rate, according to the Iosco report.  The data used for rate-setting should be based on
“observable transactions entered into at arm’s length between
buyers and sellers,” according to the report, as the use of
such “bona fide observable transactions” builds confidence, it
said.  Libor Undermined  The move follows concerns expressed by regulators that
Libor was undermined in part because banks submit estimates for
how much it would cost to borrow from each other, rather than
real transaction data.  Regulatory oversight of Libor was handed to Wheatley’s FCA
about six months after he proposed wide-ranging changes to the
benchmark  interest rate  in September. The so-called Wheatley
Review recommended scrapping more than 100 Libor rates tied to
currencies and maturities where there isn’t enough trading data
to set them properly and creating a code of conduct for lenders
contributing to the rate.  “The skepticism that many investors now have as a result
of the Libor rate setting process should lead to more
transparency in the process,” Syed Kamall, a U.K. Conservative
member of the European Parliament, said in an e-mail.  “Regulators need to be able to show a stronger punishment
than simply ‘a slapped wrist’ against those who are found to
manipulate the rate in future,” said Kamall, who represents
London in the assembly.  Wheatley Report  Madrid-based Iosco responded to the interbank-rate scandal
last year by announcing the  task force , which is reviewing
benchmarks across different financial sectors.  The Iosco proposals extend to dozens more rates than the
Libor-style interest benchmarks that the Wheatley report was
limited to.  Examples of specific benchmarks other than interbank
lending rates include ISDAfix, and the the Overnight Index Swap,
both used in the derivatives markets.  While fines have been levied against UBS, RBS and Barclays
for rigging of market benchmarks, politicians are still saying
tougher punishments should be meted out.  “I would be most surprised if we don’t see charges brought
and if at some point see someone serve a custodial sentence,”
Chuka Umunna, a Labour opposition member of the U.K. Parliament,
said in a speech in  London  yesterday. “We need to see strong
action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  