-- Reinhart-Rogoff Paper Cited by Ryan Faulted for ‘Serious Errors’
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-04-16T21:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/reinhart-rogoff-paper-cited-by-ryan-faulted-for-serious-errors-.html
A paper by Harvard University
economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff  that has been
cited by Republican lawmakers to justify eliminating the  budget
deficit  contains “serious errors,” according to a study by a
group of University of Massachusetts academics.  The Reinhart-Rogoff paper, “Growth in a Time of Debt,”
argued that countries with public debt in excess of 90 percent
of gross domestic product suffered measurably slower economic
growth.  The  new study  -- by economists Thomas Herndon, Michael Ash
and Robert Pollin -- says that the Harvard economists excluded
some data and unconventionally weighted the statistics they
included to reach their conclusions.  This led to “serious errors that inaccurately represent
the relationship between public debt and growth,” Herndon, Ash
and Pollin said in the paper published yesterday.  In an e-mail, Reinhart and Rogoff defended the conclusions
of their 2010 paper and said that “on a cursory look” the new
study also finds growth slowing in nations with excessive debt.
“We literally just received this draft comment, and will review
it in due course,” they said.  Ash said in a telephone interview that his paper
does show “a modest diminishment of growth” in countries with
big debts yet nothing like “the stagnation or decline” seen in
the study by Reinhart and Rogoff.  Ryan’s Blueprint  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, pointed to the work by Reinhart and Rogoff in his
2013 budget, “The Path to Prosperity: A Blueprint for American
Renewal.”  “Essentially, the study confirmed that the massive debts
of the kind the nation is on track to accumulate are associated
with stagflation -- a toxic mix of economic stagnation and
rising inflation,” the blueprint said.  Ryan’s 2014 budget, introduced earlier this year and
subsequently passed by the Republican-controlled House,
eliminates the budget deficit over the next decade.  The Senate has approved its own 2014 budget, and leaders on
both sides have rejected the other chamber’s work.  Federal debt amounted to 104 percent of GDP in the fourth
quarter of last year, according to calculations by the Federal
Reserve Bank of  St. Louis  on its website. Debt held by the
public, which excludes securities issued to the Social Security
Trust Fund and other government entities, was equivalent to 73
percent of the economy.  Advanced Economies  The study by the economists from the University of
Massachusetts at Amherst looks at a subset of countries
considered by Reinhart and Rogoff in their paper -- 20 advanced
economies from 1946 to 2009 -- and argues that group is most
relevant to the current policy debate in the U.S. and  Europe .  After adjusting for what they called the errors in the
Reinhart-Rogoff paper, Herndon, Ash and Pollin found that
countries with debt more than 90 percent of GDP grew an average
2.2 percent per year. Reinhart and Rogoff said countries in that
group saw GDP shrink on average by 0.1 percent.  Herndon, Ash and Pollin attributed the different results to
spreadsheet errors, “selective exclusion of available data”
and unusual weightings of the statistics by the Harvard
economists.  The findings by Reinhart and Rogoff “have served as an
intellectual bulwark in support of austerity policies,” the
 University of Massachusetts  academics said. The fact that their
results “are wrong should therefore lead us to reassess the
austerity agenda.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net 
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  