-- Reliance Profit Grows Fastest in 3 Years on Refining Gains
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-04-16T13:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/reliance-profit-growth-is-highest-in-3-years-on-refining-gains.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator
of the world’s biggest oil refinery complex, reported its
highest profit growth in almost three years after earnings from
turning crude into fuels increased.  Fourth-quarter  net income  rose 32 percent to 55.9 billion
rupees ($1.03 billion), or 17.30 rupees a share, in the three
months ended March 31 from 42.4 billion rupees, or 12.9 rupees,
a year earlier, the Mumbai-based company said today in a
regulatory filing. That beat the 55.3 billion rupee median
 estimate  of 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales fell 1.2
percent to 842 billion rupees because of maintenance shutdowns.  Billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani , 55, aims to double
Reliance’s operating profit in the next five years by increasing
petrochemical-producing capacity and starting phone services in
the world’s second-fastest growing major market. The company
lost its No. 1 position as  India ’s biggest by market value to
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. and Oil & Natural Gas Corp.
following a three-year drop in natural gas production at its
largest deposit.  “Some of the petrochemical capacity will start up this
year and that’ll help earnings,” said Neelabh Sharma, a Mumbai-
based analyst with BOB Capital Markets Ltd., who has a hold
rating on the company’s stock. “Refining will probably stay at
these levels, though gas production concerns remain.”  GDRs Gain  Reliance’s global depository receipts in  London  rose as
much as 4.2 percent to $20.22 and traded at $30.08 as of 1:57
p.m. local time, the highest intraday price since March 18.  The local  shares  have declined 4.1 percent this year in
Mumbai, compared with a 3.5 percent drop in the key S&P BSE
Sensex Index. The loss of value has reduced Ambani’s net worth
by 5.7 percent to $22.8 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . The stock rose 1.4 percent to 804.95 rupees
in Mumbai trading today. The earnings were announced after the
market closed.  Reliance, which announced a  dividend  of 9 rupees a share,
earned $10.10 for every barrel of crude it processed in the
quarter, compared with $7.60 a barrel a year earlier and $9.60 a
barrel in the previous three months. Profit from turning Dubai
crude into diesel in  Singapore , an Asian benchmark, averaged
$19.39 a barrel in the quarter, compared with $16.81 a year
earlier, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a
London-based crude and refined-products broker.  High-Value Fuels  Reliance runs two refineries at Jamnagar in the western
state of Gujarat that can together process 1.24 million barrels
of crude every day. The plants are capable of turning heavier
grades of oil, which are typically cheaper, into high-value
fuels. The company shut a crude unit, a diesel hydrotreater and
a VGO unit at its newer refinery in Jamnagar on Feb. 18 for
about four weeks, according to a statement.  Brent crude , a benchmark oil price used by much of the
world, averaged $112.64 a barrel in the three months ended March
31, compared with $118.45 a year ago. Oil markets will be
balanced this year with Brent at about $100 a barrel in  Europe 
where demand is falling, Ibrahim al-Muhanna, an adviser to Saudi
Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi , said April 10.  Reliance, which  borrowed  an unprecedented $5.8 billion
overseas in 2012, is set to spend $27 billion in five years to
build petrochemical plants and drill wells, Deutsche Bank AG
estimates. It will invest $11 billion for energy exploration, $8
billion to expand petrochemical output and a combined $8 billion
in its refining, retail and communications businesses, Deutsche
Bank estimates. The firm will spend about 1 trillion rupees in
five years, Ambani told shareholders in June.  Cash, Equivalents  Reliance had cash and equivalents of 829.8 billion rupees,
deposited in  bank deposits , mutual funds and  government
securities  as of March 31, the company said. That surpassed its
724.3 billion rupees of debt outstanding.  The company and its partner BP Plc plan to spend more than
$5 billion in the next three to five years to develop gas
discoveries in the KG-D6 block off India’s east coast, Reliance
said today. Gas production from the block in the  Bay of Bengal 
declined 39 percent to 336 billion cubic feet in the 12 months
ended March 31 from a year earlier. The drop was spurred by
reservoir complexity and a natural decline in output, it said.  Reliance’s plan to increase production may get a boost
should the government accept the recommendations of a panel led
by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief of the prime minister’s
Economic Advisory Council. The panel wants gas rates in India to
be benchmarked to global rates, which will increase prices to
about $8 per million British thermal units.  Reliance sells fuel from the KG-D6 block for $4.2 per
million Btu, a price which comes up for revision in April 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  