-- Rwanda Seen Boosting Debut Eurobond After Demand for Zambia
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-04-17T12:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/rwanda-seen-boosting-debut-eurobond-following-demand-for-zambia.html
Rwanda, which starts marketing $400
million of debut Eurobonds this week, is counting on investor
demand for African debt that enabled Zambia to increase the size
of its first dollar bonds in September and Tanzania to lure four
times the amount it sought last month.  The East African nation must issue at least $500 million of
the debt to make JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s emerging-market indexes
used to measure performance, said  Stuart Culverhouse , chief
economist at Exotix Ltd. in London. Zambia, rated one level
above Rwanda at B+ by  Standard & Poor’s , increased the size of
its maiden dollar bond sale to $750 million from $500 million in
September. Tanzania borrowed $600 million in a private issue
after luring $2.5 billion in bids.  Rwanda is seeking funds to accelerate growth in an economy
that doubled to about $6.4 billion in the nine years through
2010 as it rebuilds from the 1994 genocide that killed more than
800,000 people. President  Paul Kagame  is boosting transport
links and energy supplies and promoting regional trade with the
aim of lifting the land-locked tea- and coffee-growing nation
into a middle-income economy by 2020.  “When they get investor feedback, I think it will pretty
unanimously say ‘well why don’t you increase the size, that will
be much better,’” Culverhouse said by phone yesterday.  Premium Pricing  Rwanda will debut in the international  bond market  as
African countries from  Angola  to Kenya plan record maiden
issues, while Nigeria and  Ghana  consider returning to  capital
markets . Tanzania, East  Africa ’s second-biggest economy, hired
New York-based Citigroup Inc. in February to help prepare for a
 credit rating  before issuing its first Eurobonds. Angola plans
to sell $2 billion of bonds after the issue of $1 billion of
seven-year debt to selected investors in August.  Rwanda’s bonds “will have to be priced at a premium to
other sub-Saharan African Eurobonds given the relatively more
fragile fundamentals and the size of the issue,”  Samir Gadio ,
an emerging-market strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
London, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Rwanda is a
landlocked country with a limited export base and relies on
foreign aid for its fiscal needs.”  Yields on Zambian notes due September 2022 have climbed 27
basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 5.44 percent since
being issued on Sept. 17. Rates on Ghana’s dollar bonds due
October 2017 have dropped 22 basis points this year to 4.73
percent. Yields on Nigerian securities due January 2021 have
declined 10 basis points since the end of 2012 to 4.01 percent
by 1:45 p.m. in London.  Investor Meetings  The international bonds from Rwanda, rated B by S&P with a
stable outlook, may be priced to yield 7 percent to 8 percent,
according to Culverhouse.  While the nation’s external debt is low, “given the modest
size of the economy, $400 million is already a meaningful amount
to borrow,” Gadio said. Talk of the government increasing the
size of the offer is “pure speculation,” Pichette Kampeta
Sayinzoga, permanent secretary in the  finance ministry , said in
a mobile-phone text message reply to questions today.  The government appointed BNP Paribas SA and Citigroup as
lead managers for the 10-year bond offering, Finance Minister
Claver Gatete said in mobile-phone  text messages  yesterday. The
banks will arrange investor meetings in  Asia ,  Europe  and the
U.S. starting tomorrow, central bank Governor John Rwangombwa
said in comments posted on Twitter.  “If they get the feeling that’s it’s going to be massively
oversubscribed in the same way that Zambia was, then they
could” increase the debt offer, Shilan Shah, Africa economist
at Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone from London yesterday.
“They wouldn’t want to overburden themselves, but at the same
time, if it’s yielding something low then another $100 million
wouldn’t be the end of the world.”  ‘Remains Vulnerable’  Rwanda’s economic expansion may slow to 7.5 percent this
year from 7.7 percent in 2012, Paulo Drummond, the International
Monetary Fund’s mission chief to the country, told reporters in
the capital Kigali yesterday. The main risks to growth include
aid cuts and project delays, he said. About 40 percent of the
country’s budget is financed by grants, making up 11 percent of
gross domestic product in 2010-2011, according to the  World
Bank .  “It is a country that remains vulnerable to shocks, to
donor sentiment,” Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-based economist
at  Renaissance Capital , said by telephone yesterday. “They’re
still in a volatile region of Africa.”  Last year a United Nations group of experts accused Rwanda
of supporting M23 rebels in neighboring Democratic Republic of
Congo’s mineral-rich east, a charge Rwanda denies. Several
countries cut aid to Rwanda because of the accusations. The
government cut spending in the 2013 fiscal year by 54 billion
Rwandan francs ($85 million) following reductions in aid.  Currency Weakness  The country ranks eighth out of 185 countries for the ease
of starting a business, according to the World Bank. Rwanda
ranks 52nd globally in the World Bank’s measure on the ease of
doing business, the highest in sub-Saharan Africa after  South
Africa . The currency weakened 0.1 percent to 637.36 per dollar
by 2:47 p.m. in Kigali, the lowest level since June 1993.  Rwanda will use $200 million to repay loans on the Kigali
Convention Centre and a development plan for RwandAir, the
national carrier, according to a copy of the prospectus obtained
by  Bloomberg News . Another $150 million will be spent completing
the center and $50 million on a hydropower plant, according to
the prospectus.  “The tight valuations of most sub Saharan Africa and
frontier market Eurobonds are the product of loose global
liquidity conditions that we see persisting,” Gadio said.
“Other prospective African issuers should take advantage of
these exceptionally favorable market terms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in  London  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  