-- Safety Incidents in Flight Surge as U.S. Changes Counting
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-16T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/safety-incidents-in-flight-surge-as-u-s-changes-counting.html
Errors that allowed planes to get
too close in U.S. airspace rose 32 percent last year, according
to preliminary numbers released during a Senate hearing today.  The incidents that were considered the nearest misses
increased fivefold, from 55 in 2011 to an estimated 275 last
year, according to written testimony by Jeffrey Guzzetti,
assistant Transportation Department  inspector general . The
number of close calls on runways also rose last year, according
to Guzzetti.  It’s not clear if the numbers show increased risk because
the Federal Aviation Administration last year broadened its
definition of such incidents and began more automated error
detection and reporting, actions that may have raised the
reported figures, according to Guzzetti.  “The reason these increases occurred is unknown,”
Guzzetti wrote in a report prepared for the Senate Commerce,
Science and Transportation Committee hearing.  The FAA said the higher numbers stem from its efforts to
increase reporting and don’t reflect more incidents, according
to Guzzetti’s testimony.  The U.S. rules on how far apart planes vary. As they arrive
and depart from airports, they must usually stay separated by at
least three nautical miles (5.5 kilometers) or by 1,000 feet
(305 meters) of altitude.  A runway incident occurs when a plane, vehicle or animal
enters a runway occupied by an aircraft.  Runway Collisions  The FAA in recent years has developed new programs to
encourage air-traffic controllers to report errors and has
improved computerized systems to better track such cases.  There was a 54 percent boost in such incidents from 2009 to
2011, according to FAA data.  Runway incidents that came closest to a collision rose from
seven in 2011 to 18 last year, as the number of flights
decreased 1 percent, Guzzetti said.  Incidents in which aircraft flew closer than allowed under
federal regulations increased from 1,895 in 2011 to 2,509 in the
year that ended last Sept. 30, according to the testimony.
Planes in most of those incidents were in little or no danger of
colliding.  Starting last year, the FAA began tracking all cases in
which planes came too close together. Previously, its count
included only those in which a controller’s error had caused
such incidents, according to Guzzetti.  The FAA needs to do a better job of collecting data on such
incidents, Guzzetti said. In some cases, incidents are reported
anonymously under an FAA program and aren’t included in error
totals, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  