-- Serbia to Restart Kosovo Talks to Open EU Entry Talks
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-04-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/serbia-to-restart-kosovo-talks-to-open-eu-entry-talks.html
Serbia begins renewed talks with
 Kosovo  today as pressure builds for it to make a deal with the
breakaway province and keep alive hope of starting European
Union entry talks this year.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  averted a negative verdict on
Serbia’s EU readiness by consenting at the last minute to meet
Kosovo Premier Hashim Thaci in Brussels in an EU-brokered
reconciliation bid after Serbia rejected a mediated accord on
April 8. In return, EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule put
off a report yesterday linked to allowing accession talks to
begin in June.  Serbia, the largest ex-Yugoslav republic, has seen its EU
entry bid stunted by a refusal to acknowledge Kosovo’s 2008
declaration of independence. The province was pried away from
Serbia in NATO’s 1999 bombing campaign, the last of the wars
that accompanied the breakup of Yugoslavia.  “It seems like a very positive development,” said Ivan
Vejvoda, the Belgrade-based vice president of the U.S. German
Marshall Fund. “There were indications even after the last
talks failed, that the Serbian government would remain open for
a new round. Of course, one has to be very cautious, but it’s
still a very positive development.”  Uncertainty over a date to start talks have roiled markets
in the Balkan nation. The dinar lost 0.35 percent to the euro
yesterday to 111.7470, its weakest level in a week. The yield on
its dollar-denominated 2021 bond reached 5.1689 percent, its
highest since April 9.  ‘Enlargement Fatigue’  “Serbia probably needs to be careful not to overplay its
hand as enlargement fatigue in the EU has risen in recent years,
and particularly in  Germany ,” Tim Ash, the London-based analyst
at the Standard Bank Plc, wrote in a note to investors
yesterday. “Serbia lacks key allies in the EU, or at least
those with as much leverage as Germany.”  Fule, speaking to reporters in Strasbourg,  France ,
yesterday called the hastily scheduled meeting between Serbia
and Kosovo “a good sign” and put off a report that threatened
to reject allowing Serbian entry talks to begin. The European
Commission said in December that mending ties with Kosovo was
key for Serbia to win a start date.  “We are confident that this dialogue on the prime
ministers’ level will result in a clear agreement,” Fule said.
“We hope the two leaderships will seize the historical
opportunity that lies before them in the very interest of their
citizens.”  ‘Good Faith’  The Serbian delegation is making the trip to Brussels “in
good faith and with good will,” Dacic was quoted by the Serbian
state-run newswire Tanjug as saying late yesterday.  Suzana Grubjesic,  Serbia ’s deputy prime minister for
European integration who saw the EU report’s latest version,
said it has “a lot more praise than criticism” and deals
mostly with “internal reforms that we have implemented for our
sake.”  “I expect that resolution to be positive,” she said in a
e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions, “just like the draft
which recommended that the European Commission opens the process
of accession talks as soon as possible.”  Serbia wants Thaci to grant Serbs in Kosovo’s northern
region decision-making rights on police and the judiciary and to
pledge to keep the Kosovo army out of Serbian communities.  Serbia and Kosovo have been at loggerheads since the wars
of the 1990s that led to the breakup of  Yugoslavia . Kosovo is
recognized by the U.S. and 22 of the EU’s 27 members. Both need
deeper EU ties after the civil wars stunted the region’s
transition from communism.  Commission Conditions  Naz Masraff, a London-based analyst at Eurasia Group, said
in an April 10 note to investors that he was still skeptical
about talks beginning in the next two months.  “Barring a last minute turnaround in behind-the-scenes
talks this week, it seems increasingly clear that Serbia’s
prospects of securing a date in June for opening accession
negotiation with the EU have largely diminished,” he said. “A
date for Serbia, therefore, is unlikely before December at
best.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  