-- Sigma-Aldrich Said to Have Pursued Life Tech Bid Until 11th Hour
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-04-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/sigma-aldrich-said-to-have-pursued-life-tech-bid-until-11th-hour.html
Sigma-Aldrich Corp. (SIAL)  went toe-to-toe
against larger rival  Thermo Fisher  Scientific Inc. to acquire
 Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , said people with knowledge of the
matter, bidding through the weekend before falling short against
Thermo’s $13.6 billion offer.  St. Louis-based Sigma-Aldrich, which has a market
capitalization of $8.9 billion, bid around $12.5 billion for
Life, said the people, who asked not to be idenitified because
the process was private. If successful, Sigma would have been
one of the rare companies to acquire a bigger peer.  Sigma-Aldrich, a producer of diagnostic and laboratory
products, wanted to buy Carlsbad, California-based Life, which
makes  laboratory equipment  that helps to map DNA, to gain market
share and compete with  Thermo Fisher. (TMO)   “It was a scale play,” said Alex Morozov, an analyst with
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , in a phone interview. “Sigma is
a smaller player. If they want to compete with Thermo, they have
to catch up in size.”  Sigma-Aldrich is a more specialized producer, so there is
room for more than one player, Morozov said. There is product
overlap, and Thermo Fisher could gain an advantage by lowering
its costs and offering a larger range of products, he said.  DNA Sequencing  While Sigma would have looked to sell Life’s next-
generation sequencing business if its bid had been successful,
Thermo Fisher is betting it will be an area of growth. Sigma,
which had hired Morgan Stanley to advise on the effort, had
conversations with  Roche Holding AG  of Switzerland and  Santa
Clara , California-based  Agilent Technologies Inc. (A)  that led it to
believe it could sell that business, said a person familiar with
the matter.  A representative for Morgan Stanley declined to comment.
Daniel Grotzky, a spokesman for Roche, declined to comment,
while Susan Berg, a spokeswoman for Agilent, didn’t return a
call seeking comment.  Life makes laboratory equipment that helps to map DNA,
information used to diagnose disease, identify risks of certain
conditions or better target medicines. The market for gene tests
may expand to $25 billion from $5 billion within a decade as
more doctors use a patient’s genetic makeup to tailor
treatments, according to a report last year from  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)   ‘Exciting Prospects’  Thermo Fisher CEO Marc Casper told investors in a
presentation after the deal was announced yesterday that the
next-generation sequencing business gives his company,
“exciting prospects for long-term growth.”  “Clearly, the next-generation sequencing business is the
star in Life’s portfolio,” Morningstar’s Morozov said. “It
could be a multi-billion dollar marketplace in five years. For
Sigma-Aldrich, it would have been a tool to pay for the deal.”  Sigma-Aldrich reported revenue of $2.6 billion last year,
compared with Thermo Fisher’s $12.5 billion in sales. Buying
Life would have added $3.8 billion to Sigma-Aldrich’s revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sigma will now have to compete against an even larger
rival. The company’s product line includes some specialty
products and items that are tougher to find, Morozov said. At
the same time, Thermo could have an advantage because the
company will be able to lower costs in product manufacturing and
distribution. When Thermo Fisher announced the deal, the company
said in a statement that it has identified $275 million in
savings and improved revenue from the deal.  “Thermo has definitely entrenched itself as a lab supplies
giant,” Morozov said. “If a lab wants to go to one supplier,
then Thermo Fisher is the better candidate.”  Sigma-Aldrich’s stock fell 3 percent in  New York  yesterday.
Quintin Lai, a spokesman for the company, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  