-- Sika Sees Rebound From First Quarter Hurt by Cold Weather
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-04-16T07:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/sika-sees-rebound-from-first-quarter-hurt-by-cold-weather.html
Sika AG (SIK) , the world’s largest maker
of construction chemicals, said it’s betting on a rebound in
revenue later this year after colder-than-average weather in
March in Europe and North America held back building projects.  First-quarter sales fell 1.1 percent to 1.04 billion Swiss
francs ($1.12 billion) from 1.06 billion francs a year earlier,
the Baar, Switzerland-based company said in a  statement .
Currency movements reduced revenue by 0.9 percent.  “Sika assumes that the construction projects held up by
the wintry weather will get back on track and be brought to
completion,” the company said.  March weather in the U.K. was the second coldest on record,
according to the Met Office, and temperatures in  France  averaged
1.3 degrees Celsius colder than usual in March, according to
that country’s Agriculture Ministry. Swiss companies are also
grappling with the effects of a rising franc on exchange markets
amid a recession in neighboring countries using the euro.  Sika’s figures “could drive consensus down by 1 percent
for this year and beyond,” Patrick Laager, an analyst at Credit
Suisse AG in Zurich, said in a note to clients. “Adding
external growth is part of Sika’s strategy. We hope that
management may be more active on this front this year.”  Chief Executive Officer Jan Jenisch dropped a mid-term
annual sales-growth target of as much as 10 percent on Feb. 28,
citing a “continuing uncertain situation” in  Europe . The maker
of Sikaflex sealant today reiterated a revenue-increase target
of 4 percent to 6 percent for 2013.  Sika rose as much as 1.2 percent to 2,144 francs and was
trading up 0.4 percent at 9:05 a.m. in Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  