-- Slovenia Counts on State Bank Funds as Overseas Yields Rise
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-04-16T07:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/slovenia-counts-on-state-bank-funds-as-overseas-yields-rise-1-.html
Slovenia, the first ex-communist
nation to adopt the euro, is relying on state-owned lenders to
help refinance early as much as 855 million euros ($1.1 billion)
of bills as overseas borrowing costs surge on concern the
government may require an international bailout.  Slovenia will offer 500 million euros of 18-month notes
tomorrow, the biggest auction in six months, to fund the early
buyback of notes due in June, Finance Ministry data show. Yields
on Slovenia’s 2022 dollar notes rose 1.26 percentage points the
past month to 6.26 percent, or 0.89 percentage point more than
similar bonds from  Hungary , which has a lower credit rating and
more debt relative to the size of its economy.  The former Yugoslav republic, which last sold foreign
obligations in October, is turning to local investors after the
nation’s second recession since 2009 increased non-performing
loans and stoked speculation it would follow Cyprus in seeking
international aid. The country’s three largest banks are all
government-run, and local investors have purchased 79 percent of
all bills sold this year, according to the Finance Ministry.  “The auction will probably be successful as state-aided
banks are the dominant buyers,” Hrvoje Stojic, chief analyst at
the Zagreb-based unit of Hypo Alpen-Adria-Bank International AG,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “While this can’t be
considered an indication of long-term public-finance stability,
Slovenia could possibly return to foreign debt markets this
quarter after presenting its budget and bank-overhaul plans.”  Cyprus Contagion  Slovenia, which adopted the euro in 2007, sold 12-month
notes at a yield of 2.99 percent at its last T-bill auction on
April 9, up from 2.02 percent for similar bills on Feb. 12,
Finance Ministry data show. The April 2014 securities yielded
3.42 percent yesterday.  With the fourth-smallest economy in the euro area, Slovenia
fell into the crossfire after European creditors and the
International Monetary Fund forced losses on bank depositors in
a 10 billion-euro aid package for Cyprus. While the country is
less reliant on banking than the Mediterranean island nation,
rising default risk has reignited concern it may follow  Greece ,
Ireland,  Portugal , Spain and Cyprus in seeking a bailout.  The cost of insuring Slovenia’s bonds against non-payment
has climbed by 148 basis points, or 1.48 percentage point, this
year to a six-month high of 378 basis points yesterday and were
unchanged at 9:03 a.m. in Ljubljana, compared with Spain’s 266
and Portugal’s 415, according to credit-default swap data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shorter-Term Financing  Slovenia will need to borrow about 3 billion euros this
year to repay maturing debt, aid banks and finance the budget,
the IMF said March 20. A total of 1.1 billion euros of debt is
due to mature in June, the biggest monthly amount this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The average duration of Slovene bonds shortened to 6 years
in the first quarter from 6.5 years a year earlier, the least
since the final three months of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The country of 2 million people last tapped foreign
markets with a $2.25 billion 10-year note in October.  International “money-market funds don’t want to take
Slovenian risk at the moment,” Margarete Strasser, who helps
manage $670 million in central and east European debt at Pioneer
Investments Austria, said by phone from Vienna on April 12. “I
can understand why they don’t want to sell longer-dated bonds at
this time. Yields are already at a very high level.”  Planning Austerity  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s administration has pledged
to press ahead with a bank-recapitalization plan valued at as
much as 4 billion euros and to step up austerity measures
including tax increases. The government will compile a list of
state-held companies to be sold to raise extra funds, Bratusek
told reporters in  Ljubljana  last week. She said the list, which
may include a bank, will be ready within two weeks.  Bad loans stemming mostly from the construction industry’s
collapse keep rising after reaching 7 billion euros, or 19
percent of gross domestic product, in October 2012, the Paris-
based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
in an April 9 report. State-controlled Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d.,  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  and Abanka Vipa d.d., the
three largest banks, have been hit the most as the share of non-
performing loans to companies rose to 30 percent, the OECD said.  Slovenia’s Finance Ministry doesn’t want to comment on any
“individual” auction or on the “future participation of local
banks,” in tomorrow’s T-bill sale, the press office said in an
e-mail reply to questions yesterday.  ‘Interesting’ Yield  “Nova Kreditna Banka expects a successful sale of T-bills
with an interest rate that would be interesting to the market,”
said Karidia Toure Zagrajsek, a spokeswoman for the country’s
second-largest bank. The Maribor-based lender hasn’t yet decided
how much it will buy tomorrow, she said in e-mailed comments on
April 15.  Mojca Strojan, a spokeswoman at Nova Ljubljanska Banka, the
country’s largest lender, didn’t reply to calls and an e-mail
requesting comment yesterday. Ljubljana-based Abanka didn’t
reply to a Bloomberg e-mail sent to its press office after
regular working hours.  Political gridlock and legal hurdles “have prevented
Slovenia from addressing its imbalances adequately,” increasing
“vulnerability at a time of heightened sovereign funding stress
in  Europe ,” the European Commission, which enforces European
Union regulations, said in a report on April 10.  Slovenia has a long-term foreign currency debt rating of
Baa2 at Moody’s Investors Service, the second-lowest investment
grade, with a stable outlook. Its public debt at 60 percent of
GDP compares with 57 percent in  Poland , 79 percent in Hungary
and the EU average of 90 percent, according to European
Commission estimates for 2013.  Political Consensus  Aberdeen Asset Management, with $12 billion in emerging-
market debt, is avoiding the nation’s debt, said Viktor Szabo, a
London-based portfolio manager. The size of this week’s T-bill
sale suggests the country has a “desperate need for funding,”
he said in e-mailed comments on April 12.  “We can still find better stories with decent yield within
 emerging markets , so we don’t have to take the Slovenian risk,”
Szabo said. “If it could build a visible political consensus
behind a credible fiscal and banking program, it wouldn’t be a
bad credit based on its debt metrics.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s fund management arm is
overweight on Slovenia’s bonds and may buy more as it expects
the challenges facing the nation won’t force the government into
a debt restructuring, Sam Finkelstein, who helps manage $40
billion in emerging-market debt at the New York-based firm, said
in a phone interview from London on April 3.  If priced “attractively,” Slovenia will find buyers for
its bonds should it return to international markets, said
Claudia Calich, a senior portfolio manager for Invesco Advisers
Inc., who oversees $3.1 billion in emerging-market debt. “They
will have to be coming to the market soon,” she said in an
interview in  London  yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  