-- SNB’s Danthine Says Economy Vulnerable to Credit Bubble
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-04-16T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/snb-s-danthine-says-economy-vulnerable-to-credit-bubble.html
The Swiss economy is vulnerable to
instability in the banking sector caused by an unsustainable
rise in mortgage debt, the central bank’s vice president said.  In recent years, credit growth has outpaced that of the
economy, and the ratio of private debt, primarily  mortgage
loans , now stands at a record 170 percent of annual output,
Jean-Pierre Danthine said in a speech in Geneva yesterday.  “The elevated property prices and the evidence of high
risk appetite translate for the Swiss economy into a state of
high vulnerability requiring caution and the exercise of
responsibility by all concerned,” he said.  Switzerland is in the midst of its strongest  housing boom 
in two decades, fueled in part by the SNB’s loose monetary
policy that has made taking on debt inexpensive. The central
bank has held its benchmark  interest rate  at zero since August
2011 and in September of that year capped the franc at 1.20 per
euro to shield the economy from the crisis in the neighboring
euro region.  High residential property prices and fast credit growth are
the main advance indicator for financial instability, Danthine
said. They were observed in the U.S. and other countries that
are now grappling with a housing-market collapse, demonstrating
what Danthine called “the devastating consequences on the real
economy of a financial crisis originating in real-estate
excesses.”  Stricter Rules  Last year, Swiss rules on mortgage lending were toughened
to help ensure borrowers weren’t overextending themselves.
Property prices are an estimated 40 percent to 60 percent higher
than they were 12 years ago, he said.  “In 2012, these imbalances intensified further, reaching
levels that pose a risk to the stability of the banking sector,
and hence the Swiss economy,” Danthine said.  In a bid to thwart risky lending, the government in
February ordered banks to hold additional capital as a buffer.
The requirement, implemented at the behest of the SNB, takes
effect from Sept. 30.  “It’s clearly too early to tell” whether the buffer has
had an effect on mortgage prices, Danthine said. While “here
and there we do see a change in the environment,” this probably
was not strictly due to the measure, he said.  The bulk of mortgage debt in  Switzerland  is held by
regional banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  