-- South Korea Unveils Fiscal Package to Support Growth: Economy
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-04-16T04:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/south-korea-proposes-17-2-billion-stimulus-to-boost-economy.html
South Korea  unveiled a 17.3
trillion won ($15.4 billion) supplementary budget to support
exporters pressured by a weaker Japanese currency and revive an
economy that grew last year at the slowest pace since 2009.  The package will boost growth by 0.3 percentage points and
create 40,000 jobs, the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement in
Sejong. The net increase is 5.3 trillion won after covering
expected revenue shortfalls, the government said. Another 2
trillion won will be available for support measures from outside
the budget, it said.  The government plan may boost consumption and confidence as
 China’s economy  shows signs of weakness and North  Korea ’s Kim
Jong Un ratchets up threats against the U.S. and the South. A
stronger won, which has risen more than 21 percent against the
yen in the past six months, has hindered export-reliant
companies such as  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
by making their products more expensive overseas.  “The extra budget will lift up the recovery in the second
half of this year, which is needed as sentiment has been weak,”
said Jun Min Kyoo, a Seoul-based economist at Korea Investment &
Securities Co. “The focus on job growth and exporters will
boost private consumption.”  President Park Geun Hye’s government announced plans for a
stimulus package on the same day last month it lowered its 2013
growth forecast to 2.3 percent from 3 percent. The government
moved today after the  Bank of Korea  last week resisted pressure
to cut the benchmark interest rate.  Create Jobs  Of the money, 3 trillion won will be used to help  create
jobs , stabilize consumer prices and finance efforts to
revitalize the housing market, the ministry said. Another 1.3
trillion won will support small- and medium-sized exporters.  “With the extra budget, we will be able to see growth at
the high end of the 2 percent range this year,” Finance Minster
Hyun Oh Seok said at a briefing last week.  The Kospi stock index rose 0.1 percent as of 1:42 p.m.
today.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. today cut its 2013 GDP  growth
forecast  to 2.9 percent from 3.1 percent on weaker-than-expected
first quarter activity.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  said today it was raising its estimate to 2.6 percent from
2.4 percent.  “The government is trying to kick-start domestic
activity,” said Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc., highlighting money earmarked for  job creation .
“We expect that growth will rebound this year,” he said,
adding that the economy’s expansion may be more than 3 percent.  Quarterly Growth  Asia’s fourth-largest economy posted quarterly growth of
less than 1 percent for seven consecutive periods. It grew 2
percent last year, the slowest rate since 2009.  The Bank of Korea cited the recent depreciation of the yen
when it cut its growth estimate for the year to 2.6 percent from
2.8 percent. Earlier this month, Japan’s central bank embarked
on unprecedented monetary easing in a bid to end almost 15 years
of deflation.  “Korean and Taiwanese producers are the front line facing
newly competitive Japanese producers,” Timothy Condon, head of
Asian research at ING Goep NV in Singapore, said before the
release. He said that’s why the won and  Taiwan dollar  have
“depreciated more than other Asian currencies this year.”  Of the package, 15.8 trillion won will be financed by
issuing new bonds and adjusting a debt buyback program, the
ministry said.  National Debt  National debt will increase to 480.5 trillion won, or 36.2
percent of GDP, after the extra budget, up from 34.8 percent in
2012, the ministry estimates.  Elsewhere in Asia, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said the
inflation outlook gives it room to reduce borrowing costs to a
record even as earlier rate cuts boost demand.  Sri Lanka  kept
 interest rates  unchanged for a fourth month today.  Euro-area inflation probably accelerated in March from a
month earlier, according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . German investor confidence for April may have fallen,
according to another survey. The U.K is due to report March
inflation while Italy will release February trade data.  U.S. industrial production probably rose in March while
core consumer prices were unchanged from a month earlier, two
separate Bloomberg surveys showed. Data may show builders in
March began work on the second-highest number of U.S. homes in
almost five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  