-- Spotify Taps Hong Kong Music Fans to Chase Pandora Outside U.S.
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-16T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/spotify-taps-hong-kong-music-fans-to-chase-pandora-outside-u-s-.html
Spotify Ltd., the London-based
online music provider, begins services in Asia today in a race
against  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  to expand globally.  Users in Hong Kong, Singapore and  Malaysia  can access
Spotify’s music service funded by advertisements for free using
a desktop, General Manager Jonathan Forster said. They can also
opt for a paid, ad-free premium service that works across all
platforms including mobile devices, he said in a phone interview
from Hong Kong.  Spotify is expanding access on mobile gadgets as more users
listen to music from handsets and tablets, Forster said. The
company plans to use Hong Kong as a stepping stone to enter
mainland China, a nation with more Internet users than any
country’s population except  India .  “We want to be everywhere where there’s a speaker,”
Forster said. “It’s really important for us to expand our
business into as many countries as possible.”  Forster didn’t specify when the company plans to start
operating in mainland  China .  Including the Asian markets, Spotify is available in 23
countries and regions. It has more than 6 million paying
subscribers and 24 million active users, including in the U.S.,
U.K., and  Australia , according to its  website .  Oakland, California-based Pandora, the leader in Internet
radio, only offers its service in the U.S., Australia and New
Zealand. It has  200 million  registered users, with 67 million
monthly active listeners, according to company figures.  Hong Kong users can pay HK$48 ($6) a month to access the
premium service, Forster said. Non-paying listeners of Spotify
have limited control over song selection and hear advertising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  