-- Sri Lanka Holds Rates to Spur Economic Growth, Cool Inflation
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2013-04-16T02:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/sri-lanka-holds-rates-to-spur-economic-growth-cool-inflation.html
Sri Lanka  left  interest rates 
unchanged for a fourth month to support economic growth and
contain inflation.  The  Central Bank of Sri Lanka  kept its  reverse repurchase
rate  at 9.5 percent and the  repurchase rate  at 7.5 percent, it
said in a statement in Colombo today. Six of eight economists in
a Bloomberg News survey predicted no change. Two forecast a 0.25
percentage-point reduction in both benchmarks.  Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal joins Asian counterparts such
as Pakistan in holding rates to aid domestic spending, as
Europe’s debt crisis clouds the prospects for a recovery in
exports. Sri Lankan consumer prices rose 7.5 percent in March
from a year earlier, the fastest after India in a group of 17
Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The central bank will likely remain cautious until
inflation stabilizes,” Samantha Amerasinghe, an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc in Colombo, said before the release.  Cabraal is aiming for  economic growth  of 7.5 percent this
year, from 6.4 percent in 2012.  “ Monetary policy  measures taken so far indicate that
expected results are being realized, providing reasonable
stimulus for a higher economic growth,” the central bank said
in today’s statement. “At the same time, further deceleration
of demand driven inflation on a sustainable basis would provide
space for further easing of monetary policy.”  The central bank raised borrowing costs in February and
April last year and let the rupee weaken to tackle a trade
deficit that pressured currency reserves. It then cut interest
rates in December.  The rupee has strengthened about 1.8 percent against the
dollar in 2013. The Colombo All-Share Index is up 3.5 percent in
that period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  