-- Bank Frey Official, Swiss Lawyer Charged in Tax Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-17T16:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/swiss-lawyer-banker-indicted-by-u-s-for-tax-conspiracy.html
The head of private banking at Bank
Frey & Co. in  Switzerland  and a Swiss lawyer were charged with
conspiring to help U.S. clients use offshore accounts to hide
millions of dollars from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Stefan Buck, the banker, and Edgar Paltzer, the lawyer,
opened and managed undeclared accounts on behalf of U.S.
taxpayers at Swiss banks, according to an indictment released
yesterday in federal court in  New York . While the indictment and
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara didn’t identify either
man’s employer, the bank confirmed today that Buck is the head
of private banking and an executive board member.  Bank Frey “is currently reviewing the legal situation that
derives from the indictment brought against a member of its
executive board and will comment further in this matter in due
course,” the Zurich-based bank said in a statement.  Bank Frey also confirmed that it was referred to in the
indictment as Bank No. 1. The bank hadn’t previously been
implicated in a U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion  that led
prosecutors to charge at least 88 people since 2008, including
more than two dozen bankers, lawyers and advisers.  UBS AG, the largest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution in 2009
by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion and
handing over data on thousands of clients. Wegelin & Co., the
oldest Swiss private bank, pleaded guilty in Manhattan in
January to conspiring to help hide more than $1.2 billion in
assets from the IRS while opening undeclared accounts for at
least 70 U.S. taxpayers who were former UBS clients.  Swiss Residents  Paltzer, 56, a dual U.S.-Swiss citizen, and Buck, 32, a
Swiss citizen, both reside in Switzerland. Neither defendant has
been arrested, Bharara said in a statement. Each faces a maximum
sentence of five years in prison if convicted.  In an e-mail, Paltzer wrote: “I am unfortunately not
allowed to comment. All I can say at this point in time is that
I have always tried to do my best. I take the opportunity to
thank all of those who support me in these difficult times.”  From March 2009 to February 2012, Buck’s bank experienced
an increase of about 300 percent in clients who were U.S.
taxpayers, Bharara said.  As of Sept. 30, the bank had about 2 billion Swiss francs
($2.17 billion) in assets under management, according to
Bharara’s statement. About 882.5 million francs, or 44 percent
of the total, was held on behalf of U.S. taxpayers living in the
U.S., he said.  Since 2009, 38,000 Americans avoided prosecution through an
IRS amnesty program that let them repatriate their accounts by
paying back taxes and penalties.  The case is U.S. v Paltzer, 13-cr-00282, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  