-- Swiss Stocks Retreat for Third Day; Givaudan Shares Fall
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-04-16T15:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/swiss-stocks-retreat-for-third-day-givaudan-shares-fall.html
Stocks in Switzerland  declined for
a third day as worse-than-expected investor confidence data in
 Germany  offset a report showing new-home  construction  in the
U.S. jumped more than forecast in March.  Givaudan SA retreated 2.2 percent as the world’s largest
maker of flavorings reported first-quarter sales that missed
analysts’ projections. Swatch Group AG declined in line with
European luxury-goods companies.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  advanced 3.7
percent after the drugmaker posted first-quarter earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  lost 0.5 percent to
7,717.60 at the close of trading in Zurich. The measure has
still rallied 13 percent this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget and data fueled optimism the world’s biggest
economy is recovering. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
dropped 0.5 percent today.  “The expectations for the German economy got another
damper after today’s survey,” Ulrich Wortberg, an analyst at
Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt , wrote in an e-
mail. “The significant decline was to be feared after the
previous month’s surprising improvement despite uncertainties
regarding Italy and Cyprus.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the SMI
today was 15 percent greater than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  German Confidence  German investor confidence declined more than economists
forecast in April, suggesting the recovery in  Europe ’s largest
economy may struggle to gain momentum.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, fell to
36.3 from a three-year high of 48.5 in March. Economists
forecast a drop to 41, according to the median of 40 estimates
in a  Bloomberg News survey .  In the U.S., new-home  construction  jumped more than
estimated as multifamily projects climbed to the highest level
in more than seven years.  Starts climbed 7 percent to a 1.04 million annual rate, the
most since June 2008, following a revised 968,000 annual rate in
February that was larger than previously reported, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The  median
estimate  of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for
930,000.  Givaudan (GIVN)  fell 2.2 percent to 1,117 Swiss francs after it
reported first-quarter sales that missed analysts’ forecasts on
weak demand for fine fragrances. Revenue gained 2.7 percent to
1.09 billion francs ($1.17 billion), it said today. The average
estimate by analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for 1.12 billion
francs. The Geneva-based company reiterated its sales growth and
dividend forecasts.  Luxury Decline  Swatch, the biggest maker of Swiss watches, slid 1 percent
to 525 francs. LVMH Moet Hennesy Louis Vuitton SA led a gauge of
European luxury companies lower after reporting the slowest
fashion and leather goods sales growth in more than three years.  Actelion rose 3.7 percent to 54.30 francs, its highest
price in more than two years. The drugmaker that gets most of
its sales from a treatment for a rare  lung disease  said
operating income jumped to 124 million francs from 67.1 million
francs a year earlier. Analysts had forecast operating income of
92 million francs.  “We will carefully look at guidance for the full year as
it is possible that some of the forecasted profit growth for
2014 could be brought forward into this year,” Chief Financial
Officer Andrew Oakley said in a statement today.  Sika AG  rose 1.8 percent to 2,157 francs. The world’s
largest maker of construction chemicals said it’s betting on a
rebound in revenue later this year after colder-than-average
weather in March in Europe and  North America  held back building
projects. First-quarter sales fell to 1.04 billion francs from
1.06 billion francs a year earlier, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  