-- Swiss-HSBC Holdings, Money Funds Patchwork: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-16T12:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/swiss-hsbc-holdings-money-funds-patchwork-compliance.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s Swiss private
bank was an “open door” for  money laundering  and terrorist
finance because managers failed to exercise controls, said Herve
Falciani, a former software technician accused of stealing data.  Falciani made the remarks yesterday after a Spanish public
prosecutor asked him whether HSBC’s Geneva-based unit had
protocols for detecting money laundering or controlling
terrorist finance. “In the bank I saw some scandalous
actions,” he said.  Falciani was appearing in national court in Madrid to fight
an extradition request by Swiss authorities.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank by market value, has said it
became aware in 2008 that Falciani had stolen details on 24,000
accounts from its private bank in Geneva. Falciani cooperated
with French investigators who used the data to search for tax
dodgers and shared the information with Italian, Spanish and
British prosecutors. The Spanish public prosecutor will oppose
the Swiss extradition request because Falciani’s actions don’t
constitute a crime in Spain, said prosecutor Dolores Delgado.  “We have not been able to review the statements that were
made today,” David Bruegger, a Zurich-based spokesman for
HSBC’s private bank, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“As this is an extradition request from the Swiss federal
prosecutor, HSBC is not involved in this and we therefore do not
comment.”  Spain’s National Court will decide whether the Spanish
government has the right to extradite Falciani and any decision
will be handed on to the government, a court spokeswoman said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Gensler-Wheatley Panel Aims to End Conflicts in Benchmark Rates  Regulators will seek to eliminate conflicts that have led
to manipulation of benchmark lending rates while investigations
into Libor continue around the world.  A panel led by U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman  Gary Gensler  and U.K. Financial Conduct Authority Chief
Executive Officer Martin Wheatley will issue a report as soon as
today with draft recommendations on how rates should be set and
what oversight regulators should have.  The panel is looking at how benchmarks can be strengthened
after an investigation by U.S. and U.K. regulators uncovered
widespread attempts by banks to manipulate the London interbank
offered rate.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG, and
Barclays Plc have been fined around $2.5 billion and at least a
dozen firms remain under investigation.  The International Organization of Securities Commissions,
which is issuing the report, will focus on overarching
principles rather than specific rules in the draft proposals,
according to two people familiar with the process who declined
to be named because the report hasn’t been published. After the
report is released, IOSCO will seek industry views on the plans
before issuing final standards this year.  Madrid-based IOSCO, which represents regulators in more
than 100 countries, responded to the interbank-rate scandal last
year by announcing the task force, which is reviewing benchmarks
across different financial sectors.  For more, click here.  EU Money-Market Fund Clients Seen at Risk in Oversight Patchwork  Money-market funds lack consistent supervision across the
European Union, hampering investor protection, the bloc’s chief
markets regulator said.  National regulators have varying approval processes for
money-market funds, rely on different sources of data for their
supervisory decisions and six of the 20 jurisdictions that
monitor the funds have yet to implement guidelines from the
 European Securities and Markets Authority , the regulator said.  ESMA released guidelines in 2010 to harmonize supervision
of money-market funds across the EU, where about 1,256 funds
operate, according to the watchdog. Money-market funds may be
subject to tougher rules in future and be required to hold
minimum levels of liquid assets as part of a bid to tighten
oversight of the $4.7 trillion global industry.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, may
require  money-market funds  that maintain a fixed share price to
build up a cash “buffer” equivalent to 3 percent of their
assets. Barnier has identified regulation of money-market funds
as a priority in the bloc’s efforts to rein in so-called shadow
banks.  Regulators are working to impose tighter restrictions on
the funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion
Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on debt
issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider run
on money funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  The  International Monetary Fund  and global regulators at
the Financial Stability Board have urged national governments to
press ahead with regulating money-market funds, and shadow
banking more generally.  FSB Says Less Than Half Members Have Applied Swaps-Rule Overhaul  Global regulators urged nations to press ahead with
implementing tougher clearing and trading rules for over-the-
counter derivatives, amid findings that only a minority of
governments in the Group of 20 nations have fully applied the
measures.  “There remains significant scope for increases in trade
reporting, central clearing, and exchange and electronic
platform trading in global OTC derivatives markets,” the
 Financial Stability Board  said in a statement on its website.  “Progress in meeting the G-20 commitments is expected to
accelerate over the course of 2013, as jurisdictions finalize
legislative and regulatory frameworks and as specific
requirements come into force,” the FSB said.  The FSB brings together central bankers, regulators and
finance ministry officials from the G-20 to coordinate
rulemaking.  ISDA Asks Regulators to Suspend Initial Margin Requirements  The International Swaps and Derivatives Association asked
regulators to suspend initial margin, or IM, requirements.  The ISDA made the request in a letter it signed with the
Institute of International Finance, the Association for
Financial Markets in Europe and the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association.  The groups said they “harbor grave concerns” about the IM
requirements for uncleared derivatives proposed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision and the  International
Organization of Securities Commissions .  The requirements “will have a significant adverse impact
on the global economy, systemic risk, financial market activity
and liquidity and end-user risk management,” the groups said.  Since the requirements are not specifically part of the
G-20 commitment on derivatives regulatory reform, policy makers
should consider other options, the groups stated in the letter.
They also asked for the requirements to be withdrawn or
suspended “until their consequences have been fully analyzed
and clarified.”  China Insurers’ Shareholder Can Hold Up to 51% Stake in Co.  China allows some single shareholders of Chinese insurers
to hold more than a 20 percent stake in the company, according
to a statement posted on the website of the  China Insurance
Regulatory Commission .  A single investor’s holding of an insurer can’t exceed 51
percent, the Commission said in the statement. The company’s
shareholders should have total assets of no less than 10 billion
 yuan  as of the nearest year-end, it said.  The shareholders’ net assets should be at least 30 percent
of total assets, according to the statement.  Compliance Action  Nordea Bank Fined for Inadequate Checks to Stop Money Laundering  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s largest lender, was
fined 30 million kronor ($4.7 million) by Sweden’s financial
watchdog for failing to comply with requirements designed to
prevent money laundering, the regulator said today in a
 statement  on its website.  Nordea “did not screen beneficial owners against the EU
sanctions regulations for several years” and it “has exposed
itself to the risk of giving blacklisted individuals access to
funds and economic resources without the bank’s knowledge,” the
Financial Supervisory Authority said in the statement. The bank
failed to disclose all its transactions in frozen accounts,
notifying the watchdog in only 16 of 74 such cases, the
regulator said.  In a separate statement today, Nordea said the fine, which
will be paid by its Swedish unit, was “high” given that no
prohibited transactions had taken place in the frozen accounts
mentioned. The bank said it has taken measures to reduce the
risks listed in the FSA’s remark.  John Thomas’s CEO Is Cited by Finra for Fraud, Broker Threats  John Thomas Financial Inc. Chief Executive Officer and
founder Anastasios “Tommy” Belesis was cited by industry
regulators for fraud linked to selling stock and intimidating
brokers.  John Thomas Financial, which already faces disciplinary
action from the Securities and Exchange Commission, sold shares
in America West Resources Inc. at the height of a price spike
while preventing customers’ sell orders from being executed in
the same stock, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said
yesterday in a statement. Belesis and two other top executives
also harassed and intimidated employees, known as registered
representatives, or RRs, who disagreed with the CEO, Finra said.  The firm “has assaulted RRs (including threatened to have
them ‘run over’), routinely berated them and threatened to ruin
their financial careers,” the regulator wrote in its  complaint .  Bloomberg News  reported on Feb. 25 that Belesis, who
founded John Thomas in 2007, has raised millions of dollars for
companies with about 200 brokers in a boiler room for as little
as $300 a week.  Ronald Cantalupo, a managing director at John Thomas, was
also named in the complaint. Cantalupo had no immediate comment,
when contacted by phone.  David Pitts, a John Thomas spokesman at public relations
firm Argot Partners LLC, didn’t immediately respond to messages
seeking comment. Last month he said that Belesis would “defend
himself vigorously” against the SEC’s claims.  For more, click here.  Rhoen-Klinikum Opposes Cartel Decision, Handelsblatt Says  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK) , the health-care facility operator, has
filed a complaint against the German cartel office’s decision to
allow Asklepios Kliniken GmbH, the provider of medical and
surgical hospital service, to build its stake, Handelsblatt
reported.  Asklepios holding a blocking stake in Rhoen-Klinikum would
“put the brakes on future fundamental strategic questions,”
Handelsblatt quoted Rhoen-Klinikum CEO Martin Siebert as saying.  The cartel office ruled in March that Asklepios could lift
its stake to more than 10 percent.  Courts  Ex-Rochdale Trader Pleads Guilty in Apple Stock Buy Case  A former Rochdale Securities LLC trader pleaded guilty to
federal conspiracy and wire fraud charges in connection with an
unauthorized $1 billion purchase of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  stock which led
to his company’s failure.  David Miller , 40, gave his plea yesterday before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Donna F. Martinez in Hartford, Connecticut,
prosecutors said in a statement. Miller also entered into a
partial civil settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over the trade, according to the agency.  Miller, scheduled to be sentenced on July 8, faces as long
as 25 years in prison, prosecutors said.  The government alleged that Miller placed an order on Oct.
25 for 1.6 million shares of Apple that he said was for a
customer who wasn’t named in court filings. The customer claimed
to have sought only 1,625 shares, according to a criminal
complaint. The Stamford, Connecticut-based brokerage was left
shouldering a loss on the 1.6 million shares when Apple’s stock
didn’t perform as Miller had hoped, according to the complaint.  Rochdale suffered a $5.3 million loss as a result of the
trade, causing the 37-year-old firm’s assets to fall below
regulatory limits, according to the SEC. It eventually ceased
operations, according to the agency. The  website  of the firm has
since been taken down and calls to two phone numbers listed for
it weren’t answered.  Kenneth C. Murphy, a lawyer for Miller, said in a phone
interview that his client “deeply regrets what he has done and
the harm it has caused to other people.”  Miller surrendered to federal authorities in December. He
was released on $300,000 bail.  The case is U.S. v. Miller, 3:12-mj-288, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport).  Commerzbank Loses Case of Woman Fired for Suing Deutsche Bank  An ex- Commerzbank AG (CBK)  director won her employment tribunal
case against the German lender for firing her when it discovered
she was suing her previous employer,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , for
sexual discrimination.  Latifa Bouabdillah was “victimized” by Commerzbank, Judge
Alexandra Davidson in London said in a written ruling dated
April 11. While Bouabdillah is seeking about 13 million pounds
($20 million), the employment tribunal hasn’t yet ruled on how
much she will get in compensation.  Bouabdillah joined Commerzbank as head of product
engineering in March 2012, and didn’t tell managers she was
suing Deutsche Bank for promoting male colleagues ahead of her
and giving them larger bonuses. Commerzbank staff read about the
tribunal suit in a Bloomberg News story, warned her she had put
the bank’s reputation at risk, then fired her in June, Judge
Davidson said in the ruling.  The tribunal rejected Bouabdillah’s argument that
Commerzbank had also discriminated based on her gender. Damages
for unfair firing are normally capped at about 70,000 pounds
unless there is proof of discrimination or other wrongdoing.  Commerzbank said in an e-mailed statement it would consider
its options after the ruling. The bank said Bouabdillah was
fired because she breached its trust by not revealing the real
reason she left Deutsche Bank.  Tim Johnson , her lawyer, said the tribunal found she hadn’t
misled Commerzbank and had acted honestly and professionally.
Bouabdillah settled her suit against Deutsche Bank on
confidential terms, he said. Kathryn Hanes, a spokeswoman for
Deutsche Bank, declined to comment.  The tribunal will hold a hearing in September to decide how
much compensation Commerzbank should pay Bouabdillah.  Interviews/Speeches  Debelle Says Aussie Supported by Resource Investment Inflows  The sustained strength of the Australian dollar partly
reflects international companies’ offshore funding of the
nation’s resource investment boom, central bank Assistant
Governor  Guy Debelle  said.  “The capital inflow to the resource sector to fund
investment along with the increased purchases of government
debt, have been putting upward pressure on the currency,”
Debelle said in the  text  of a speech in Canberra today. “At the
same time, the reduction in offshore borrowing by the banking
system has been putting downward pressure on it.”  Australia’s  biggest miners  have favored funding from
internal cash flows, rather than banks, to finance resource
projects in Australia’s north and west, and inflows are boosted
by foreign ownership of companies like  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Debelle
said three-quarters foreign ownership of BHP implies three-
quarters of BHP’s internal funding is recorded as foreign.  “Taking all this together suggests that around four-fifths
of the investment funding has been sourced from offshore,” said
Debelle, who oversees financial markets at the Reserve Bank of
Australia. “The net effect of all these flows however, is that
the Australian dollar is higher than one would expect, given
fundamentals such as the terms of trade and interest
differentials.”  In addition to resource investment, the Aussie has been
boosted by foreign purchases of Australian government debt.  Debelle didn’t address monetary policy in the speech.  Prison Sentences Needed for Libor Scandal, Umunna Says  Traders who tried to manipulate the London interbank
offered rate should serve time in prison, Chuka Umunna, the
shadow business secretary, said yesterday.  “I would be most surprised if we don’t see charges brought
and if at some point see someone serve a custodial sentence,”
Umunna, a Labour opposition member of the U.K. Parliament, said.
“We need to see strong action.”  Levitt Says SEC Must Be Branded ‘Investors’ Protector’  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said the priority for SEC Chairman Mary Jo
White must be investor protection.  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee 
on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 