-- U.K. Stocks Drop for a Third Day as ARM, Burberry Decline
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-04-16T15:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/u-k-stocks-drop-following-u-s-selloff-ab-foods-falls.html
U.K. stocks  retreated for a third
day, following the biggest selloff in U.S. equities in five
months, as a report showed that investor confidence fell short
of economists’ forecasts in  Germany .  ARM Holdings  Plc lost 3.2 percent, for the second-biggest
drop on the FTSE 100 Index.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  slid 1.4 percent
as French rival LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA reported
slowing sales. Mining companies climbed with metal prices.  The benchmark FTSE 100 dropped 39.02 points, or 0.6
percent, to 6,304.58 at the close of trading in  London . The
gauge declined yesterday after a report showed  China’s economy 
grew at a slower pace than forecast. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index also fell 0.6 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
lost 0.5 percent.  “Investors are in capital-preservation mode, particularly
after the gains we have seen in Q1,” said Ian Williams, a
market strategist at Peel Hunt LLP in London. “Macro news has
flattened out and we are are still getting the occasional profit
warning which is capping the enthusiasm.”  U.K. stocks rallied 8.7 percent in the first three months
of this year, their best start to a year since 1998. The volume
of shares changing hands in FTSE 100-listed companies today was
17 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  earlier fell as much as 0.7 percent after U.S.
stocks slumped yesterday as  commodities tumbled  and as bombs
killed three people near the finish line of the Boston Marathon.  German Confidence  Stocks declined as a report showed investor confidence in
Europe’s largest economy retreated more than forecast,
suggesting the recovery will struggle to gain momentum. The ZEW
Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said its  index
of investor and analyst expectations , which aims to predict
economic developments six months in advance, dropped to 36.3 in
April from an almost three-year high of 48.5 in March.
Economists had predicted a decline to 41.  A release in the U.K. showed  inflation  remained unchanged
for Europe’s third-biggest economy at 2.8 percent in March.
Consumer prices have climbed at a faster pace than the  Bank of
England ’s 2 percent target every month since December 2009.  ARM Holdings (ARM)  lost 3.2 percent to 868 pence. Liberum Capital
Ltd. reiterated its sell recommendation on the stock before the
designer of chips for Apple Inc. reports earnings next week.
Analysts predicted that revenue growth will slow from a year
earlier as smartphone growth moderates. They also cited concern
that  Intel Corp . will take market share.  Burberry Slides  Burberry, the largest U.K. luxury-goods company, slid 1.4
percent to 1,266 pence. The shares earlier dropped as much as
3.6 percent after  LVMH  reported the slowest growth in sales of
fashion and leather goods in more than three years.  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  lost 1.8 percent to 1,830
pence after Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the owner of the
Primark discount clothing chain to neutral from outperform. The
brokerage said European sugar prices will grow more slowly. The
bank’s price estimate of 1,850 pence implies a 0.8 percent
discount to yesterday’s close.  A gauge of  mining stocks  rebounded from its biggest three-
day selloff since June as copper led metals higher in London.
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. gained 3.7 percent to 246.8
pence,  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  advanced 1.4 percent to 345.7 pence and
 Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  added 1.5 percent to 1,123 pence.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  jumped 2 percent to 986 pence and  Glencore (GLEN) 
International Plc rose 1.3 percent to 325.1 pence after China’s
Ministry of Commerce approved Glencore’s $30 billion takeover of
Xstrata, the deal’s final regulatory hurdle.  The transaction won agreement from South Africa’s antitrust
regulator in January and the European Union in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  