-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Fall as Housing Starts Increase
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-16T20:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/u-s-company-credit-swaps-fall-before-housing-starts-data.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined, almost erasing yesterday’s advance, as a report
showed new-home construction rose last month.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 3.3
basis points to a mid-price of 82 basis points at 4:42 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge
yesterday added 3.4 basis points, the most since March 20, the
 day traders  started moving positions into a new version.  U.S. housing starts  climbed 7 percent to a 1.04 million
annual rate, the most since June 2008, after a revised 968,000
pace in February that was larger than previously reported,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median  estimate  of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for 930,000. Signs the  U.S. economy  is improving may alleviate
investor concern that companies will struggle to repay debt.  “Investors are reasonably comfortable with their overall
positioning,”  Ashish Shah , the head of global credit investment
at New York-based AllianceBernstein LP, which oversees $256
billion in fixed-income assets, said in a telephone interview.
“We have headwinds, but the recovery in the U.S. will be
reasonable through the course of the year.”  Record Income  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Wells Fargo & Co. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the most
profitable U.S. banks, are selling a combined $3.5 billion of
debt and preferred stock after generating record income in the
first quarter.  Wells Fargo (WFC)  issued $1.15 billion of five-year debt that
pays 63 basis points more than the three-month London interbank
offered rate and an additional $850 million of its 1.5 percent
securities due January 2018 that yield 75 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  JPMorgan is planning to sell $1.5 billion of perpetual
preferred stock to yield 5.15 percent, according to a person
familiar with that transaction who asked not to be identified,
citing lack of authorization to speak publicly.  Energy Future  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index declined 17.6 basis points to 398.6 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show, reversing yesterday’s 16.9 basis-point
jump.  Credit swaps tied to the debt of Energy Future Holdings
Corp. dropped after the power producer, taken private in 2007 in
the largest leveraged buyout, proposed a pre-packaged bankruptcy
that would put Texas Competitive Electric Holdings and some
other units in Chapter 11.  Five-year contracts on Energy Future tightened 1.4
percentage points to 20.5 percent upfront at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York  according to CMA, the data provider owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. that compiles prices quoted by dealers. That implies a 71.6
percent probability the company will fail to meet its
obligations before the swaps expire June 2018, down from 73.6
percent yesterday, CMA data show.  Equity Stake  The company has been in confidential talks for a pre-
packaged restructuring of about $32 billion in debt held by its
Texas Competitive subsidiary, according to a filing yesterday.
The initial proposal, rejected by  creditors , asked them to
forgive debt in exchange for equity in Dallas-based Energy
Future and $5 billion in cash or new debt. KKR & Co. and TPG
Capital LP, backers of the $48 billion takeover, and the other
private-equity sponsors said they want to retain a 15 percent
 equity stake.   The fact that the sponsors and Texas Competitive creditors
want equity supports the view that Energy Future’s stake in
Oncor Electric Delivery Co., its regulated unit that owns Texas
power lines, will not be sold and that there is “significant
value from Oncor down the road,” CreditSights Inc. analyst  Andy DeVries  wrote in a note today.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt added 10.1 basis point to 534.1 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  