-- Gallery Owner Among 34 Charged With Running Gambling Ring
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-16T23:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/u-s-charges-34-with-running-illegal-gambling-ring.html
A Manhattan art gallery owner and a
reputed Russian crime boss are among 34 people charged with
operating two overlapping high-stakes gambling rings that
catered to celebrities and the very wealthy.  U.S. prosecutors charged the defendants, including gallery
owner Hillel “Helly” Nahmad, and Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov,
allegedly a “Vor,” or high-level Russian criminal, in a 27-
count indictment unsealed today in federal court in Manhattan.
Also today, 29 of the defendants were arrested in  New York ,
Philadelphia,  Detroit  and  Los Angeles , according to a statement
from the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  “These criminal enterprises were vast and many-tentacled,
with one of them reaching across the Atlantic to launder tens of
millions of dollars from  Russia  to the U.S. via Cyprus and, in
some cases, back again,” Bharara said in the statement.  Agents of the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation in New York
searched homes in the Trump Building on Manhattan’s Fifth Avenue
and the Helly Nahmad Gallery at the Carlyle Hotel on Madison
Avenue.  The 20 defendants arrested in New York were charged in
Manhattan federal court today, Bharara’s office said. Nahmad is
expected to surrender to authorities in Los Angeles, according
to the statement. Four others, including Tokhtakhounov, 64, are
fugitives.  Seeking Help  The FBI said in a statement that it’s seeking the public’s
help in locating three of the defendants: Abraham Mosseri, 39,
Donald McCalmont, 45, and William Edler, 49.  Nahmad, 34, is charged with racketeering, conspiracy, money
laundering conspiracy and other charges. His gallery sells
paintings by  Pablo Picasso  and other modern masters.  The gallery and Aaron Golub, a lawyer who represented
Nahmad in a civil matter, didn’t immediately return phone
messages seeking comment on the charges.  Prosecutors said one of the rings, run by Vadim Trincher, a
52-year-old  New Yorker , ran an international sports book for
wealthy Russians and laundered tens of millions of dollars from
Russia and Ukraine through Cyprus to the U.S.  Tokhtakhounov, who has also been charged in connection with
bribing officials of the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City,
provided protection to the ring and was paid $10 million in a
single two-month period, prosecutors said.  Billionaires Gambling  The other ring, run by Trincher’s son, Illya Trincher, 27,
of Beverly Hills, California, ran a high-stakes gambling
operation for millionaires and billionaires, according to the
government. The ring was supported, in part, by Nahmad’s New
York gallery, which last year held an exhibition of modern and
postwar artists including  Joan Miro ,  Alexander Calder , Jean
Dubuffet and  Fernand Leger .  One client lost about $2 million to the ring and was forced
to turn over his plumbing company in payment, prosecutors said.
The group allegedly laundered tens of millions of dollars, with
the advice of a branch manager of a New York bank that
prosecutors didn’t identify by name.  Charges against the defendants include racketeering,
illegal sports gambling, running an illegal poker business, wire
fraud conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy, extortion and
violation of the federal Travel Act.  The case is U.S. v. Tokhtakhounov, 13-cr-00268, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  Manhattan  federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  