-- U.S. Tortured Detainees and Got Little of Value: Report
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-04-16T19:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/u-s-tortured-detainees-getting-little-information-report-says.html
A bipartisan panel said President
George W. Bush’s administration engaged in torture after the
Sept. 11 attacks and blamed “the nation’s highest officials”
for “allowing and contributing to the spread of torture.”  The 560-page report by a task force of the Washington-based
Constitution Project also takes aim at the Obama administration
for maintaining secrecy on past abuses and failing to prosecute
acts of torture.  The task force -- led by Republican Asa Hutchinson, a
former Arkansas congressman and Homeland Security official under
Bush, and Democrat James Jones, a former Oklahoma congressman
and U.S. ambassador to  Mexico  in the Clinton administration --
offered what it called the most comprehensive report so far on
prisoner interrogations.  “It is indisputable that the United States engaged in the
practice of torture,” the  report  said.  The torture question roiled the Bush administration after
the disclosure that three prisoners held by the CIA had been
waterboarded, an interrogation technique that simulates
drowning.  While the Bush administration denied the practice amounted
to torture, the task force said the issue should no longer be
subject to debate.  “The United States may not declare a nation guilty of
engaging in torture and then exempt itself from being so labeled
for similar if not identical conduct,” the report said.  The group, which had no access to classified information or
subpoena power, said the public record provides ample evidence
of torture.  ‘Wide Range’  “Torture was used against detainees in many instances and
across a wide range of theaters,” Hutchinson said at a news
conference, citing instances of waterboarding, stress positions
and sleep deprivation.  The report said much of the torture that occurred in Iraq,
 Afghanistan  and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, “was never explicitly
authorized.” Still, it found the administration laid the
groundwork for torture by declaring that the Geneva Conventions,
which require humane treatment for prisoners of war, didn’t
apply to the war on terrorism.  “The administration never specified what rules would apply
instead,” the report said.  It faulted Justice Department lawyers for providing
“novel, if not acrobatic” legal opinions that permitted
torture and other mistreatment of prisoners.  The report also challenges the CIA’s claim that only three
al-Qaeda prisoners were waterboarded.  Waterboarding Incidents  The task force confirmed an account first provided by Human
Rights Watch that at least one Libyan militant was waterboarded
by U.S. forces in Afghanistan. It said a second Libyan militant
was subjected to a “similar water-suffocation procedure” that
didn’t involve a board.  The two incidents “caused some consternation at the CIA,
which had always maintained that only three people had been
waterboarded,” the report said.  Jones faulted the Obama administration for keeping
documents classified in a practice that he said serves only “to
conceal wrongdoing.”  Obama, in his first term, decided against creating a
commission to study the Bush administration’s interrogation and
detention policies, saying it was unproductive to “look
backwards.”  Senator Patrick Leahy of  Vermont  introduced legislation in
2009 to create a “truth commission” to investigate alleged
wrongdoing, but the proposal went nowhere.  Internal Rift  The task force, which interviewed scores of prisoners,
military intelligence officers and interrogators, said its
report “should not be the final word on how events played
out.” It called on the Obama administration to declassify as
much information as possible to expose wrongdoing and correct
past abuses.  The report also disclosed an internal rift within the
International Committee of the Red Cross over whether the
Geneva-based group should reveal abuses it found at Guantanamo
Bay, breaking a tradition of speaking only to affected
governments.  Some Red Cross officials “were so offended by their
discoveries at Guantanamo that they argued the group had to be
more forceful in confronting the Defense Department,” the
report said. Top Red Cross leadership “decided against
confrontation, and a valuable opportunity may have been
missed,” it said.  Uncertain Value  The report was less definitive on whether torture provided
any valuable information to U.S. officials tracking potential
terrorist plots.  Without access to classified information, the group said it
couldn’t be sure whether torture yielded any breakthroughs. The
Senate Intelligence Committee produced a report on
interrogations that remains classified.  Still, the task force said there is no “firm or persuasive
evidence” to indicate that torture was beneficial and called on
those who disagree to offer some factual basis.  “The public record strongly suggests there was no useful
information gained from going to the dark side” and engaging in
torture, said David  Irvine , a former Republican Utah state
legislator and retired Army brigadier general who served on the
task force. “We have been badly misled by false confessions
derived from brutal interrogations.”  While most of the report’s findings were unanimous, the
task force couldn’t agree on one key issue: how to address the
indefinite detention of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay.  A majority of the group said the indefinite detention is
“abhorrent and intolerable” and called on the Obama
administration to bring prisoners to court or deport them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  