-- U.S. Gas Prices May Stay Below $6 for a Decade, Trade Group Says
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-04-16T16:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/u-s-gas-prices-may-stay-below-6-for-a-decade-trade-group-says.html
U.S. natural gas prices may stay in
a range of about $4 to $6 per million British thermal units
during the next decade even if exports of the heating and power
plant fuel expand, the American Gas Association said.  “If you look at the amount of gas that we have and the
known resources and known reserves and the ability now to
extract that almost on call, we do not see exports as affecting
the price over time,” Dave McCurdy, chief executive officer of
the gas association, said in an interview in Houston today.  McCurdy’s association, which includes gas utilities, is
helping to put on a conference on liquefied natural gas, called
LNG 17, this week in Houston. Many association members see U.S.
exports reaching about 3 billion to 5 billion cubic feet a day
in the next decade, he said. Companies have proposed about 30
billion cubic feet of daily U.S. gas export capacity amid a
surge in output as producers fracture shale formations.  The government is reviewing applications, with  Cheniere
Energy Inc. (LNG)  owning the only project in the lower 48 states that
has all approvals for LNG exports.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  has
questioned how LNG exports may affect operations in the U.S. Dow
is a member of America’s Energy Advantage, a group of
manufacturers and gas distributors that says unfettered exports
of LNG may undermine the benefits of rising output from shale.  ‘Sweet Spot’  Gas futures in New York are trading at more than $4 per
million British thermal units this week after falling to less
than $2 in April 2012 and touching a 10-year low.  The American Gas Association’s members generally support
open markets and the concept of free trade, McCurdy said.  Trying to keep gas in the range of $4 to $6 makes sense
because it’s a “sweet spot” that provides a motivation to
produce while making sure gas is a “value” for customers,
Ronald Jibson, CEO of Salt Lake City-based  Questar Corp. (STR)  and
chairman of the American Gas Association, said today in an
interview in Houston. Less volatility in future gas prices also
will help companies such as power producers and manufacturers
plan, he said.  “You still have potential for small swings, but I think
they’ll be very small duration as far as the timing,” Jibson
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  