-- N. Korea Says Talks Possible Once Nuclear Deterrence Is Set
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-04-17T03:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/u-s-sees-north-korea-launch-possible-due-to-kim-s-inexperience.html
North Korea  said talks with the
U.S. are possible once it has sufficient nuclear weapons to
deter an attack, setting a condition the Obama administration
has ruled out after weeks of threats from Kim Jong Un’s regime.  “Genuine dialogue is possible only at the phase where the
DPRK has acquired nuclear deterrent enough to defuse the U.S.
threat of nuclear war unless the U.S. rolls back its hostile
policy,” the state-run Korean Central News Agency yesterday
said, citing a Foreign Ministry spokesman. The country’s
official name is the Democratic People’s Republic of  Korea .  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that the U.S. doesn’t
think North Korea has the ability to launch a nuclear-armed
missile, adding that he refuses to reward North Korea’s
“provocative behavior.” The U.S. expects additional
provocations in “the next several weeks,” he said in a
recorded interview broadcast yesterday on NBC’s “Today” show.  Obama said it is difficult to predict what Kim, who
inherited his position from his late father  Kim Jong Il  in
December 2011 and is believed to be under 30, will do. North
Korea has repeatedly said the region is on the brink of war
since testing an atomic bomb in February in defiance of
increased United Nations  sanctions , and has threatened to launch
preemptive nuclear strikes on the U.S. and  South Korea .  “Based on our current intelligence assessments, we do not
think that they have that capacity,” Obama said, adding that
the U.S. has repositioned missile defenses “to guard against
any miscalculation on their part.”  Rejecting Request  The North today rejected a request by South Korean business
owners to visit the jointly-run Gaeseong industrial complex
north of the demilitarized zone, Unification Ministry spokesman
Kim Hyung Suk said today in  Seoul . The owners wanted to check
the status of their assets there since operations were suspended
last week, Kim said. The factory park has been shuttered since
April 9 when the North withdrew its 53,000 laborers working for
123 South Korean companies.  Obama said he hopes that eventually Kim’s government will
show a willingness to discuss issues diplomatically.  “You don’t get to bang your spoon on the table and somehow
you get your way,” he said.  North Korea early yesterday threatened to attack South
Korea at any time in retaliation for a protest in Seoul where
portraits of the North’s leaders were set on fire. The country
is celebrating the April 15 birthday of state founder  Kim Il Sung , the current leader’s grandfather.  No Mobilizing  While a missile or nuclear weapons test remains possible
given the hostile rhetoric from the totalitarian state over the
past several weeks, there are no signs North Korean forces are
mobilizing, a U.S. Forces Korea official said yesterday.  “North Korea right now seems to be weighing whether it’s
more beneficial to restart talks with the U.S. or South Korea,”
said Hahm Hyeong Pil, an analyst at the Korea Institute for
Defense Analyses in Seoul. “If they want to appeal to the U.S.,
then the North will continue to escalate tensions with more
threats and if it chooses the South, then it will not fire a
missile.”  The recent rhetoric from the North has been conditional,
and the possibility of an attack always hinged on what the U.S.
or South Korea may do to avert one, the  U.S. Forces Korea 
official told reporters yesterday in Seoul, asking not to be
named in line with military policy. North Korea should look to
its options for ending the cycle of escalated tensions, the
official said.  Short-Range Fire  Should North Korea choose to launch a missile, it probably
will be a short-range one that falls into the sea, the official
said, adding that neither the U.S. nor South Korea will know
about any launch until it is airborne.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  this week ended a trip
to Seoul, Beijing and  Tokyo  by calling for dialogue with Kim’s
regime, while saying a nuclear-armed North Korea was
unacceptable. South Korean President Park Geun Hye on April 11
offered to restart talks with North Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  