-- U.S. Charges French Citizen Tied to BSGR in Bribe Probe
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-04-16T20:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/u-s-arrests-man-linked-to-bsgr-purchase-of-guinea-mine-license.html
A French citizen with ties to  BSG
Resources Ltd.  was charged with witness tampering and attempting
to obstruct a probe into whether a mining company paid bribes to
win “lucrative” rights in  Guinea , according to court
documents.  Frederic Cilins, 50, was arrested and charged with plotting
to destroy documents and induce a witness to give false
testimony to a grand jury investigating potential violations of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, according to a criminal
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in New York.  “A grand jury can never learn the truth, and justice
cannot prevail, where documents are intentionally destroyed and
testimony is tainted by lies,”  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said yesterday in a  statement . “Cilins attempted to
obstruct a significant investigation by corrupting evidence and
testimony in precisely those ways.”  Guinean Justice Minister Christian Sow said in a statement
issued by the office of President  Alpha Conde  that Cilins was an
agent of  BSGR , a company controlled by Israeli billionaire Beny Steinmetz. BSGR said last month that Guinea is preparing to
strip its joint venture with  Vale SA (VALE5)  of its mining rights in the
country.  The venture is planning a $10 billion iron ore mine in the
country at Simandou. The dispute intensified amid a government
review into the agreements signed with mining companies.  Mining Licenses  BSGR said in an e-mailed statement that Cilins isn’t one of
the company’s 6,000 employees and that allegations of fraud in
obtaining its mining rights are baseless.  The U.S. probe is seeking to determine the circumstances
surrounding the acquisition of mining licenses in Guinea by
BSGR, Conde’s office said in its statement. The criminal
complaint against Cilins doesn’t identify the company at the
center of the investigation.  Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale  identified the entity cited in
the complaint as BSGR. The company said it was “deeply
concerned” about the allegations and intends to cooperate fully
with the governments of the U.S. and Guinea.  “Vale was unaware of the actions of the individual who has
been charged and had no involvement in any actions taken by BSGR
Group in connection with the award of the Simandou concession,”
the company said in the statement.  The federal grand jury investigation concerns transfers of
money into the U.S. from outside the country as part of a scheme
to obtain mining concessions in Guinea including in the Simandou
region, according to the complaint.  Florida Arrest  Cilins was arrested in Jacksonville,  Florida , on April 14.
He’s facing charges of tampering with a witness, obstructing an
investigation and destroying or falsifying records in a federal
probe. The obstruction charge carries a maximum penalty of five
years in prison, and the record-destruction charges carry a
maximum sentence of 20 years.  Between March and April 14, Cilins allegedly offered to pay
a cooperating witness to deliver documents subpoenaed by the
grand jury and documents requested by the FBI so he could
destroy them, according to court papers. Cilins allegedly told
the witness that he needed to be present to “personally
witness” the documents being burned, according to the
complaint.  The cooperating witness is the former wife of a now-
deceased high ranking Guinea government official, according to
the complaint. She’s cooperating in hope of obtaining immunity
for her own potential criminal conduct, according to court
documents.  Contracts Sought  Cilins sought copies of contracts between the mining
company that transferred at least $2 million plus shares in
stock in mining areas in Guinea to a company owned by the
official’s wife, according to the complaint. Under the
contracts, the money was to be distributed to the official’s
wife as well as ministers or senior officials of Guinea’s
government whose authority might be needed to secure the mining
rights, according to court documents.  Steinmetz’s company in November said it received a letter
from Guinea regarding an investigation into how the venture with
Vale obtained mining rights.  It acquired rights to part of the Simandou deposit in 2008
after Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining
company, was ordered by the government to give up a section of
its license area. Vale agreed to buy 51 percent of the project
for as much as $2.5 billion in 2010.  The case is U.S. v. Cilins, 13-mj-00975, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  