-- Ukraine Spring Crop Planting Lags on Snow, Cold, Oil World Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-04-16T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/ukraine-spring-crop-planting-lags-on-snow-cold-oil-world-says.html
Spring crop planting in  Ukraine  is
two weeks to three weeks behind the normal pace because of cold
weather and snow, Oil World said.  Farmers had planted 1.24 million hectares (3.06 million
acres) of spring crops as of April 10, with most sowing
consisting of  barley , the Hamburg-based researcher said today in
an e-mailed report. Sunflower seed planting has begun in
southern parts of the country, with about 40,000 hectares sown
as of April 10, in line with last year. Winter crop development
also may have been delayed in some areas by recent cold weather,
which might affect yield potential, according to the report.  “Farmers have to prepare for a tight sowing period once
the weather improves,” Oil World said. “This is likely to
become of major concern for producers in the north and west of
Ukraine where the snow melt is still insufficient. As a result,
some farmers are adjusting their sowing plans to the benefit of
corn, sunseed and soybeans.”  Ukraine’s rapeseed exports tumbled to 10,000 metric tons in
March, a fifth of the shipments at the same time last year, Oil
World said. Exports of four major oilseeds have totaled 1.797
million tons since the marketing year began in October, up 18
percent from a year earlier, led by a jump in soybean shipments.  “Soybeans will likely stay the major oilseed exported from
Ukraine this season, surpassing rapeseed,” Oil World said. In
March, “rapeseed shipments plunged due to the scarce domestic
supplies left over from the dismal crop harvested in 2012 and
the very large exports in preceding months.”  European Union  Soybean oil exports from the European Union may climb to a
“multi-year high” of as much as 900,000 tons in the 2012-13
season that started Oct. 1, Oil World said. Most EU shipments
have gone to  Algeria ,  Morocco ,  Tunisia ,  Egypt  and  South Africa .
Spain also sold a 10,000-ton soybean oil cargo in January to
Iran, according to the report.  Soybean oil prices in Rotterdam climbed to 850 euros a ton
in the past week. Supplies from the EU are becoming less price
competitive with South American soybean oil, which may result in
“sizably lower” exports from the bloc in coming months, Oil
World said.  EU imports of rapeseed and canola dropped to 54,000 tons
from October through January, and total purchases in the 2012-13
season may be “significantly short” of earlier expectations,
Oil World said. “Insufficient” production in  Canada  and import
demand from the U.S. and  China  will keep EU imports from  North
America  “at a very depressed level” through the rest of the
season, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 