-- Human Rights Court Halts Terror Suspect’s U.S. Extradition
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-04-16T14:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/human-rights-court-blocks-terror-suspect-s-extradition-to-u-s-.html
The European Court of  Human Rights 
told the U.K. not to extradite a terror suspect to the U.S.
because detention in a “super-max” prison might exacerbate the
man’s paranoid schizophrenia.  Extradition would constitute ill treatment because of
Haroon Aswat’s medical condition, the ECHR in Strasbourg,
 France , said in a ruling today. Aswat, who is currently detained
in a U.K. high-security psychiatric hospital, has been indicted
in the U.S. on charges he conspired to establish a jihad
training camp in the country.  “There is a real risk that the applicant’s extradition to
a different country and to a different and potentially more
hostile prison environment would result in a significant
deterioration in his mental and physical health,” the court
said in a judgment  published  on its website today.  Aswat was arrested in London in August 2005 after being
deported from Zambia. U.S. federal prosecutors in  New York  claim
he plotted with Islamic cleric Abu Hamza al-Masri to set up a
jihad training camp in Bly,  Oregon , in 1999 and 2000 to equip
fighters to wage religious war in  Afghanistan .  The maximum security prison in Florence,  Colorado , “houses
offenders requiring the tightest controls,” according to the
website of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Prisons.  The U.K. said Aswat wouldn’t be automatically sent to the
prison.  “While a diagnosis of schizophrenia would not preclude
designation to a maximum security facility such as ADX Florence,
in practice most inmates with this diagnosis were managed and
treated in other facilities,” the U.K. said in court documents.  Legal Options  The U.K. Home Office is disappointed by the decision and
will consider “as a matter of urgency all the legal options
which are available” once the judgment is final in three
months, according to an e-mailed statement. “This includes
whether we request a referral of the case to the Court’s Grand
Chamber.”  U.K. politicians have criticized the Human Rights court for
interfering with attempts to extradite terror suspects. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  has said he wants to limit the ECHR’s
remit, so it focuses on major cases and interferes less with
national governments.  The court last year temporarily blocked the extradition of
 Abu Qatada , an Islamic cleric accused of having links to the
terrorist group al-Qaeda. The Strasbourg court later cleared the
way for Qatada to be deported, only for U.K. courts to block the
process.  Ramzi Yousef  The prison, south of Denver, Colorado, houses Theodore Kaczynski, also known as the Unabomber, Terry Nichols, convicted
in the 1995  Oklahoma City bombing  and Ramzi Yousef, the
convicted mastermind of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing
serving a prison term of life plus 240 years.  Yousef asked an appeals court in August to lift
restrictions on his contact with the outside world. He is barred
from having physical contact with other inmates, and his
communications with anyone outside the prison are severely
restricted, according to his attorney, Bernard V. Kleinman. The
lawyer is challenging the government’s decision to re-impose the
measures annually without explanation.  Six people were killed in the 1993 bombing and more than a
thousand injured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  