-- Hungary Expects Exit From EU Budget Monitoring Without Measures
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-04-16T11:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/hungary-expects-exit-from-eu-budget-monitoring-without-measures.html
Hungary’s government expects to
exit the European Union’s monitoring process for budget
offenders without further fiscal measures as a return to growth
and favorable risk perception allow a cut in budget reserves.  Hungary can reduce the reserves to 0.6 percent of gross
domestic product from 1.3 percent, Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga 
told reporters today in Budapest as he presented the country’s
euro-convergence  plan . The government cut its 2013  growth 
forecast to 0.7 percent from 0.9 percent. That compares with a
0.1 percent contraction projected by the European Commission.
The economy will expand 1.9 percent in 2014, Varga said.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s priorities include ending a
recession and keeping the budget shortfall below the EU limit of
3 percent of GDP to remove the threat of cuts in the bloc’s
funding. The commission forecast a budget gap of 3.4 percent in
2013 and 2014. Hungary has kept the gap within the threshold the
past two years and will do the same this year, Varga said.  “Hungary is on a sustainable path, so we have all reason
to expect that we’ll emerge from the excessive deficit
procedure,” Varga said. “The convergence program is based on
the projection that economic growth will resume in 2013, the
Hungarian economy will stay on a balanced path, we’ll achieve a
budget deficit below 3 percent and no additional measures will
be needed for that.”  Forint, Bills  The forint weakened 0.2 percent to 295.26 per euro by 1:10
p.m. in Budapest, extending this year’s loss to 1.3 percent. The
government calculates with an average forint exchange rate of
293.1 per euro, rather than 283 per euro earlier, according to
the report.  The state sold a planned amount of 3-month Treasury bills
at an auction today as the average yield declined to a record-
low 4.34 percent.  Hungary is one of the “promising” countries that may
receive abrogation from the excessive-deficit procedure “in the
course of this spring,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Olli Rehn said Feb. 22.  Orban, who faces elections next year, sacrificed growth to
preserve access to EU grants, which finance 95 percent of all
development projects in the country, the highest proportion in
the bloc, according to the government. Extraordinary industry
taxes in the past two years helped push the economy into its
second recession in four years in 2012.  The government cut its 2013  inflation  forecast to 3.1
percent from 5.2 percent, mainly as a result of mandatory cuts
in household-energy prices and subdued domestic demand, Varga
said. The rate fell to 2.2 percent last month, the lowest since
1974. The central bank, which targets 3 percent price growth
expects an average of 2.6 percent this year and 2.8 percent in
2014.  The loss in budget revenue resulting from weaker growth and
slower inflation as well as an expected decline in revenue from
a financial-transaction tax will be offset by more restrained
spending at local councils and a decline in debt interest
payments, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  