-- Tunisia, IMF ‘Very Close’ to Loan Deal, Fund Official Says
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-04-16T11:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/tunisia-imf-very-close-to-loan-deal-fund-official-says.html
Tunisia  and the  International
Monetary Fund  are “very close” to a $1.75 billion
precautionary  credit line , a deal the government says is key to
helping buoy the nation’s economy, according to a Fund official.  Talks will continue in the “coming days,” Amine Mati,
head of the IMF mission to Tunisia, told reporters today in
Tunis. There may be an agreement in late May, he said, adding
the Fund “did not impose reforms on Tunisia.”  Tunisia is seeking to speed up recovery after the economy
stalled when President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted more
than two years ago in an uprising that triggered protests across
the Arab world. Political tensions have increased since the
assassination of an opposition leader in February and the debt
crisis in  Europe  has hurt trade.  The government expects the economy to expand 4 percent this
year compared with 3.6 percent in 2012, Tunisian Finance
Minister Elyes Fakhfakh has said.  Similar consultations took place between the IMF and Egypt,
where a fund team concluded a visit without an agreement despite
comments by government officials that a deal would likely be
reached before the end of the mission. The Fund said it made
progress on talks while Egyptian officials said they hoped talks
would continue in  Washington .  “Although Tunisia’s post-revolution transition has shared
some of the features of Egypt’s, it has been smoother, because
its fiscal position was in better shape to start with, and
because it has a much smaller population,” said Liz Martins,
Dubai-based senior economist at HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd.
“Tunisia’s fiscal needs are actually less pressing than  Egypt ’s
and it hopes not to have to tap the IMF money at all.”  Tunisia’s debt is rated three notches higher than Egypt at
Standard and Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net  