-- Urbi Plunges as Barclays Sues on Margin Call: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-17T00:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/urbi-plunges-as-barclays-sues-on-margin-call-mexico-city-mover.html
Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  shares
and bonds plunged as the Mexican homebuilder faces complaints
from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  that it failed to
make payments on derivatives contracts.  Urbi  shares  fell 14 percent to 2.08 pesos today in Mexico
City trading, the lowest closing price since the company went
public in 2004. The Mexicali-based company’s dollar bonds due in
2022 fell 3.02 cents to 31.09 cents on the dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays, based in  London , said in a lawsuit in state court
in New York this month that Urbi missed a margin call earlier
this year and has since failed to make a required $11.6 million
payment. Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, said in a separate
complaint filed April 11 that Urbi failed to make a $10.9
million payment on a derivatives transaction.  “They’re starting to breach their obligations,” Jorge Lagunas, who oversees about $200 million in stocks at Grupo
Financiero Interacciones SA, said in a telephone interview from
 Mexico  City. “It’s a bad sign.”  Urbi, Mexico’s third-biggest homebuilder by sales, said in
a regulatory filing yesterday that it’s disputing “certain
claims arising from its financial derivative instruments” in
U.S. courts, without naming any plaintiffs. The company has
hired Rothschild and other advisers to review its finances and
help analyze options including a debt restructuring.  Drew Benson, a New York-based spokesman for Credit Suisse,
declined to comment, as did Brandon Ashcraft, a Barclays
spokesman.  Homebuilder Rout  Securities of Mexico’s biggest publicly traded homebuilders
have  plummeted  this year as the government shifts subsidies to
promote capital-intensive apartment buildings in urban areas
over single-family houses in commuter towns or the countryside.
Subsidized developments beyond city limits have backfired as
workers began shunning commuting costs to return to urban
living, according to the government.  Home repossessions more than doubled last year to a record
43,853 from 2011, according to Infonavit, the state-backed
lender responsible for about 70 percent of home loans in Mexico.  Urbi’s shares have fallen 74 percent this year, the biggest
drop in the  Habita Index (HABITA)  of six Mexican homebuilders.  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) , Mexico’s biggest homebuilder,
said this week it’s considering issuing junior debt and selling
assets to raise cash in an attempt to avoid a debt
restructuring. Shares of Culiacan-based Homex fell 10 percent
today, leaving them down 57 percent this year.  Geo’s Plans  Corp. Geo SAB, Mexico’s second-biggest homebuilder by
revenue, has hired Fians Capital to provide advice with the
“principal objective of generating efficiencies and reviewing
alternatives for restructuring its debt,” according to an April
12 filing with the Mexican stock exchange.  The Habita gauge of homebuilders fell to a record low 0.3
times book value today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Urbi trades at 0.1 times book, the data show.  The Mexican housing sector “might offer some interesting
opportunities if the risks are well accounted for,” UBS AG
analyst Marimar Torreblanca said in a research report today.
“Everything has a price.” The bank has a buy recommendation on
Geo and Homex and the equivalent of hold on Urbi, according to
the UBS report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  