-- Urbi Mulls Restructure as Credit Suisse, Barclays File Lawsuits
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-16T02:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/urbi-mulls-restructure-as-credit-suisse-barclays-file-lawsuits.html
Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*) , whose
stock is the worst-performing member of  Mexico ’s benchmark index
this year, said it’s considering restructuring debt as  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  filed suits over financial
derivatives.  Mexico’s third-largest homebuilder by sales hired
Rothschild and other outside advisers to analyze options to
improve liquidity and restructure debt, according to a statement
today to Mexico’s stock exchange. Urbi, based in Mexicali,
Mexico, said it’s disputing “certain claims arising from its
financial derivative instruments” in U.S. courts.  Shares and bonds of Urbi and its  peers  have plunged this
year as Mexican homebuilders struggle to adjust to a new
government policy that promotes urban development over outlying
single-family homes. The company’s 70 percent share decline this
year is the worst on the nation’s benchmark IPC. Corp.  Geo (GEOB)  SAB,
which announced April 12 that it will restructure debt, is the
second-worst performer, dropping 64 percent.  Urbi hired Rothschild and other advisers “to support it in
the review of its financial situation and the analysis of
alternatives to improve its liquidity and restructure its
financial liabilities in order to ensure the orderly
continuation of its operations,” the company said.  Bloomberg first reported Urbi hired Rothschild on April 11,
citing a person familiar with the matter.  U.S. Lawsuits  According to U.S. court filings, Barclays’s Mexican unit
sued Urbi for breach of contract, saying the builder failed to
pay $3 million that was due March 15 after the bank had to
terminate a 2010 swaps and derivatives agreement.  The Barclays unit said in a complaint filed April 8 in  New
York  state court that it ended the agreement after Urbi didn’t
post additional collateral in January “to cover potential
losses relating to open transactions with the bank.” Urbi owes
the Barclays unit $11.6 million, according to the complaint.  A Credit Suisse unit also sued Urbi, as well as a group of
entities responsible for its payments to the Swiss bank, in New
York state court.  According to an April 11 complaint, Urbi owes Credit Suisse
International $10.9 million after the bank terminated a 2012
trade agreement related to currency option transactions. The
Credit Suisse unit said in the complaint that it ended the
agreement because of  downgrades  of Urbi’s debt last month by
 Fitch Ratings  Inc. and  Standard & Poor’s .  Credit Downgrades  S&P downgraded Urbi to CCC from B on March 4 and placed the
company on credit watch negative, citing 2012 financial results
that were “significantly below” their expectations. Fitch
downgraded the company to CCC from B on March 1, citing
“substantial deterioration of Urbi’s liquidity during 2012,
which has heightened the risk of default.”  Yields on the company’s dollar bonds due in 2022 have
surged more than 14 percentage points in the last month to 33
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  President Enrique Pena Nieto is encouraging housing
construction closer to cities, which Fitch Ratings said in a
Feb. 22 report could hurt the value of some homebuilders’
current land reserves.  The cases are Barclays Bank Mexico SA v. Urbi Desarrollos
Urbanos SAB de CV, 651226/2013, and Credit Suisse International
v. Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB de CV, 651318/2013, New York
County Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  