-- Turkish Central Bank Cuts Main Rate; Yields Drop to Historic Low
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-04-16T14:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/turkish-yields-drop-to-record-low-as-central-bank-cuts-main-rate.html
Turkey ’s central bank cut the
benchmark interest rate by a more-than-expected 50 basis points,
sending bond yields to a record low.  The bank in Ankara cut its benchmark one-week repo rate for
the first time this year, reducing it to 5 percent from 5.5
percent. The median estimate of 13 analysts at a Bloomberg
survey was for a reduction of 25 basis points.  Explaining the decision, the central bank said capital
inflows have accelerated again while loan growth is hovering
above its preferred rate of 15 percent. Governor Erdem Basci has
said he will seek to prevent appreciation in the lira that would
widen the country’s current-account deficit. The bank said today
that the “proper policy” is to keep  interest rates  low while
increasing foreign-currency reserves.  “By this move, the central bank is saying that it is a bit
more worried about the outlook for growth,” Timothy Ash, an
emerging market economist at Standard Bank Plc in  London , wrote
in an e-mailed note. The central bank had previously seemed
“relatively hawkish/bullish on growth,” he said.  The Ankara-based bank also said measures it took today to
adjust rules on bank reserves will lead to a $1.4 billion
increase in foreign-currency reserves.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds fell 17 basis points to
5.58 percent at the 5 p.m. close in Istanbul, the lowest level
since Bloomberg started tracking the data in April 2005. The
lira sank 0.6 percent against the euro, heading for its biggest
drop since March 7.  Successive Cuts  The central bank said the decline in commodity prices and
its policy measures are expected to contain a widening in the
current account deficit due to the revival in domestic demand.
Weak global demand and commodity prices “contain the upward
pressures on inflation,” it said.  Inflation accelerated to 7.3 percent last month, above the
bank’s year-end target of 5 percent. The country’s current-
account gap narrowed last year after reaching a record of about
10 percent of economic output in 2011.  Turkey’s central bank has cut at least one of the three
rates in each monthly decision since September, as economic
growth slowed to 2.2 percent last year from 8.8 percent in 2011.  The bank also cut both ends of its so-called rates corridor
today, reducing the overnight lending rate to 7 percent from 7.5
percent and the overnight borrowing rate to 4 percent from 4.5
percent.  ‘Much Lower’  “If money inflows accelerate, and that’s what we expect,
we may see much lower rates” at the bottom end of the corridor,
Gizem Oztok Altinsac, an economist at Garanti Securities in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  was the only bank surveyed by Bloomberg
that forecast today’s 50-point cut in the benchmark rate.  The lira’s 0.9 percent advance over the past month may have
pushed it above a threshold cited by the central bank for rate
cuts, according to  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS. (TEBNK)   The bank’s real effective exchange-rate index, which
measures the currency against those of Turkey’s main trade
partners, rose to 119.95 in March. A reading above 120 suggests
the lira is overvalued and may prompt rate cuts, Basci has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  