-- Musharraf Political Return Halted as Pakistan Rejects Nomination
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-04-16T13:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/musharraf-political-return-halted-as-pakistan-rejects-nomination.html
Pakistani officials rejected former
military ruler Pervez Musharraf’s bid to contest a parliamentary
seat in the country’s north at the May 11 election, a move that
may thwart his attempted political comeback.  A tribunal reversed an earlier decision that had allowed
Musharraf to stand in Chitral, his party’s spokeswoman Aasia
Ishaque said by phone from Islamabad. The ex-general’s
applications to fight from three other constituencies had
already been turned down over his illegal declaration of
emergency powers in 2007 while he was the country’s president.  “The party will appeal against the decisions in the
Supreme Court after April 19,” Ishaque said, referring to the
date on which the Election Commission is due to issue a final
list of approved candidates.  The rejection of Musharraf’s nomination came as opponents
are seeking to put him on trial for treason in the top court
over his suspension of the constitution.  Pakistan ’s Chief
Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry was deposed and kept under house
arrest by Musharraf. A Supreme Court bench is considering a set
of petitions against the former general and the next hearing is
scheduled for April 17.  Musharraf is trying to return to politics nearly five years
after he quit the president’s office as Pakistan’s parliament
threatened to bring impeachment charges against him, citing the
seizure of power and alleged economic mismanagement.  Musharraf ousted the government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in a 1999 bloodless coup after a dispute over support for
Pakistan-backed militants occupying Indian-controlled territory
in the Kargil region of Kashmir.  Asif Ali Zardari, who succeeded Musharraf as president,
last month led the first civilian administration in the nation’s
history to complete its full term and prepare to hand over power
to another elected government through a poll.  After stepping down as president in 2008, Musharraf went
into a self-exposed exile and returned last month vowing to
contest the election as head of his All Pakistan Muslim League
party. His party aims to field 125 candidates, according to
spokeswoman Ishaque.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  