-- Capriles Cancels March After Venezuela Threatens Crackdown
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-04-17T21:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/venezuela-opposition-cancels-march-after-seven-die-in-protests.html
Venezuelan opposition leader
Henrique Capriles Radonski took a step back from the brink of a
mounting confrontation with the government by calling off a
march planned for today to protest the results of the April 14
presidential election.  Capriles acted after Nicolas Maduro, proclaimed the winner
by the national electoral council, vowed to come down with a
“firm hand” on opposition supporters and eight people died in
political violence, according to the public prosecutor. Caracas
was flooded with music, fireworks and the sound of pots and pans
being banged last night for more than an hour as supporters from
both sides showed loyalty to their leaders.  “We know that your agenda in the government is to try to
get the country into a situation of confrontation and
violence,” Capriles, 40, told reporters yesterday in Caracas.
“Tomorrow we won’t mobilize.”  Tensions have escalated in Venezuela after a close result
in an emergency election following the death of President Hugo Chavez March 5. While Capriles’ gesture averts the likelihood of
bloodshed for now, Maduro’s response points to a protracted
conflict, said Gregory Weeks, head of the department of
political science at the University of North Carolina in
 Charlotte .  “This eases the tension, but I don’t know for how long,”
Weeks, former director of Latin American studies at the
university, said in a phone interview. Maduro’s response “is in
many ways a provocation.”  Dollar Bonds  Venezuela’s dollar-denominated bonds fell the most in
almost 15 years yesterday as traders anticipated political
instability will undermine the economy. Inflation accelerated to
25 percent in March, the fastest official rate in the region.
The central bank’s scarcity index, which measures the amount of
goods that are out of stock in the market, rose to a record high
of 20.4 percent in January.  Maduro will be sworn in on April 19 even as the opposition
insists irregularities affected about 300,000 votes, enough to
overturn the result. Capriles said he believed he had won the
election and is ready to concede defeat if a recount confirms
Maduro’s victory.  Maduro said he would accept any decision the electoral
council makes with regard to the election, just hours after
Supreme Court Justice Luisa Morales said the type of recount the
opposition is demanding doesn’t exist in  Venezuela .  U.S. Perspective  The U.S. government supports a recount and has no plans to
send an envoy to the April 19 presidential inauguration in
Venezuela, Secretary of State John Kerry said in a Congressional
hearing today.  “Take your eyes off Venezuela, John Kerry,” Maduro said
today. “Get out of here. Enough with intervention.”  Maduro said he didn’t recognize Capriles as the governor of
Miranda state. Capriles, who the electoral council said took 49
percent of the votes, temporarily stepped down as governor to
run for president. Maduro won the race with 50.8 percent of the
votes, the council said.  “I’m going to take legal measures, because you have
violated the constitution and assassinated the people,” Maduro
said, referring to the opposition leader, after the march was
called off.  Arrest Order  Leopoldo Lopez, an ally of Capriles and former mayor of the
Caracas municipality of Chacao, said on his Twitter page that he
has information of an arrest order issued against himself and
Capriles, without giving more details.  Jorge Galindo, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry, said
by phone he couldn’t comment and arrest warrants are out of his
jurisdiction. A press officer at the Public Ministry said there
was no one available to comment. Calls to the ministry
spokesman’s mobile phone and an e-mail were unanswered.
Information Minister Ernesto Villegas didn’t respond to a
telephone call and text message seeking comment.  Venezuela’s National Assembly today issued a resolution
calling on the public prosecutor to investigate “violent and
anti-democratic actions” by a small “fascist” group it said
is led by Capriles and his campaign team. The resolution urged
the public prosecutor to confiscate assets and freeze bank
accounts belonging to members of the group to compensate for
damages against the state and individuals.  Nationwide Protests  The nationwide protests also left 61 injured and led to the
arrest of 135 people, Public Prosecutor Luisa Ortega Diaz said.
Opposition protesters have attacked health centers and local
offices of the ruling socialist party, Maduro said.  “You won’t go to downtown Caracas to fill it with blood
and death,” Maduro, 50, said yesterday in comments broadcast on
state television. “This is a chronicle of a coup foretold.”  Capriles, in an interview with  CNN ’s Spanish-language
channel yesterday, said “the government wants violence. We are
calling for peace.”  In 2002, Chavez was overthrown for two days after
opposition street protests in Caracas turned violent. A decade
earlier, Chavez became a national figure by leading military
rebels in a failed coup against President Carlos Andres Perez.  Protests should die down in the coming days or weeks after
the march was canceled, said Francisco Rodriguez, senior Andean
economist at Bank of America Corp. Rodriguez said he thinks
Capriles doesn’t have enough evidence to overturn the result.  Busted Bonds  The country’s bonds due in 2027 rebounded 2.4 cents on the
dollar to 93.59 cents today. The yield fell 34 basis points, or
0.34 percentage point, to 10.10 percent. The price dropped 6.89
cents yesterday, the biggest decline since August 1998.  Bonds will continue to fall as the future of Venezuela
remains unclear amid the political dispute and the potential of
violence remains high, said  Russell Dallen , the head trader at
Caracas Capital Markets.  Chavez, who tapped the world’s biggest oil reserves to
reduce poverty, left the country polarized as he nationalized
more than 1,000 companies or their assets and implemented
currency and price controls that created food shortages and
fueled inflation.  Canceling the march “was a responsible thing to do because
you cannot win the battle when Maduro has all the guns and
tanks,” Dallen said in a phone interview from Caracas. “But
this is not the end of it at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  