-- Maduro Vows to Stop Political Protests in Venezuela as Seven Die
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-04-16T18:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/venezuela-faces-turmoil-as-maduro-foes-protest-victory-decree.html
Venezuelan President-elect Nicolas Maduro said he’ll block a march planned by the opposition
contesting his April 14 election after the public prosecutor
said seven people were killed in protests.  Maduro, who was proclaimed the winner by the electoral
council yesterday, said he’ll come down with a “hard hand” to
prevent violence. Henrique Capriles Radonski, who lost by 1.8
percentage points, urged supporters to take to the streets with
him tomorrow to press the electoral council in Caracas to
manually recount all ballots.  “You won’t go to downtown Caracas to fill it with blood
and death,” Maduro, 50, said today in comments broadcast on
state television. “This is a chronicle of a coup foretold.”  The closest margin of victory in 45 years may lead to an
environment of distrust and institutional collapse, said Javier
Ciurlizza, director for Latin America and the Caribbean at the
International Crisis Group. Dollar bonds tumbled for a second
day as traders anticipated instability after 14 years of late
president Hugo Chavez’s rule.  Maduro, who had 50.8 percent of the votes, said today that
the electoral council has carried out a 54 percent audit of the
election results and found no evidence of irregularity. Capriles
said yesterday he believed he had won the election and is ready
to concede defeat after a recount.  61 Injured  Protests across the country have also left 61 injured and
led to the arrest of 135 people, Public Prosecutor Luisa Ortega Diaz said. Opposition protesters have attacked health centers
and local offices of the ruling socialist party, Maduro said.  Capriles, who had 49 percent support, said he had evidence
of irregularities, including videos of voters being watched by
Maduro supporters while they cast their ballots, that affected
about 300,000 votes.  “I’m not asking for them to proclaim Capriles as the
winner,” the 40-year-old opposition leader told reporters in
Caracas yesterday. “I’m asking that they count each vote. If as
a candidate you agreed to a vote-by-vote recount you don’t go
running to be proclaimed.”  National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello said no
recount of the 15 million votes cast would occur and that Maduro
will be sworn in April 19. The government will call for Capriles
to be investigated by the National Assembly for the violence
generated in the country, Cabello said today on his Twitter
account.  ‘Polarized the Country’  “The government’s rejection of a reasonable request to
recount the vote has polarized the country even further, driving
people into the streets,” Ciurlizza said in a phone interview
from Bogota. “If opposition supporters lose faith in formal
politics, the outbreaks of violence will become unpredictable.”  Hundreds of Capriles supporters marched through eastern
Caracas yesterday to gather outside his campaign headquarters,
waving flags and blowing horns. Elsewhere on a motorway in the
capital, National Guard troops fired tear gas and plastic
bullets to disperse protesting students.  As Maduro gave a press conference yesterday in which he
accused his opponents of seeking to incite violence, the
opposition in Caracas staged a protest across the city by
banging pots and pans for about 40 minutes.  “We’re not afraid of violence, and that’s why we’re here
in the middle of the street protesting this fraud,” said Danny
Guzman, 32, an accountant who marched to support Capriles. “We
refuse to live in fear under this regime, which is trying to put
pressure on us all.”  Barclays Plc today cut it recommendation to buy Venezuelan
bonds, saying a weak presidency and high uncertainty following
the elections could lead the country into a recession.  Bond Yields  The yield on Venezuela’s 2027 bonds rose 31 basis points,
or 0.31 percentage points, to 9.8 percent at 1:15 p.m.  New York 
time after soaring yesterday the most in two months. The cost of
insuring Venezuela’s debt against default for five years rose 11
basis points to 741, after soaring 41 basis points yesterday.  The margin of victory was the narrowest since a 1968
general election in which Rafael Caldera defeated Gonzalo
Barrios by 29.1 percent against 28.2 percent.  The former union leader and foreign minister has vowed to
follow the steps of his mentor Chavez, who increased state
control over the economy by nationalizing more than 1,000
companies or their assets and introduced currency and price
controls. Chavez also tapped the world’s biggest  oil reserves  to
help cut poverty to 21.2 percent of the population in the second
half of 2012 from 42.8 percent when he first took power in 1999,
according to government data.  Chavez’s Son  Chavez won his third six-year term last October when he
defeated Capriles by 11 percentage points after raising
salaries, building thousands of homes for poor families and
increasing cheap imports to slow  inflation . The spending binge
helped the economy grow 5.5 percent in 2012.  “I am the son of Chavez,” Maduro said yesterday. “I am
the first Chavista president after Hugo Chavez and I am going to
fulfill in full his legacy to protect the humble, the poor, the
fatherland.”  Maduro called the election a choice between capitalism and
socialism. He warned Spain and Madrid-based energy company
 Repsol SA (REP)  to “be careful” about their relationship with
Venezuela, saying they could face “exemplary actions” from his
government. Repsol has stakes in Venezuela’s Carabobo 1 heavy
oil project and Perla natural gas field.  Devaluation  As Chavez languished in a hospital bed in Cuba before his
death, Maduro oversaw a 32 percent devaluation of the bolivar
and expelled two U.S. embassy officials who were accused of
plotting against the government. The U.S. denied the charges.  Economic growth will slow to 1.9 percent this year, the
slowest in three years, a Bloomberg survey shows. The
devaluation and dollar shortages could push the economy into
recession, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  Inflation accelerated to 25 percent in March, the fastest
annual pace in 13 months and the highest official rate in the
hemisphere, the central bank said yesterday. Rising prices are
compounded by shortages of products on supermarket shelves. The
central bank’s scarcity index, which measures the amount of
goods that are out of stock in the market, rose to a record high
of 20.4 percent in January.  While Capriles yesterday called for peaceful protest, the
situation could spiral out of his control under heavy-handed
police repression, said Andy Webb-Vidal, CEO of Latin-IQ Corp.,
a Bogota-based business risk consultancy.  “The situation could escalate to levels of political
violence not seen in  Venezuela  since the coup against Chavez in
April 2002,” Webb-Vidal said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “In 2002, Chavez’s legitimacy as president was never
really in doubt, but now it’s quite different: half of the
country sees Maduro as the legitimate heir of Chavez, but the
other half sees him as the illegitimate son.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  