-- LVMH Falls in Paris as Fashion Sales Gain Slowest Since 2009
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-04-16T15:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/lvmh-falls-in-paris-as-fashion-sales-advance-slowest-since-2009.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
fell to the lowest in five months in Paris trading after saying
weaker Asian demand contributed to the slowest growth in sales
of fashion and leather products in more than three years.  Sales at  Louis Vuitton , the company’s largest brand, were
“flattish” in China in the first quarter, with shopper numbers
down in most shopping malls, Chief Financial Officer Jean- Jacques Guiony said today on a conference call. Spending by
Japanese tourists fell as Paris-based LVMH raised prices, he
said. The  shares  declined 3.8 percent.  “At this point in time we are missing demand from the
Asian part of the world, which is obviously a key driver,”
Guiony said, adding that consumers from the region account for
about 50 percent of Vuitton sales. LVMH raised Vuitton prices by
about 12 percent in  Japan  and by 3 percent to 4.5 percent in
other parts of the world in the quarter, the CFO said.  LVMH late yesterday reported growth of 3 percent in first-
quarter fashion and leather goods revenue, excluding currency
swings and acquisitions, the weakest performance since the
fourth quarter of 2009. Analysts predicted a 5 percent gain.  The slowdown in the most profitable of LVMH’s five
divisions will weigh on the company’s margins, Eva Quiroga, an
analyst at UBS AG, said today in a note to clients. Quiroga has
a neutral recommendation on the shares.  LVMH’s closing share price of 126.25 euros was the lowest
since Nov. 16. Salvatore Ferragamo SpA also fell, dropping 3.4
percent to 20.83 euros in Milan, while  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) 
declined 1.4 percent to 1,266 pence in  London .  Fewer Logos  LVMH is including more leather and fewer logos in Vuitton’s
product mix as it seeks to make its biggest brand more desirable
amid concern that consumers are tiring of its monogrammed
laminated canvas bags. It is also opening fewer stores. Vuitton
won’t seek revenue growth at all costs, LVMH Chief Executive
Officer  Bernard Arnault  said in January.  “The strategic shift by mega-brands makes  portfolio
management  vital for luxury groups,” said  Luca Solca , an Exane
BNP Paribas analyst. Brands such as Vuitton will increasingly
become “cash cows,” while faster-growing labels “take on a
more and more important role in growing group profits.”  Vuitton’s quarterly sales growth was “not materially
different” from the rest of the fashion and leather-goods unit,
while brands such as Celine posted higher sales, Guiony said.  Duty-Free  Italian fashion-goods maker  Prada SpA (1913)  this month reported
an uneven start to the year, saying cold weather, the economic
crisis in Europe and threats of nuclear strikes by  North Korea 
had hurt demand.  LVMH’s total first-quarter sales climbed 6 percent to 6.95
billion euros ($9.1 billion), matching the average of 13
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 7 percent excluding
exchange-rate fluctuations and acquisitions, compared with 14
percent in the first quarter of last year and 8 percent in the
final three months of 2012.  Revenue climbed 7 percent in the U.S. excluding  Hawaii , and
12 percent in each of Japan and Asia on an organic basis, LVMH
said. Sales in Europe were unchanged in the quarter.  A 17 percent organic gain at the selective retailing unit,
which includes beauty retailer Sephora and DFS duty-free stores,
helped offset a weaker-than-expected performance in all other
divisions. Analysts predicted a 12 percent rise at the unit.  First-quarter sales of wines and spirits rose 7 percent on
an organic basis as “robust” demand for champagne in Asia made
up for a “softer” performance in Europe, LVMH said.  Perfume and cosmetics sales gained 5 percent excluding
currency moves and acquisitions, while revenue from watches and
jewelry increased 2 percent, LVMH said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  