-- VW to BMW Plan $25 Billion Hedge by Building Autos Abroad
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/vw-to-bmw-plan-25-billion-hedge-by-building-autos-abroad.html
With the yen weakening and Europe’s
debt crisis spreading,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and its German peers are
planning to spend more than $25 billion by 2017 to expand
production outside their home region and insulate themselves
from currency convulsions.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , already among the largest U.S.
car exporters, says it will start producing the new X4 sport-
utility vehicle at its factory in  South Carolina , in addition to
the other three SUVs it makes there.  Daimler AG (DAI)  is expanding a
Mercedes-Benz plant in  Alabama , and VW’s Audi is building a $1.3
billion factory in Mexico.  The German manufacturers’ overseas investment leads
European rivals  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Renault SA (RNO)  and  Fiat SpA (F) ,
which remain more focused on their home region. VW opened its
100th production facility this year -- a $550 million engine
plant in Silao, Mexico -- helping make the company the world’s
most global carmaker.  VW has 77 percent of its production capacity outside its
home country, outpacing  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s 76 percent and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s 59 percent, consultancy Oliver Wyman
estimates. BMW, Mercedes and Audi have a more diverse footprint
than luxury rivals like Lexus, Cadillac and Volvo.  “Our approach is a global approach,”  Jonathan Browning ,
head of VW’s U.S. operations, said in a Bloomberg TV interview
at the  New York  International Auto Show last month. “If you’ve
got a spread of geographic presence, a spread of brand segments
across the marketplace, then you can manage these fluctuations
more easily.”  Currency Squeeze  The investments come even though the euro’s 18 percent
slide against the dollar since its 2008 peak has made it more
profitable for the Germans to manufacture at home. Daimler says
its operating earnings got a 958 million euro ($1.25 billion)
boost from currency swings last year as the euro sank to a two-
year low versus the dollar. And with the dollar up almost 20
percent against the yen since November, analysts expect Toyota’s
profit to jump 50 percent this fiscal year.  Yet Germany’s automakers know the other side of an exchange
rate squeeze. Daimler says currency swings this year will reduce
operating profit by 200 million euros. And Porsche --now part of
Volkswagen -- almost collapsed in the early 1990s because it
sold most of its cars in the U.S. while having all its
production in Germany, exposing it to a drop in the dollar that
choked finances.  That lesson led to the first wave of international
expansion, when Mercedes and BMW opened U.S. factories in the
1990s. With  Europe  struggling and China, Russia and  Brazil 
getting richer, German carmakers are boosting investment away
from home to target growth and keep currency risks in check.  European Blues  “We aim to move closer to the customer,” said Joachim Schmidt, head of Mercedes-Benz sales and marketing. “We’re
expanding our production capacity in China and the U.S. and
we’re considering other countries for vehicle assembly, such as
Russia or Brazil.”  The companies haven’t given up on traditional financial
hedging. BMW raised its protection in foreign-exchange markets
by 39 percent in 2012 to 36 billion euros, according to its
annual report. VW boosted hedges by 27 percent to 103 billion
euros, and Daimler increased its currency hedging by 11 percent,
the companies said in their annual reports.  Currency volatility, meanwhile, is near historic lows.
JPMorgan’s Global FX Volatility Index dropped to 8.74 percent on
April 12 from 9.88 percent in February, and it remains below its
10-year average of 10.64 percent.  Remaining Profitable  International expansion has kept German automakers growing
and profitable even with European car sales in the midst of a
six-year contraction. Since 2007, VW’s  market value  has risen 21
percent to 68 billion euros and BMW’s has surged 56 percent to
44 billion euros. While Daimler has fallen 35 percent, that’s
better than Peugeot’s 83 percent plunge in part because of
limited international operations.  “The manufacturers suffered from currency fluctuations in
the past,” said Fabian Brandt, a partner at  Oliver Wyman  in
Munich. “That’s why they are now trying to manufacture in the
regions where the demand is.”  VW, based in Wolfsburg, has seven new Chinese plants in
various stages of planning, part of $19 billion in investments
in production outside Europe expected by 2017. After spending $1
billion on a factory in Chattanooga, the company may further
increase U.S. capacity with production of a big SUV based on the
Crossblue concept.  Daimler will spend about $5 billion by 2015 expanding
operations in China and upgrading a factory in Alabama to
produce the Mercedes C-Class sedan and a new high-end SUV.  SUV Exports  BMW has earmarked some $900 million for adding to its 4
million-square-foot facility in South Carolina, and it will
spend 500 million euros on its Chinese facilities together with
its local partner. BMW’s U.S. plant, which makes cars for 130
markets worldwide, is the company’s only SUV factory and exports
some 70 percent of its output. That helps offset the currency
exposure to imports of vehicles such as the 3-Series
manufactured in Germany. The Munich-based company is also
planning a new factory in Brazil.  “The markets that are supporting us now are the markets
where we have expanded our capacity,” BMW Chief Executive
Officer  Norbert Reithofer  told reporters at the  Geneva Motor
Show  in March. “It’s our aim to be balanced globally and not
depend on one market.”  BMW, the world’s largest luxury-car maker, last year built
29 percent of its vehicles outside Europe, up from 16 percent a
decade earlier. Mercedes produced more than 90 percent of its
cars in its home region 10 years ago, when European demand
accounted for 70 percent of the brand’s global sales. In 2012,
Mercedes made about 70 percent of its cars in Europe while
deliveries in the region dropped to 40 percent of its total.  Faster Pace  The faster pace of international expansion is evident with
plans by VW and its joint-venture partners in China to spend 9.8
billion euros by 2015, versus 16 billion euros invested in the
course of more than 25 years in the country.  German carmakers are also increasingly sourcing components
from local manufacturers. VW says it aims to purchase 80 percent
of the parts of its North America-made vehicles from local
suppliers.  Still, the strategy forces VW, BMW and Daimler to deal with
other risks, especially maintaining “made in Germany” quality
so far from home.  “Back in 2002, the world was relatively easy,” but as
 emerging markets  take center stage, regional diversification is
critical, said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of
Automotive Management at the University of Applied Sciences in
 Bergisch Gladbach , Germany. That, he said, “increases
complexity enormously.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  