-- Wachtell, WilmerHale, Cravath, Skadden: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-16T10:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/wachtell-wilmerhale-cravath-skadden-business-of-law.html
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and
Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP acted as legal advisers
to  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) , the second-biggest maker of
life-sciences equipment by market value, which agreed to buy
 Life Technologies (LIFE)  Corp. for $13.6 billion in cash in a deal that
expands its reach in medical testing.  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP acted as legal advisers to Life
Technologies.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by Matthew M. Guest and also
includes executive compensation and benefits partner Jeannemarie
O’Brien.  WilmerHale’s partners on the deal include David E. Redlick,
corporate; John D. Sigel, commercial finance; Hal J. Leibowitz,
corporate and mergers and acquisitions; and Erika L. Robinson,
corporate and securities.  Cravath’s team includes partners Richard Hall and Minh Van Ngo corporate; Michael L. Schler, tax; Eric W. Hilfers,
executive compensation and benefits; Matthew Morreale,
environmental; David J. Kappos, intellectual property; and
Christine A. Varney, antitrust.  Latham & Watkins LLP represents JPMorgan Chase & Co. as
financial adviser to  Thermo Fisher  in the transaction, with a
corporate team led from the firm’s Orange County,  California ,
office by partners Charles Ruck and Scott Shean.  The $76-a-share offer also includes the assumption of $2.2
billion in debt, Waltham, Massachusetts-based Thermo Fisher said
in a statement yesterday. With the debt, the deal is valued at
about $15.8 billion. The per-share offer is 12 percent more than
Life Technologies’ closing price of $68 on April 12.  Life Technologies, based in Carlsbad, California, makes
 laboratory equipment  that helps to map DNA, information used to
diagnose disease, identify risks of certain conditions or better
target medicines. The market for gene tests may expand to $25
billion from $5 billion within a decade as more doctors use a
patient’s genetic makeup to tailor treatments, according to a
report last year from  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)   The purchase gives Thermo “reach across all the major
technologies,” said  Ross Muken , an analyst at International
Strategy & Investment Group LLC in  New York . “You now have a
unique customer touch and a portfolio others will be unable to
match.”  For more, click here.  Ropes & Gray Advises Madison Dearborn on $1.3 Billion NFP Deal  Ropes & Gray LLP advised Madison Dearborn Partners LLC on
its agreement to buy  National Financial Partners Corp. (NFP)  in a deal
valued at $1.3 billion including debt. Skadden Arps Slate
Meagher & Flom LLP is representing NFP.  The Ropes & Gray team was led by Matthew Richards. Byung
Choi and Alex Zeltser led the financing and other partners
involved are Renata Ferrari, Eric Elfman, Rick Marshall, James
Thomas and David Chapin and Leigh Fraser.  The Skadden team includes partners Kenneth Wolff and Howard Ellin, M&A; Erica Schohn, executive compensation and benefits;
and Dwight Yoo and Yossi Vebman, corporate finance.  All lawyers
are based in New York.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is advising the board
and the special committee of the board of National Financial
Partners in its acquisition. The Cleary Gottlieb team is led by
partner Victor Lewkow and includes partners Duane McLaughlin on
financing matters, and Michael Dayan on derivatives matters.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is advising Bank of America
Merrill Lynch as financial adviser to NFP. The Davis Polk
corporate team includes partners George R. Bason Jr., Leonard Kreynin and James T. Rothwell in New York.  Madison Dearborn, a Chicago-based private-equity firm, will
pay $25.35 in cash per share of New York-based NFP, the
companies said yesterday in a statement. That represents a 26
percent premium to NFP’s  closing share price  on March 12, the
day before it was reported that the insurance brokerage and
wealth-management company was exploring a possible sale,
according to the statement.  Moves  Steptoe Adds SFO Joint Head of Bribery and Corruption Rappo  Patrick Rappo, the former joint head of Bribery and
Corruption of the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office, joined Steptoe &
Johnson LLP as a partner in the London office.  He will practice in the firm’s international regulation and
compliance and litigation groups, and will work on the expansion
of the firm’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Act/anti-corruption and
white collar criminal defense practices, the firm said in a
statement.  Rappo spent five years at the SFO, where he was involved in
high-profile cases including allegations of bribery and
corruption, and other forms of economic crime. He has worked
with the U.S. Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange
Commission and other counterpart authorities around the world,
the firm said.  “Patrick’s experience with the SFO, particularly in the
fraud and corruption area, as well as his prior experience as a
barrister handling criminal cases, makes him an excellent fit
for Steptoe,” Steptoe Chairman Roger Warin said in a statement.
“Fraud and corruption cases have become increasingly
multijurisdictional in character in recent years, and the U.K.
is an important jurisdiction for such actions.”  Steptoe has more than 500 lawyers and other professionals
in nine offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Orrick Hires Sidley Austin Lawyer for Appellate Team  Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP announced that Eric
Shumsky, formerly of Sidley Austin LLP, joined the firm as a
partner in the  Supreme Court  and appellate group, in  Washington .  “Eric is a superb all-around appellate lawyer, who has
developed a particular expertise in intellectual property,”
Josh Rosenkranz, head of the practice group, said in a
statement. “He is one of the rising stars in the area of patent
appeals to the Federal Circuit, and has significant experience
presenting cutting-edge IP issues to the Federal Circuit and to
the Supreme Court.”  Shumsky has been the primary author of more than 75 briefs
in the Supreme Court, the firm said. He has briefed and argued
cases on topics including administrative law, criminal law,
national security and foreign sovereign immunity for clients in
the telecommunications, technology, pharmaceutical, financial
services, transportation and consumer goods industries, among
others.  Orrick has lawyers across 25 offices in the U.S., Europe
and Asia.  Litigation  U.S. High Court Justices Seek Compromise in Gene-Patent Case  Several U.S. Supreme Court justices sought a compromise on
the decades-old practice of granting patents on human genes,
debating a case that could redefine rights throughout the
biotechnology and agriculture industries.  Hearing arguments yesterday in Washington, the justices
discussed chocolate-chip cookie recipes, baseball bats and
Amazonian plants as they grappled with a challenge to  Myriad
Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s patents on genes linked to breast and ovarian
cancer. A group of doctors, patients and scientists say the
patents are stifling clinical testing and research.  Several justices asked whether barring gene patents would
deter innovation by stripping companies of legal protection for
their research.  The administration said Myriad isn’t entitled to a patent
on “isolated DNA,” which the government says is merely a
snippet of the genetic sequence as it appears in the body. The
administration says Myriad might be entitled to a patent on so-
called complementary DNA, which involves a greater level of
human manipulation.  Kennedy asked Myriad’s lawyer whether that approach would
“give the industry sufficient protection for innovation and
research.”  Myriad’s lawyer, Gregory Castanias, head of Jones Day’s
Federal Circuit practice, said isolated DNA was more akin to a
baseball bat carved from a tree. He said isolated DNA and the
bat both are patentable because they require humans to make
important decisions about exactly where to cut.  “A baseball bat doesn’t exist until it’s isolated from a
tree,” he said. “But that’s still the product of human
invention to decide where to begin the bat and where to end the
bat.”  The case, which the court will decide by the end of June,
is splitting the medical community. Trade groups for the
biotechnology, agriculture and drug industries are siding with
Myriad. They say gene patents have led to valuable treatments,
including  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Epogen anemia drug and synthetic insulin
developed by Genentech Inc., now part of  Roche Holding AG. (ROG)   The dispute comes to the court in an emotionally charged
package, with patient advocates accusing Myriad of standing in
the way of breast cancer diagnosis and treatment. The company at
one point demanded that the  University of Pennsylvania  stop
clinical testing of cancer patients.  Critics say Myriad’s patents effectively give the company
ownership rights over a part of the human body. Myriad says its
patents haven’t prevented researchers from publishing thousands
of papers on the genes.  The American Civil Liberties Union lawyer challenging the
Myriad patents, Christopher Hansen, argued that researchers
would continue to search for new natural phenomena, even without
the prospect of patent protection.  Scientists who make important discoveries will get
“enormous recognition,” he said. “We know that that’s
sufficient. We know it’s sufficient with respect to these two
genes. We also know it’s sufficient with respect to the human
genome.”  “But what you can’t patent is the sap itself,” he said.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 12-398, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  News  Freeport LNG May Get Approval in Months, Baker Botts Lawyer Says  Freeport LNG Development LP may get expanded approval from
the U.S. Energy Department to export liquefied natural gas in
the next quarter or two, the head of Baker Botts LLP’s LNG
practice said.  The multibillion-dollar Texas project is next on the
department’s  list  of companies seeking permission to export gas
to nations that aren’t party to U.S. free-trade agreements.
Steven Miles, who has worked on more than 100 LNG transactions
and doesn’t represent closely held Freeport LNG, said he expects
the government to follow the list.  “The  Department of Energy  is being as diligent as they can
on this,” Miles, a partner in the firm’s Washington office,
said in an interview in Houston yesterday. “There’s an awful
lot of work to be done in terms of processing these
applications.”  A surge in North American production from shale formations
has led to proposals for about 30 billion cubic feet of daily
U.S. gas export capacity.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  owns the only
project in the lower 48 states that has all approvals for LNG
exports.  Freeport, which has agreements with BP Plc, Osaka Gas Co.
and Chubu Electric Power Co. for use of the export facility, has
 said  it plans to begin construction on two production units this
year, with operations starting in 2017.  John Tobola, general counsel for Houston-based Freeport,
didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking comment
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  