-- Wells Fargo Says Buy Stocks After Drop as Profits, Economy Grow
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-16T02:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/wells-fargo-says-buy-stocks-after-drop-as-profits-economy-grow.html
Plunging gold prices and the
biggest drop in five months for U.S.  equities  presents an
opportunity to increase holdings of stocks as economic and
profit growth remain intact, according to money managers at Well
Fargo and BPI Asset Management Inc.  Gold tumbled 9.3 percent yesterday, the biggest loss since
1980, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.3 percent as
data showed Chinese economic growth and industrial production
expanded less than economists estimated. The  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index (MXAP)  retreated for a second day today, heading for its worst
two-day decline in five months, led by raw-material producers
and energy companies.  “I view this as a buying opportunity,” said Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee about $217 billion as chief
portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in  Menomonee
Falls ,  Wisconsin . “The sell-off is a little bit overdone.
Corporate profits are still growing and that is really the
foundation for longer term of the overall equity markets.” He
spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Susan Li .  The  S&P 500  closed at all-time highs twice last week and
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose to a 20-month high as investors
speculated unprecedented stimulus from central banks in the U.S.
and Japan will buoy profits at companies from General Electric
Co. to Toyota Motor Corp.  Firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Coca Cola Co.
are scheduled to report earnings today. Earnings-per-share for
companies on the S&P 500 are forecast to  expand  13 percent in
the next 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  S&P Rally  A 10 percent rally in the first quarter pushed the S&P 500
to a record as reports on U.S. housing, hiring and  consumer
confidence  showed the  Federal Reserve ’s near-zero interest rates
and bond purchases were helping the economy expand.  “It’s a correction that’s been pending and building up,”
said Jan Dehn, London-based co-head of research at Ashmore
Investment Management Ltd., which oversees $71 billion. “We had
some irrational exuberance creeping into the market in the first
quarter. People were forgetting the major structural problems
besetting the heavily indebted developed countries. Because of
quantitative-easing policies, asset prices tend to get pushed to
very high levels and then corrections happen.”  Slowing economic growth in  China , a recommendation from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to sell gold and speculation the Fed
will taper off its bond-buying program has contributed to a
tumble in commodities and raw-material stocks.  “This could be a buying opportunity as we could see value
emerging from a sharp sell-off,” said Paul Joseph Garcia, who
helps manage $18.4 billion at BPI Asset in  Manila . “The strong
macro-fundamentals of Asian economies will support stock prices
and a rally at some point. There’s still plenty of liquidity out
there sitting and waiting for an opportune time to come in, and
this could be one of those windows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  