-- When Swindlers Worked the ‘Big Con’ on Stock Investors
-- B y   A m y   R e a d i n g
-- 2013-04-16T18:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/when-swindlers-worked-the-big-con-on-stock-investors.html
In the 1900s and 1910s, hundreds of
swindling teams worked the Big Con in U.S. cities.  The time was right because, by the beginning of the
century, the sensational exploits of robber barons and the vast
fortunes to be had from railroad, mining and other industrial
enterprises had created an appetite for financial speculation
that most Americans couldn’t satisfy.  The stock markets were open only to the few who could
afford the high share minimum and margin requirements. This
moment in history -- after gambling ceased to be widely
considered immoral and before securities became a standard part
of retirement funds -- left middle-class businessmen quivering
for opportunity.  Enter the confidence man, who calibrated his pitch just
right: He wasn’t offering something for nothing; he was looking
for a wide-awake investor who knew how to read the winds.  The Big Con was a precisely constructed play in nine acts.
Take the experiences of J. Frank Norfleet, a prosperous, self-made cattle rancher from the Texas Panhandle, who was visiting
 Dallas  in November 1919 to sell land.  Finding Mark  Norfleet’s swindling began when the members of the Furey
gang “put the mark up,” or identified him as a likely victim.
They looked for out-of-towners, ideally, rich ones who weren’t
too familiar with the financial industry. Norfleet fit the bill.  In the ornate lobby of the St. George Hotel, with his pants
tucked into his cowboy boots, Norfleet stuck out. One of the
swindlers, Reno Hamlin, befriended him and expressed interest in
a carload of mules Norfleet had for sale. Just then, W.B.
Spencer strode into the lobby. Hamlin introduced Spencer as a
buyer for the Green Immigration Land Company in  Minneapolis  who
might be interested in Norfleet’s land.  Hamlin and Spencer, the steerers of the gang, were “playing
the con” for Norfleet, a crucial step that involved fostering
intimacy. This took several days, as the ropers wined and dined
their mark and earned his trust. Then they “roped the mark,” or
transferred his loyalties to the inside man.  Spencer and Hamlin met Norfleet in the lobby of another
fine Dallas hotel, the Adolphus, where they intended to discuss
their land deal. But as Norfleet sat down, he felt something
pressing against his thigh. He discovered a wallet with cash, a
cipher code card and other documents, all inscribed with the
name J.B. Stetson. The men ascertained that Stetson was a guest
of the hotel, and they knocked on his door to return the wallet.  Stetson was, in reality, Joe Furey, the gang’s ringleader.
In gratitude for the return of his wallet, he pressed a $100
bill on the rancher. Norfleet refused, as they knew he would.
Furey then suggested that he repay Norfleet’s kindness by
investing $100 on the local stock exchange and allowing his
benefactor to keep any profits.  Thus began Act 4, in which Furey “told the mark the tale.”
Furey alias Stetson said his job was to play the market using
information in encrypted telegrams sent to him by United
Brokers, a clandestine syndicate of Wall Street firms. United
Brokers controlled large enough blocks of stock that it could
swing the market. Since Furey always knew its manipulations in
advance, he could place opportunistic orders.  Furey dashed to the brokerage. Twenty minutes later, he was
counting $800 into Norfleet’s hand. It is a truism of the Big
Con that no mark has ever been able to resist “the convincer,”
the material proof that the mechanism behind the con actually
works. Furey then confessed that he was in debt, and asked
Norfleet for help. He wasn’t permitted to place his own money on
United Brokers’ stock picks, Furey explained. Would Norfleet
consent to use Furey’s money but sign his own name on the stock
orders, and split the profits? Furey would be happy to reinvest
Norfleet’s cut.  Signed Orders  Over the next few days, Norfleet sat in Furey’s room in the
Adolphus and filled out “buy” and “sell” orders as Furey
deciphered his telegrams. Furey took the orders to the exchange
and returned with his arms full of cash (actually, newsprint
sandwiched between real bills). Norfleet’s profits had reached
$28,000, or about $350,000 in today’s currency.  Suddenly, E.J. Ward, the secretary of the exchange, burst
into the room. Norfleet had been speculating on the exchange
illegally, Ward said, because he wasn’t a registered member.
Ward would have to seize Norfleet’s profits.  Furey volunteered a solution. If Norfleet could
retroactively back his speculation with the cash deposit
required of members, could he keep his winnings? Ward said he
could.  Next, Furey and Spencer began “giving the mark the
breakdown,” which involved gently sussing out how much money he
could raise at a moment’s notice. Norfleet said he could get
$20,000 from his bankers.  The swindlers then “put the mark on the send,” dispatching
him to raise the cash. This was usually a fragile juncture, and
so Spencer accompanied Norfleet. While Spencer ate Eliza
Norfleet’s corn pone and baked ham, Norfleet visited his banker.  Then came “taking off the touch,” when the money under
Norfleet’s arm vanished before he realized it was gone. It
wasn’t until Furey failed to appear at the Cadillac Hotel in
Dallas the next morning that Norfleet realized he had been
swindled.  The last act of the Big Con called for “blowing off” or
“cooling out the mark.” The swindlers designed the endgame so
that the mark returned to his regular life without complaint.  This part of the con didn’t work as expected with Norfleet.
He wasn’t cooled out and didn’t slink home in shame. As it
turned out, he wasn’t a typical mark. At the last minute, he
decided to get even with the men who swindled him. But that’s
another story.  ( Amy Reading  is the author of “The Mark Inside: A Perfect
Swindle, a Cunning Revenge and a Small History of the Big Con,”
recently published in paperback by Vintage. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amy Reading at  info@amyreading.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  