-- Why More U.S. Oil May Not Mean Cheaper U.S. Gas
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L e v i
-- 2013-04-16T22:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/why-more-u-s-oil-may-not-mean-cheaper-u-s-gas.html
Oil skeptics like to point out that
the U.S. consumes 20 percent of the world’s oil but owns only 2
percent of global reserves. Such lopsided numbers, they insist,
destine the U.S. to depend on foreign crude -- unless it slashes
its consumption and embraces alternatives. Lately, though, a
surge in U.S. oil production appears to have turned the tables.  In an interview with  Bloomberg News  early last year,  Adam Sieminski , an analyst who would soon leave Deutsche Bank AG to
join the White House staff,  captured the mood : “For 40 years,
only politicians and the occasional author in Popular Mechanics
magazine talked about achieving energy independence. Now it
doesn’t seem such an outlandish idea.”  Booming oil production will change the  U.S. economy ,
international security and the global climate. But for many
people, a simpler question matters most: What will U.S. oil
abundance mean for the price of gasoline at the pump?  Because oil is traded globally, prices ultimately depend on
how much is produced in the entire world, not just in the U.S. A
world where the U.S. produces 10 million barrels of oil daily
won’t necessarily have lower prices than one where it produces 5
million. After all, U.S. production was higher in 2010 than in
2009, but oil prices were higher then, too.  World Supply  That said, if the U.S. increases production while output
from the rest of the world remains unchanged, total world supply
will rise and prices will fall below what they otherwise would
have been. How much so is tough to nail down, but if recent
estimates from a team at the  International Monetary Fund  are
right, a 5 million-barrel-a-day increase in oil supplies could
cut prices in half.  So why isn’t everyone predicting plummeting prices? Because
when U.S. oil production rises, other countries’ output usually
falls, with the net result being a much smaller increase in
world supplies, and hence less effect on prices.  Part of this is driven by markets: More U.S. oil means
lower prices; lower prices render some oil projects economically
unattractive; those either shut down or don’t reach production
in the first place.  This is compounded by an even more important dynamic: Many
countries try to maximize their revenue from oil sales by
restraining production and propping up prices. Saudi Arabia, for
example, can often profit more by producing less oil. And if
several of these “strategic producers” cooperate, the payoff
from holding back output rises. This is the goal of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. OPEC still
produces 40 percent of the world’s oil, a figure that has moved
up and down but hasn’t changed radically for decades.  All of this affects the potential consequences of higher
U.S. oil production. As U.S. output rises, so that prices are
inclined to fall, some oil-exporting countries will prop them up
by cutting back their own supplies. If a 5 million-barrel-a-day
increase in U.S. crude output is met with a 4 million-barrel-a-
day cut in supplies from other countries, the net impact on
prices is reduced by a factor of five.  There is a chance, however, that the dynamic could actually
run the other way, leading to even-deeper price cuts: Big-enough
gains in global oil production could spark a battle among OPEC
members and other big producers for market share, leading to a
crash in world prices.  To see how this could happen, imagine you are a strategist
for a major member of OPEC, perhaps  Saudi Arabia  or the  United
Arab Emirates . Oil production outside the cartel is surging;
production is on the rise not just in the U.S. but also in
 Brazil ,  Canada  and beyond. You are worried about falling prices
but don’t want to sell less oil. What you would like most is for
others to curb their production. Everyone else, of course, feels
the same way.  Cartel Calculations  Your next-best bet is to share the burden of restraint with
your fellow cartel members (and perhaps a few others). As new
production keeps rising, though, the burden grows heavier. At
some point, discipline breaks down. You lose faith that others
will curb their output and fear that if you keep dialing back
your own production, other members might raise theirs and steal
your customers. Even worse, with falling prices you have trouble
meeting your country’s budget. So you turn to a final option:
You crank up production in an attempt to sell more oil. The only
problem is that several other countries have made similar
decisions. Collectively, you flood the market. Prices plummet.  To be certain, there are limits to how far this dynamic can
take things. Most new U.S. oil is relatively expensive to
produce. If prices drop too far, U.S. production will stagnate
or even fall, reversing the stimulus that had prompted lower
prices. This makes it tough to see how rising U.S. crude
production could drive world  oil prices  below $50 or so for more
than a brief period.  Still, that price is far lower than what people have gotten
used to.  So here’s the big question for anyone trying to divine the
impact of rising U.S. oil production on world prices: Will other
oil-producing countries, alone or collectively, restrain
production to put a floor on prices? Or will discipline break
down and result in a flood of oil?  Two episodes from history are illuminating. The first
happened in the late 1960s and early ’70s. Oil production
outside OPEC was rising, but consumption was increasing even
faster.  West Germany  and  Japan  continued to grow as industrial
powerhouses after World War II; the U.S. and the rest of  Europe 
were increasingly thirsty for oil, too. As a result, OPEC had an
ever-larger pie to divide: Its members could restrain production
and still have high revenue. OPEC output didn’t grow a lot, but
prices and incomes soared.  History Lessons  Fast-forward to the early 1980s. The Iranian Revolution of
1979 rapidly increased crude prices and crushed global oil
demand. For the first time in decades, in fact, consumption fell
year upon year. Supply from outside OPEC, meanwhile, continued
to rise. OPEC’s pie was shrinking. Tough collective decisions
were essential if prices were to stay high, but OPEC members
weren’t up to the task. Instead, they battled one another for
the ever-smaller market shares. Prices dropped to previously
unthinkable lows, falling to barely more than $10 a barrel.  To figure out how OPEC countries will respond to rising
U.S. supplies, then, it’s important to ask whether the increase
will be taken up by even-greater demand. That’s where  China ,
 India  and the rest of the developing world come in. The
 International Energy Agency  has projected that demand for oil
from the developing world will rise to 41 million barrels a day
by 2020, from 32 million in 2008. Developed-world demand,
meanwhile, is projected to fall by only a quarter as much. Other
projections yield similar outcomes. The net result is a huge new
market, particularly if little is done to curtail the world’s
thirst for oil.  All this was at the front of my mind when I arrived at OPEC
headquarters in Vienna on a cool spring day in 2012. OPEC’s
influence has waxed and waned, but with almost half of world oil
production within its member countries’ borders, and a far
higher fraction of the world’s cheap crude, it still matters.
Abdalla Salem el-Badri, a former Libyan oil minister, welcomed
me. Trained at Florida Southern College, the onetime Esso
Standard manager was by then 71 years old and serving his second
term as secretary-general of OPEC.  I asked him how he felt about the boom in U.S. oil and gas
production and was a bit taken back by his reply. “This is
really good,” he said. Since  Richard Nixon ’s presidency, the
U.S. has obsessed over its dependence on Middle Eastern oil, and
now rising U.S. output could get OPEC off the hook. “They will
blame us less,” he predicted. He pointed to the U.S.
presidential campaign, which at the time was just warming up.
“Fifty percent of it is about energy!” he said.  I pressed el-Badri on whether OPEC could weather growth in
U.S. supplies. “Yes,” he said, “for us, it is important. But
there is room for everybody.”  He’s probably right. In the short run, it’s entirely
possible that the world will overinvest in oil production,
leading to a temporary price crash. Over the long haul, however,
there seem to be few limits to the world’s thirst for oil. And
even though crude output is rising in the U.S. and Canada, it is
declining in countries such as  Norway  and the U.K. Rapid
production increases by producers such as Iraq and  Venezuela 
could quickly alter the picture, as could a persistently weak
Chinese economy, letting U.S. oil output tip the final balance.
It would be unwise to bet on that, though. U.S. production may
help keep a lid on prices, but will probably not do much beyond
that in the long run.  Still it’s tough to be too confident. Oil markets are often
as much about politics as economics, and predicting future
political twists and turns should be done with care.  (Michael Levi is the David M. Rubenstein senior fellow for
energy and the environment at the  Council on Foreign Relations .
This is the first of three excerpts adapted from his new book,
“The Power Surge: Energy, Opportunity, and the Battle for
America’s Future,” which will be published May 2 by  Oxford
University Press . The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part
2  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Levi at  mlevi@cfr.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  