-- Why Boston’s Marathon Is Special
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-04-16T22:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/why-boston-s-marathon-is-special.html
(Corrects eighth paragraph to reflect that the race was not
open to women until 1972.)  Sportswriters exist in a kind of
creative tension. Pulling us in one direction is the desire to
draw deeper meaning from the events we cover. Pulling us in the
other is the realization that sportswriting isn’t social
commentary.  So we tend to see the 1980 U.S. Olympic hockey team’s gold
medal as a triumph of democracy over communism, or the Iraqi
national soccer team’s advancing to the semifinals of the 2004
Olympic Games as a metaphor for the resilience of an oppressed,
war-ravaged people. Meanwhile, we also realize that athletes
shouldn’t be made to stand for anything beyond what they do or
don’t achieve as athletes, and that coaches -- whether verbally
abusing their players or inspiring them to greatness -- don’t
reflect some enduring model of masculinity. Sports, in other
words, are just sports.  Until they aren’t.  The circumstances behind the attack in  Boston   remain
unknown : No one has claimed responsibility for the explosions
that killed three people and injured more than 170. There are
still no suspects in custody. We don’t know why the perpetrators
chose this particular event.  Symbolic Significance  But we do know a lot about marathons, and they are nothing
if not drenched in symbolism.  The marathon itself was born of a war in 490 B.C., the
Battle of Marathon, between the Greeks and the Persians.
According to the mythology, the messenger Pheidippides ran all
the way from Marathon to Athens with news of the Greek victory.
It has been argued that this was the beginning of modern
civilization.  Marathons are intimate, emotional events. Ordinary runners
mingle with the world’s elite. Athletes aren’t confined to a
stadium or a track. They follow a course that weaves through the
fabric of the city. Spectators crowd the sidewalks to watch and
cheer. Marathons may be athletic competitions, but I’ve never
heard anyone booing at one.  And then there’s the Boston Marathon, which was first held
in 1897 -- one year after the first modern marathon at the
inaugural 1896 Olympics in  Athens .  History was made  in Boston in
1967, when a runner named Kathrine Switzer became the first
woman to gain official entry to the race, competing in baggy
grey sweats under the name K.V. Switzer. Several miles in, one
of the race’s directors tried to stop her, but Switzer’s
boyfriend fought him off. Five years later, the marathon was
open to women.  Whoever the bomber (or bombers) turns out to be, it’s hard
to ignore that the Boston Marathon is always held on Patriots
Day, which commemorates the first battles of the American
Revolutionary War at Lexington and Concord. As part of the
annual festivities, the Red Sox play a home game that starts in
the morning, so the throngs leaving Fenway Park can get to
nearby Kenmore Square in time to cheer on the finishers.  The race itself begins in a suburb only 26.2 miles from
Boston but so New England bucolic -- the starting line is next
to the town common -- you might as well be in northern  Vermont .
Before the race, participants gather on the high school football
field. (They once sat and waited in the gym, but the race has
grown and you can’t fit 26,000 runners in a high school gym.)
You are then on your way, running, or at least trying to, down a
narrow road not exactly designed to accommodate 52,000 sneakers.  This being Boston, college students are a big part of the
tradition. The  women of Wellesley  can be heard well before they
are seen -- three and four deep behind the barricades for what
seems like a quarter of a mile, all screaming to be kissed. (Or
holding signs to that effect. Among this year’s: “Kiss me, I’m
gluten-free,” and “Kiss me, I’m sexually frustrated.”) About
eight miles later, you reach the campus of Boston College,
where, as is the custom, students offer you beer. Soon enough --
or maybe not -- you’re entering the straightaway of Commonwealth
Avenue, and then turning onto Hereford Street, for the loud,
grueling, final quarter-mile.  Noble Vulnerability  Are marathoners any more noble than Sunday-morning soccer
players or weekend cyclists? No. But there is something unique
about their vulnerability, both emotional and physical,
especially at the finish line. Here is a group of people in the
throes of the exhilaration and exhaustion of having just run
26.2 miles. And there are the hundreds of thousands of
spectators -- participants, too, in this singularly communal
sporting event.  Which is to say that if you’re a coward, you couldn’t pick
a better time and place to expose your own insecurity.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 