-- Twitter Said to Seek Deals With Viacom, NBC to Feature TV
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n ,   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-04-16T13:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/twitter-said-to-seek-deals-with-viacom-nbc-to-feature-tv-online.html
Twitter Inc. is close to reaching
partnerships with television networks that would bring more
high-quality video content and advertising to the social site,
according to people familiar with the matter.  The San Francisco-based company has held talks with  Viacom
Inc. (VIAB)  about hosting TV clips on its site and selling ads
alongside them, said two of the people, who asked not to be
named because the discussions were private. Twitter has also
discussed a content partnership with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBCUniversal, said two of the people.  Twitter, which began in 2006 as a service for 140-character
status updates, is racing to add video content that will get
users to spend more time on the site and watch ads. Building on
its existing partnerships with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN, Weather
Channel LLC and  Turner Broadcasting System Inc. (TWX) , Twitter is
seeking to add more entertainment and news video, two people
familiar with the plan said. NBC, which also owns the USA 
Network, and Viacom, which owns MTV and Nickelodeon, would make 
attractive partners given the popularity of their content.  The partnerships would let Twitter stream videos on its
site and split the resulting ad revenue with the networks, said
one of the people familiar with the discussions. One or more
deals could be reached by mid-May, and Twitter may strike deals
with other networks, the person said.  Gabriel Stricker , a spokesman for Twitter, declined to
comment, as did Mark Jafar, a spokesman for Viacom, and Cameron Blanchard, a spokeswoman for NBC.  Twitter TV  Last June, a third of active Twitter users posted on the
site about something they watched on TV, up from 26 percent at
the beginning of the year,  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN)  said in a  report 
on social media last year. Twitter and Nielsen have agreed to
form a partnership to measure the amount of online discussion
being generated by TV programs.  In February, Twitter also bought Bluefin Labs, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based startup which makes software that lets
advertisers, agencies and networks monitor and analyze social-
media comments about TV shows and commercials.  Peter Chernin , a former News Corp. president, last November
joined Twitter’s board to help the company navigate the media
industry, Twitter Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  said at
the time.  Last year, Twitter teamed up with NBC to promote use of the
social site among audiences of the 2012  Summer Olympics . Twitter
tracked more than 150 million Twitter posts about the games over
the course of the 16-day event, it said on its blog.  The TV push coincides with the Twitter’s expansion into
music. The company is planning to release a mobile application
that lets users stream and share music with others on the social
site, a person familiar with the matter said on March 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  