-- Yellen Backs ‘Lower for Longer’ Fed Rate Policy Amid Risks
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-04-16T21:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/yellen-backs-lower-for-longer-rate-policy-while-seeing-risks.html
Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman
Janet Yellen said she favors holding the benchmark interest rate
“lower for longer” while cautioning that some bond-market
investors may be paying too much for higher yields.  The Fed vice chairman said the  central bank’s  low-rate
policies are intended “to promote a return to prudent risk-
taking” in credit markets. “Obviously, risk-taking can go too
far,” Yellen said today at an International Monetary Fund panel
discussion on monetary policy in Washington.  The Federal Open Market Committee in December pledged to
keep the main interest rate near zero so long as the
unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent and the forecast for
inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent over one to two years. Last
month the committee said it will continue buying $85 billion in
bonds until the labor market “improves substantially.”  “I don’t see pervasive evidence of rapid credit growth, a
marked buildup in leverage, or significant asset bubbles that
would threaten financial stability,” Yellen said. “But there
are signs that some parties are reaching for yield, and the
Federal Reserve continues to carefully monitor this situation.”  In response to an audience question, Yellen said she didn’t
expect financial stability concerns to grow so acute that they
become “the dominant factor that should control our policy.”  Policy makers need to weigh the possibility that by raising
interest rates they may create another set of threats to
financial stability by weakening the economy and by undermining
bank capital and profits, Yellen said.  Weak Demand  The Fed vice chairman said in her remarks that she was
“persuaded” by Columbia University economist Michael Woodford’s theories that keeping interest rates “lower for
longer” are suitable for times of high unemployment and weak
demand. The FOMC’s decision to tie the benchmark interest rate
to economic indicators aligns with the “lower for longer”
approach, she said.  Yellen said the pace and composition of asset purchases are
important questions for central bankers in deciding how much
stimulus to provide.  “And how long should they be held once purchases cease?”
Yellen said. “Each of these factors may affect the degree of
accommodation delivered.”  The U.S. economy is in its fourth year of expansion after
emerging from recession in June 2009. The unemployment rate
stood at 7.6 percent in March, and the Fed’s preferred inflation
measure rose just 1.3 percent in February.  Highest Level  Reports today showed that new-home construction climbed to
the highest level in almost five years, while factory production
cooled. At the same time, data showed that consumer prices
unexpectedly dropped last month, indicating that the Fed has
leeway to keep pumping money into the financial system.  Stocks rallied and Treasuries fell after the reports, while
gold rebounded from its biggest slump in three decades. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.4 percent 1,574.57 in New
York. The U.S. 10-year yield rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.72 percent.  Minutes of the FOMC’s March 19-20 meeting show members of
the panel discussing costs and benefits of continued bond
purchases that have pushed the Fed’s balance sheet to $3.23
trillion in total assets.  Several members anticipated that it “would probably be
appropriate to slow purchases later in the year and to stop them
by year-end” if the outlook for the jobs market improved as
they anticipated, the minutes said.  Yellen, 66, is a former San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank
President.  To contact the reporters on this
story: Craig Torres in  Washington  at  ctorres3@bloomberg.net ; Kasia
Klimasinska in Washington at 
   kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for
this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  