-- Yen Gains Without Momentum as U.S. Hits Policy: Market Reversal
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-16T16:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-16/yen-gains-without-momentum-as-u-s-hits-policy-market-reversal.html
The yen’s strength after the U.S
said it would press  Japan  to refrain from competitive
devaluation will prove to be fleeting, trading patterns show.  After weakening to 99.95 per dollar on April 11, the yen
rose as high as 95.80 today. The 100-per-dollar level is a key
bearish point because it would represent a so-called 50 percent
Fibonacci retracement between its high of 75.35 in November 2011
and a decade-low of 124.14 in 2007. Credit Suisse Group AG sees
it tumbling to 115 by year-end.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is counting on a weaker yen to
make exports more competitive, improve wages and boost inflation
after almost two decades of stagnation in the world’s third-
largest economy. New  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
announced an unprecedented stimulus package on April 4 that
included doubling the monetary base in two years by buying about
7.5 trillion yen ($77 billion) of bonds a month.  “An ideal road map would be holding 100 at first, then
seeing a pullback for correction, then a fresh move up into the
101.27 to 103.10 zone,”  David Sneddon , a London-based technical
analyst at Credit Suisse, said in an April 9 phone interview.  At stake is the credibility of Abe’s stimulus program and
the chances of ending two decades of stagnation. The economy
grew an annualized 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter of last
year after two straight contractions. Prices excluding fresh
food haven’t risen 2 percent in any year since 1997, and this
February they fell 0.3 percent.  Italian Mathematician  Fibonacci retracement is named after a 12th century Italian
mathematician and based on the theory that prices rise or fall
by predictable amounts after reaching a high or low. In this and
other forms of technical analysis, investors and analysts study
charts of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a
currency, security or index.  Analysts draw the yen’s 50 percent Fibonacci retracement at
the 100-per-dollar level because that price represents half of
the currency’s losses against the greenback from 2007 to 2011.
The yen has weakened 11 percent this year, the most among the 10
developed-nation currencies monitored by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  “A lot of people will look at a breakout above 100 and
say, well, this is a big psychological level and so that will be
important, and argue for continued yen weakness,”  Niall O’Connor , a technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New
York , said in an April 11 phone interview.  Biggest Bear  Credit Suisse’s year-end forecast for the yen of 115
compares with the median of 100 among more than 50 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Japan’s currency declined to 99.95 per
dollar on April 11, the weakest since April 14, 2009, and traded
at 97.59 as of 12:31 p.m. in New York.  The U.S. Treasury Department said April 8 it will press
Japan to refrain from competitive devaluation while stopping
short of accusing it of manipulating the yen in a report on
exchange rates. European governments are urging it not to become
too reliant on fiscal and monetary stimulus before a meeting of
Group of 20 finance chiefs in  Washington  this week.  Treasury officials will pressure Japan to adhere to
international commitments “to remain oriented towards meeting
respective domestic objectives using domestic instruments and to
refrain from competitive devaluation and targeting its  exchange
rate  for competitive purposes,” the department said in its
semi-annual currency report to Congress released April 8.  Bow Shot  “This is a shot across the BOJ’s bow,” Kit Juckes, a
global strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , said in an
e-mail. “Everyone still supports Japan’s fight against
deflation, but the U.S. would much rather the yen did not weaken
significantly further.”  Another technical indicator suggests that the yen’s decline
may have reached its limit. The currency may face an area of so-
called support against the dollar at the top of an indicator
known as the monthly ichimoku cloud, according to  Michael Hewson , an analyst at CMC Markets Plc in London.  Buy orders may be gathered at the level of 100.19 yen,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Japanese currency
hasn’t traded through the top of the cloud since August 2007.
When it weakened through the top in January 1997, it went on to
tumble to 147.66 per dollar in August 1998 from 121.30, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ichimoku charts are used to predict a currency’s direction
by analyzing the mid-points of historic highs and lows. The
conversion line plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low
over the prior nine data points. The baseline is the same
calculation over the past 26 points. The cloud refers to the
area between the first and second span lines on the chart and is
used to show an area where trading orders may be clustered.  Risk Reversals  Traders are the most bearish in a month on the yen. The
premium for one-year options granting the right to sell the
Japanese currency against the dollar relative to those allowing
for purchases is 0.68 percentage point, an indicator known as
the 25-delta risk reversal shows. That exceeds the one-year
average of 0.35 percentage point.  Investors were paying a premium for the right to buy the
yen versus the greenback as recently as April 4, when Kuroda
announced his plan to increase the BOJ’s monthly bond purchases
to 7.5 trillion yen, exceeding the 5.2 trillion-yen forecast by
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. He also set a two-year horizon
for the goal of boosting inflation to 2 percent.  Forecasts Revised  Since the end of 2012, analysts have revised their fourth-
quarter 2013 forecasts for the yen versus the euro and dollar by
more than 10 percent. Those are the largest and second-largest
cuts among 50 currency-pair estimates tracked by Bloomberg.  The yen declined to a more than three-year low of 131.12
per euro on April 11.  While the yen’s drop seems to have stalled at the 100-per-
dollar Fibonacci retracement level,  MacNeil Curry , the head of
foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical strategy at Bank
of America Merill Lynch in New York, expects the currency to
breach this barrier.  “We’ll struggle in the short term to get through this
zone, maybe like a week or two,” Curry said in an April 11
phone interview. “Then I think it gives way and you should see
price action accelerate through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  