-- 
Afghan Envoy Cautions U.S. Against Bin Laden-Spurred Withdrawal of Troops

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-05-08T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/afghan-envoy-cautions-u-s-against-bin-laden-spurred-withdrawal-of-troops.html
Afghanistan ’s ambassador to the U.S.
cautioned against a hasty American withdrawal from the region
now that Osama  bin Laden  has been killed, saying his death
doesn’t eliminate the threat from al-Qaeda.  “Underneath him is a very complicated and complex network
that needs to be dealt with,” Ambassador Eklil Ahmad Hakimi
said in an interview in  Washington  May 6. “So concluding that
the job is done is something that we should be very cautious
about.”  Hakimi also expressed hope that the proof of bin Laden’s
presence in neighboring Pakistan for years would spur that
country’s leaders to accelerate cooperation on helping forge a
peace deal to end the war. The U.S. and Afghanistan are seeking
to persuade  Pakistan  to pressure Afghan militant leaders holed
up on their turf to enter peace negotiations. The Taliban also
may rethink their reluctance to enter negotiations, Hakimi said.  The successful U.S. military raid on the compound in
Abbottabad, Pakistan, where bin Laden was hiding was “one of
the great steps in the war against terror,” especially for the
families of those killed in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and in
the war in Afghanistan that resulted from it, Hakimi said.  Still, the death of the al-Qaeda leader is more of a
symbolic victory, he said. Hakimi cited President  Barack Obama ’s
stated goal to disrupt, defeat and dismantle the al-Qaeda
network as a whole, saying: “The network is there still.”  July Troop Withdrawal  Hakimi echoed comments from officials in the Obama
administration, which faces an imminent decision over how much
to pare the almost 100,000 U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan by the
president’s July time frame for beginning a drawdown. U.S.
lawmakers from both parties last week questioned the need to
sacrifice American lives and provide U.S. aid for Afghanistan
and Pakistan following bin Laden’s death.  Like the Obama administration officials, Hakimi cited a
message from al-Qaeda dated May 3 and posted on websites that
have carried confirmed jihadist statements in the past. The
missive acknowledged bin Laden’s death and threatened
retaliation against the U.S. “soon.”  Bin Laden’s blood “is too valuable to us and to every
Muslim to let it go in vain,” the statement attributed to al-
Qaeda said.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said May 6 that “it’s too
early to make a judgment in terms of the impact inside
Afghanistan” of bin Laden’s death.  ‘Game-Changer’  Meeting with troops at  Seymour Johnson Air Force Base  in
 North Carolina , the defense secretary said the U.S. may know in
six months or so whether the operation made a difference.  “There is a possibility that it could be a game-changer,”
Gates said.  Bin Laden had “a very close personal relationship” with
Mullah Omar, the leader of the Taliban that harbored al-Qaeda in
Afghanistan before the Sept. 11 attacks, Gates said, according
to a Defense Department transcript.  Others in the Taliban felt betrayed by al-Qaeda because
they were ousted from power by the U.S.-led coalition that
invaded Afghanistan after the 2001 attacks, Gates said.  The Taliban’s leadership council often is called the
“Quetta shura,” named for the city in southwest Pakistan where
many Taliban leaders fled after the 2001 offensive.  Cutting Off Support  Hakimi said that Afghanistan wants its neighbor to cut off
support that comes from Pakistan for the militants.  “We want them to encourage and also to use their power to
bring those people” to the negotiating table under the
conditions Afghanistan and the international community have set,
he said. Those terms require renouncing ties with al-Qaeda,
laying down arms and agreeing to adhere to the Afghan
Constitution.  One obstacle to peace talks has been the difficulty of
identifying Taliban representatives with the authority to
negotiate for the group’s leaders, who are in hiding because
they have been targeted and listed as terrorists by the U.S. and
other countries.  A peacemaking council formed last year by Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai  is considering the option of trying to establish an
office somewhere for Taliban representatives empowered to
negotiate on the group’s behalf, Hakimi said. A location hasn’t
been determined, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 