-- 
Asian Currencies Have Worst Week in Four Months on Global Slowdown Concern

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-05-07T00:43:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/asia-currencies-have-worst-week-in-four-months-on-global-slowdown-concern.html
Asian currencies had their worst week
in four months, led by a slide in  Malaysia ’s ringgit, as data
suggesting the U.S. recovery is faltering dimmed the outlook for
exports and curbed demand for riskier assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, a gauge of the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, slumped 0.6
percent, its biggest loss since the first week of 2011. The
ringgit dropped 1.4 percent to 3.0025 versus the greenback and
India’s rupee slid 1.3 percent to 44.795, based on data compiled
by Bloomberg. South Korea’s won fell 1.1 percent to 1,083.34
after the financial regulator said it would expand an
investigation into banks’ trading of currency derivatives.  “People are increasingly more concerned about the global
growth situation with the U.S. data coming in soft,” said Sim Moh Siong, a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of Singapore
Ltd. “Asia is by and large a manufacturing and exporting hub,
so it will be hurt as well. There’s some amount of  risk
reduction  going on in the market.”  Service industries  in the U.S. expanded at the slowest pace
in eight months in April, while employment rose by the least in
five months, data showed this week. A Purchasing Managers’ Index
in  China  indicated manufacturing is cooling in Asia’s biggest
economy and slides in commodities prices damped speculation yuan
appreciation will be favored to tame inflation. China is the
world’s No. 1 importer of copper, cotton and soybeans, as well
as the second-biggest buyer of crude oil.  Commodities, Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of commodities tumbled 11
percent, its biggest loss since December 2008, and crude oil
plunged 15 percent in  New York  to $97.18 a barrel. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of shares declined 1.4 percent. Central banks in
the Philippines and Malaysia raised  interest rates  yesterday,
joining India and Vietnam this week in prioritizing the fight
against inflation.  “External factors including the drop in commodity prices
and stock markets are damping investor demand for riskier assets,
prompting the won to fall,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency
analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “The announcement of
further inspections on currency derivatives trading and concerns
about possible intervention weighed on the won throughout the
week.”  South Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service looked into
transactions conducted by the local branches of Credit Agricole
SA, ING Groep NV, Woori Bank and Standard Chartered First Bank
 Korea  Ltd. in the past two weeks. At least two more banks will
be investigated as early as mid-May, the FSS and Bank of Korea
said May 3, without naming any lenders that would be targeted.  Rate Rises  Bank Negara  raised its overnight policy rate to 3 percent
from 2.75 percent yesterday after the close of trading in local
financial markets, a decision predicted by seven of 16
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The central bank also
raised banks’ reserve-requirement ratio to 3 percent from 2
percent to drain cash from the financial system.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas lifted its benchmark rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 4.50 percent shortly after 4
p.m. yesterday in  Manila , as predicted by 12 of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Philippine peso dropped 0.6 percent
to 43.08 per dollar.  Thailand’s baht slid the most this week since January as
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said today he will seek a royal
decree to dissolve parliament, which would trigger an election
within 45 to 60 days. The two most recent votes were marred by
street protests and legal rulings against the elected
politicians.  Thai Election  “There’s a mood of  risk aversion  in the market and stock
declines are dragging down Asian currencies, including the
baht,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Political uncertainty is adding to
weak sentiment for the baht.”  The baht slid 1.2 percent this week to 30.24 per dollar in
Bangkok, the biggest weekly loss since January, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah slipped 0.1 percent to 8,578
per dollar,  Singapore ’s dollar declined 0.8 percent to S$1.2355
and Taiwan’s dollar retreated 0.06 percent to NT$28.778. The
yuan fell 0.04 percent to 6.4938, snapping a run of seven weekly
advances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  