-- 
Bin Laden Seen Watching Himself on TV in Videos Taken From Pakistan House

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-05-08T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/bin-laden-seen-watching-himself-on-tv-in-videos-taken-from-pakistan-house.html
Osama bin Laden  wields a remote
control and watches himself on television in one of five video
clips the U.S. released yesterday from the intelligence cache it
took from the dead al-Qaeda leader’s Pakistan hideout.  The material shows bin Laden remained an active leader of
the terrorist organization, tending to tactical details while
inspiring and engineering plots, according to an intelligence
official who briefed reporters at the Pentagon on condition of
anonymity.  Bin Laden was planning new attacks internationally and
specifically against the U.S. The material was the most
significant ever collected from a senior terrorist and showed
that the compound was an active command center for al-Qaeda, the
official said.  “The material found in the compound only further confirms
how important it was to go after  bin Laden ,” Central
Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta said in a statement.  In one video, bin Laden is wrapped in a grayish brown
blanket, his beard gray and unkempt, seated on the floor of an
almost barren room. He’s using the remote to flip through what
looks like a directory on the television screen to retrieve
video images of himself.  Other clips show him with his beard dyed and neatly trimmed
while making a previously unreleased video message to the U.S.,
practicing and sometimes flubbing lines in other clips. The
videos demonstrate that bin Laden closely guarded his own image,
the official said.  Videos Without Sound  The video clips were released without sound. The official
said the images weren’t doctored. The government removed the
audio because it would have been inappropriate to spread
terrorist propaganda, especially bin Laden’s, the official said.
Much of the material collected will remain classified, the
official said.  A task force of experts is working 24 hours a day to review
material on computer hard drives, thumb drives, audio and video
files, hand-written documents and other items retrieved by the
U.S. Navy SEALs who raided bin Laden’s compound in Abbottabad,
 Pakistan  and killed him. The intelligence teams are still
quantifying and cataloging the material, the official said.  Information from the cache may help lead to other
individual terrorists and groups and to forestall further
attacks on the U.S. or other countries, the official said.  Decade-Long Search  The raid on the compound in Pakistan capped a decade-long
pursuit of bin Laden. The U.S. lost track of him in the wake of
the offensive on neighboring  Afghanistan , where the Taliban
harbored bin Laden and his core group at the time of the terror
attacks on  New York  and the Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001.  The U.S. already has shared some information it has gleaned
from the seized material with other countries, the official
said.  The information indicates bin Laden still hoped to attack
transportation and infrastructure targets, the official said.
The intelligence also may help map the connections between
individuals within al-Qaeda, the official said.  In his never-released message to the American people, bin
Laden reiterates themes he had trumpeted before, including
criticism of the U.S. and capitalism, the intelligence official
said. Officials estimate that the video was produced sometime
between Oct. 9 and Nov. 5 last year and don’t know why it wasn’t
released, the briefer said.  Successor Shown  The U.S. hasn’t been able to establish the date of the
video showing bin Laden watching himself on television or
whether the images on the screen were taped or live, the
official said. At one point, bin Laden gestures to the person
videotaping him to focus on the television image of the al-Qaeda
leader shooting a rifle. Another image shows him with Ayman al- Zawahiri, the next highest ranking al-Qaeda figure after bin
Laden.  The intelligence official said it’s notable that al-Qaeda’s
statement issued three days ago confirming bin Laden’s death
didn’t mention a successor.  That might indicate that al-Zawahiri’s unpopularity with
some members of the group make it an open question who will
succeed bin Laden, the official said. Some members of al-Qaeda
see al-Zawahiri as extremely controlling, a micromanager and not
charismatic, the official said.  A third clip shows bin Laden in front of an armoire that
intelligence officials say may match one in the compound, based
on a preliminary analysis. A fourth shows either bin Laden or
the filmmaker missed the cue or fumbled the lighting.  Identifying Evidence  The fifth clip shows an outtake from a practice session in
front of a wrinkled sheet probably used as a temporary backdrop,
the official said.  The trove of information hasn’t revealed anything to date
to indicate that the Pakistani government was aware bin Laden
was at the hideout in Abbottabad, the official said. His courier
network led U.S. intelligence officials to the compound, the
official said.  The official also provided information on the evidence used
to confirm that the body taken from the compound was bin Laden.
In addition to a woman at the compound who identified him to the
assault team and facial recognition techniques, experts matched
DNA samples to family members. The possibility of error for the
DNA match was 1 in 11.8 quadrillion, the official said.  A message from al-Qaeda, dated May 3 and posted on websites
that have carried jihadist statements in the past, has
acknowledged bin Laden’s death. The group threatened retaliation
against the U.S. “soon.”  Scouring the material from bin Laden’s compound are experts
from 10 U.S. government agencies including the CIA, FBI, the
 Defense Intelligence Agency , the Department of  Homeland
Security , the National Media Exploitation Center, the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency and the Treasury Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 