-- 
Canadian Dollar Declines Most Since July on Rout in Prices for Crude Oil

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-05-07T04:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/canadian-dollar-declines-most-since-july-on-rout-in-prices-for-crude-oil.html
Canada ’s dollar fell the most since
July against the greenback as crude oil, the nation’s biggest
export, tumbled on concern the global recovery is stalling.  The loonie dropped this week from almost a three-year high
as commodities plunged the most since December 2008. The
Canadian dollar erased gains yesterday as speculation  Greece  may
stop using the euro encouraged demand for the U.S. currency as a
refuge. Employers added more jobs in April than forecast, a
government report showed yesterday, which may encourage the Bank
of Canada to resume increasing borrowing costs this month.  “The driver this week was mainly the commodity prices that
were lower almost across the board,” said Charles St-Arnaud, an
economist and foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in New York. “Obviously, that has been putting a lot of
pressure on the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is also known for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 2.3
percent to 96.66 cents versus the  U.S. dollar , from 94.51 cents
on April 29. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0346. Canada’s dollar
touched 94.46 cents on April 29, the strongest level since
November 2007.  Crude oil for June delivery plunged 14 percent to $97.76 a
barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in the
largest slump since the five days ended December 2008. The
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of commodities fell 9
percent, also the most since December 2008.  ‘Reversing Trades’  “Once everybody begins to see that maybe demand isn’t as
strong as we’d anticipated, you get a lot of people reversing
trades, and that can be a violent process,” said  David Watt ,
senior currency strategist at Royal  Bank of Canada ’s RBC Capital
Markets unit in Toronto.  European finance officials were in Luxembourg yesterday for
an unscheduled meeting that may address proposals for
restructuring Greek debt, said two European officials familiar
with the situation. Earlier yesterday, Spiegel reported that
ministers are convening an emergency meeting after Greece
threatened to withdraw from the euro region.  “We’re being driven by some of the uncertainties that are
going on in the global economy and in  Europe ,” Watt said. “It
seems like people are not confident being long on the Canadian
dollar at the present time.” A long is a bet an asset may gain
in value.  Canadian Jobs  The Canadian dollar rose earlier yesterday after  Statistics
Canada  said employers added a net 58,300 jobs in April after a
decrease of 1,500 in the previous month. The median forecast of
25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of
20,000. The jobless rate unexpectedly dropped to 7.6 percent.  Government bonds  rose this week, pushing the 10-year note
yield down 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 3.19
percent. The price of the 3.25 percent security maturing in June
2021 gained 88 cents to C$100.51.  BOC officials are forecast to boost the target rate for
overnight loans to 1.5 percent during the third quarter and to 2
percent during the last three months of 2011, according to the
median forecasts in Bloomberg News surveys. The central bank has
held its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent since September,
when it increased it for the third time last year. The Bank of
Canada is next due to decide on policy on May 31.  U.S. Payrolls  Payrolls in the U.S. increased by 244,000 workers last
month after a revised advance of 221,000 in March, the Labor
Department reported. The median forecast of 86 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 185,000. The
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose to 9 percent.  The numbers “should be good for the Canadian dollar in the
near term,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto, said via
e-mail.  The killing of Osama bin Laden may have been the catalyst
for this week’s rout in  oil prices  that’s deflating commodity
prices around the world.  “The death of Osama bin Laden was a big enough story to
pop the bubble this time around,” said  Sarah Emerson , managing
director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts. “The death of bin Laden wiped away the Arab
Spring premium and changed the focus to the demand picture,
which is worrisome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  