-- 
Chubu Electric’s Board Meets on Possible Shutdown of Nuclear Power Plant

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-05-07T08:36:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/chubu-electric-s-board-meets-on-possible-shutdown-of-nuclear-power-plant.html
Chubu Electric Power Co.’s board met
to discuss a possible closure of its sole nuclear plant after
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  expressed concern the facility
may not be able to withstand a powerful earthquake and tsunami.  No decision was made on whether to idle the No. 4 and No. 5
reactors at Hamaoka plant during the meeting in Nagoya today,
Tokyo-based spokesman Akio Miyazaki said by telephone. The board
will reconvene at a future date, he said, without elaborating.  Kan yesterday asked Japan’s third-biggest utility to shut
Hamaoka, citing a government study that showed an 87 percent
likelihood of a magnitude-8 quake striking the area within 30
years. The call to halt reactors is the government’s first since
a temblor and tsunami hit northeastern Japan in March and caused
the world’s worst nuclear accident in 25 years.  “Chubu is making a lot of effort to ensure safety, but
that’s not enough,” Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry
Banri Kaieda told reporters yesterday. “It must stop operations
at the plant until it implements measures such as making the
reactor-building watertight and building a coastal levee.”  Chubu Electric continued operating the 1,137-megawatt No. 4
reactor and the 1,380-megawatt No. 5 reactor at Hamaoka after
the March 11 temblor, which crippled  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The 1,100-megawatt No. 3 unit at
Hamaoka has been shut for regular checks since November, while
No. 1 and No. 2 reactors are in the process of being scrapped.  In 2007, a district-level court rejected claims that Chubu
Electric had underestimated the size of earthquakes that could
hit the Hamaoka facility and the potential for serious damage to
its reactors. The plant, 190 kilometers (118 miles) southwest of
Tokyo, sits near a fault-line that the government monitors
extensively for heightened seismic activity.  Offsetting Power Shortages  Tokyo Electric  lost 21 percent of its total generating
capacity on March 11 when the magnitude-9 quake and tsunami
struck Fukushima, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
reports released by the utility. The Hamaoka plant accounts for
11 percent of Chubu Electric’s total generating capacity.  Chubu Electric supplies to users in central  Japan , while
Tokyo Electric, the country’s biggest utility, provides power to
the capital and eight surrounding prefectures. Kansai Electric
Power Co., the second-largest utility, provides power to western
Japan and operates three nuclear plants in Fukui prefecture.  “I have called and asked the president of Kansai Electric
Power today to support power supply to Chubu Electric,” Kaieda
said yesterday.  The government expects any electricity shortage caused by a
shutdown of Hamaoka to be offset by increased output at thermal
power stations and hydro-dams, according to Kaieda.  LNG Purchases  Chubu Electric may need to buy an additional 4 million
metric tons of liquefied natural gas for thermal power
generation in the year ending March 2012 if the No. 4 and No. 5
reactors are shut in May and should the No. 3 reactor remain
off-line, according to company spokesman Miyazaki.  The extra LNG purchase will cost about 212.3 billion yen
($2.6 billion), according to Bloomberg calculations based on the
latest average LNG import price compiled by the  finance ministry .
Chubu Electric typically buys about 10 million tons a year.  Chubu Electric’s profit forecast of 55 billion yen for the
current fiscal year is based on the assumption that the No. 3
unit will resume operation in about two months, Kazuhiko Okabe,
an operating officer, said on April 28.  The Hamaoka plant is located in Shizuoka, a prefecture with
a population of 3.75 million, according to the local
government’s website. The accident at the Fukushima facility,
220 kilometers north of Tokyo, has forced the evacuation of
50,000 families in the area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 