-- 
Ecuador Voters Approve Correa’s Referendum, Exit Poll Shows

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-05-07T23:18:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/ecuador-voters-approve-correa-s-referendum-exit-poll-shows-1-.html
Ecuadoreans voted today to change
their constitution for the second time in less than three years,
granting President Rafael Correa greater control over the
judiciary and increasing restrictions on banks and the press.  Voters approved all of the 10 referendum questions proposed
by Correa by more than 62 percent, the president said in
comments broadcast by state-owned television station EcuadorTV,
citing an exit poll. Official results will be announced around 8
p.m. local time, according to the country’s National Election
Council.  Correa asked citizens to remove a separation of powers
clause in the current constitution, approved in September 2008,
which would allow him to reorganize courts and appoint judges.
The president also wants to suspend habeas corpus laws to allow
the government to hold citizens for more than a year without
trial, and strip banks and national media companies of holdings
outside their specific industry.  “Should the referendum pass, Correa will have the ability
to restructure the court system and essentially hand-pick
judges,” Eurasia Group analyst Risa Grais-Targow said before
the vote. Approval of the measures would boost his support in
Congress and allow him to “limit any serious political
threats,” she said.  A survey by  Cedatos Gallup , published April 27, found 60
percent of voters supported the changes.  Bargaining Power  “A win should allow Correa more bargaining power with both
independents and the AP, which will provide him greater
flexibility to push his legislative agenda through congress,”
she said, referring to the president’s ruling political party,
Alianza Pais.  Correa, 48, is a former economics professor and has sparred
with bankers and the media since taking office in 2007.  He has claimed the press is “corrupt” and foments unrest
against his administration. He has denied criticism that he
wants to dominate the Andean country’s courts and said the
measures would allow the government to improve crime fighting,
according to a May 4 statement published in the president’s
official gazette.  “The justice system is in chaos,” Correa said in the
statement. “I can guarantee great steps forward to fix many of
the problems with the justice system.”  Bullfighting, Gambling  Among Correa’s other proposals are the criminalization of
“unjustified” profits and the failure to enroll employees in
the state pension system, as well as bans on bullfighting and
gambling.  The referendum, which also proposes the creation of a
government panel to regulate the content of television channels
and newspapers, has drawn criticism from press and human rights
groups, including the New York-based Committee to Protect
Journalists, over concern the president intends to censor free
speech.  “We believe the referendum questions are aimed at stifling
voices that oppose your administration,” Joel Simon, the
group’s executive director, said in an April 18 letter to Correa
published on the CPJ’s  website .  A government crackdown on political opponents and critics,
including lawsuits against at least three reporters and the
nation’s biggest newspaper, El Universo, for allegedly insulting
Correa, may be a sign the government plans to use any new powers
to silence dissenters, former President Osvaldo Hurtado said in
a May 3 e-mailed statement.  “Even though Correa is the most powerful president that
 Ecuador  has had since the early 20th century, he is determined
to gain full control of the two institutions over which his sway
is incomplete: the justice system and the media,” Hurtado said.
If voters approve the changes, “he will have established a
‘perfect dictatorship’ in Ecuador -- disguised under the cloak
of constitutional and popular legitimacy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito News at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  