-- 
EU Said to Consider Requiring Collateral for Providing Extra Aid to Greece

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-08T13:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/eu-said-to-consider-requiring-more-collateral-for-extra-greek-aid-on-debt.html
European Union officials may require
 Greece  to provide collateral for aid as policy makers struggle
to prevent the euro area’s first sovereign debt restructuring,
said a person with direct knowledge of the situation.  Expanding the 110 billion-euro ($158 billion) lifeline
Greece received last year may mean that assets or revenue from
asset sales are used to secure extra funds, the person said.
Demanding collateral, an idea floated last year by  Finland , may
help avoid a political backlash against bailouts.  European Union finance officials, who held an unannounced
meeting May 6 in Luxembourg, are preparing the help to ease a
debt burden that some investors say will lead to a
restructuring. Other steps may include lower  interest rates  or
longer maturities on bailout loans, said  Norbert Barthle , budget
spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s ruling party.  “We’ll just have to bite the bullet,” Barthle said in an
interview yesterday from his district in the state of Baden-
Wuerttemberg. “We need to help Greece help itself. What’s the
alternative? We don’t want to be pushed over the edge into
restructuring.”  Greek bonds have tumbled since mid-April when German
officials indicated they wouldn’t oppose a restructuring. Greece
denied a report in  Germany ’s Spiegel magazine May 6 that said it
threatened to withdraw from the euro.  ‘Further Adjustment’  “We think that Greece does need a further adjustment
program,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
chairs the group of euro-area finance ministers, said after the
May 6 gathering. “We’re not discussing the exit of Greece from
the euro area. This is a stupid idea -- no way.”  Greece has already received an extension on bailout loans
this year and policy makers in  Athens  say another lengthening
would help avoid a broader restructuring.  Increasing aid may run into opposition in Germany and
Finland, where bailouts have sparked a backlash. Finnish Finance
Minister Jyrki Katainen, who suggested seeking collateral for
Ireland for its November bailout, is leading talks to form a
government that may include the euro-skeptic True Finns party.  The True Finns oppose the bailout for  Portugal  and see a
Greek default as inevitable.  “It’s a question of time before a default will happen,”
Party leader Timo Soini told Bloomberg Television May 5. “The
bailout doesn’t work; we have seen that in Greece.”  Speculation Dismissed  European finance chiefs and the Greek government dismiss
restructuring as a possibility. “We were excluding the
restructuring option which is discussed heavily in certain
quarters of the financial markets,” Juncker said.  The euro slid after the Spiegel report, declining 1.5
percent in New York trading May 6 to $1.4316. U.S. stocks pared
gains and Treasuries rose as reports of the meeting stoked
speculation that a restructuring may be in the works.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said the report of a
possible euro exit was made up and the government was handling
the country’s debt in the best way possible, Kathimerini
newspaper reported.  Abandoning the euro would have “catastrophic”
consequences, Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou 
told Italian newspaper La Stampa. Public debt would double,
consumer spending power would be “shattered” and the country
would sink into a “war-like recession,” he said.  Speaking to reporters in Athens yesterday, Papaconstantinou
said the government is determined to implement the bailout plan
to overhaul the economy. “Markets are still jittery and we will
do all that’s necessary to calm them.”  EU Agenda  Finance chiefs from  France , Germany,  Italy  and  Spain  and
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  also attended the May 6 session in Luxembourg.  Beyond Greece, the agenda included the Portugal bailout, a
successor to European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , whose term ends in October, and details of the crisis-
fighting program to take effect in 2013, a separate European
official said.  Papaconstantinou attended and briefed on the state of the
 Greek economy , the Athens-based  Finance Ministry  said in a
statement, adding there was no discussion of Greece’s status as
a member of the euro area.  The meeting came a year after the EU put together an
unprecedented 750 billion-euro backstop on a Sunday night in
Brussels to end the debt contagion that began in Greece. It
hasn’t worked so far. Ireland and Portugal have since been
bailed out and Greece has been forced to fend off suggestions
that it was headed to default.  Restructuring More Likely  The Wall Street Journal, citing an unidentified senior
 euro-zone  government official, reported yesterday that Greece
has asked its euro-zone partners to ease the country’s deficit
targets. Separately Kathimerini said the Greek government
requested at the May 6 meeting an extension of the bailout
program by two to four years, without saying how it got the
information.  People with knowledge of the discussions said yesterday
there was no discussion about extending or changing the original
bailout agreement at the meeting.  “The likelihood of a restructuring of Greek market debt
this year has gone up,” David Mackie, London-based chief
European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note May
6.  Greece has about 330 billion euros in outstanding bonds,
according to a May 5 report by UBS AG. The Swiss bank estimates
that 22 percent is held by Greeks and Cypriots, the ECB has 19
percent and the EU and International Monetary Fund together have
about 11 percent.  Greek Bonds  About 22 billion euros will mature this year and 33 billion
euros next year, according to an April 29 ING Groep NV report.  Greek bonds have declined since the 2010 bailout, with
yields on two-year notes reaching a euro-era record of 26.27
percent on April 28. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Greek 10-year debt over comparable German bonds widened 4 basis
points to 1,233. Greece was supposed to return to markets next
year even as its debt peaks at 159 percent of gross domestic
product.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said EU
finance ministers may recommend additional euro-region funding
for Greece.  A Greek default is not inevitable, and there have been no
suggestions in private or public that the country might abandon
the euro, Osborne said.  “It’s inevitable we’re going to look at the Greek package
and see what they can do to get through next year,” Osborne told
BBC TV’s Andrew Marr Show today. “That might involve additional
assistance from, for example, the euro zone,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  