-- 
Bunds Rise for Fourth Straight Week as Trichet Damps Bets on Rate Increase

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-05-07T10:47:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/german-bunds-rise-for-fourth-week-as-trichet-damps-rates-bets.html
German 10-year bonds rose for a fourth
consecutive week after European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet signaled  interest rates  may stay unchanged next
month, confounding bets for higher borrowing costs.  The bund yield fell to a seven-week low after reports
showed industrial production growth slowed in  Europe ’s largest
economy in March and factory orders unexpectedly dropped in the
same month. The extra yield investors demand to hold Portuguese
bonds instead of the benchmark German bunds reached a record
after the nation said its economy will contract as it tackles
its  budget deficit  to qualify for an international aid package.
The ECB kept its main rate at 1.25 percent on May 5.  Trichet’s comments “caused bunds to turn around and
rally,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “There’s
been a continuing disappointment with the data. It’s started to
give bond markets a bit of impetus.”  The 10-year bund yield fell seven basis points to 3.17
percent at yesterday’s close from 3.24 percent on April 29.  Bund yields have fallen from 3.51 percent on April 11, the
highest this year, as investors scaled back bets on higher
interest rates and amid speculation the region’s most indebted
nations may be forced to reorganize their debt obligations.  Portuguese Spread  The difference in yield between 10-year Portuguese bonds
and benchmark German bunds reached a record 660 basis points
yesterday as politicians mapped out austerity measures that will
be taken to win a rescue loan of as much as 78 billion euros.  A sale of as much as 7 billion euros of German two-year
notes on May 11 may test investor appetite for the securities
after Trichet refrained from using the phrase “strong
vigilance” at a press conference on May 5 that would have
signaled a June rate increase.  German bonds handed investors a 1.4 percent loss so far
this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Treasuries
returned a profit of 1.8 percent, while Greek securities lost
11.6 percent.  European nations may provide more aid to  Greece , recipient
of the first euro-area bailout, as it struggles to reduce a debt
load that some investors say will lead to a restructuring.  “We think that Greece does need a further adjustment
program,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
chairs the group of euro-area finance ministers, said after an
unscheduled meeting of European Union officials last night in
Luxembourg. “This has to be discussed in detail” at this month’s
gathering of finance chiefs.  “We’re not discussing the exit of Greece from the euro
area. This is a stupid idea -- no way,” Juncker told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  