-- 
Gilts Gain as Services, Price Data Point to Rates Staying Low

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-07T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/gilts-gain-as-services-price-data-point-to-rates-staying-low.html
U.K. 10-year government bonds rose for
a fourth week, the longest streak since August, as service-
industry growth eased and producer-price inflation rose at a
slower pace, bolstering the case for maintaining low rates.  The pound declined against the dollar and the yen and was
little changed versus the euro since April 29. The central bank
Governor Mervyn King said on May 3 that high debt levels pose
“massive economic challenges that would be exacerbated in
increased long-term  interest rates .  “Economic data this week supported an argument that
ultimately the recent inflation spike will be a short-term
development,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International Ltd. in  London . “There is
no urgency for the central bank to raise rates. Gilt yields are
likely to remain low.”  The yield on 10-year gilts fell nine basis points from
April 28 to 3.39 percent as of 4:29 p.m. in London yesterday.
Two-year note yields declined seven basis points to 1.02
percent. There was no gilt trading on April 29 or May 2, because
of public holidays in the U.K.  U.K. services growth slowed more than economists forecast
in April as the government’s fiscal squeeze constrained demand.
A gauge based on a survey of companies fell to 54.3 from 57.1 in
March, Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said on May 5. That compares with the
median forecast of 56 from 20 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Producer Prices  Prices of goods leaving U.K. factories rose 0.8 percent
last month from March when it climbed 0.9 percent, a government
report showed yesterday.  Five-year breakeven rates, a gauge of market inflation
expectations derived from the yield difference between regular
and index-linked bonds, declined 10 basis points from last week
to 2.69 percentage points, the lowest since March 17.  The pound declined 1.6 percent against the dollar, the
steepest decline since the five days ending December 17. The
currency fell 1.5 percent against the Australian dollar to
$1.5259. It strengthened 0.3 percent to 88.37 pence per euro.  Britain’s currency strengthened as much as 1.4 percent
against the euro on May 5, the steepest intraday climb since
Oct. 26, after the  European Central Bank  left its key rate
unchanged at 1.25 percent and signaled it may not raise the main
refinancing rate again until after June after increasing it in
April. Any gain in sterling is likely to be short-lived,
according to UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s biggest lender.  ‘Downside’ Surprise  “Recent data out of the U.K. tend to have surprised on the
downside,” said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist
at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “Those reports will only bolster
speculation that the  Bank of England  will keep rates low for
longer. That’s not going to help the pound.”  The Bank of England kept its benchmark rate at a record low
on May 5 as weak economic data suggested the economy isn’t yet
strong enough to withstand a withdrawal of monetary stimulus.  The decision by U.K. monetary policy makers to leave
lending rates unchanged follows reports this past week that
showed  house prices  declined for the first time in three months
in April while a gauge of construction growth unexpectedly
dropped to a four-month low.  An April 12 report showed U.K. inflation unexpectedly
slowed to 4 percent in March, following five months of
acceleration to a more than two-year high of 4.4 percent in
February.  Gilts beat their German counterparts this year, handing
investors a 1.5 percent gain compared with a 1.4 percent loss
from bunds, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  