-- 
High-Frequency Traders to Face More SEC Scrutiny, Chairman Schapiro Says

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/high-frequency-traders-to-face-more-sec-scrutiny-chairman-schapiro-says.html
Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  gave the strongest signal yet that she
plans to increase scrutiny of high-frequency traders blamed for
exacerbating the May 6, 2010, stock market crash.  The SEC is considering whether to impose trading
obligations on the firms, which can submit hundreds or thousands
of orders every second and typically don’t hold positions
overnight, Schapiro said in Washington yesterday. A reassessment
of the “entire regulatory structure” surrounding the firms is
needed, in part to determine whether the algorithms or
strategies used to generate and send orders are “programmed to
operate properly in stressed market conditions,” she said.  “High-frequency traders turned what was a very down day
for many investors into a very profitable one for themselves by
taking liquidity rather than providing it,” Schapiro said about
the rout on May 6, 2010, that erased $862 billion in value in
less than 20 minutes before rebounding. “Their activity that
day should cause us to thoroughly examine their current role.”  The SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in an
Oct. 1  report  that the activity of high-frequency firms they
examined fueled price moves and didn’t help stem the decline of
the E-mini version of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures and
shares of individual companies.  “Tremendous harm” was done to public companies and
individual investors by the crash, which spurred volatility that
increased the “perceived risk” of investing in stocks, she
said at an Investment Company Institute event yesterday.
Investors lost money when their orders traded at prices that
were deemed unreliable and later canceled, she said. She added
that the agency is exploring “what level of volatility is
appropriate” for stocks.  ‘Appropriate Benefits’  Quoting requirements for firms that act as market makers is
one of a broader set of changes to equity trading rules the SEC
is considering, David Shillman, associate director of the SEC’s
division of trading and markets, said May 5 in an interview at a
Georgetown University conference in  Washington .  “It’s a complex issue because of the balancing.
Appropriate benefits must be given to offset any obligations we
may decide to impose,” Shillman said. Consistency in exchanges’
rules for market makers registered on their venues is important,
he added. “If there’s an SEC initiative, the requirements would
apply broadly to all exchanges just as we did with stub
quotes.”  Canceled Trades  More than 20,000 transactions representing 5.5 million
shares were voided by stock markets hours after they executed at
prices 60 percent or more away from levels before the May 6
crash, the SEC and CFTC said last year. Investors and brokers
criticized  stock exchanges  that May for adopting what they
viewed as an arbitrary threshold for busting trades.  High-frequency trading is a style of buying and selling
that comprises strategies such as market making, statistical
arbitrage tactics that seek to profit from price differences
between related products, and momentum trading. It accounts for
more than half of U.S. equities trading, according to the SEC.  The securities agency is considering whether new
requirements should be imposed on market makers and what if any
benefits they should get for meeting those obligations. Schapiro
said last year that market makers can’t be required to put their
businesses at risk by providing liquidity in a plunging market,
especially when a confluence of events including potentially
faulty market data and delays in the transmission of that
information may cause confusion about why prices are falling.  Lower Profit  Regulatory changes over the past 15 years designed to boost
competition and lower trading costs for individual investors
reduced profit for market makers and specialists, forcing
 exchanges  to recast rules that curtailed the obligations imposed
on those firms. Automated high-frequency traders helped fill the
void left when firms exited the business, providing bids and
offers to investors who want to buy or sell shares.  “This is a public policy issue,” said Alfred Berkeley,
chairman of Pipeline Trading Systems LLC in  New York  and
president of Nasdaq Stock Market from 1996 to 2000. Pipeline
runs a U.S. dark pool, or private venue that allows investors to
execute blocks. “How do you have a liquid market with
unregulated liquidity providers who can go away when something
happens?” he said. “We haven’t answered that.”  The exchanges and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
worked with the SEC last year to ban stub quotes, or placeholder
buy and sell orders used by market makers to meet a regulatory
obligation to submit both bids and offers. The rule required
market makers to supply orders within 8 percent of the national
best bid or offer to help meet trading demand if a surge of
orders overwhelms the available bids or offers at better prices.  Penny Trades  Unlike many trading rules written to meet the needs of
specific markets, the policy was uniform across venues to ensure
consistency. Stocks such as  Accenture Plc (ACN)  plunged to 1 cent on
May 6, 2010, when investors’ orders traded against stub quotes,
regulators said last year. Obligations on market makers have
traditionally focused on the number of shares they must provide
at the best prices, the percentage of time they must quote at
those levels, and requirements that they supply liquidity and
damp volatility.  The NYSE Euronext’s  New York Stock Exchange  requires
traders known as designated market makers to meet quoting and
market-stabilization requirements, giving them trading and
pricing benefits unavailable to others. The DMMs oversee the
trading of the NYSE stocks they’re assigned and run the auctions
at the start and close of the day.  Nasdaq Stock Market  On venues such as New York-based Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s
 Nasdaq Stock Market , market makers compete with one another
without facing quoting requirements that are as strict. They
also don’t get cheaper rates than those available to other
traders and investors.  Exchanges and Finra established circuit breakers last year
to curb price swings across about 50 equity venues and adopted
uniform rules on when to cancel transactions.  They last month proposed shifting from price curbs that
halt trading for five minutes when shares drop 10 percent in
five minutes to a so-called limit-up/limit-down mechanism that
prevents executions outside a moving price band. If approved,
the curbs would eventually apply to all securities and not just
stocks in the  S&P 500  and  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  as well as more
than 300 exchange-traded funds.  The “easy fixes” are done,  Richard Repetto , a New York-
based analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said on April
27. “What’s left undone is the SEC’s attitude toward high-
frequency trading.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  