-- 
Mittal Tops U.K. Rich, Usmanov Now Second in Sunday Times List

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-05-08T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/mittal-tops-u-k-rich-usmanov-now-second-in-sunday-times-list.html
Lakshmi Mittal topped the Sunday Times
ranking of the 1,000 wealthiest people in the U.K. for a seventh
year and Alisher Usmanov leapfrogged  Roman Abramovich  to No. 2
as the list’s combined wealth rose 18 percent over 12 months.  The total number of billionaires rose to 73. Mittal, the
Indian-born chief executive officer of ArcelorMittal, the
world’s largest steelmaker, topped the list even after the 60-
year-old’s fortune declined 22 percent to 17.5 billion pounds
($29 billion), according to the  Rich List , published yesterday.
Usmanov, 57, the billionaire shareholder of Russian  iron-ore 
producer Metalloinvest, beat 44-year-old Roman Abramovich to
second place after adding 7.7 billion pounds to his net worth.  The cumulative wealth of the U.K.’s 1,000 richest families
and individuals rose to 395.76 billion pounds during the year.
The total fell short of the record 413 billion pounds reached in
2008, according to the rankings compiled each year by Philip Beresford. The number of billionaires on the list rose 20 to 73,
two short of the record of 75 set in 2008.  The list has been compiled for the past 22 years and is
based on identifiable wealth, including property, art,
racehorses and shares in publicly-held companies. It excludes
bank-account balances.  The year before, the net worth of those on the list had
risen at a record pace, rising 30 percent to 333.5 billion
pounds as the country’s richest residents recovered from the
global financial crisis.  “Britain’s super-rich are making light of the age of
austerity,” Beresford said in an e-mailed statement.  Commodity Producers  Mittal, the owner of 41 percent of  ArcelorMittal (MT) , saw the
steelmaker’s shares fall 12 percent in 2010 as surging raw-
material costs squeezed profit margins. His decline in wealth
was the biggest drop in this year’s list.  Prices for iron ore, a steelmaking ingredient, have gained
24 percent in the past three quarters, while European hot-rolled
steel coil, a benchmark product used in cars and buildings, rose
only 3.7 percent in the period.  Mittal created ArcelorMittal in 2006 when his Mittal Steel
Co. bought Arcelor SA in the industry’s biggest acquisition.  Conversely, the rise in iron-ore prices helped boost
Usmanov’s wealth to 12.4 billion pounds, the biggest gain on the
list. Metalloinvest is  Russia ’s largest producer of the
commodity.  Soccer Teams  Usmanov owns 26.9 percent of Russian Web company Mail.Ru
Group, which raised about $1 billion in an initial public
offering in  London  in October. He also owns about 10 percent of
Facebook Inc. together with fellow Russian billionaire Yuri
Milner. Usmanov is the second-largest shareholder of Arsenal
soccer club, with 27 percent of the London team.  Abramovich fell to third place in this year’s list, while
adding 2.9 billion pounds to his total wealth, which now stands
at 10.3 billion pounds. The owner of Chelsea Football Club, once
Russia’s richest man according to Forbes, became wealthy after
the collapse of the  Soviet Union  by building up Russia’s fifth-
largest oil producer. His oil business, OAO Sibneft, was bought
by OAO Gazprom in 2005 as then-President  Vladimir Putin  moved to
return the country’s oil wealth to state hands.  The billionaire owns homes in the U.K. and Russia, as well
as in Cap d’Antibes on the French Riviera, on the Caribbean
island of Saint-Barthelemy, and in Aspen,  Colorado , according to
filings for his candidacy for Russian regional elections. His
Millhouse LLC manages his assets, holds stakes in  Evraz Group
SA (EVR) , Russia’s second-largest steelmaker, and  Highland Gold Mining
Ltd. (HGM)  Evraz rose 27 percent in 2010 in London trading as steel
prices recovered following a global economic slump.  Chelsea and Arsenal are second and third, respectively, in
the  Premier League standings  this year.  Manchester United  leads.  Putin told Abramovich in December to “open up his wallet”
to help build stadiums for the 2018 soccer  World Cup  in Russia.  Self-Made Woman  The number of women in the list has risen above 10 percent
for the first time in its history and now stands at 108,
Beresford said in the statement. That number includes Mary Perkins, the founder of Specsavers Optical Group Ltd., whose
increase in wealth to 1.15 billion pounds with her husband,
Douglas, makes her Britain’s first self-made female billionaire,
Beresford said.  The highest new entrants were Gopichand and Srichand Hinduja, 70 and 75 respectively, who took the ninth spot with a
fortune calculated at 6 billion pounds. The brothers said in
January they plan to sell shares in some units in  India  in two
to three years as they expand in the country.  Britain’s 10 Largest Fortunes (in billions of pounds)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Harrison at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net . 