-- 
Todd Pletcher Regains Hard-Luck Form With Another Kentucky Derby Scratch

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-05-07T04:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/todd-pletcher-regains-hard-luck-form-with-another-kentucky-derby-scratch.html
Trainer  Todd Pletcher ’s vision of
back-to-back  Kentucky  Derby victories after a decade of futility
is dimmer for today’s race after withdrawing a top contender for
the second straight year.  Pletcher, 43, last year snapped an 0-24 record at the
season’s first leg of the Triple Crown when 8-1 Super Saver won
after his other horse, Wood Memorial champion Eskendereya, was
scratched with a leg injury.  In the 137th edition of the race at Churchill Downs in
Louisville, Kentucky, Pletcher again will be without his most-
accomplished horse after yesterday scratching Uncle Mo, last
season’s 2-year-old champion, who on May 4 was made the 9-2
second favorite to Dialed In (4-1). Uncle Mo won’t run after
being unable to sufficiently recuperate from a lingering stomach
illness, leaving 20-1 Stay Thirsty as Pletcher’s only hope for
consecutive Derby victories.  “It’s very, very, very, very, very disappointing,”
Pletcher said at a news conference yesterday. “I said last
year, honestly, I don’t think I’ve ever had a horse as good as
Uncle Mo. To not make it here is a big letdown. I take it as a
personal failure.”  Uncle Mo, who won the Breeders’ Cup Juvenile, has had a
stomach ailment that depressed his appetite and changed the
condition of his coat, both signs of illness. Pletcher and owner
Mike Repole decided the 3-year-old, who was diagnosed after the
colt lost his first race in five starts when he placed third in
the Wood Memorial, wouldn’t run after three veterinarians said
they couldn’t pinpoint the cause of the issues.  ‘The Right Choice’  “It was the right choice,” Repole, a New York
businessman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  The decision reduces the Derby field to 19 today in the 1
1/4-mile race, which has a $2 million purse.  Pletcher had similar feelings last year when he scratched
Zayat Stables’ Eskendereya, considered the horse to beat.  Ahmed Zayat , owner of Eskendereya, said he understands
Pletcher’s and Repole’s pain and the disappointment for Derby
fans who “want to see the best horses compete.”  “I am very saddened that the champion 2-year-old can’t
make it to the biggest dance,” Zayat said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “These animals are so compelling, so
majestic and yet so fragile. I know exactly how it feels. It
seriously hurts.”  Zayat will be counting on Nehro, whose trainer Steve Asmussen is seeking his first Derby victory.  “I am very realistic about our chances,” Zayat said.
“It’s the hardest race in the world. So many variables. It’s
the horse who gets the trip and lots of luck with 20 horses
positioning. Everything has to go right.”  Nehro Moves Up  Nehro, at 6-1 early odds, replaces Uncle Mo as the second
favorite. He’ll leave the starting gate from the 18th post
position. The colt was runner-up in the Arkansas and Louisiana
derbys.  “My horse is peaking,” Zayat said. “He’s telling me he’s
a happy horse.”  Bob Baffert  is the last trainer to win consecutive Kentucky
Derbys, accomplishing the feat with Silver Charm in 1997 and
Real Quiet in 1998.  Uncle Mo had a good chance of giving Pletcher back-to-back
Derby victories, according to Washington Post racing writer
Andrew Beyer. The average winning Beyer Speed Figure, a
numerical scale of a horse’s performance based on race time and
surface, has been 109 in the Derby over the past 25 years.  “Only two entrants have ever earned a triple-digit
number,” he wrote this week, commenting on the slowness of this
year’s field. “Uncle Mo, of course, was brilliant as a 2-year-
old, earning a spectacular figure of 108 that suggested he was a
superstar in the making.”  Repole’s Other Horse  Repole, who said he will have an entourage of 98 friends
and family joining him in his box on the finish line, still has
a chance to own a Derby winner this year. Stay Thirsty, also
trained by Pletcher, will be ridden by Ramon Dominguez from the
fourth post position.  Pletcher, a five-time winner of the Eclipse Award for
champion trainer since 2004, has had 2,090 first-place winners
among his 12,583 starts as of May 5, according to Equibase. He
has won nearly $200.4 million in purses for his career, joining
his mentor D. Wayne Lukas and the late Bobby Frankel in reaching
the $200 million threshold. His best year was 2007, when his
horses won $28.1 million.  “Any horse is only 50-50,” Repole said in a telephone
interview earlier this week. “You can wake up on any day and
your Derby horse can pop a tendon. They’re fragile animals.”  Pletcher said he told Repole to look toward the future.  “This decision is really, really going to stink on May 7,
but let’s hope the rest of the year, when they run the Jim
Dandy, Travers and  Breeders’ Cup Classic  and those type of
races, it’s going to be real good,” the trainer said he told
the owner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  