-- 
‘Heads Will Roll’ After Bin Laden Investigation, Pakistani Ambassador Says

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-08T16:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/pakistan-s-u-s-ambassador-calls-on-country-to-investigate-bin-laden-ties.html
Pakistan ’s ambassador to the U.S. said
“heads will roll” after his country finishes its investigation
into how Osama bin Laden managed to hide out near the capital
city of Islamabad in the compound where he was killed by U.S.
forces.  Once the investigation is complete, “if those heads are
rolled on account of incompetence, we will share that
information,” Pakistani Ambassador  Husain Haqqani  said on ABC’s
“This Week” program. “And if, God forbid, somebody’s
complicity is discovered, there will be zero tolerance for
that.”  Haqqani told  CNN  he didn’t know whether the al-Qaeda leader
had help from his country’s government or military to stay
concealed in Abbottabad, Pakistan. U.S. National Security
Adviser Tom Donilon said today that he hasn’t seen any evidence
that Pakistani leaders knew about  Bin Laden .  “What we need now is for Pakistan’s elected leaders to
exercise the leadership and get to the bottom of the matter,”
Haqqani said, during an interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria
GPS” program.  The U.S. is in the midst of assessing its relationship with
Pakistan, which borders  Afghanistan . U.S. Navy SEAL commandos
killed bin Laden on May 2 in the Abbottabad complex where he had
been hiding out. Bin Laden “had an operational and strategic
role” in running al-Qaeda, Donilon said on CNN’s “State of the
Union” today.  Computer Equipment  U.S. intelligence forces are currently examining computer
equipment found at the house for leads on additional al-Qaeda
figures and their plans. The U.S. has released five video clips
of the al-Qaeda leader at the compound in Abbottabad that were
seized during the raid.  Haqqani urged patience, and said the U.S. shouldn’t rush to
judgment about whether to withdraw military aid or to put undue
pressure on the Pakistani government.  “Maybe it’s time to just stay the course,” he said.
“It’s not fair, not fair to hold the democratically elected
leadership that came in only three years ago responsible for
everything that has happened in Pakistan in the preceding many,
many decades.”  The U.S. is suspicious about how much Pakistan knew about
bin Laden’s whereabouts, said Richard Haass, president of the
 Council on Foreign Relations .  “At best, we’re a limited partner and often the emphasis
should be on the word ‘limited’ rather than ‘partner.’ It makes
the American military and the American intelligence services
incredibly suspicious of their Pakistani counterparts,” Haass
said on GPS.  Kerry Comments  Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who is
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committees, said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” program that “it is extraordinarily
hard to believe that he could have survived there for five years
or more in a major population center without some kind of
support system and knowledge.”  Pakistan may not be best served by even more U.S. pressure
and threats of withdrawn aid, Haqqani said. “Could the pattern
of bullying and then trying to give a lot of honey after having
served a lot of vinegar, is that partly the reason why the
patient is unwell?” he said.  Bin Laden’s killing will put the al-Qaeda terrorist network
through a “succession crisis,” retired General Michael Hayden,
the former director of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency,
said on GPS.  Ayman Al-Zawahiri, the highest-ranking al-Qaeda figure
behind bin Laden, would probably take over the al-Qaeda’s
operations, Hayden said on Zakaria’s program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 Darmstrong17@bloomberg.net 
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  