-- 
QPR Won’t Face Points Penalty Over Rule Breach Charges, Gaining Promotion

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-07T15:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/qpr-won-t-face-points-penalty-after-rule-breach-charges-hearing-fa-says.html
The English  Football Association  said
Queens Park Rangers will not lose Championship points for rule-
breaching charges connected to the signing of Alejandro Faurlin,
a decision which confirmed the club’s league title.  QPR said on its  website  it’s been fined 875,000 pounds
($1.4 million) and has turned the matter over to its lawyers,
who are “considering the full details of the sanction.”  The west-London club earned a promotion to the Premier
League last weekend by winning the title with 88 points overall
in the second-tier Championship. It faced possible penalties,
including a potential points deduction that might have seen
Norwich, which finished the season with 84 points, crowned
champion and QPR dropped into the promotion playoffs.  “The Regulatory Commission hearing charges brought by the
F.A. against Queens Park Rangers wish to announce that although
two of the charges have been found to be proved, there will be
no points deduction,” the F.A. said in a  statement  on its
website today. The hearing had considered seven charges.  QPR was presented the Championship trophy after today’s
season-ending 2-1 home loss to Leeds. The club said it was
“delighted” by the F.A. decision that confirmed its promotion
to the Premier League.  “We hope that all our fans will join with us today in
celebrating our return to the top flight after a 15-year
absence,” the club’s statement said.  It had been accused of having an agreement with a third
party over Faurlin’s economic rights and failing to notify the
F.A. about the pact before the Argentine midfielder was
registered in July 2009. The team and executive Gianni Paladini
were charged with giving false information to the F.A. Both the  Promotion to the Premier League is worth about 90 million
pounds ($147 million) in television rights and other revenue,
accountant Deloitte LLP estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Harrison at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  