-- 
Euro Tumbles Most Against Dollar Since January on Rate Signal; Yen Climbs

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-07T14:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/trichet-says-ecb-extremely-alert-ahead-of-june-forecasts.html
The euro fell the most in four months
against the dollar after European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet signaled he may not raise  interest rates  next
month and concern grew that Greece’s debt crisis is worsening.  The shared currency tumbled yesterday by the most in a year
after  Germany ’s Spiegel magazine said Greece may withdraw from
the euro. European Union ministers attending talks in Luxembourg
later denied Greece would leave the currency and said it may
receive more aid. The yen strengthened as plunging commodities
prompted investors to unwind bets in higher-yielding assets. In
the U.S. inflation may have slowed in April even as more jobs
were added, a report next week is forecast to show.  “You combine the less-hawkish-than-expected Trichet and
stronger U.S. payrolls, and you get a 4 cent fall in the euro in
two days,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “The saga
continues to unfold” in Greece, he said.  The euro fell 3.3 percent against the dollar to $1.4316,
from $1.4807 in the five days ended April 29. It was the biggest
weekly decline since Jan. 7. The shared currency touched $1.4311
yesterday, the lowest level since April 19. It dropped 4 percent
versus the yen to 115.44, from 120.22, in the biggest weekly
loss since May 2010.  The Japanese currency advanced 0.07 percent against the
dollar to 80.63, from 81.19. It touched 79.57 on May 6, the
strongest since March 18, when Group of Seven central banks
moved to curb the yen’s gain after  Japan ’s worst earthquake.  Net Longs  Futures traders raised bets as of May 3 to an almost four-
year high that the euro would gain against the dollar.  Commodities plunged amid concern economic growth will slow.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials sank 9
percent, the biggest weekly decline since December 2008. Crude
oil slid 15 percent to $97.18 a barrel in New York and dipped
below $95 a barrel for the first time since February.  Investors speculated growth in  China , the nation’s biggest
trading partner, will slow as the nation aims to stem inflation.  Australia ’s currency fell from a record $1.1012 against the
 U.S. dollar  on May 2 to $1.0700 in its first five-day decline in
seven weeks. The Aussie pared its weekly loss yesterday after
the central bank suggested inflation data meant further monetary
policy tightening would likely be required.  Norway’s krone dropped 5.1 percent, the biggest decline
since October 2008, to 5.5329 per dollar.  ECB Decision  The euro fell after the ECB kept its key interest rate
unchanged at 1.25 percent on May 5 and Trichet refrained from
using the phrase “strong vigilance” on higher prices, which
might have signaled a June boost. He instead said inflation
risks will be watched “very closely.”  The ECB boosted rates in April. The Fed has held its
benchmark interest rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008 to spur the  U.S. economy .  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 99,516 on May 3,
the highest level since July 2007, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The total
compared with net longs of 68,279 on April 26.  “This doesn’t really change anything,” said  John McCarthy , director of  currency trading  at ING Groep NV in New
York. “The potential rate hikes may not be delivered as quickly
as people thought, but Mr. Trichet didn’t necessarily say
anything that suggested it was a one-and-done type of thing.”  Yen Gains  The yen climbed versus all of its 16 most-traded peers as
falling commodities prompted investors to unwind bets in higher-
yielding assets financed with yen. The yen fell below 80 per
dollar on May 5 for the first time since Group of Seven central
banks intervened to weaken the currency on March 18 after
Japan’s worst earthquake.  The pound slipped versus half its major counterparts after
the  Bank of England  kept its key rate at a record low 0.5
percent this week. Signs the economic recovery is losing
momentum kept a majority of policy makers focused on stimulating
growth.  Sterling fell 2 percent against the dollar to $1.6367, from
$1.6707. The pound gained 1.3 percent to 87.49 pence per euro.  The euro is the best performer, this year among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes rising 2.8 percent. The dollar has
dropped the most, 4.6 percent.  Greek Debt  Greece  is lobbying for easier terms on the 110 billion
euros ($157 billion) of bailout loans as speculation of a
default mounts a year after European leaders set up an
unprecedented emergency fund.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads euro-region
finance ministers, said late yesterday that a “restructuring”
for Greece would be ruled out, though the nation does need “a
further adjustment program.”  “We’re not discussing the exit of Greece from the euro
area. This is a stupid idea -- no way,” Juncker told reporters.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said the report of a
possible euro exit was made up and the government was handling
the country’s debt in the best way possible, according to a
report in the Kathimerini newspaper today. Abandoning the euro
would have “catastrophic” consequences, Greek Finance Minister
 George Papaconstantinou  told  Italy ’s La Stampa. Public debt
would double, consumer spending power would be “shattered” and
the country would sink into a “war-like recession,” he said.  Even under cuts imposed as a bailout condition, Greece’s
debt is forecast to climb to 159 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012. The economy is forecast by the government to
shrink for a third year in 2011 and return to growth in 2012.  “It does bring to the forefront the existential concerns
about the euro,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for
the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of  New York  Mellon.
“It underscores the risks that have never really gone away but
had gone to the back burner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  