-- 
Singapore’s Lee Retains Power With Smallest Margin Since 1965

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-07T20:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/singapore-s-people-s-action-party-keeps-parliamentary-majority-state-says.html
Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s  People’s Action Party  retained power with the smallest
margin of popular votes since independence amid a record turnout
that tripled the number of opposition members in parliament.  The party that has ruled Singapore for more than five
decades won 81 out of 87 parliamentary seats and 60.1 percent of
the popular vote in yesterday’s polls, according to the
 Elections Department . A record 2 million ballots were counted.  The run-up to the election brought out tens of thousands of
Singaporeans to rallies in support of the PAP and the opposition
parties, which resonated with citizens complaining about the
rising cost of living and competition with foreigners for jobs
and housing. The result adds pressure on Lee, 59, to reach out
to the growing number of Singaporeans who have questioned
government policies.  “The political landscape has changed forever,” Suzaina
Kadir, a senior lecturer at  Singapore ’s Lee Kuan Yew School of
Public Policy. “There’s serious questioning of the PAP’s
continued dominance. Now the work begins for the opposition.”  Politicians competed in single-seat wards or multiple-seat
districts called Group Representation Constituencies, or GRCs.
The party that gets the most number of votes in a district sends
all its members to parliament. The PAP lost a GRC for the first
time in this election. A record 82 parliament seats were
contested by six opposition parties.  Opposition Advances  The  Workers’ Party  won the five-seat district of Aljunied
and the single-seat Hougang constituency, the only wins by
opposition parties. Secretary-General Low Thia Khiang and
Chairman Sylvia Lim, who called for a stronger voice in
parliament and more affordable public housing, led the Aljunied
effort, while Yaw Shin Leong won in Hougang.  “Your votes tell the world that you want Singapore to
mature as a democracy, and you want to tell the government that
you want a more responsible, inclusive, transparent, accountable
government,” said Low, who has been in parliament since 1991.  The Workers’ Party also fielded lawyer Chen Show-Mao, who
advised on deals like Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s $22.1
billion initial share sale, in Aljunied.  The only uncontested constituency was that of Minister
Mentor Lee Kuan Yew, 87, the Cambridge University-trained lawyer
who led the island from British rule and was its first premier.
He’s also the father of the current prime minister.  Popular Vote  The parliament dissolved last month had 82 PAP lawmakers,
two elected opposition politicians and 10 non-elected members.
The PAP won about 66.6 percent of the votes cast in 2006, down
from 75.3 percent in the 2001 elections. The worst showing for
the PAP before yesterday was 1991, when it won 61 percent of the
popular vote.  The PAP has ruled Singapore for more than five decades and
delivered a 41-fold jump in gross domestic product, combining a
focus on education, homeownership, business friendliness and
strict laws to boost the wealth of citizens. Lee’s more recent
efforts to spur the economy include the opening of two casino
resorts, bringing Formula One races to the island and attracting
foreign workers. GDP grew a record 14.5 percent last year.  The party encountered a more vocal electorate than before,
prompting a rare apology from Lee for failing to build enough
public housing and expand transport links as the population grew.
“If we didn’t quite get it right, I am sorry but we will try
and do better the next time,” he said at a rally on May 3.  “While voters have given the PAP a strong mandate, many
voters including some of those who have voted for us have also
clearly expressed their significant concerns, both on issues and
on our approach to government,” Prime Minister Lee said in a
speech after the victory. “We hear all your voices.”  Ministerial Casualties  Foreign Minister George Yeo, who lost his seat in Aljunied,
had promised to lead a push for reform within the party. He was
one of two cabinet ministers who lost power in the election, the
other one being Lim Hwee Hua.  “There is considerable resentment against the government
and its policies and some of them run deep,” Yeo said in an
interview with the  Straits Times  on May 5. “We have to listen
harder to what people say.”  Singapore’s economic success has widened the  income gap ,
with the world’s highest share of dollar-millionaire households
contributing to higher property and consumer prices, leaving
some citizens behind.  Singapore’s  Gini coefficient , a gauge of  income inequality ,
rose to 0.48 last year from 0.444 in 2000, according to the
statistics department. A reading of zero means income equality,
while a reading of one means complete inequality. Inflation
accelerated to a two-year high of 5.5 percent in January.  Foreign Workers  The growth and widening income gap has also been fueled by
an influx of foreign workers to expand industries such as
construction, shipbuilding, hospitality and banking. Foreigners
make up more than a third of the population, with only 3.2
million citizens out of 5.1 million inhabitants.  Singapore’s gross domestic product was about S$285 billion
($231 billion) last year, compared with S$6.9 billion in  1960 ,
based on 2005 market prices. The government plans to spend S$6.6
billion on benefits for citizens in this year’s budget to ease
the burden of inflation.  “Policies will still be on track, except the big
difference is the government will have to articulate them better
and communicate them to the citizens better,” said Song Seng- Wun, an economist at CIMB Research Pte. in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net 
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  