-- 
Spanish Golf Champion Ballesteros, Twice Winner of Masters, Dies at Age 54

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-07T14:03:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/spanish-golf-champion-seve-ballesteros-has-died-spanish-rtve-reports.html
Severiano Ballesteros,  Europe ’s most
successful golfer, has died at his home in Pedrena, Spain, his
family said. He was 54.  Spanish-born Ballesteros, known as Seve, won five major
events: the British Open three times and the Masters Tournament
twice. He amassed 87 titles worldwide, including a record 48 on
the European Tour, collecting 5.3 million euros ($7.6 million)
in winnings.  Ballesteros died at 2:10 a.m. today, his family said in a
statement on his  website , a day after announcing that his
condition had worsened. The funeral will be held May 11 in
Pedrena.  “Seve was one of the most talented and exciting golfers to
ever play the game,” 14-time major champion  Tiger Woods  said on
his website. “His creativity and inventiveness on the golf
course may never be surpassed. His death came much too soon.”  Ballesteros was diagnosed with a brain tumor after
collapsing at Madrid airport in 2008 as he was about to board a
flight to  Germany . He underwent four operations at the end of
that year and began chemotherapy treatments after being released
from Madrid’s La Paz hospital. After chemotherapy, he returned
to public life in 2009 and made several appearances to promote
his charity that funds brain tumor research.  ‘Very Special’  He played in the Ryder Cup against the U.S. eight times,
winning three, and captained the victorious European team in
1997. Last year,  Colin Montgomerie  gathered his team to call
Ballesteros, who was too ill to attend, in preparation for their
successful attempt to win back the cup at Celtic Manor in Wales.  “All moments with him have been pleasant and very
special,” Jose Maria Olazabal, who teamed with Ballesteros as
the most successful pairing in Ryder Cup history, told EFE
newswire. “From his personality, I’d point out his strength,
his passion for all he did, his fight spirit and, of course, his
unlimited passion for golf.”  Olazabal, who will captain the European Ryder Cup team next
year, was in tears before teeing off in today’s third round of
the Spanish Open in Barcelona, the  Associated Press  reported.
Players are wearing black ribbons in Ballesteros’s memory, while
a minute’s silence was held and flags are at half-mast.  ‘Player of Century’  “This is such a very sad day for all who love golf,”
George O’Grady, chief executive of the European Tour, said on
the tour’s  website . “Seve’s unique legacy must be the
inspiration he has given to so many to watch, support and play
golf, and finally to fight a cruel illness with equal flair,
passion and fierce determination. He was the inspiration behind
the European Tour.”  In 2000, Ballesteros was voted European Player of the
Century. The region’s leading money-winner six times, he ended
his 33-year playing career in July 2007, a week after saying he
suffered heart palpitations. Since then, he devoted his time to
a golf-course design business, a company that organized the Seve
Trophy -- now known as the Vivendi Trophy -- on the European
Tour and a venture that provided motivational coaching.  “He was a hero of mine,” World No. 1 golfer  Lee Westwood 
told Sky News. “I grew up watching him play this flamboyant
style of golf and he became an inspiration.”  Ballesteros was born on April 9, 1957, in Pedrena, a
village on the Bay of Santander in northern  Spain . He started
playing golf aged 7 on a beach. With only an old 3-iron, he
learned to chip, pitch and even make bunker shots. He was
renowned among golfers and fans as one of the best wedge players
in the history of the game.  Open Winner  He came to prominence aged 19 in 1976 when he led the
British Open for three rounds in only his second appearance at
the oldest  golf tournament  before losing to Johnny Miller.  Three years later, he won the Open, making him the first
player from continental Europe since Frenchman Arnaud Massy in
1907 to triumph there. He twice repeated the feat, at  St.
Andrews  in 1984, and at Lytham, the site of his first success,
four years later. He won the Masters in Augusta,  Georgia , in
1980 and 1983.  “Seve was one of the brightest lights of our game and was
an inspiration to millions, Peter Dawson, chief executive of the
Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, said on the British
Open  website . “The game has lost one of the greats. It is a
very sad day for golf.”  Ballesteros and Sam Snead, who won a record 82 tournaments
on the U.S.  PGA Tour , were the two most naturally talented
golfers the game has ever seen, said Peter Thomson, the last man
to win the British Open three times in a row.  Missed Cut  An arthritic back prevented Ballesteros, who won his last
European Tour title in 1995, from appearing in a stroke-play
event between November 2003 and October 2005. The two-year
hiatus ended at the  Madrid  Open.  His comeback was short-lived as he played twice in 2006,
missing the cut at the British Open and at the  French Open . In
his only Champions Tour outing in the U.S., he finished tied for
77th place at the Regions Charity Classic at Birmingham,
 Alabama . His sole other appearance before retiring was at the
2007 Masters, where he missed the cut.  At this year’s Masters,  Phil Mickelson , the 2010 winner,
served a Spanish-themed meal at the annual champions dinner to
honor Ballesteros, who couldn’t attend.  Before his comeback in 2005, Ballesteros made the halfway
cut in five of 37 European Tour tournaments, earning just 35,000
euros in his last three active years on the circuit.  Team Captain  Ballesteros first played at the Ryder Cup in 1979 and went
on to become the fourth-highest point scorer in the European
team’s history, behind  Nick Faldo ,  Bernhard Langer  and
Montgomerie. He captained the team when it retained the most
prestigious team title in golf at Valderrama, Spain, in 1997.  Though he didn’t attend the 2010 event at Celtic Manor in
 Wales , Ballesteros helped inspire Europe to a 14½ to 13½ victory
over the U.S. by speaking to the team by telephone.  “It was extremely special to talk to him, all of us, and
to listen to his voice and listen to him give us some good cheer
and good advice,” Europe vice-captain  Sergio Garcia  said of his
countryman. “It was the perfect way to start the Ryder Cup.”  Ballesteros had two sons and a daughter with his wife,
Carmen. Their marriage ended in divorce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  