-- 
Syrian Protesters Killed; Christians, Muslims Clash in Egypt

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-05-08T06:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/syrian-forces-resume-repression-killing-six-while-libya-bombs-fuel-depot.html
Six protesters, including four women,
were shot and killed in the Syrian port city of  Banias  yesterday
as government forces continued to repress demonstrations there,
according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  Syrian tanks storming the city were met by protesters
linked in human chains to block the advance, Agence France-
Presse reported. The demonstrations were a response to the
killings May 6 of at least 30 people by Syrian forces. Gunfire
was heard in the city as security forces tried to enter the al-
Rahman mosque, BBC Arabic said.  In Egypt, where former President  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted
in February, 11 people were killed and 150 injured yesterday in
clashes between Christians and Muslims in Cairo, Al Jazeera
television reported. The army was later deployed on city streets
to stop the violence that was sparked by reports of a romance
between a Coptic Christian and a Muslim, it said.  Unrest has spread throughout the Middle East and North
Africa in recent months, toppling or threatening regimes in
 Egypt ,  Tunisia , Bahrain,  Libya  and Yemen.  Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh, whose country has
been shaken by anti-government protests since Feb. 11, called on
the military to “raise the security alert in the country and
deal firmly with anyone seeking to harm Yemen’s security and
stability,” the official Saba news agency reported yesterday.  Saleh’s remarks were made during a meeting with military
and security forces commanders that focused on the “negative
impacts” of the unrest.  New Timetable  Yemen’s ruling General People’s Congress offered a new
timetable for President Saleh to relinquish power, Mohammed 
al-Mutawakkil, a member of the opposition Joint Meeting
Parties’ higher council, said yesterday in a telephone interview
from the capital, Sana’a.  According to the proposal, senior ruling party members
would sign a previously agreed deal with the opposition and then
Saleh will endorse it, al-Mutawakkil said.  The country’s ruling and opposition parties were scheduled
to sign the accord on May 1, in the Saudi capital,  Riyadh . That
ceremony was canceled after Saleh said he would sign the
agreement in his capacity as chairman of the ruling council, not
in his role as president.  ‘Makes No Sense’  That was unacceptable to the opposition Joint Meeting
Parties, representing six opposition groups, Al-Mutawakkil said.
“It makes no sense,” he said. “The president has said he’s
willing to step down, so why doesn’t he sign the agreement as
president?”  In the Libyan city of Misrata, which has been under a rebel
siege for two months, witnesses told the  Associated Press  that
Muammar Qaddafi’s forces bombed a fuel depot. Nobody was injured
in the attack, AP said. Misrata is east of Tripoli, the Libyan
capital and stronghold of Qaddafi.  Qaddafi has battled since mid-February a rebel insurgency
that split the country, which has Africa’s largest proven oil
reserves. Nine rebels were killed in fighting yesterday in
Zentan, less than 50 miles (80 kilometers) west of Misrata along
the Libyan coast, closer to Tripoli.  In  Syria , President Bashar al-Assad’s promises of political
change have so far failed to halt the most serious challenge to
his 11-year rule. Demonstrations against the Syrian leader began
in mid-March, inspired by uprisings that ousted rulers in
Tunisia and Egypt earlier this year.  Hundreds Arrested  Hundreds of people have been arrested in the Banias
demonstrations. Syria’s Interior Ministry said 192 people
“involved in riot acts” turned themselves in to authorities in
response to a government announcement that those who surrender
between May 2-15 will be exempt from punishment, the official
SANA news agency reported yesterday. The ministry said 553
people have surrendered so far.  Human rights group Insan reported that at least 632 people
have been confirmed dead and 2,843 detained since Syria’s unrest
began on March 15.  Western governments have condemned Assad’s reactions. The
European Union agreed May 6 to sanction 13 Syrian government
officials next week, AP reported, citing an unidentified
official. The restrictions don’t apply to Assad, it said.  “The Syrian government must respond to the Syrian people’s
call for change,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
in a statement. “It must realize that violence and intimidation
will not answer their call.”  Assad is blaming the protests on foreign-led conspirators.
He has appointed a new government, ended emergency rule that had
been in place since 1963 and promised reforms. He has also
allowed humanitarian aid into the country, according to United
Nations spokesman Farhan Haq, and Red Cross and Red Crescent
help began arriving May 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 Darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  