-- 
Newcastle, Sunderland Win to Guarantee Premier League Survival

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-07T19:11:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-07/wigan-moves-out-of-premier-league-relegation-newcastle-wins.html
Newcastle and Sunderland both won
2-1 to secure their places in English soccer’s Premier League
for next season.  Newcastle beat 10-man Birmingham at home and Sunderland got
a late goal to win at Bolton. Both have 44 points, eight above
the three teams at the bottom of the 20-team standings that are
relegated to the second division, with two matches remaining.  Blackpool tied 1-1 at Tottenham to drop Wigan, which drew
1-1 at  Aston Villa , into the relegation zone. Blackburn also
drew 1-1 at last-place West Ham and Everton beat  Manchester City 
2-1.  Shola Ameobi  and Steven Taylor had first-half goals to lead
Newcastle past Birmingham. Ameobi scored with a 36th minute
penalty after Liam Ridgewell received a red card for a handball
on the goal line.  Taylor made it 2-0 seven minutes later. Lee Bowyer scored
just before halftime for Birmingham, which is three points above
relegation.  Sully Muntari’s goal in stoppage time gave Sunderland the
win at Bolton. Boudewijn Zenden also scored for Sunderland,
which won for just the second time in 12 games, while Ivan Klasnic had the Bolton goal.  Tottenham’s Champions League hopes were dealt a blow by its
1-1 home draw against Blackpool.  Jermain Defoe  scored in the 89th
minute for Tottenham, which is six points behind Manchester City
in the race for fourth place and the final Champions League spot.  Second Penalty  Charlie Adam  scored with a penalty in the 76th minute for
Blackpool. Spurs goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes had stopped a spot
kick by Adam less than two minutes earlier, then fouled Gary
Taylor-Fletcher to give the Blackpool captain another chance.  The draw lifted Blackpool back into 17th place on goal
difference over Wigan, which earlier moved out of relegation
with its draw at Aston Villa. Both teams have 36 points.  Charles N’Zogbia  gave Wigan the lead in the 10th minute
before  Ashley Young  pulled Villa level seven minutes later.  Thomas Hitzlsperger’s goal gave West Ham a home draw with
Blackburn. Jason Roberts scored for Blackburn, which is three
points clear of the drop, while West Ham remains last on 33
points.  Sylvain Distin and Leon Osman scored in the second half as
Everton extended its home unbeaten run to 10 games. Yaya Toure
scored for Manchester City  Chelsea can move into first place over  Manchester United  by
beating the league leader tomorrow at Old Trafford. United tops
the standings with 73 points and the Blues have 70. Third-place
Arsenal, with 67 points, visits Stoke and Wolverhampton hosts
West Brom in tomorrow’s other matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net 
NI SOCCER
NI BFBNEWS
NI BFBMATCH
NI BFBTEAMS
NI BFBALL
NI VILLA
NI WIGAN
NI BOLTON
NI SUNDER
NI EVERTON
NI MANCITY
NI NEWCASTLE
NI BIRMINGHAM
NI WESTHAM
NI BLACKBURN
NI TOTTENHAM
NI BLACKPOOL
NI UK 