-- 
‘Dolphin Tale’ Tops Box Office With $13.9 Million in Revenue

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-10-03T23:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/-dolphin-tale-wins-box-office-with-14-2-million-moneyball-is-second.html
“Dolphin Tale” rose to first place
in its second weekend of release, taking in $13.9 million at
theaters in the U.S. and  Canada  for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner
Bros . studio.  The film unseated the 3-D re-release of “The Lion King,”
which ranked No. 1 for the prior two weekends, and edged out
four new movies, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today
in an e-mailed statement.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “The Lion King”
dropped to third with $10.6 million.  “Dolphin Tale,” based on a true story, follows a young
boy’s effort to persuade scientists to create a prosthetic for a
dolphin whose tail was amputated. The 3-D movie benefited from
positive word-of-mouth after opening in third place last
weekend, trailing the Brad Pitt baseball drama “Moneyball.”
The film has collected $37.2 million in two weeks.  “Family films are a hot commodity right now, and this
demonstrates that,”  Jeff Bock , a film analyst for Exhibitor
Relations in Los Angeles, said in a telephone interview.  “Dolphin Tale” features Nathan Gamble as a boy who finds
the dolphin washed up on a beach, its tail infected after
becoming entangled in a crab trap. Morgan Freeman co-stars as a
prosthetics expert who creates the artificial tail. Harry Connick Jr. and Ashley Judd also are featured.  Finishing second was  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Moneyball” with $12
million. It’s the story of Oakland Athletics General Manager
Billy Beane’s effort to transform the budget-constrained ball
club from also-rans into winners. The film, based on the book by
 Michael Lewis , co-stars  Jonah Hill  and Philip Seymour Hoffman.
The movie has taken in $38 million in two weeks.  ‘50/50’  “The  Lion King ” has generated $79.2 million in the U.S.
and Canada since its debut on Sept. 16. The film tells the story
of Simba, a lion cub who runs away after being tricked into
thinking he was responsible for his father’s death. The 1994
film won Oscars for original score and original song.  Opening at No. 4 was “Courageous,” a movie about four
fathers in  law enforcement  who are forced to grapple with their
faith as tragedy strikes close to home and drives their children
further away from them. The film is made by Sherwood Pictures,
the movie production unit of Sherwood Church of  Albany ,  Georgia ,
and is distributed by Sony. It had $9.1 million in receipts this
past weekend.  “Sony picked this up wisely, and this film had a great
grass-roots marketing campaign,” Bock said. “It’s amazing when
a faith-based film does that much money.”  Cancer Comedy  “50/50,” the Summit Entertainment LLC film about a young
man who finds out he has cancer, opened in fifth with $8.6
million. In the movie, Joseph Gordon-Levitt’s character confides
to a friend, played by  Seth Rogen , that he has been diagnosed
with cancer. Anna Kendrick co-stars as a therapist who tries to
help the patient cope with his situation.  Sixth was “Dream House,” with $8.2 million and also
making its debut. The movie stars  Daniel Craig  and Rachel Weisz
as parents in a family traumatized by strange occurrences in
their new home.  Naomi Watts  also is featured in the film
released by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  “Abduction” finished seventh with $5.6 million in its
fourth week of release. The movie is from Vancouver-based Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp.  “What’s Your Number?”, from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth
Century Fox, had $5.4 million in its first weekend. Anna Faris
is featured as a lovelorn young woman who revisits her ex-
boyfriends hoping to discover whether one of them might have
been Mr. Right.  Revenue Rises  Rounding out the top 10 were “Killer Elite,” a movie
backed by cinema operators, at ninth with $4.9 million, and
Warner Bros.’ “Contagion” in 10th with $4.9 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 4 percent to
$89.6 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic box-office receipts this year have declined 3.4 percent
to $7.99 billion. Attendance is down 5.4 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
Sept. 30 to Oct. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  