-- 
Taqa Sets Up 3.5 Billion Ringgit Bond Program to Diversify Funding Options

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 
2011-10-02T08:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/abu-dhabi-s-taqa-sets-up-3-5-billion-ringgit-sukuk-program.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  set up
a 3.5 billion Malaysian ringgit ($1.1 billion) sukuk program as
the state-controlled utility known as Taqa diversifies its
financing options.  “The program will allow Taqa to issue quickly if and when
the market conditions are optimal,” the company said in a
statement to the Abu Dhabi bourse today. The sale will be Taqa’s
first ringgit sale, according to Bloomberg data.  Malaysia, the world’s largest market for Islamic bonds, has
eased foreign ownership rules and encouraged new Shariah-
compliant products to attract investors.  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , the
Dubai-based mortgage lender, plans to raise at least $300
million to $500 million from sukuk sale this quarter denominated
either in Malaysian ringgit or dollars, acting Chief Executive
Officer Varun Sood said last week.  Global sales of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with Islam’s ban on interest, climbed to $17.6 billion in 2011,
compared with $11.8 billion in the same period last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Kuwait-based Gulf Investment Corp.
sold 1.35 billion ringgit of Islamic bonds in two issues this
year, while  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD)  sold two bonds
totaling 1 billion ringgit last year.  Taqa, which owns stakes in oil, gas and power assets in the
 Middle East ,  North America , the North Sea and  India , plans to
invest $2 billion every year through 2013 and has no need to
refinance until October 2012, Chief Financial Officer Stephen
Kersley said in August. The company’s second-quarter profit
climbed to 435 million dirhams ($118 million) from 171 million
dirhams a year earlier as sales increased 38 percent.  Taqa has 72.3 billion dirhams in outstanding debt,
including a 5.51 billion-dirham facility maturing next year,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  