-- 
U.A.E. Retail Bank Revenue to Drop 10%-15% on Rules

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-10-03T12:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/adcb-says-real-impact-of-retail-loan-rules-will-be-felt-in-2012.html
(Corrects number of customers in fifth paragraph of story
first published Oct. 2.)  United Arab Emirates banks’ revenue
from their retail business will probably decline 10 percent to
15 percent because of new central bank rules that took effect in
May, an  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  official said.  “There will be a rebasing or a shrinkage of revenue”
because of the rules like the cap on fee income, the prescribed
debt-burden ratio and the higher margin on auto loans, Arup Mukhopadhyay, the bank’s executive vice president and head of
 consumer banking  told a news conference in Abu Dhabi today. The
affect, which will be muted this year since the measures were
implemented in May, will restrict retail loan growth to less
than 5 percent in 2012, he said.  The U.A.E. central bank imposed rules for retail banking
and fees that capped personal loans at 20 times a borrower’s
monthly salary and the repayment period at 48 months. They also
restrict overall installments for all loans, including personal,
car and housing loans, and credit cards to 50 percent of a
borrower’s gross salary and any regular income. The regulator
also capped fees for several consumer banking transactions.  Abu Dhabi  Commercial announced today it would waive fees
for retail banking customers for transactions and services on
their personal current and savings accounts. The fees waived
include those on remittances, check book charges, debit cards,
for setting up standing instructions and demand drafts.
Customers will be allowed six free transactions a month.  Retail Market  The bank, which has a retail market share of about 11
percent, has about 500,000 customers and the loss in fee income
from the initiative will be compensated by an increase in
customers and the number of transactions, Mukhopadhyay said.
Retail lending will rise 10 percent this year, he said.  Abu Dhabi Commercial’s profit from consumer banking fell 27
percent in the six months to June to 122.9 million dirhams
($33.5 million), according to its quarterly results report.
Revenue from the segment rose 36 percent to 1.44 billion dirhams
and made up 52 percent of the bank’s overall revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  