-- 
Alberta’s New Premier Redford Faces Oil Price Drop, Economic Volatility

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-10-03T06:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/alberta-s-redford-wins-party-leadership-race-to-become-premier.html
Alison Redford, who yesterday
defeated two challengers to become the next premier of  Alberta ,
faces a slumping oil price and economic volatility in the U.S.,
the province’s biggest export market.  The lawyer and former minister of justice for the
province won the nomination to lead the Progressive Conservative
Association of Alberta, which has governed the province for 40
years. Redford becomes Alberta’s first female premier and the
third leading a Canadian province.  “Make no mistake, we are going to do things differently,”
she said in her 2 a.m. acceptance speech from the provincial
capital in Edmonton. “We have a lot to do.”  Redford, 46, takes over from Premier Ed Stelmach, 60, who
announced he was stepping down in January after pressure from
his Cabinet, including former Finance Minister Ted Morton,
mounted over a  budget deficit  and earlier missteps over
royalties paid to government coffers by oil and gas companies.
She will face economic uncertainty amid slowing growth in the
U.S., a slumping price for oil, Alberta’s main export, as well
as pressure from the rival Wildrose Alliance.  “It’s a challenging environment for any new government,”
said Toronto-Dominion Bank Chief Economist Craig Alexander in an
interview. “There’s a lot of uncertainty about the price of oil
and how that will impact Alberta.”  More Demands on Province  Oil and natural gas production drives Alberta’s economy,
generating about a third of the provincial government’s revenue
and employing one out of six workers, according to government
statistics. The Canadian Energy Research Institute expects
 Canada ’s oil sands to attract C$2.08 trillion ($2 trillion) in
investments and ongoing operational expenditure in the next 25
years.  Oil capped the largest quarterly drop since the 2008
financial crisis by tumbling to a one-year low as signs of
slowing growth in  China , the U.S. and  Germany  heightened concern
that fuel demand will weaken. Prices tumbled 17 percent from the
end of June, the biggest quarterly decline since the 56 percent
plunge during the last three months of 2008 and traded at $79.20
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on Sept. 30.  Investment in Alberta’s oil sands will help boost the
population to 4 million in 2014 from 3.76 million now, the
provincial  finance ministry  expects. While a larger population
bolsters the economy, it also increases demands for education,
housing and health care, which is publicly funded in Alberta,
said Anthony Sayers, an associate professor of political science
at the University of Calgary.  Health Care  “Alberta spends more per capita than any other province on
health care, while the demand for health care keeps tracking
upward,” Sayers said in an interview. “This is a problem in
light of the cyclical nature of government revenue from the oil
and gas sector.”  The leadership campaign highlighted differences among
candidates Gary Mar and Doug Horner over the future of health
care spending, with Redford proposing to maintain the current
publicly funded system while Mar favored allowing private
funding options.  Redford was first elected in 2008 after ousting Craig
Cheffins of the provincial  Liberal Party  in the electoral
district of Calgary Elbow, formerly held by ex-Premier Ralph Klein.  She was born in British Columbia, received a law degree
from the University of Saskatchewan in 1988 and has worked in
Serbia, Zimbabwe and  Afghanistan  monitoring elections and
providing human rights training.  Redford is married to Glen Jermyn and has a daughter named
Sarah, according to her campaign website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Gene Laverty at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  