-- 
New Zealand All Blacks Rally Behind Slade as Carter Out of Rugby World Cup

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-10-03T04:56:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/all-blacks-back-slade-to-steer-world-cup-bid-after-losing-playmaker-carter.html
All Blacks reserve fly-half  Colin
Slade  has the backing of coaches, players and fans to cover the
loss of injured playmaker Dan Carter as the top-ranked team
seeks its first Rugby  World Cup  title in 24 years.  “Going forward, Colin Slade’s the boy,” All Blacks head
coach  Graham Henry  told reporters after New Zealand’s 79-15 win
over Canada in Wellington yesterday. “He just needs more
football, so the more times we can get him out there, the better
he’s going to be.”  Carter, Test rugby’s leading points scorer, was ruled out
of the 20-nation tournament yesterday after tearing a tendon in
his groin during kicking practice on the eve of the game.
Bookmakers including Sportingbet Australia and  New Zealand ’s TAB
eased their odds of the host nation lifting the Webb Ellis Cup
after the injury. The All Blacks are still favored to win.  Slade, who turns 24 on Oct. 10, has played nine times for
the All Blacks and was starting his third game since making his
debut 13 months ago. He had his first clearing kick charged down
and kicked four of eight conversions and a penalty before being
replaced after 65 minutes.  “He’s inexperienced and it did show through, but apart
from that he did quite well,” Bronwyn Wilson, an All Blacks fan
from the North Island town of Marton, said outside the team’s
Wellington hotel. “ Dan Carter  is one player out of the 22. I
think there is too much emphasis on him being missing.”  New Zealand next faces  Argentina  on Oct. 9 in the
quarterfinals in Auckland and will now try to end its World Cup
title drought without a player who has amassed a record 1,250
points in his 85 Test matches.  ‘Move on’  Carter today urged fans to get behind the team as it enters
the knockout phase.  “I would encourage everyone to move on, I have,” he said
at a televised news conference from Auckland, which he arrived
at on crutches. “We’ve had great support and now we’re in the
playoffs it’s going to be even more important that continues.”  Carter said the injury, which happened with his final
practice kick of the session, was “gut-wrenching” and
frustrating. The team is capable of advancing and had even
discussed options should he get injured, he said.  “The All Blacks are still the side to beat but they’re
suddenly looking vulnerable following the loss of their game
breaker,” said Sportingbet  Australia  Chief Executive Officer
Michael Sullivan. “After looking invincible the Kiwis now look
well and truly beatable.”  Longer Odds  Sportingbet Australia rates New Zealand the 17-20 favorite
ahead of 6-1 chances Australia and  South Africa .  Opponents say the All Blacks, who topped their five-team
group with the maximum 20 points from four victories, will adapt
to being without Carter, 29. New Zealand won the two pool
matches Carter missed, also beating Japan 83-7 with Slade
starting in the playmaking role.  “The All Blacks’ way of playing is greater and bigger than
one player,” Argentina captain Felipe Contepomi told reporters.
“Dan Carter is No. 1 in the world but I think the All Blacks
have a lot to offer without him.”  Although Carter’s loss is “massive,” the All Blacks
haven’t had a chance to properly assess its impact because it
occurred so close to yesterday’s game, according to Slade. Aaron
Cruden will take Carter’s place in the 30-man squad.  “No doubt in the next few days it will hit home that he’s
not going to be with us, and leading the team,” Slade told
reporters. “Everyone is really disappointed for Dan but I
obviously had a task to focus on and that was to go out there
and assume his position and direct the team.”  Player Comparisons  Just 29 percent of 11,000 respondents to an informal New
Zealand Herald website poll wanted Slade picked for the
quarterfinal. Fifty six percent picked half-back  Piri Weepu  to
be Carter’s replacement.  Slade’s “getting a lot of talk comparing the two of us and
things like that but he’s a great player,” said Carter. “He
deserves his spot and now’s his opportunity to go out there and
play his game.”  Slade should be happy with his performance yesterday, said
 Andrew Hore , who captained the All Blacks against  Canada  after
regular skipper  Richie McCaw  withdrew on the eve of the match
with a foot injury.  “He’s got big shoes to fill and he ran the game pretty
well,” Hore said. “We didn’t help him too much. If the other
14 lads out on the field do their jobs, he can do his.”  The All Blacks won their only World Cup in 1987 when the
tournament was last played in New Zealand. Since then, they’ve
lost a final, three semifinals and a quarterfinal against France
four years ago when Carter left the game injured.  The squad will be thinking about Carter and his absence in
coming days, said All Blacks forward  Ali Williams .  “It sucks,” Williams told reporters. “He’s a best mate.
He’s a buddy on the bus and not to have him there is not really
fair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  