-- 
Noda’s Plan for a Tax Increase Is Opposed by About 60% of Voters in Japan

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 
2011-10-03T04:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/almost-60-of-japanese-oppose-tax-increase-mainichi-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s proposal to raise taxes to rebuild from the March
earthquake is opposed by almost six in 10 voters, underscoring
the challenge of getting opposition support for the measure.  About 58 percent oppose the move compared with 39 percent
who approve, the Mainichi newspaper said today, citing its own
poll. The ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  last week agreed to
increase personal and corporate taxes as part of a plan to raise
9.2 trillion yen ($119.5 billion) that would also include
selling the government’s stake in  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)   Noda must negotiate with the  Liberal Democratic Party  and
other opposition groups to win parliamentary approval for the
proposal. His popularity has dropped since taking office a month
ago, which could hamper his efforts to revive an economy
suffering from three straight quarters of contraction and a
 currency trading  near postwar highs against the dollar.  “You can discuss what taxes need to be raised, but no
matter what it’s a divisive issue,” said  Koichi Nakano , a
political science professor at  Sophia University  in  Tokyo . “It
will probably undermine Noda’s support levels. But a tax
increase is inevitable.”  Noda’s approval rating fell to 50 percent from 56 percent
last month, the Mainichi poll said. The newspaper surveyed 888
voters on Oct. 1-2 and provided no margin of error. A Kyodo News
poll released yesterday showed Noda’s popularity fell to 54.6
percent from 62.8 percent in September, while 50.5 percent
opposed the tax increases and 46.2 percent favored them.  Tax Increases  Under the plan, corporate taxes would be raised starting
next April for three years, while income taxes will increase as
of January 2013 for 10 years. Tobacco levies would go up next
October. The LDP may oppose the proposal to sell the
government’s stake of just over 50 percent of Japan Tobacco on
concern it would reduce crop demand, hurting the country’s
tobacco farmers.  The government plans to spend 19 trillion yen over the next
five years to rebuild after the record temblor and tsunami
devastated the northeast and prompted the world’s worst nuclear
disaster in 25 years. Parliament has already approved two post-
disaster aid packages totaling about 6 trillion yen, and Noda
last week proposed a third stimulus of about 12 trillion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  