-- 
Apple Cedes Surging India Smartphone Market to Nokia-RIM: Tech

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-10-03T09:26:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/apple-cedes-surging-india-smartphone-market-to-nokia-rim-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s largest
smartphone maker, is having trouble selling iPhones in India, a
market with 602 million active  subscribers .  Apple, which will introduce a new iPhone version tomorrow,
ships fewer handsets to the world’s second-largest mobile-phone
market than it does to  Norway .  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM)  sell more devices in India, where smartphone shipments are
forecast to grow almost 70 percent a year until 2015, helping
mitigate their market-share losses in the U.S. and Europe.  Sales for the world’s biggest company by market value are
hindered because Indian wireless carriers, which started third-
generation networks this year, have yet to offer nationwide
services fast enough to take advantage of iPhone features, said
Gus Papageorgiou, an analyst at Scotia Capital Inc. in Toronto.  “Networks in India are just not conducive for Apple -- 3G
networks aren’t quite where they are in Western Europe and  North
America ,” he said. “RIM got the right product, the right
timing, the right app.”  Apple shipped 62,043 iPhones to India in the quarter ending
June 30, or fewer than to Norway, Belgium or  Israel , according
to estimates by Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher IDC.  BlackBerry Messenger  Apple dropped 0.6 percent to the equivalent of $381.08 in
German trading as of 11:22 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Apple accounted for 2.6 percent of India’s smartphone
shipments in the quarter ended June 30, trailing RIM’s 15
percent, Samsung Electronics Co.’s 21 percent and Nokia’s 46
percent, IDC estimates.  “The iPhone only really works when you have Wi-Fi,” said
Kshma Shah, a 25-year-old interior designer in Mumbai. “3G has
barely started in India, and on 2G you just can’t have the same
experience.”  The world’s largest maker of tablet computers also shipped
about 21,150 iPads to India in the same period, or 0.2 percent
of its global total, according to IDC.  RIM’s BlackBerry Messenger instant-messaging service is
popular because it was one of the first, and it functions well
on networks a generation behind the speeds offered in the U.S.
and  Europe , Papageorgiou said.  “Only a few of my friends have iPhones,” said Mahafareenn
Sarkari, a 25-year-old dance instructor in Mumbai. “BlackBerry
is where everybody is, so it made sense for me to be on it,
too.”  RIM’s ‘Wave’  RIM, which  entered  India in 2004, plans to extend its lead
over Apple after expanding distribution to 80 cities from 15
starting last year, said Krishnadeep Baruah, director of
marketing for Waterloo, Canada-based RIM in India.  “We want to ride this wave,” Baruah said. “This is
really the time to expand into the emerging towns and cities.”  That contrasts with RIM’s struggles worldwide, with its
stock falling 65 percent this year on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
At least five RIM executives have left since March, and the
company sold half as many PlayBook tablets in the second quarter
as analysts had forecast on average.  Nokia has more than 200,000  outlets  in  India  and offers 13
smartphone models, Vilsha Kapoor of New Delhi-based Six Degrees
PR, hired by Nokia to handle public relations, said in an e-
mail.  The Espoo, Finland-based company is seeking to reverse its
global performance. Shares are down 45 percent this year, and it
is eliminating at least 7,500 jobs as Apple takes global market
share and Asian competitors push the price of smartphones below
$100.  68% Growth  Smartphone shipments in India are poised to jump almost
eightfold, or an average of 68 percent a year, to 81.5 million
units by 2015, according to IDC.  Apple  products  aren’t as accessible in India because
consumers can’t buy iPhones, iPads and iTunes songs from company
stores or its website. Apple sells through licensed resellers,
including a Reliance Industries Ltd. subsidiary and  Tata Group ’s
Croma.  “Apple continues to invest in India as a growing market
for the company,” Alan Hely, a London-based spokesman for
Apple, said in an e-mailed response.  Steve Dowling, a Cupertino, California-based spokesman for
Apple, declined to comment.  In  China , Apple operates six stores, including its highest-
grossing ones worldwide. Revenue in China,  Taiwan  and  Hong Kong 
increased six times to $3.8 billion in the quarter ended June,
Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in July.  ‘Pathetic’ Advertising  Apple may be relying more on word-of-mouth among India’s
wealthy, said Harish Bijoor, who runs his own brand consulting
firm in Bangalore.  “They don’t see a big enough market for their products to
make it worthwhile,” Bijoor said. “They’ve barely done any
advertising. It’s pathetic, really.”  Cost is also an issue in a country where the  World Bank 
estimates that about 900 million people live on less than $2 a
day.  The cheapest iPhone 4 costs $705 at Reliance’s  iStore ,
while the cheapest iPad 2 sells for about $603. In Apple’s U.S.
online store, the iPhone 4 starts at $199 with an AT&T Inc.
contract and the iPad starts at $499.  BlackBerrys  under $200  made up 40 percent of their
shipments in India in the quarter ended June 30, said T.Z. Wong,
an analyst for IDC.  “I don’t think Apple is a brand for the masses,” said
Ajit Joshi, managing director of Croma, which also sells other
brands besides Apple. “It’s a brand for the classes.”  The masses may be getting wealthier as India’s new five-
year plan aims for 9 percent growth in gross domestic product.
India last year joined the top dozen countries with the most
millionaires, according to a report by Capgemini and Merrill
Lynch Global Wealth Management in June.  Salaries in India also are set to rise the most in the
Asia-Pacific region this year, according to an Aon Hewitt LLC
survey released in March 8.  “It’s a brand-in-waiting,” said Viren Razdan, managing
director of consulting firm Interbrand’s Mumbai office. “Apple
is waiting for infrastructure and consumer maturity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  