-- 
Ireland Joins Argentina, Wales in Quarterfinal Lineup for Rugby World Cup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-02T12:21:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/argentina-beats-georgia-to-reach-world-cup-quarterfinals-eliminate-scots.html
Ireland beat Italy 36-6 to reach the
Rugby World Cup quarterfinals as a pool winner and join
 Argentina  and  Wales  in completing the last-eight lineup at the
20-nation tournament in New Zealand.  The Irish ran in three tries and held Italy scoreless in
the second half in Dunedin last night to finish atop Pool C with
four wins. Ireland will play Wales on Oct. 8 in the first
quarterfinal, with group runner-up  Australia  facing  South Africa 
in a matchup of two-time champions the day after.  “It was an all or nothing match, a final for us, and we’re
just glad to be out of the pool,” Ireland coach Declan Kidney
said in a televised interview. “It’s phase one.”  By topping its pool ahead of Australia, Ireland ensured
that the Oct. 23 final at Auckland’s  Eden Park  will feature one
team each from the northern and southern hemispheres.  Ireland and Wales open quarterfinal action in five days in
Wellington before England takes on  France  in Auckland. The
Springboks and Wallabies meet in the New Zealand capital in the
third quarterfinal on Oct. 9, when the top-ranked All Blacks
play Argentina at Eden Park.  Captain Brian O’Driscoll scored Ireland’s first try before
winger Keith Earls touched down twice, while fly-half Ronan O’Gara kicked 16 points for the Irish, who only missed two of
their 59 tackles.  Ireland had entered the tournament after losing all four of
its tune-up matches and topped its pool for the first time at a
 World Cup  by winning four straight games, including a 15-6 upset
of Australia.  ‘Fire in the Belly’  “There’s more to come from this team and we’ll test that
next week,” Ireland flanker Sean O’Brien, who was voted man of
the match, said in comments distributed by tournament
organizers. “There’s fire in the belly.”  Argentina, the surprise third-place finisher at the 2007
World Cup, beat Georgia 25-7 in yesterday’s first game to set up
a quarterfinal against New Zealand, which responded to the loss
of playmaker  Dan Carter  by routing  Canada  79-15 to end group
play with a perfect record.  Pumas captain Felipe Contepomi scored 13 points in
Palmerston North as Argentina rallied with 20 unanswered second-
half points to seal the Pool B runner-up spot behind  England  and
end  Scotland ’s run of always making the last eight.  “We have to rest now and then start analyzing the All
Blacks and try to see their weakest points,” Contepomi said in
a televised interview. “It will hopefully be a good game and we
can be competitive on the day. We are thrilled we went through
but now we have to work hard.”  Fijians Shut Out  Wales, which missed the quarterfinals four years ago
following a 38-34 loss to Fiji, sealed second place in Pool D by
scoring nine tries in a 66-0 shutout of the Fijians in Hamilton.  The Welsh had needed one competition point to advance and
clinched it with first-half tries from Jamie Roberts, Scott
Williams, George North and captain Sam Warburton. Roberts was
among the five try-scorers after the break, while fly-half Rhys
Priestland booted 13 points and his replacement Stephen Jones
converted four tries.  “We’ve built a bit of momentum and confidence going into
the quarterfinals,” Wales coach Warren Gatland said in a news
conference. “We feel like the squad is in good shape at the
moment, but it’s one step at a time.”  New Zealand , which lost Carter to a tournament-ending groin
injury as it seeks to end a 24-year world championship drought,
outscored Canada by 12 tries to two in Wellington to finish atop
Pool A with the maximum 20 points.  Winger Zac Guildford went over four times and back-row
forwards  Jerome Kaino  and Victor Vito each touched down twice
for the All Blacks. Winger Conor Trainor got Canada’s tries.  ‘Played Pretty Well’  Vito, who started at openside flanker in place of injured
regular captain Richie McCaw, finished in the backline after
Carter’s backup,  Colin Slade , went off with 15 minutes left.  “We’ve just got to make sure that all 29 of us left get in
there and make it easy for the guy wearing No. 10,” All Blacks
stand-in captain  Andrew Hore  said. “We played pretty well and
if we can keep building on that we’ll go a long way toward
winning this thing.”  Carter, the leading points scorer in Test matches, was
ruled out of the rest of the tournament after tearing a groin
tendon during kicking practice two days ago.  Slade slotted a penalty and missed four of his eight
conversion attempts.  Piri Weepu  kicked all four of his kicks at
goal after finishing the game at fly-half.  “I thought Colin played pretty well,” All Blacks coach
 Graham Henry  said in a televised interview. “He hadn’t played a
lot of football so that shows. He needs more and more. It’s been
a tough old day, to be frank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  