-- 
Auschwitz Opera Misses; Playboy Hits Irish Pub: London Stage

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-10-02T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/auschwitz-opera-misses-playboy-hits-irish-pub-london-stage.html
“The Passenger” is the opera the
Soviets didn’t want you to see. Maybe they were right.  Set on an ocean liner in the early 1960s, Mieczyslaw
Weinberg’s 1968 work (at the  English National Opera  in  London )
tells the story of Liese, a former Auschwitz guard. She believes
that a mysterious silent passenger on the ship is a former camp
inmate called Marta.  When Liese begins to confess her dark past to her husband,
the opera goes into flashback mode and the scene changes to the
concentration camp.  A note in the program says that the work was never staged
in Weinberg’s lifetime and was “effectively banned.” The
reasons may well have been as aesthetic as political.  The dramaturgy is confused, like a dithery navigator with
an antiquated map. The long rambling Auschwitz scenes show Marta
and other female prisoners singing sad folk songs, relating
scraps of personal history, and praying. Although they’re not
witnessed by Liese, they’re presented as dramatic truth.  Hey, what happened to the flashback framing device?  The longed-for dramatic confrontation between Liese and
Marta on board ship never takes place. The opera begins by
building up Liese’s fear of the past, her terror of old secrets,
her guilt.  Not to have the two women face each other is like having a
hotdog without the sausage.  On the plus side, the work is not tasteless or
exploitative. It tries to present an impossibly difficult
subject earnestly. Weinberg (1919-1996), a Polish Jew whose
family was slaughtered in the Holocaust, had more moral right
than most to tackle it.  Spiky Waltzes  That said, things are mostly as lukewarm musically as they
are dramatically, and the earnestness is both predictable and
unvarying. The score sounds as if Weinberg had raided
Shostakovich’s waste-paper basket for scrunched up castoffs.
There are lots of dissonant chords, which occasionally resolve
into major triads. There are ironic spiky waltzes with “wrong”
notes. Vocal lines meander.  Nazi officers appear with blaring low brass and threatening
chords, as you’d expect. A male chorus, dressed in modern suits,
comments on the action. When they bellow “Confess it all!” to
guilty Liese, like a gaggle of wronged heroines in a melodrama,
things topple close to parody.  Like his younger Soviet contemporary Alfred Schnittke,
Weinberg uses direct quotes too, in this case of Schubert and
Bach. It’s a bit unconvincing.  Hushed Rapture  It’s not all gloom. There’s a simple unaccompanied folk
song for Katya, one of the inmates, in Act 2. Julia Sporsen
sings it with hushed rapture, and the effect is haunting.  All the singing is good. Mezzo Michelle Breedt (Liese) and
soprano Giselle Allen (shaven-headed as Marta) both have rich,
flexible voices and give committed performances.  David Pountney’s production is a model of clarity. Crowd
scenes are handled well, and Johan Engels’s set cleverly floats
the white decks and funnels of a liner above the dank grays and
browns of Auschwitz cells.  For an unforgettably complex account of an inmate-guard
relationship after Auschwitz, read the penultimate chapter in
Primo Levi’s book “The Periodic Table.” To watch a missed
opportunity, go see “The Passenger.” Rating: *1/2.  Stylish Playboy  At the  Old Vic , J.M. Synge’s 1907 classic tragicomedy “The
Playboy of the Western World” gets a new outing, in a stylish
period-costume production by John Crowley.  Robert Sheehan plays Christy Mahon, a young silver-tongued
drifter who turns up in a remote Irish pub claiming to have
killed his father. At first, the locals applaud his deed and
praise his courage. When the father turns up with a bandage on
his head, the villagers feel cheated and turn on Mahon with a
vengeance.  Ruth Negga brings gusto and authority to Pegeen Mike, the
tough barmaid with whom Christy falls in love, and Niamh Cusack
swaggers delightfully as the jealous Widow Quin who tries to
come between them. The staging looks great, and there are toe-
tapping folk songs sung by members of the company.  The weak link is Sheehan, who doesn’t quite convince as the
Playboy. He flaps his arms, contorts his face, and turns in an
exaggerated telegraphic performance which fails to match the
focused energy of the two female leads.  The exuberance of the language is more than enough
compensation. “I’m thinking this night wasn’t I a foolish
fellow not to kill my father in the years gone by,” says
Christy, lapping up the adulation of the villagers. Who could
resist such intoxicating use of Irish demotic? Rating: ***.  Trittico Revival  The  Royal Opera House ’s production of “Il trittico” by
Puccini has finished. (I caught the final performance of  Richard
Jones ’s staging after my holiday.) The verdict? Snap up tickets
as soon as a revival is announced.  Jones sets “Suor Angelica,” a tale of a nun forced to
give up her illegitimate child, in a religious hospital for
children. Sometimes the opera has been dismissed as Catholic
kitsch. In Jones’s simple production with a blazing Ermonela
Jaho in the title role and Antonio Pappano conducting, it’s
revealed as a harrowing and uplifting meditation on the
mysteries of life and death. Rating: ****.  “The Passenger” is in repertoire at ENO through Oct. 25.
Information:  http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-911-0200; “The
Playboy of the Western World” is at the Old Vic until Nov. 26,
 http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-844-871-7628; “Il
trittico” has finished at the Royal Opera. For information
about current productions,  http://www.roh.org.uk .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 