-- 
Australia TD 12-Month Inflation Slows as Food Costs Decline

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-02T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/australia-td-12-month-inflation-slows-as-food-costs-decline.html
Australia ’s annual inflation rate
slowed in September on declining costs of fruit and vegetables,
motor vehicles and dairy products, a private report showed.  Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent last month from a year
earlier following a 2.9 percent annual gain in August, according
to an index compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the Melbourne
Institute released in Sydney today. The central bank aims to
keep annual inflation in a 2 percent to 3 percent range on
average. Prices increased 0.1 percent in September from a month
earlier after a 0.1 percent decline in August.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  tomorrow
will keep the benchmark  interest rate  at 4.75 percent for a 10th
straight meeting, according to all 21 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. JPMorgan Chase & Co. last week changed its forecast
for RBA rates, saying Stevens likely will hold borrowing costs
through 2012 from an earlier call for two increases next year.  “For the RBA board meeting tomorrow, a pause in inflation
pressure and ongoing ructions in financial markets provide ample
ammunition to sit tight,”  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities in  Singapore , said in a statement. The
RBA may be keep rates unchanged “for quite some time,” she
said.  Today’s inflation report showed the price of fruit and
vegetables fell by 5.6 percent in September, following a fall of
1.6 percent in August. The price of automotive fuel gained 3.2
percent, it showed.  Rate Pause  Stevens hasn’t moved the nation’s key rate since he last
raised it in November to the highest level in the developed
world. In a Sept. 7 speech, a day after the most recent RBA
policy decision, he signaled a willingness to pause while the
nation’s consumers retrench and global financial markets create
instability for the “foreseeable future.”  “Periods of sudden increases in anxiety within
international financial markets are moments when, if at all
possible, it is good to be in a position to be able to maintain
steady settings,” Stevens told a conference in Perth.  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of Toronto-Dominion
Bank,  Canada ’s second-largest lender. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of more than 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at  sphang@bloomberg.net  