-- 
Australia’s Swan Says Tax Reform Needed

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-02T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/australia-s-swan-says-nothing-off-limits-at-tax-forum-debate.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
 tax reform  is necessary to address the country’s two-speed
economy, where mining is booming while manufacturing and retail
sectors lag.  The treasurer will seek suggestions for potential changes
to the country’s tax system at a national forum in Canberra on
Oct. 4 and Oct. 5.  “Addressing the patchwork economy, where different sectors
are growing at different speeds, has been central to our last
two budgets and is at the heart of our tax reform agenda,” Swan
said in an e-mailed economic note yesterday. “It’s why we’re
introducing legislation to get a fairer return for  Australia ’s
non-renewable resources and using the proceeds to cut taxes for
businesses.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  agreed to the review of the
country’s tax system at the forum, as part of a deal with
independent lawmakers to gain their support for her minority
Labor government. Gillard and Swan had earlier ruled out
changing the 10 percent national  sales tax  on most goods and
services or altering the carbon emissions and mining taxes.  “Many are skeptical that the tax summit will deliver any
changes at all,” Haslam chartered accountants said in a Sept.
22 note on their  website . “Aside from the bungled mining tax,”
the government “is still trying to force through a grossly
unpopular carbon tax.”  The government plans to charge the country’s biggest
polluters A$23 ($22) per metric ton of carbon dioxide from July
1 in a bid to reduce emissions 5 percent by 2020 from their 2000
levels. The tax is forecast to raise A$27.8 billion in three
years.  Support Falls  Support for Gillard has fallen since she announced the
carbon tax in July, reversing a pledge made before last year’s
election that the government wouldn’t make such a move. Gillard
had an approval rating of 23 percent, a six percentage point
decline in two weeks, in a Sept. 6 Newspoll survey published in
the Australian newspaper.  Gillard also plans to impose a 30 percent tax on profits
generated by coal and iron ore mining companies. The tax is
scheduled to take effect in July and is forecast to raise A$7.7
billion in its first two years.  The government plans to use the  tax revenue  to cut the
corporate  tax rate  to 29 percent from 30 percent, encourage
retirement savings and pay for roads and railways.  A gauge of Australian manufacturing slumped to the lowest
level in more than two years in August, with the index dropping
to 43.3 from 43.4 in July, according to the Australian Industry
Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers. It was the fifth month in six
the index was below 50, the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  Swan said no topics, including a national sales tax or the
proposed mining tax, will be off-limits at the tax forum,
disputing earlier reports those issues wouldn’t be considered.  “Nothing is taboo,” Swan said in his economic note.
“Participants that mention the mining tax or the GST won’t have
their microphones cut off or be thrown out by bouncers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  