-- 
Cameron Says He Will ‘Fire Up’ U.K. Economy, Won’t Compromise on Deficit

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-10-02T15:55:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/cameron-pledges-everything-possible-to-fire-up-u-k-economy.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said his
government is determined to do everything it can within its
deficit-reduction rules to restore growth to the U.K. economy.  “We need to do everything we can to fire up the engine of
the British economy,” Cameron told  BBC Television ’s “Andrew Marr Show” in Manchester, northwest England, where his
 Conservative Party  began its annual conference today. “There’s
a step-change taking place right now.”  The premier cited proposed changes to planning rules and a
new proposal to allow developers to build on unused government
land without making advance payments as examples of the sort of
action he is considering. He rejected demands by the opposition
 Labour Party  and 30,000 people protesting outside the conference
this afternoon to relax plans to eliminate the  structural
deficit  by 2015, saying that risks pushing up borrowing costs.  The economy has barely expanded in the past year as
government budget cuts and accelerating inflation sap  consumer
confidence . Cameron is under mounting pressure to find ways to
spur growth as the euro-region debt crisis and global market
turmoil threaten the biggest markets for British goods.  Cameron’s comments come after his economic strategy was
attacked by a senior member of his own party. In a pamphlet for
the  Centre for Policy Studies  research organization,  Andrew Tyrie , who heads Parliament’s cross-party Treasury Committee,
said the coalition government still lacked a “coherent and
credible” plan for growth 17 months after taking office.  ‘Inconsistent, Incoherent’  “There is much to do, and it is not just a question of
gaps in policy; in places it is inconsistent, even incoherent,”
Tyrie wrote.  Cameron responded to the lawmaker’s criticism by saying the
government is cutting business taxes and making it easier for
companies to start up, hire and fire workers and invest.  Gross domestic product probably grew an unrevised 0.2
percent in the second quarter after stagnating over the previous
six months, according to all 28 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. The  Office for National Statistics  in  London  will
release the figures on Oct. 5.  About 30,000 people joined a “ March for the alternative:
jobs, growth, justice ,” organized by the  Trades Union Congress ,
Britain’s umbrella labor movement, outside the conference
center, Greater Manchester Police said on its Twitter feed.
Demonstrators, who shouted “Tory scum” at delegates, called on
the coalition to reverse its spending cuts, which the TUC says
are leading to stagnation in the economy.  ‘Never Existed’  “I say to those who are protesting outside here today: the
money you were promised by the last Labour Government never
existed, it was never there, and we have been left with the task
of telling you the truth,” Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told
delegates. “The solution to excessive borrowing and debt cannot
be more borrowing and debt, and now we have a government that
knows it.”  Cameron urged leaders of the 17 euro-region countries to
take immediate action to prevent another global economic crisis.  “Action needs to be taken in the coming weeks, to
strengthen  Europe ’s banks, to build the defenses,” he said.
“They’ve got to get ahead of the markets now.”  Cameron and Hague ruled out a referendum on whether the
U.K. should leave the European Union after media reports today
that lawmakers will debate whether voters should be given a
chance to decide. A vote in Parliament in favor of a referendum
would not be binding on the government.  “To actually say to people we are going to spend money on
an in/out referendum, when we could be working on the economy,
would not be very sensible,” Hague told  Sky News .  Housing Sales  As well opening up government land for development, Cameron
said he wants to bring back one of former Conservative Prime
Minister  Margaret Thatcher ’s most popular policies, encouraging
local governments to sell off their housing to tenants.  Unlike the original policy of the 1980s, which led to a
fall in the stock of publicly owned homes, Cameron said he
wanted to see the money used to build new houses.  “Let’s bring back the right to buy your council house,
with proper discounts that Labour got rid of,” he said. “When
people choose to buy their council home, let’s use that money to
build homes for rent, for low rent for families.”  Cameron opened his BBC interview with an apology for
remarks criticized as sexist made during his weekly question-
and-answer session in Parliament over recent months. “I said
some things in the House of Commons that just came out wrong,”
Cameron said. “I deeply regret that. That’s not who I am. I
recognize I must do better.”  In April, Labour demanded Cameron apologize after he told
Angela Eagle, a Labour Treasury spokeswoman, to “calm down,
dear.” Last month, when one of his own lawmakers, Nadine Dorries, urged the prime minister to show his Liberal Democrat
deputy,  Nick Clegg , “who’s the boss,” Cameron replied that he
knew she was  “extremely frustrated” and then appeared to join
in the laughter the comment provoked. Dorries later described
the incident as humiliating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Manchester,  England , at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Manchester, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 