-- 
Tottenham Defeats Arsenal 2-1 in Premier League Soccer; Chelsea Wins 5-1

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-10-02T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/chelsea-beats-bolton-5-1-in-premier-league-as-lampard-scores-hat-trick.html
Kyle Walker scored his first goal for
Tottenham to secure a 2-1 win against Arsenal in yesterday’s
north  London  derby. Chelsea climbed to third in soccer’s Premier
League with a 5-1 victory at Bolton.  Walker got the winning goal at White Hart Lane after 73
minutes as Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny failed to stop
his long-range shot. Rafael van der Vaart also scored for the
hosts, with Aaron Ramsey getting Arsenal’s goal.  “I’ve just picked up the ball and hit it,” Walker told
 Sky Sports . “I thought, ‘Why not have a go?’”  Arsenal has now lost four of its seven league games this
season and lies 15th in the 20-team standings. Tottenham is
sixth. Manchester United tops the league with 19 points, ahead
of Manchester City on goal difference, with Chelsea on 16 and
Newcastle 15.  Elsewhere, Fulham thrashed Queens Park Rangers 6-0 and
Swansea beat Stoke City 2-0.  Tottenham had several early chances, including  Jermain Defoe  heading over the bar and Scott Parker being denied by
Szczesny within the opening 10 minutes.  The Gunners then came close as a low shot by  Theo Walcott 
was deflected just wide.  Van der Vaart hit the ball straight at Szczesny in the 29th
minute after collecting a pass from Defoe, then seconds later at
the other end Gervinho fired wide with goalkeeper Brad Friedel
out of position.  Tottenham Strike  Spurs took the lead after 40 minutes. Emmanuel Adebayor hit
a long pass across the penalty area, which Van der Vaart
controlled before striking into the net. Arsenal appealed that
the Netherlands midfielder had used his arm.  Gareth Bale came close to doubling Tottenham’s lead before
halftime with a long-range shot that curled wide. He had another
good effort just after halftime but Arsenal leveled when Ramsey
scored after 51 minutes.  Six minutes later, former Arsenal striker Adebayor should
have got a goal when set up by Defoe, but with only Szczesny to
beat hit his shot straight at the goalkeeper.  Walker secured the three points for Spurs as he collected
the ball about 30 yards out and struck a low shot that curled
away from the diving Szczesny.  Tottenham looked the most likely to score again but
Szczesny turned away a Defoe shot after Bale had launched a
quick breakaway.  At the Reebok Stadium,  Frank Lampard  got a hat-trick for
Chelsea, with  Daniel Sturridge  adding two goals. Dedryck Boyata
replied for the home team, which remains last in the table after
its sixth defeat.  Chelsea Dominant  Chelsea was 4-0 up after only 27 minutes. Sturridge’s
opener came in the second minute, heading in from a corner by
 Juan Mata .  Lampard doubled the visitor’s lead on 15 minutes after
being set up by Sturridge and both players scored again during
the half following mistakes by goalkeeper Adam Bogdan.  Bolton struck in the opening minute of the second half but
any hopes of a comeback were ended when Lampard clinched his
hat-trick on 59 minutes.  Fulham ended its search for a first league win of the
season, with Andy Johnson scoring a hat-trick at Craven Cottage.
Danny Murphy,  Clint Dempsey  and  Bobby Zamora  also got goals.  Scott Sinclair and Danny Graham were the Swansea scorers at
the Liberty Stadium.  Two days ago,  Manchester United  beat Norwich 2-0,
Manchester City won 4-0 at Blackburn and Newcastle defeated
Wolverhampton Wanderers 2-1.  Liverpool won 2-0 against 10-man Everton, Aston Villa beat
Wigan 2-0, while Sunderland and West Bromwich Albion drew 2-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 