-- 
Cheney, Harman Say Obama Was Justified in Ordering Drone Strike on Awlaki

-- B y   S t e v e   G e i m a n n
-- 
2011-10-02T15:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/cheney-harman-say-obama-was-justified-in-ordering-drone-strike-on-awlaki.html
The U.S. was justified in sending a
drone aircraft into Yemen to kill U.S.-born Anwar al-Awlaki, an
al-Qaeda recruiter and propagandist, former Vice President  Dick Cheney  and Democratic ex-Representative Jane Harman said.  “It was a very good strike,” Cheney said today on CNN’s
“State of the Union” broadcast. “The president ought to have
that kind of authority to order that kind of strike, even when
it involves an American citizen, when there is clear evidence
that he’s part of al-Qaeda.”  Harman, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence
Committee before she quit in February to join the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars, urged the administration to
release legal documents she said provided the support for the
drone strike against al-Awlaki in Yemen.  “I believe there is a good case,” Harman, of  California ,
said on the broadcast. Al-Awlaki was an “imminent threat” who
was beyond the U.S. ability to capture and “had complicity”
with al-Qaeda, Harman said.  Al-Awlaki was identified by the  Office of Foreign Assets
Control  list of “specially designated nationals” as a 40-year-
old native of  Las Cruces ,  New Mexico , with dual U.S. and Yemeni
citizenship. Last year, President Barack Obama approved an order
making him the first American ever to be placed on the Central
Intelligence Agency’s hit list.  Fort Hood Killings  Through the website of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
al-Awlaki helped inspire U.S. Army Major Nidal Hasan to kill 13
people and wound 29 at Fort Hood, Texas, in 2009, U.S. counter-
terrorism officials have said. He encouraged Nigerian-born Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab to try to blow up a Northwest Airlines
plane on Christmas Day 2009 with explosives hidden in his
underwear, they said.  The administration has the right to target American
citizens when they are outside the U.S. when the nation is at
war, as it has been since the 2001 attacks in  New York  and
Washington, Cheney said.  “The Obama administration has clearly reached the point
where they’ve agreed they need to be tough and aggressive in
defending the nation and using some of the same techniques that
the  Bush administration  did,” Cheney said.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  said Sept. 30 that
“the targeted killing violates both U.S. and international
law.”  In a statement, ACLU deputy legal director Jameel Jaffer
called the campaign “a program under which American citizens
far from the battlefield can be executed without judicial
process, and on the basis of standards and evidence that are
kept secret not just from the public but from the courts.”  The  Justice Department  wrote a memorandum authorizing the
killing of al-Awlaki, following a review by senior
administration lawyers of the legal issues involved, the
 Washington  Post reported yesterday, citing unidentified
administration officials.  The newspaper cited the officials as saying there was no
dissent about the legality of killing al-Awlaki. Justice
Department spokeswoman Tracy Schmaler and White House spokesman
Tommy Vietor declined to comment on the memorandum. 