-- 
China Services Indexes Increased in September, Pointing to Faster Growth

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-04T01:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/china-manufacturing-gain-negates-hard-landing-as-price-pressures-moderate.html
China ’s service industries expanded
at a faster pace last month, rebounding from a deceleration in
August, a pickup that may ease concern the world’s second-
largest economy is slowing.  A purchasing managers’ index rose to 59.3 from 57.6 in
August, driven by retail spending, the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said  on its website  yesterday. HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said a separate index gained
to 53 in September from a series-record low of 50.6 the previous
month. Numbers above 50 indicate expansion.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government is seeking to defuse the
fastest gains in consumer prices since 2008 without a collapse
in China’s growth, the strongest among the major economies.
Twelve percent of global investors in a Bloomberg poll last week
predicted growth in China will slow to less than 5 percent
within a year, a pace unseen in the past two decades. HSBC
foresees an expansion of 8.5 percent to 9 percent in coming
quarters, with third-quarter figures due Oct. 18.  “Resilience in the service sector, boosted by rising
retail spending, could act as a buffer when manufacturing is
slowing down,” said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-based economist at
CCB International Securities Ltd.  Asian stocks fell today on concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will worsen, while China’s markets were closed for a
holiday. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 1.6 percent as of
9:05 a.m. in  Tokyo .  Investor Pessimism  Fifty-nine percent of respondents in the quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers said economic growth in China may decline
to less than 5 percent annually by 2016. Growth was 9.5 percent
in the second quarter.  The manufacturing PMI published Oct. 1 by the logistics
federation rose for a second month, to 51.2, with export orders
gaining and a measure of factories’ input costs moderating. A
separate PMI from HSBC and Markit on Sept. 30 was unchanged from
August, at 49.9.  The Oct. 1 manufacturing reading was the highest in four
months and exceeded the 51.1 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 13 economists.  ‘Bottoming Out’  “September’s HSBC Services PMI rebounded meaningfully,
pointing to a possible bottoming out of the services economy
towards the end of the year,”  Qu Hongbin , HSBC’S chief
economist for China, said in a statement. “Combined with an
improvement in the manufacturing PMI, this implies that despite
the global slowdown China is still well on track for a soft
landing.”  Apple Inc., the maker of the iPhone, is among companies
betting on Chinese demand, opening a third store in  Shanghai 
last month.  Consumer prices in China rose 6.5 percent in July from a
year earlier, the most in three years, before easing to a gain
of 6.2 percent in August. The People’s Bank of China has raised
 interest rates  five times and increased the reserve requirement
nine times in the past 12 months. The statistics bureau is
scheduled to release inflation data for September on Oct. 14.  Wen, on the eve of the weeklong National Day holiday that
began Oct. 1, said the trend of relatively fast consumer-price
gains was “under control.” China’s markets are closed Oct. 3
to Oct. 7 for the holiday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  