-- 
Crude Extends Declines in New York After Closing at One-Year Low

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-10-03T07:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/crude-oil-extends-decline-from-one-year-low-after-worst-quarter-since-2008.html
Oil extended declines in  New York ,
after closing last week at a one-year low, as traders speculated
that a slowing U.S. economy and Europe’s debt crisis will curb
fuel demand.  Futures slipped as much as 2.3 percent after dropping 17
percent since the end of June in the worst quarter since 2008.
Reports this week may show manufacturing in the U.S., the
world’s biggest oil consumer, barely grew last month, while job
growth failed to cut unemployment. European finance ministers
meet today in Luxembourg to weigh the threat of a Greek default.
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. canceled crude shipments to Royal Dutch
Shell Plc after a fire at Shell’s largest oil refinery.  “It’s a confidence issue,”  Jonathan Barratt , a managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, said by
telephone today. “Economic data in the U.S. hasn’t been all
that terrible, but we will focus on the employment figures at
the end of the week to see whether they are improving.”  Crude for November delivery fell as much as $1.84 to $77.36
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $77.73 at 6:10 p.m. Sydney time. The
contract fell 3.6 percent to $79.20 on Sept. 30, the lowest
close since Sept. 29, 2010. Last quarter’s decline was the
biggest since the three months ended Dec. 31, 2008.  Brent oil for November settlement slid $1.20, or 1.2
percent, to $101.56 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $23.83 to New York crude, compared with a record of
$26.87 on Sept. 6.  U.S. Manufacturing  “Worries about the health of the global economy will add
pressure to  oil prices ,” Tom Pawlicki, a Chicago-based analyst
at MF Global Holdings Ltd., said today in a note.  The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
fell to 50.3 in August, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before a report today. A reading of 50 is the
dividing line between contraction and expansion. The jobless
rate held at 9.1 percent for a third month, according to a
separate Bloomberg survey before Labor Department data Oct. 7.  Sentiment among  Japan ’s largest manufacturers is worse than
before the nation’s March earthquake and tsunami, according to
the quarterly Tankan index today. Japan accounted for 5 percent
of global oil demand last year, according to BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Saudi Arabian, Shell  Saudi Arabian Oil canceled one cargo of 2 million barrels
of crude to Shell and is discussing canceling a second,
according to people with knowledge of the matter. Shell declared
force majeure, exempting it from fulfilling contracts, as it
halted units after the worst fire in 23 years at its 500,000-
barrel-day Pulau Bukom refinery in  Singapore . The company
declined to specify how many customers are affected or how long
the measure will be in place.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ oil
output in September rose to the highest level since November
2008, with a Saudi cut was offset by Iraqi and Libyan gains, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Production increased 75,000
barrels to average 30.055 million barrels a day, according to
the survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts.  Global oil demand is balanced with supply, said officials
from OPEC’s two largest producers,  Saudi Arabia  and  Iran . The
group evaluates the outlook for economic growth and the return
of Libyan output.  Fighting in  Libya  reduced the availability of light, sweet
crude, or oil with low density and sulfur content. The country’s
output fell to 45,000 barrels a day in August, according to
Bloomberg estimates, compared with the 1.6 million barrels a day
in January. The nation pumped 100,000 barrels a day last month.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil by the most in seven
weeks on concern that economic growth will falter. The funds and
other large speculators reduced wagers on rising prices by 7.4
percent in the week ended Sept. 27, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report
released Sept. 30. It was the largest decline since Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  in  Hong Kong  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  