-- 
Dollar Thrifty Offering 24% Profit on Bets Hertz Will Seal Deal: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-10-03T20:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/dollar-thrifty-offering-24-profit-on-bets-hertz-will-seal-deal-real-m-a.html
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG) 
is offering a 24 percent profit for traders who bet regulatory
scrutiny and the worst credit markets in two years won’t scuttle
its takeover by  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)   Dollar Thrifty has fallen 33 percent from a record in June
as  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  withdrew a rival offer and Hertz’s
need to divest a competing brand prolongs an antitrust review.
The cash-and-stock bid was worth $65.21 a share as of Sept. 30,
a 16 percent premium to Dollar Thrifty’s current price, the
widest spread since Hertz submitted the bid in May, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the second-biggest gap of any
pending U.S. deal over $1 billion, the data show.  Even after Avis’s retreat damped speculation of a bidding
war, Hertz may still boost its offer to $70 a share to win over
Dollar Thrifty’s board and shareholders with a 24 percent
premium to the current stock price, said Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.
While the economic recovery is deteriorating and companies’
borrowing costs have jumped to the highest level globally since
2009, Hertz needs the acquisition to secure its spot as the
second-largest rental car agency.  “We’re pretty optimistic that they’ll reach a deal with
Hertz,” Michael Shannon, co-manager of the $5 billion Merger
Fund for Westchester Capital Management Inc. in Valhalla,  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “Some of these macro
forces -- the credit markets, the economy maybe slowing down --
have had a negative effect on the spread. We’d like to think
it’s a great arbitrage opportunity.”  The firm owned more than 2 million Dollar Thrifty shares,
or 7.7 percent of the company, making it the second-largest
holder as of June 30.  Rental Car Competition  Stephanie Pillersdorf , a spokeswoman for Tulsa, Oklahoma-
based Dollar Thrifty, declined to comment. Richard Broome, a
spokesman for  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz, didn’t return
an e-mail seeking comment.  Hertz is aiming to buy Dollar Thrifty to hang onto its
position as the second-largest rental car provider in the U.S.
behind Enterprise Holdings Inc. Hertz would gain a more
profitable company than itself that caters to budget-conscious
travelers.  The nation’s four biggest car-rental chains generate 83
percent of U.S. car-rental sales, according to a September
report from IBISWorld, the  Santa Monica , California-based
industry researcher. Closely held Enterprise had a 40 percent
share, followed by Hertz with 20 percent and Avis with 17
percent. Dollar Thrifty accounted for 5.7 percent of the
industry’s sales, IBISWorld said.  Negotiating Power  Hertz could pay as much as $75 a share, representing a 33
percent premium to Dollar Thrifty’s closing price Sept. 30,
given the cost and revenue benefits that would be generated in a
takeover, Westchester Capital’s Shannon said.  Bill Kavaler, a New York-based special situations analyst
for Oscar Gruss, said he estimates Hertz will increase its offer
to $70 a share, a 24 percent premium.  “I remain convinced that if a deal gets done, it’s going
to have to be done at a significant premium to the current
price,” Kavaler said in a telephone interview. “They don’t
need to sell, but Hertz has said they need to buy, so we know
where the power in the transaction resides.”  Dollar Thrifty Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson  said
in an e-mailed statement in June that the company’s
“significant operating cash flow, cash-rich balance sheet,
proven brands, combined with our synergistic and scarcity value
is clearly more than $72 a share.”  Bidding War  Hertz and Avis have made at least six attempts to buy
Dollar Thrifty in the past 18 months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In May, Hertz trumped a September 2010 bid from
Avis by offering $57.60 in cash and 0.8546 in Hertz shares for
each Dollar Thrifty share owned. That valued Dollar Thrifty at
$72 a share on May 6.  Hertz’s stock has since fallen 47 percent through last
week, lowering the value of the cash-and-stock bid by 9.4
percent to $65.21 a share. The offer was worth a total of $1.94
billion on Sept. 30, down from $2.14 billion when it was
announced.  Dollar Thrifty  shares reached a record $83.74 on June 3 as
traders who profit from mergers and acquisitions bet that a
bidding war between Hertz and Avis would lead to a higher
takeover offer. Since then, Avis has dropped out and Dollar
Thrifty has fallen 33 percent to $56.30. Hertz is trying to
divest its Advantage brand to help facilitate approval to buy
Dollar Thrifty from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.  ‘Biggest Hurdle’  “Trying to sell Advantage is probably the biggest
hurdle,” Fred Lowrance, a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at
Avondale Partners LLC, said in a phone interview. “This
economic environment probably isn’t helping them find a buyer.”  Dollar Thrifty fell 3.8 percent to $54.17 today, while
Hertz lost 8.9 percent to $8.11.  The  Federal Reserve  said last month that there are
“significant downside risks” to America’s economy, while data
from the Labor Department showed U.S. payrolls were unchanged in
August, the weakest reading since September 2010.  The U.S. slowdown and  Europe ’s deepening sovereign debt
crisis also caused investors to shun all but the safest
corporate bond offerings worldwide last quarter.  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
corporate bonds globally instead of government debt grew to 264
basis points last month, the widest since July 2009, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields for issuers
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB-
by S&P rose to 9.94 percent, the most since December 2009.  Deal Spread  Dollar Thrifty shares were $8.91 below the bid before today
for the second-widest spread on a percentage basis of any
pending takeover in the U.S. greater than $1 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest gap was Express
Scripts Inc.’s takeover of Medco Health Solutions Inc. that
represented a 25 percent premium as of Sept. 30.  “The spread is telling us, partly, nobody knows what the
heck to do and partly that people are skeptical that the deal is
actually going to get done,” said Kavaler of Oscar Gruss.
“Dollar Thrifty represents one of the better risk-rewards. The
dynamics of the U.S. domestic rental-car business are pretty
stable and unlikely to really hurt Dollar Thrifty.”  Hertz was left as the lone suitor after Avis on Sept. 14
abandoned a $1.56 billion bid for Dollar Thrifty, citing
“current market conditions.” In June Avis agreed to acquire
Avis Europe Plc, the second-biggest car-rental company on the
continent, with the backing of a $420 million  term loan  and $250
million in bonds. Avis said today that it completed the purchase
of Avis Europe’s equity for $1 billion.  ‘In the End’  Investors buying the bonds probably demanded Avis pay a
higher coupon on the debt if it continued to pursue Dollar
Thrifty, said Westchester Capital’s Shannon and Oscar Gruss’
Kavaler.  While Dollar Thrifty said final bids must be submitted by
Oct. 10, Hertz isn’t likely to meet that deadline, which may
extend the process through yearend, according to Shannon.  “If I was Hertz, I’d want to move a bit faster and not get
caught up in a bidding war again because the Avis budget might
be stronger next summer and will certainly be bigger,” Chris Agnew, a Stamford, Connecticut-based analyst at MKM Partners,
said in a phone interview.  While Hertz may not be able to afford Dollar Thrifty’s June
peak of almost $84 a share given Hertz’s stock decline and the
weakening economy, the company can still offer a high enough
price to close the deal, Shannon said.  “Hertz is very motivated to get this done now rather than
later,” he said. “Hertz will get it in the end.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at +1-248-827-2944 or  jbutters@bloomberg.net . 