-- 
Dollar Beating All Assets in September Undermines S&P U.S. Debt Downgrade

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-10-03T17:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/dollar-beating-all-assets-in-september-undermines-s-p-downgrade.html
After all the concern that the U.S.
is debasing its currency, the dollar beat stocks, bonds and
commodities for the first time since May as investors sought
refuge from slowing growth and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The U.S. currency rose 6 percent in September, according to
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, beating returns of
1.6 percent by Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury
Master Index. The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks in 45
countries lost 8.9 percent, the largest monthly drop since May
2010.  Raw materials  measured by the  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Total
Return Index of 24 commodities slid 12 percent.  Gains for the world’s reserve currency show investor
confidence in the nation’s creditworthiness after Standard &
Poor’s stripped the U.S. of its AAA rating two months ago. Even
with Republican leaders in Congress joining critics of Federal
Reserve stimulus measures, the currency bested all 16 of its
most-traded counterparts in September for the first month in
more than three years.  “In a time of crisis you want to be holding the most
liquid currency out there,”  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency
strategist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview Sept. 27. “It waters down the argument for
‘the end of the dollar as a  reserve currency .’”  Strategists reduced forecasts for the euro versus the
dollar and sterling by the most since June 2010 last month.
Predictions the Canadian dollar will gain against the greenback
dropped the most since October 2008.  Dollar Gains  Hedge funds and other large speculators who had held an
aggregate bet the dollar would weaken for 14 months capitulated,
with more wagers on gains than losses for the first time since
July 2010. Traders added the most bullish contracts in the week
ended Sept. 20 since January 2010.  Trades that expect the dollar to strengthen against the
euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc and Mexican peso, as well as the
Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, surged to 128,155
on Sept. 27, according to Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data as compiled by Bloomberg.  The dollar strengthened 0.8 percent to $1.3387 per euro
last week, extending its September advance versus the 17-nation
currency to 6.8 percent, bringing its gain for the third quarter
to 7.7 percent. The greenback appreciated 0.6 percent to 77.06
yen in the five days ended Sept. 30, reducing its loss since
June to 4.5 percent.  Broad Increase  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against those
of six trading partners, had the biggest monthly increase since
October 2008, reaching 79.365 today, the highest level since
Jan. 18. The U.S. currency rose 8.2 percent against nine
developed-nation counterparts in September, according to the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the biggest gain since
October 2008.  Today, the dollar reached $1.3238 per euro, the strongest
level since Jan. 13. It touched 77.27 yen, the highest level
since Sept. 15.  The dollar’s 5.7 percent increase in the third quarter was
topped only by Treasuries, which rallied 6.4 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Sovereign debt in the
rest of the world returned 3.15 percent, and AAA-rated U.S.
corporate bonds gained 6.4 percent. The MSCI Index of stocks
fell 18 percent and S&P’s commodity index slumped 12 percent,
the biggest quarterly decline since the three months ended in
December 2008.  Swiss Franc , Yen  Investors turned to the dollar as Switzerland and Japan
intervened to stem gains in their currencies. The  Swiss National
Bank  announced on Sept. 6 it would purchase “unlimited
quantities” of foreign currencies to prevent the franc from
strengthening beyond 1.20 per euro.  The Bank of Japan sold 4.51 trillion yen ($58.5 billion) in
the biggest move in seven years in August, as the currency
reached a post World War II-record of 75.95 per dollar on Aug.
19.  “The dollar’s strength is as much by default as its own
virtues,” said Alan Ruskin, global head of Group-of-10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York by telephone
Sept. 27. “The dollar has attracted funds because there’s
nowhere else to go with that kind of liquidity,” and the U.S.
isn’t fighting dollar gains, he said.  Carry Trades  Investors exited higher-risk assets by unwinding so-called
carry trades, which use borrowings in currencies of nations such
as the U.S. with low interest rates to buy assets in economies
with higher yields, as volatility soared. The strategy lost 6.6
percent in September, the most since at least 1998, when records
began, according to an index compiled by UBS AG.  Implied volatility among major currencies reached the
highest level since May 2010, according to the JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index.  The dollar makes up 60.2 percent share of the world’s
currency reserves, more than double the 26.7 percent for the
euro, which has the next biggest portion, according to the
 International Monetary Fund  in Washington.  While S&P had used the dollar’s position to reaffirm its
AAA rating in April, the company cited the weakening
“effectiveness, stability and predictability of American
policymaking and political institutions,” in its Aug. 5
downgrade of the U.S.  Calculation Error  S&P cut the rating by one step even after Treasury
Department officials told the firm it had overestimated future
national debt by $2 trillion. S&P, a unit of New York-based
McGraw-Hill Cos., said the error didn’t affect its decision. The
company announced on Aug. 23 that it would replace President
Deven Sharma with Citibank NA Chief Operating Officer Douglas
Peterson.  A Bloomberg survey of 1,031 subscribers found that 57
percent of U.S. investors agreed with S&P’s decision, compared
with about 75 percent of those in  Europe  and Asia. The quarterly
review showed that 72 percent of U.S. investors found the
nation’s creditworthiness good or excellent, while 45 percent of
Europeans agreed and 42 percent of Asians.  While most of those polled backed S&P’s downgrade, 35
percent of investors said that overall the grades given by
rating firms aren’t reliable. Only 1 percent called them very
reliable, 18 percent fairly reliable and 45 percent just
somewhat reliable.  Moody’s, Fitch Affirm  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
top rankings on Aug. 2 and  Warren Buffett , the world’s most
successful investor, said the U.S. should be rated “quadruple
A” rather than AA+. The Securities and Exchange Commission has
also sent subpoenas to  hedge funds  as part of an investigation
into whether some investors traded on confidential tips ahead of
the downgrade.  Republican Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky and House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio wrote Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  a letter Sept. 20 urging him to refrain
from more stimulus to avoid “further harm” to the economy.  Texas Governor and leading Republican presidential
candidate  Rick Perry  said in August that additional measures
from Bernanke would be “almost treacherous -- or treasonous.”
China, Germany and Brazil said last year that the U.S. central
bank was weakening the dollar to help exports.  The complaints may have helped the currency by narrowing
policy options, said Shahab Jalinoos, a senior currency
strategist for UBS AG in Stamford Connecticut.  ‘Negatives’ Removed  “Some of the key negatives for the dollar are also off the
table for political reasons,” Jalinoos said by telephone Sept.
27, citing less likelihood of increased  government spending  and
the central bank ending its bond-buying program.  Gold, another traditional haven, retreated to $1,535 an
ounce on Sept. 26, the lowest for a most-active contract in more
than two months. Prices fell 11 percent in September, the
biggest monthly drop since October 2008, after reaching a record
$1,923.70 on Sept. 6.  “Dollar is safer than gold at the moment,”  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.6 billion at First Asset
Management Inc. in Toronto and expects the metal to trade in the
$1,600 to $1,700 range for the rest of the year, said in a
telephone interview Sept. 27. “Dollar and dollar assets have
been the ultimate safe-haven assets throughout this crisis.”  Commodities Decline  Silver’s monthly drop of 28 percent on the Comex in  New
York  was the biggest since April 1980 and copper fell 24 percent
in London, the biggest decline since October 2008. The only
commodities in the S&P GSCI index to rise last month were live
cattle, up 7.6 percent, lean-hog futures at 5.9 percent and
feeder cattle at 7.7 percent.  Investors fled stocks last month, wiping out about $4
trillion from global equity markets. Benchmark measures for 28
out of 45 nations in the MSCI All-Country world Index posted
declines of 20 percent or more from their peaks, meeting the
common definition of a bear market, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Among the countries with the 20 biggest losses
from their highs, 18 are located in Europe.  Netflix Inc., the U.S. online and mail-order video service,
led the MSCI All-Country World Index lower last month, dropping
52 percent, while Alpha Natural Resources Inc. plunged 47
percent. Netflix tumbled after Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft
Corp. unveiled competing products and its own rebranding
alienated customers and drove away investors.  ‘Risk Off’  “You heard all this talk of ‘risk off’ and that’s really
what happened,” said Robert Carey, chief investment officer at
First Trust Portfolios LP in a telephone interview Sept. 28. The
Wheaton, Illinois-based firm oversees about $50 billion. “There
are a lot of questions about long-term fiscal issues both in
Europe and here in the U.S.”  European policy makers last week heard calls from U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , International Monetary
Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde and U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  to contain the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis before it drives the global economy into recession.  “Patience is running out in the international community,”
Osborne said. “The euro zone has six weeks to resolve this
political crisis,” he said, referring to a meeting of Group of
20 leaders in Cannes France scheduled for Nov. 3-4.  “There’s been a change of attitude towards the dollar in
the past quarter,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview
Sept. 30. “And it will continue as the final quarter of the
year is going to be challenging to find a risk-on environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  