-- 
Egyptian Shares Climb After Military Presents Timetable to Transfer Power

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-10-02T14:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/dubai-s-shares-drop-to-7-month-low-led-by-emaar-on-europe-woes.html
Egypt ’s shares rallied the most in
almost a week as local newspapers reported the ruling military
council agreed on a timetable to transfer power.  Orascom Construction Industries, the country’s biggest
publicly traded builder, rose 1.7 percent.  Cairo Poultry Co. (POUL) 
soared to the highest in almost a week after EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE raised the company to “buy.” The benchmark EGX30 Index
gained 1.4 percent, the most since Sept. 26, to 4,193.96 at the
2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The gauge lost 23 percent in the third
quarter.  The military agreed to amend the elections law to allow
political party candidates to run for seats set aside for
independents, Al Ahram newspaper reported. Presidential
elections will take place 45 to 60 days after a constitutional
referendum, it said. Several thousand protesters rallied in
Cairo on Sept. 30 to demand the ruling military council end a
state of emergency and announce a time frame.  “The protests were peaceful with no violence reported and
the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces has taken some decisions
to ease public anger,” said Wafik Dawood, director of
institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities.  Egypt is due to hold parliamentary elections in November as
former president  Hosni Mubarak  is being tried on charges of
corruption and involvement in the killing of protesters during
the uprising that ended his three-decade rule.  Consumer Stocks  Orascom Construction rose to 216.63 Egyptian pounds.  Cairo Poultry, a producer of chicken products, gained 2
percent to 10.32 pounds, the highest since Sept. 26. “The
limited downside risk to Egyptian consumer stocks’ operations
makes the sector one of the most resilient in the current
environment,” EFG-Hermes said in a note dated Oct. 1.  In the  Persian Gulf , Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 0.1
percent as the value of traded shares tumbled to 30.2 million
dirhams ($8.2 million), the lowest since August 2004.  Abu
Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.1 percent.  “Investors are on the sidelines on concern that European
sovereign debt problems could have negative implications on the
United Arab Emirates banking sector,” said Nabil Farhat, a
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities. “The two
consecutive drops in  bank deposits  and the size of these deposit
withdrawals indicate that foreign depositors aren’t renewing
their maturing deposits.”  U.A.E. Banking  U.A.E. deposits fell 3.2 percent to 1,078 billion dirhams
in August as the European sovereign debt crisis intensified, the
country’s central bank said on its website Sept. 29. Specific
provisions for bad loans rose 1.7 percent in August from July to
49.2 billion dirhams, the data shows. Deposits in July dropped
1.1 percent.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the biggest Shariah-compliant
lender in the emirate, declined 1.5 percent, the most since Aug.
8, to 1.95 dirhams. Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, the third-biggest
bank in the U.A.E. by assets, retreated 0.7 percent to 2.91
dirhams, the lowest since Aug. 24.  Bahrain’s BB All Share Index advanced 1 percent, snapping a
six-day drop, and Kuwait’s gauge gained 0.1 percent. Oman’s MSM
30 Index and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  decreased
0.1 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  declined 0.4 percent.  Israel’s TA-25 Index slumped 2.2 percent.  Government bonds 
rose, with the yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit
notes due January 2020 dropping four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 4.43 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  