-- 
Europe Aims to Dodge ‘Scapegoat’ Label in Race for Debt-Crisis Solutions

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-03T09:07:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/europe-aims-to-dodge-scapegoat-tax-in-race-for-crisis-answers.html
Europe ’s pursuit of debt-crisis
solutions goes into overdrive today amid growing impatience
around the world with 18 months of muddling through marked by
clashes among Germany, France and the  European Central Bank .  Gathered in  Luxembourg , finance ministers will weigh the
threat of a Greek default, grapple with how to shield banks from
the fallout, consider a further boost to their rescue fund and
tackle the question of “governance” -- shorthand for who will
be in charge of a better-managed euro area.  Smarting from global criticism including U.S. President
Barack Obama’s jibe that Europe’s fiscal pain is “scaring the
world,” European leaders are looking at a Group of 20 summit in
early November as a deadline for showing they are in control of
events.  “The euro zone is the new international scapegoat,”
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group NV in Brussels, said
in a research note. “It seems as if the advice from  Washington 
didn’t fall on deaf ears. Policy makers are already considering
new measures behind closed doors.”  Europe’s financial leaders are fighting on multiple fronts,
trying to extinguish the Greek crisis while insulating Italy and
 Spain  and coming up with a formula for banks that the
 International Monetary Fund  says face as much as 300 billion
euros ($402 billion) in credit risks.  Stocks Fall  Euro-region stocks fell, the euro weakened to an eight-
month low and bond risk rose before today’s meeting, which
starts at 5 p.m. This was the original target date for approving
an 8 billion-euro loan payment to  Greece , the sixth installment
of the 110 billion-euro lifeline put together at the outbreak of
the crisis in May 2010.  Now that decision has been pushed back until mid-October,
as Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  concocts plans to
squeeze additional savings out of a population weary of two
years of budget cuts and tax increases.  European monitors agreed to 6.6 billion euros of austerity
measures proposed late yesterday by Papandreou after Greece said
it will miss the 2012 budget-deficit target. The shortfall will
be 6.8 percent of gross domestic product, compared to a goal of
6.5 percent of GDP.  As the brinksmanship unfolds, Greece’s chances of getting
the next disbursement are “in my view clearly higher than the
likelihood of not being paid out,” Austrian Finance Minister
Maria Fekter told  Welt am Sonntag  newspaper in an interview
published yesterday.  The payout would buy Greece time as seven countries
including  Germany , Europe’s dominant economy, consider
unstitching a July accord on a second bailout, potentially
calling for Greek bond writedowns of as much as 50 percent that
would constitute default, two European officials said.  Greece Reviewed  Greece’s odds hinge on an assessment by  European
Commission , ECB and IMF experts who returned to Athens last week
-- only to find their way into some Greek government offices
barred for two days by anti-austerity protesters.  The IMF’s latest judgment, released Sept. 20 in its  Fiscal
Monitor , was that Greece will post a budget surplus net of
interest costs in 2012 and the debt will start declining in
2013.  Pessimism reigns among investors. A full 93 percent expect
Greece to default, according to Bloomberg’s quarterly Global
Poll last week. Some 56 percent said  Portugal  is heading for the
same fate, while a majority now sees Ireland, the third aid
recipient, returning to fiscal health.  Sarkozy’s Support  “The failure of Greece would be the failure of all of
Europe,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters Sept.
30 after hosting Papandreou in Paris. “Remember in 2008, when
the U.S. let  Lehman Brothers  fail, the global financial system
paid the price. For both economic reasons and moral reasons, we
can’t let Greece fail.”  Fourteen of the 17 euro countries have approved the
reinforcement of the temporary rescue fund. Of the three to go,
Slovakia poses the biggest hurdle, with Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova  squaring off against euro-skeptics within her
coalition. Slovakia is slated to vote by Oct. 17.  The revamped fund, known as the  European Financial
Stability Facility , will obtain the powers to buy bonds on the
primary and secondary markets, offer precautionary credit lines
and enable capital infusions for banks.  Germany’s passage of the upgraded EFSF last week unleashed
debate over how to scale up the fund’s 440 billion-euro
capacity, potentially by giving it a banking license, using it
for bond insurance or to offer credit enhancements.  ‘Leveraging’  So-called “leveraging” will have to be done in a way that
doesn’t require another round of parliamentary ratifications, so
that the ideal technical solution might take a back seat to what
is legally feasible, a person involved in the discussions said.  Bank of  France  Governor Christian Noyer said today in  Tokyo 
he’s “open” to the idea of using borrowed money to enhance the
capabilities of the fund.  “I’m very concerned of things getting out of control,”
 Nouriel Roubini , chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said
in an interview yesterday in Dubai. “You need a huge bazooka of
at least 2 trillion euros, but you can’t wait three months, you
have to do it in the next few weeks.”  A 78 percent majority of Germans don’t trust the
government’s assertions that another EFSF expansion won’t be
necessary, an Emnid GmbH survey for  Bild am Sonntag  newspaper
showed on Oct. 1.  ECB Role  The ECB, which has bought 156.5 billion euros of peripheral
countries’ bonds, is eager for the EFSF to take over that job.
The bank’s crisis-management role is complicated by a jump in
inflation to 3 percent in September, damping speculation of an
interest-rate cut at its Oct. 6 meeting.  That policymaking session is the last for ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , who leaves office at the end of the month.
Incoming President  Mario Draghi  faces pressure not to show
favoritism to  Italy , his homeland.  Europe’s search for answers has also raised the prospect of
fast-tracking the planned permanent fund, known as the European
Stability Mechanism, set to be created in July 2013. Drawing on
paid-in capital, the 500 billion-euro ESM will have more
flexibility than the guarantee-based temporary fund.  A broad majority of national officials last week endorsed
rushing the ESM into place by July 2012, two people involved in
the discussions said. Faster enactment would cut the extra debt
of donor countries by 38.5 billion euros, saving Germany 11.5
billion euros and France 8.6 billion euros, according to a
working paper obtained by Bloomberg News on Sept. 23.  ESM Terms  Nor are the ESM’s terms settled. The version signed on July
11 provides a tool for sharing the burden with bondholders. Ten
days later, euro-area leaders declared the investor stake in
Greece’s second bailout  “exceptional and unique”  and promised
to “honor fully their own individual sovereign signature.”  Finance ministers will also try to reach a deal on
Finland’s demand for collateral -- such as shares in
nationalized Greek banks or real estate -- to underpin its
contribution to Greece’s second package.  At a meeting last month, the ministers only agreed that
countries receiving collateral must give up something in return,
such as a share in profits from emergency loans. Another idea is
to assign collateral junior status, making it worthless for up
to 30 years until an aid recipient has serviced its official
loans.  The crisis-management gauntlet continues with an Oct. 9
meeting of Sarkozy with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, an Oct.
13 euro-area decision on Greece’s next installment, G-20 finance
ministers meeting in Paris on Oct. 14-15, and an Oct. 17-18
European Union summit in Brussels. The G-20 summit is Nov. 3-4
in Cannes, France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  