-- 
Euro at Decade Low Versus Yen

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-10-03T21:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/euro-drops-to-eight-month-low-versus-dollar-before-european-crisis-meeting.html
The euro fell to more than a decade
low against the yen as European finance ministers clashed about
expanding the capacity of the European Financial Stability
Facility.  The 17-nation currency slid to an eight-month low against
the dollar as incoming  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  said a lack of confidence may be among the reasons for
lenders’ “funding problems.” The yen rose against all its
major counterparts as Japan’s biggest manufacturers remained
below levels seen before a record earthquake in March. The  U.S.
dollar  was the best performer after the yen as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell below its closing low for the year.  “The persistent debate within the European Union really
undermines the possibility of some sort of concrete progress
made on increasing the bailout funds for the region and
preventing contagion,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research, with online currency trader GFT Forex, in New York.
“The move you’re seeing in the euro is a reflection of
investors disappointment over lack of progress.”  The euro decreased 2.1 percent to 100.98 yen, at 5:02 p.m.
in  New York , from 103.12. It reached 100.96, the weakest since
June 2001. The euro depreciated 1.6 percent to $1.3184, from
$1.3387 on Sept. 30, after declining to $1.3175, its lowest
level since Jan. 13.  The dollar slid 0.6 percent to 76.63 yen.  Death Cross  A so-called death-cross pattern is looming as the pair’s
50-day moving average drops toward its 200-day moving average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A cross for technical momentum is another signal for
potential downside risks,” said  Mark McCormick , a  New York- 
based currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. “We
could see the euro down in the $1.28 area by year-end.”  Should the shorter-term moving average fall below the
longer-dated one, the euro’s depreciation may persist to $1.30,
said Taso Anastasiou, a foreign-exchange technical strategist at
UBS in Zurich.  The seven-day relative strength index for the euro fell to
25.8, staying below the 30 level for the second consecutive day.
A reading below 30 indicates an asset’s price may have fallen
too fast and may be due for a rebound.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a drop in the euro versus those on a
gain -- so-called net shorts -- climbed to 82,473 in the week
ended Sept. 30. That’s up from 79,460 a week earlier, statistics
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission
showed Sept. 30.  Traders that expect the dollar to strengthen against the
euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc and Mexican peso, as well as the
Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, surged to 128,155
contracts on Sept. 27, the most since June 2010, according to
CFTC data as compiled by Bloomberg.  EU Moves  European finance ministers meet today in Luxembourg before
the European Central Bank meets on Oct. 6.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said the capacity
of the EFSF is “sufficient” while speaking to reporters today
in Luxembourg. Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said that
the facility needs more capacity. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said euro area countries should wait until
changes to the EFSF are ratified before discussing an increase
to its capacity.  “The market is in a wait-and-see mode, waiting to hear
from European finance ministers so we will still have a headline
driven market,” said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at
FOREX.com, a unit of online currency trading firm Gain Capital
in Bedminster,  New Jersey . “This is a sell on rallies for the
euro; it’s a hard case to make to buy it.”  Today was the original target date for approving an 8
billion-euro ($10.7 billion) loan payment to  Greece , the sixth
installment of the 110 billion-euro lifeline assembled in May
2010. That decision was pushed back until mid-October as Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  tries to close a deficit gap.  Yen Gains  The yen climbed against the dollar after the Bank of  Japan 
said today its quarterly Tankan index of sentiment increased to
2 in September from minus 9 in June. The reading was below the
reading of 6 in March, encouraging investors to take refuge in
Japan’s currency.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, gained 1 percent to 79.619, touching the
highest level since Jan. 13. The gauge is weighted 57.6 percent
to movements in the euro.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.9 percent, trading
below the close of 1,119.46 on Aug. 8. Yields on Treasury 30-
year bonds fell 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point to
2.73.  The pound fell against all its major counterparts excluding
the South Korean won as traders judged a surprise increase in
U.K. manufacturing as insufficient to keep the  Bank of England 
from providing further stimulus for the economy.  Bank of England policy makers said in minutes of last
month’s policy meeting on Sept. 8 that it is becoming
“increasingly probable” that another round of government-bond
purchases may be needed to boost the economy.  The pound declined 1 percent to $1.5432, from $1.5584.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  