-- 
Falling Wages Threatening U.S. as Consumers May Cut Spending

-- B y   S h o   C h a n d r a   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-10-03T08:57:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/falling-wages-threaten-u-s-rebound-as-consumers-may-retrench-on-spending.html
Ninety-one percent of people in the
U.S. labor force have a job. That may be the extent of the good
news for these Americans, whose incomes tell a darker story.  Take-home pay, adjusted for prices, fell 0.3 percent in
August, the third decrease in five months, and personal income
dropped for the first time in two years, the Commerce Department
reported last week. The declines followed news from the Census
Bureau that median  household income  in 2010 fell to $49,445, the
lowest in more than a decade, and the poverty rate jumped to
15.1 percent, a 17-year high.  Salary and benefit growth “has been going nowhere,” said
 Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania. “One of the key reasons the recovery has
stalled is that real incomes have fallen.”  While policy makers from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke to President Barack Obama focus on cutting unemployment
stuck near or above 9 percent since April 2009, the widespread
stagnation in wages may offer a better explanation for the
failure of economic growth to accelerate two years after the end
of the recession. Workers’ ability to negotiate higher earnings
won’t return until the job market strengthens, and flagging
confidence has raised the risk that consumers may retrench.  Inflation-adjusted weekly earnings have fallen for six
consecutive months, dropping 1.8 percent in August from a year
earlier, a pace not seen since the 18-month economic slump ended
in June 2009.  Getting ‘Squeezed’  “Those who are employed are worried about their income and
are seeing real purchasing power get squeezed, therefore they’re
set to retrench a bit,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist
for North America at BNP Paribas in  New York , who has served on
the Fed board’s forecasting team. “That’s the danger right now.
It means the recovery remains very fragile.”  Companies including  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  say they
have flexibility to hold down employee earnings, given uncertain
demand and an excess supply of labor. Retailers such as  Kohl’s
Corp. (KSS)  report that elevated food and fuel prices have cut into
paychecks, restraining shoppers.  “The biggest issue is that labor income is soft at a time
when we’re getting no offset” from other sources, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York. Unlike in the early part of the recovery, stock-market
losses are eroding wealth and home prices continue to decline,
he said.  Shrinking Support  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in December
dropped 0.4 percent to 1,121.20 at 9:54 a.m. in  London , having
earlier retreated 1.3 percent. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  has fallen 17
percent since this year’s high of 1363.61 on April 29. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities is down
31 percent from the pre-recession peak in July 2006.  Support from the government may shrink if Congress fails to
extend payroll-tax cuts and unemployment benefits set to expire
at the end of the year, and limited access to borrowing means
Americans have few means to fund their purchases, said Feroli, a
former Fed economist.  “It’s hard to see where consumers are going to get a lot
of wherewithal to sustain strong spending,” he said. “It’s
certainly a concern that, rather than sluggish consumption
growth, we see flat or declining consumption.”  The stalled labor market and stagnant wages are easing one
source of concern for Fed officials watching inflation.  “The painfully high  unemployment rate  is consistent with
considerable slack or excess capacity in the economy, which
tends to constrain wage growth,” Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said during a Sept. 27 speech
in Jacksonville,  Florida .  Wage-Price Spiral  “You are familiar with the term wage-price spiral. I don’t
see any prospect of such a development in the foreseeable
future, as long as unemployment remains high and longer-term
inflation expectations remain well-anchored,” he said.  The worsening outlook for incomes will cause “continued
pressure on home prices and on the stock market,” said  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as chief investment officer at
Stewart Capital in Indiana, Pennsylvania. Corporate sales may be
hurt as demand cools, and there may be more withdrawals from
retirement plans and higher use of 401(k) loans, he said.  Sales at some luxury stores may be hurt because “at the
margin, the upper end of the middle class will probably feel
less inclined to spend extra money,” he said. Among chains
catering to “the lower end of the earnings totem pole,”
discounters including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  may
fare better as shoppers trade down.  “Perception is reality from the standpoint of consumers
and investors,” Polley said. “We need people to start feeling
good about themselves.”  Bad Time to Buy  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index slumped in the week
ended Sept. 25 to the second-lowest level on record as Americans
grew more concerned with their financial situation. The share of
households saying it was a bad time to buy goods and services
was the highest in three years.  A record 91 percent of consumers expect that growth in
their incomes will match or fall behind price gains in the
coming year, according to participants in the September Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment survey, which dates
back to 1978.  Until people see their wages or the labor market get
better, they will be “spending on necessities, not desires,”
said Chris G. Christopher, senior principal economist at IHS
Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts.  Tamra Loomis, a graphic designer and single mother of two
boys, uses the Internet at her parents’ home, grows vegetables
to trim grocery bills and takes advantage of coupons to shop.
She makes $17 an hour and hasn’t had a raise since September
2008, three months after she started working at a sign company
in Antioch,  California , about 40 miles northeast of  San
Francisco .  Raise Denied  The owner has twice denied her request for higher wages and
in January cut the hours for her and the company’s other
employee to 30 a week from 40, she said.  “My boss says because of the economy, things are tight,
business is slow,” so “at this point, I’m paycheck to
paycheck,” said Loomis, 32. “A lot of people aren’t hiring,
and when they are, they offer even less than what I make. It’s
really difficult.”  The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent in September for a
third consecutive month, while payrolls grew by 50,000 after no
change in August, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists ahead of Labor Department
figures due Oct. 7.  ‘National Crisis’  The unemployment situation is a “national crisis,”
Bernanke said in response to questions after a speech Sept. 28
in Cleveland. Obama is campaigning for congressional support of
a $447 billion jobs program centered on rebuilding
infrastructure and expanding payroll-tax breaks for workers and
employers.  “It’s certainly easier to focus on the greater sources of
distress,” BNP’s Coronado said, referring to officials’ concern
about Americans who are out of work. “But the bigger bulk of
economic momentum is going to be driven by people who are
employed and how they feel about their prospects.”  Consumer spending rose at a 0.7 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, less than half the 2.1 percent pace in January-
March, the Commerce Department reported last week. Gross
domestic product expanded less than 1 percent on average in
January-June, the worst six months of the recovery.  “The economy isn’t growing fast enough to boost job growth
to increase incomes,” said  Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS
Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “Most workers don’t
have a lot of sway in demanding higher wages unless they have
very specialized skills.”  ‘Hold the Line’  Werner Enterprises Inc. (WERN) , an Omaha, Nebraska-based truck
operator, has “been able to hold the line on our salary, wages
and benefits costs,” John Steele, chief financial officer, said
on a Sept. 8 analyst conference call. In today’s “uncertain”
economic environment, “there’s a little less pressure on driver
pay than there was a couple of months ago.”  UPS, the Atlanta-based package-delivery company whose
shipments make it an economic bellwether, has “a very
reasonable contract in place that will show modest, below-
inflation increases in wages” for drivers, Chief Financial
Officer Kurt Kuehn said on a July 26 teleconference. “We’ve got
a good outlook for the cost structure.”  Employees cannot hope for more bargaining power anytime
soon, said Harry Holzer, a professor of public policy at
Georgetown University in  Washington  and former chief economist
at the Labor Department. Through August, the U.S. had recovered
only about 1.89 million of the 8.75 million jobs lost as a
result of the recession.  “There is so much slack, it will keep earnings from rising
very much,” he said. “It will take most of this decade” to
repair the damage “unless there is a big spurt in hiring.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sho Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  