-- 
Greece Approves $8.8 Billion in Austerity to Meet Targets

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-10-02T20:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/greece-approves-8-8-billion-in-spending-cuts-ahead-of-eu-ministers-review.html
Greece approved 6.6 billion euros
($8.8 billion) of austerity measures for this year and in 2012,
including firing state workers, to meet revised deficit targets
and satisfy the terms of a European Union-led rescue.  The measures will help reduce the  budget deficit  to 6.8
percent of gross domestic product, or 14.7 billion euros, from
8.5 percent of GDP this year, the Athens-based  Finance Ministry 
said in an e-mail statement today. That compares with 6.5
percent under agreements with the EU,  International Monetary
Fund  and  European Central Bank , the so-called troika, to secure
the emergency loans needed to prevent a default.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s efforts to reduce the
budget shortfall have been hurt by the country’s deepening
recession that has left revenue falling short of targets.
European Union leaders on July 21 agreed on a second aid package
to cover the financing gap following a 110 billion-euro bailout
last year.  The economy is forecast to shrink 5.5 percent this year,
more than the 3.8 percent forecast by the EU and IMF in June,
according to the statement.  Greece  announced the measures on the eve of a meeting of
European finance ministers who gather in Luxembourg to weigh the
threat of a Greek default, grapple with how to shield banks from
the fallout and consider a further boost to the region’s rescue
that will provide Greece’s second bailout.  Payout Pending  The meeting was due to coincide with the payout of the
sixth installment of Greece’s original rescue. That 8 billion
euro disbursement has been put off until later in October as the
troika gave Papandreou more time to close the deficit gap.
Papandreou announced tonight that a special meeting of euro
region finance ministers would take place on Oct. 13 to hear the
results of the troika’s review.  Details of the austerity measures were announced after a
cabinet meeting today which approved the 2012 budget and the
plan to dismiss state workers. The government by December will
identify 30,000 public workers who will be put on reduced pay
and either retire early or eventually be fired. The plan aims to
cut the government wage bill by 300 million euros in 2012.  The budget, which was agreed to with troika inspectors,
foresees a primary surplus of 3.2 billion euros next year, or
1.5 percent of GDP, according to the statement.  Troika Returns  Inspectors from the troika returned to  Athens  on Sept. 29
to resume a quarterly review of the country’s performance in
meeting the conditions of the original bailout. They suspended
the inspection weeks earlier after finding that the government
was failing to implement measures agreed to in exchange for
continued aid.  After the troika halted the review on Sept. 1, Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos introduced a series of measures to
plug the budget gap for 2011, including a new property tax
approved by parliament on Sept. 27 and further cuts to pensions
and wages for state workers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  