-- 
Greece Approves $8.8 Billion in Spending Cuts Before Scrutiny by EU, IMF

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-10-03T13:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/greece-approves-8-8-billion-in-austerity.html
The Greek government said it passed a
new budget backed by its international creditors, including
larger deficits than previously forecast, as the country moves
closer to securing an 8 billion-euro ($10.7 billion) aid payout
needed to avoid default.  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s Cabinet also passed 6.6
billion euros of austerity measures last night to cut the 2012
deficit to 6.8 percent of gross domestic product, missing the
6.5 percent goal previously set with the European Union,
 International Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank , known as
the troika. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos previously said
Greece would miss the targets.  The new deficit numbers “should not derail Greece’s
current negotiations with the troika,”  Geoffrey Yu , a currency
strategist at UBS AG in London, wrote in a note to clients. “We
remain of the view that Greece will ultimately receive its
current bailout tranche.”  Greek bonds fell before European finance ministers gather
today to consider enhancement’s to the region’s rescue fund.
Papandreou adopted the austerity measures under pressure from
the troika as the country’s three-year recession sapped the
revenue needed to close the fiscal gap. Euro-region finance
chiefs will meet again on Oct. 13 to decide whether the
austerity push is enough to win the sixth bailout payment.  Euro Slides  The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond rose 6 basis points to
22.74 percent and the two-year yield gained 10 basis points to
62.27 percent. The euro fell 0.5 percent to an eight-month low
of $1.3322 as of 1:30 p.m. in  London .  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  praised the austerity measures and new budget, while
saying it’s too early to know whether they are sufficient to
free up the aid money.  “Greece has taken important decisions in the past weeks,
also including yesterday,” Rehn told reporters today in
Luxembourg before the meeting of euro-area finance ministers.
“We are currently assessing whether Greece will meet its fiscal
targets with the current measures.”  Aid Payment  Greece’s measures, which still require parliamentary
approval, aim to secure disbursement of the 8 billion-euro loan
payout this month and a second rescue of 109 billion euros
agreed to by EU leaders on July 21.  “The delays in the completion of this review and the delay
in the disbursement of the sixth tranche leaves the cash
position of the Greek treasury under severe strain,”
Antonio Garcia Pascual, chief southern European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in London wrote in a note to clients. “It is
likely that the Treasury will have to issue some Treasury bills
and prioritize government expenditure until they receive the
sixth disbursement.”  Under the budget passed yesterday, the deficit this year
would be 8.5 percent of GDP, more than twice the EU’s 3 percent
limit, and more than the 7.6 percent target previously agreed
with the troika.  In nominal terms, next year’s gap is seen at 14.7 billion
euros, less than the 14.9 billion-euro target under the previous
pledge. The budget foresees a primary surplus of 3.2 billion
euros next year, or 1.5 percent of GDP, according to the
statement. The  Finance Ministry  said in a statement last night
that the budget plan was “agreed with the troika.”  Debt Levels  Greece’s economy will shrink 5.5 percent this year, more
than the 3.8 percent forecast by the EU and IMF in June,
according to the statement. Greece’s debt, currently the largest
in the history of the euro, will rise to 161.8 percent of GDP
this year and 172.7 percent in 2012, according to the budget
plan.  European finance ministers in Luxembourg will be trying to
advance plans to increase the powers of the region’s rescue to
be able to protect other countries such as Italy and  Spain  from
the debt crisis contagion. Finance ministers are being urged to
seek ways to increase the firepower of the 440 billion-euro
mechanism.  Bank of France Governor Christian Noyer today said he’s
“open” to the idea of using borrowed money to enhance the
capabilities of the fund known as the European Financial
Stability Facility, which is also due to finance the second
Greek bailout.  Leveraging Fund  “It would be unrealistic to expect an increase in the EFSF
itself,” Noyer said in a speech in  Tokyo . “But I am personally
open to any scheme that would allow existing commitments to be
leveraged to provide greater intervention capacity.”  The meeting was originally due to coincide with the payout
of the sixth installment of  Greece ’s original rescue. The
payment had been put off until later in October as the troika
gave Papandreou more time to close the deficit gap. Papandreou
announced last night that a special meeting of euro-region
finance ministers would take place on Oct. 13 to hear the
results of the troika’s review.  The austerity measures were detailed after the cabinet
meeting last night, which also approved the 2012 budget and a
plan to allow for dismissal of state workers. The government by
December will identify 30,000 public workers who will be put on
reduced pay and either retire early or eventually be fired. The
plan aims to save 300 million euros from the government wage
bill in 2012.  “For the first time since the foundation of the Greek
state and after a century of struggle, the permanency of civil
servants is being abolished in the most inhuman,
unconstitutional and illegal manner,” said Athens-based ADEDY,
which represents about 750,000 state workers and has called a
strike for Oct. 5. The government has decided “to offer up
state workers as prey to the country’s creditors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  