-- 
Tigers Beat Yankees 5-3 to Tie AL Playoff Series; Brewers Win for 2-0 Lead

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-03T01:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/tigers-defeat-yankees-5-3-tie-american-league-baseball-playoff-series-1-1.html
The Detroit Tigers beat the  New York 
Yankees 5-3 to tie their Major League Baseball playoff series at
one game apiece, while the Milwaukee Brewers moved within a win
of the National League Championship Series by beating the
Arizona Diamondbacks 9-4.  Miguel Cabrera  hit a home run and drove in three runs, Max Scherzer pitched six shutout innings and the Tigers withstood a
ninth-inning rally at Yankee Stadium in New York.  Jose Valverde gave up two runs in the final inning before
retiring Robinson Cano on a ground ball with two runners on base
to end the game. Cano drove in six runs in the Yankees’ Game 1
win.  The Yankees had their record seven-game American League
Division Series winning streak halted, after ALDS sweeps against
 Minnesota  the previous two years and beating Detroit 9-3 last
night in the series opener.  “We feel good,” Cabrera said. “We were looking to win
one game over here and win the other ones at home.”  The Tigers will host Game 3 of the best-of-five series
tomorrow at Comerica Park in Detroit.  Both teams will go with their No. 1 pitchers, with CC Sabathia starting for the Yankees against Detroit’s  Justin Verlander , who led the AL with 24 wins. Sabathia, who was second
in the league with 19 wins, threw two innings two days ago.
Verlander pitched one before rain postponed Game 1.  The Brewers scored five runs in the sixth inning to snap a
4-4 tie at Miller Park in  Milwaukee  and take a 2-0 lead in their
NL first-round series.  Brewers’ Rally  The Brewers scored the go-ahead run on a throwing error by
Diamondbacks reliever Brad Ziegler. Corey Hart, Nyjer Morgan and
Ryan Braun followed with run-scoring singles for the NL Central-
champion Brewers, who won the opening game 4-1.  The best-of-five series shifts to Phoenix for Game 3 on Oct.
4. The Brewers hold a 2-0 lead in a postseason series for the
first time in franchise history and would advance to the NLCS
with one more win.  The  Philadelphia Phillies  are hosting the St. Louis
Cardinals today in the other NL Division Series. The Phillies
won yesterday’s opener 11-6.  The Tigers jumped to a 2-0 first-inning lead over the
Yankees as Cabrera, who led the major leagues with a .344
batting average, hit an opposite-field homer off  Freddy Garcia .  Cabrera and Victor Martinez added run-scoring singles in
the top of the sixth inning off Garcia, who allowed six hits and
didn’t walk a batter over 5 1/3 innings.  First Hit  The AL East-champion Yankees, who were second in the majors
in runs scored during the regular season, didn’t get a hit off
Scherzer until  Robinson Cano ’s one-out single in the bottom of
the sixth.  Scherzer was taken out after giving up a walk and single to
start the seventh inning. Joaquin Benoit replaced him and
retired the next three batters, including  Eric Chavez  and  Derek Jeter  on consecutive strikeouts to end the inning.  The Yankees’ first run came on a solo home run by  Curtis Granderson  leading off the eighth inning. The Tigers restored
their four-run lead in the top of the ninth as Don Kelly singled
in a run against New York reliever Luis Ayala.  Nick Swisher led off the ninth with a home run off Valverde,
while  Jorge Posada  tripled and scored on a sacrifice fly. With
rain intensifying, New York brought the winning run to the plate
before Valverde, the Tigers’ closer, retired Cano to seal the
victory.  The next two games will be played in  Detroit  and a decisive
fifth game, if necessary, would be in New York. The Yankees said
pitcher A.J. Burnett will start Game 4 on Oct. 4 against
Detroit’s Rick Porcello.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  