-- 
Islam-Inspired Comic Superheroes, Lauded by Obama, Head to U.S.

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-10-02T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/islam-inspired-comic-superheroes-lauded-by-obama-head-to-u-s-.html
Even U.S. President  Barack Obama  took
notice of them. Now, New Yorkers may do, too, as the Arab
world’s first superheroes make their screen debut at the New
York Film Festival.  Naif Al-Mutawa yesterday presented “ THE 99 ,” his series
starring supernatural characters. His creations have also
appeared as comics, alongside Superman, Batman and Wonder Woman.
They are based on the 99 attributes of Allah mentioned in the
Koran, such as wisdom, generosity and tolerance.  Batina, which stands for the Hidden, is a Burqa-wearing
character from Yemen, while Hazel-eyed Widad, or the Loving, has
long lustrous brown hair and originates from the  Philippines .
The giant Jabbar, or the Powerful, is a native of  Saudi Arabia 
and resembles the Hulk. His sneeze can bring down a house and
his touch can shatter a brick. These are some of Al-Mutawa’s
heroes on a mission to conquer evil.  “It was about creating positive role models for my kids
that are based on our culture but are universal in nature,”  Al-
Mutawa  says in an interview. “It doesn’t matter what religion
you are, it doesn’t matter if you have a religion -- they are
basic human values.”  The 40-year-old clinical psychologist from  Kuwait  says he
came up with the idea in 2003 while in a London cab. It’s all
about “secularizing religious content”, he says. Western
heroes such as Batman and Superman are based on biblical
archetypes, and he wanted to create the same from the Muslims’
holy book, he says.  Twin Towers  It was also an attempt to alter the global perception of
Islam, following the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center’s
twin towers in New York in 2001. The comics have made a “dent”
in how the religion is perceived globally, he says.  “If you get bitten by a snake you become afraid of rope,”
Al-Mutawa says. “Our message keeps getting tied to bombs and
guns. My thinking was if I go back to the same place where the
bad guys pulled their messages and in their place put tolerant
multicultural messages, they just become bad guys with bad ideas
and you delink them from the religion.”  In his April 2010 speech at the Presidential Summit on
Entrepreneurship in  Washington ,  Obama  praised “THE 99” and its
creator for spreading tolerance, saying the comic books were
“most innovative” and “captured the imagination of so many
young people.”  Prisoner Torture  Al-Mutawa, who has a Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from Long
Island University, worked with former prisoners of war in Kuwait
and survivors of political torture at in Bellevue Hospital in
New York. Helping people who have been prosecuted because of
their religious and political beliefs led him to the project.  “I heard too many stories of people growing up to idealize
their leaders as heroes only to be tortured by them,” Al-Mutawa
says in an interview in Dubai before travelling to New York.  A total of 26 half-hour episodes was created out of Al-
Mutawa’s comics with the help of entertainment company Endemol,
a writer in Hollywood, and production by a U.K. company and
 India ’s  Sanraa Media . The sequence of four TV series, which are
being translated into various languages, is showing in New York.  Discovery Channel  bought the rights for the series in the
U.S.,  Cartoon Network  in  Asia  and  MBC  in the  Middle East .  Like all superheroes, there’s a big market for merchandise.
Al-Mutawa is looking for the right partners to create a feature
film and games. The first theme park based on the characters was
developed in Kuwait and talks are continuing on a second park in
an Arab Gulf country, he says, declining to be more specific.  Promoting the series, let alone making a feature film, will
not be the easiest task for Al-Mutawa, who said he was accused
of radicalizing kids and trying to spread shari’ah  law  through
“THE 99.”  Wearing jeans and a black jacket, he speaks at an art
gallery showing his TV shows before the festival. With a
documentary film on the making of “THE 99” planned for release
on Oct. 13 in the U.S., Al-Mutawa says he hopes people will
realize “we are not the bad guys.”  Information:  http://www.the99.org/ ,
 http://www.al-mutawa.com ,  http://www.filmlinc.com/nyff2011 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 