-- 
Israel 10-Year Bonds Rise a Seventh Day on Rate Cut Speculation

-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 
2011-10-02T15:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/israel-10-year-bonds-rise-a-seventh-day-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
Israel ’s 10-year government bond
advanced for a seventh day, pushing yields to the lowest level
in almost a month, on speculation the Bank of Israel will cut
 interest rates  to support growth as the global economy falters.  The yield on the 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit government
notes due January 2022 dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 4.64 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel
Aviv , the lowest since Sept. 5. The yield on the inflation-
linked bond due June 2013 climbed six basis points to 1.06
percent.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  on Sept. 26 cut the
lending rate to 3 percent from 3.25 percent, the first decrease
in 2 1/2 years, in a bid to shore up growth and shield the
economy from a global slowdown. The  International Monetary Fund 
on Sept. 20 cut its estimate for global growth and predicted
“severe” repercussions if Europe fails to contain its debt
crisis or U.S. policy makers deadlock over a fiscal plan.  “As the world fears a global slowdown, expectations in
Israel are that this will lead to a continued drop in interest
rates and slowing inflation,” Sagie Poznerson, head of trading
at Leader Capital Markets Ltd. in Tel Aviv said by telephone.  Falling Rates  The benchmark lending rate may decline to 2.5 percent by
the end of the year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Sept. 27,
while Citigroup Inc. forecast the central bank will probably
make another quarter-point cut this year. Two-year interest-rate
swaps, an indicator of investor expectations for rates in the
next two years, were at 2.75 percent on Sept. 30, showing
traders are betting on another reduction.  Inflation may slow after commodities posted the biggest
quarterly drop since the end of 2008 as bearish data on
economies in  Europe  and  China  added to concerns the world will
tilt into another recession. The two-year breakeven rate, which
reflects market expectations for inflation over the period,
declined five basis points to 194 today, implying an average
annual inflation rate of 1.94 percent.  “Inflation expectations are low because of the global
slowdown and the consumer protests,” Gil Chen, a bond trader at
I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv said by
telephone.  Tnuva Food Industries Agricultural Co-Op In Israel Ltd.
said today it would cut the prices it recommends supermarkets
charge consumers on some dairy products and  Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS) 
said it was cutting the price of some of its  milk products  12
percent. A government-appointed panel last week submitted
proposals aimed at bringing down living costs following consumer
protests over the past three months.  Annual inflation in Israel slowed to 3.4 percent in August
from a high this year of 4.3 percent in March. Consumer prices
are expected to rise 2.3 percent in the next 12 months,
according to the average of forecasters surveyed by the  Bank of
Israel , the bank said Sept. 20.  The Tel Bond 40 index of corporate bonds fell 0.5 percent.
The shekel weakened for a third day on Sept. 30, dropping 0.6
percent to 3.7486 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  