-- 
Japan Manufacturer Sentiment Below Pre-Quake Levels Signals Muted Recovery

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-10-03T08:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/japan-large-manufacturer-sentiment-gained-in-september-matching-forecasts.html
Sentiment among  Japan ’s largest
manufacturers remains worse than before the March earthquake,
signaling concern that weakening global demand will restrain the
nation’s recovery.  The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at large
manufacturers rose to 2 in September from minus 9 in June, the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  said in Tokyo today. The reading was below the
reading of 6 in March and in line with the median estimate of 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A positive number means
optimists outnumber pessimists.  Japanese companies have been restoring operations after the
quake and tsunami disrupted supply chains, with  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  boosting production for the first time in a year in August
and hiring temporary workers. The risk is that a currency near
postwar highs against the dollar and slowing growth in the U.S.
and  Europe  may sap demand for Japan’s products in months ahead.  “We can be happy we’re not seeing a further slump here,”
 Martin Schulz , a senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute
in Tokyo, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. At the
same time, companies are indicating “we are really not charging
forward right now,” given risks in the global outlook and the
continued wait for Japan’s government to implement full-scale
reconstruction, he said.  The yen traded at 76.87 against the dollar as of 4:56 p.m.
in Tokyo, from 77.18 before the report. Large manufacturers said
they based their business plans on a currency averaging 81.15 in
the year ending March 31, according to today’s Tankan report.
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slid 1.78 percent after data showed
U.S. consumer spending slowed.  Safe-Haven Currency  While some investors see the weak  U.S. economy  as a factor
behind the yen’s advance, “the Japanese economy is suffering
from the earthquake,” Takehiko Nakao, Japan’s vice finance
minister for international affairs, said at a forum in Tokyo
today. “There’s no reason the Japanese yen should be targeted
as a safe-haven currency or flight-to-safety currency.”  Recent reports have confirmed a continuing rebound from the
March 11 disaster, with  consumer confidence  holding at a post-
quake high in August and industrial production increasing for
five straight months. Overseas shipments gained in August for
the first time since February, trade data showed.  Even so, some data highlight the economy’s vulnerability to
a slowdown in coming months. Machinery orders, an indicator of
future  capital spending , slid 8.2 percent in July and payrolls
slumped in August. Large companies said they plan to increase
capital spending 3 percent this year, lower than economists
forecasts for a 4.3 percent boost, today’s report showed.  ‘Economic Turbulence’  Underscoring the challenges facing Japan’s export-led
recovery, the  International Monetary Fund  last month cut its
global growth forecast to 4 percent for this year and next. Bank
of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said in  Tokyo  today that the
world is experiencing “major economic turbulence.”  “Companies haven’t fully taken into account that the
global slowdown will be much more pronounced into the next
business year,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “If that
happens, we can’t expect the yen to bounce back to the 80’s like
they are expecting.”  To keep the recovery going, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s
government is implementing measures to cope with the yen’s
gains, including subsidies for companies. The ruling Democratic
Party of Japan proposed last week a 12 trillion yen ($156
billion) stimulus package to support an economy recovering from
the record temblor and tsunami.  Currency Monitoring  The  finance ministry  is also making $100 billion of its
currency reserves available to companies to help them acquire
overseas assets and have extended its supervision of foreign-
exchange positions through the end of the year after initially
intending to conduct monitoring through September.  “The yen staying around the high-70s could throw cold
water on the Japanese economy’s recovery trend,” Finance
Minister Jun Azumi said at a press conference in Tokyo on Sept.
30. He also said he’s ready to take “bold actions” in markets,
signaling the possibility of more intervention in the  currency
market  after Japan sold yen in August.  Manufacturers including  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  are shifting part
of their operations overseas in a move that may mitigate the
yen’s impact on their performance. Panasonic, one of the world’s
largest consumer electronics companies, is moving the
headquarters of its $57 billion procurement operation to
Singapore from Osaka in the year starting April 2012, Masaaki Fujita, an executive in charge of the business, said last month.  “The danger is early next year” as the yen and faltering
demand abroad weigh on exports, said Noriaki Matsuoka, an
economist at Daiwa Asset Management in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  