-- 
Koch Brothers Flout Law Getting Richer With Secret Iran Sales

-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   D a v i d   E v a n s
-- 
2011-10-03T17:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/koch-brothers-flout-law-getting-richer-with-secret-iran-sales.html
In May 2008, a unit of  Koch
Industries  Inc., one of the world’s largest privately held
companies, sent Ludmila Egorova-Farines, its newly hired
compliance officer and ethics manager, to investigate the
management of a subsidiary in Arles in southern France. In less
than a week, she discovered that the company had paid bribes to
win contracts.  “I uncovered the practices within a few days,” Egorova-
Farines says. “They were not hidden at all.”  She immediately notified her supervisors in the U.S. A week
later, Wichita, Kansas-based Koch Industries dispatched an
investigative team to look into her findings, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its November issue.  By September of that year, the researchers had found
evidence of improper payments to secure contracts in six
countries dating back to 2002, authorized by the business
director of the company’s Koch-Glitsch affiliate in  France .  “Those activities constitute violations of criminal law,”
Koch Industries wrote in a Dec. 8, 2008, letter giving details
of its findings. The letter was made public in a civil court
ruling in France in September 2010; the document has never
before been reported by the media.  Egorova-Farines wasn’t rewarded for bringing the illicit
payments to the company’s attention. Her superiors removed her
from the inquiry in August 2008 and fired her in June 2009,
calling her incompetent, even after Koch’s investigators
substantiated her findings. She sued Koch-Glitsch in France for
wrongful termination.  Obsessed with Secrecy  Koch-Glitsch is part of a global empire run by billionaire
brothers Charles and David Koch, who have taken a small  oil
company  they inherited from their father, Fred, after his death
in 1967, and built it into a chemical, textile, trading and
refining conglomerate spanning more than 50 countries.  Koch Industries is obsessed with secrecy, to the point that
it discloses only an approximation of its annual revenue -- $100
billion a year -- and says nothing about its profits.  The most visible part of Koch Industries is its consumer
brands, including Lycra fiber and Stainmaster carpet. Georgia-
Pacific LLC, which Koch owns, makes Dixie cups, Brawny paper
towels and Quilted Northern bath tissue.  Charles, 75, and David, 71, each worth about $20 billion,
are prominent financial backers of groups that believe that
excessive regulation is sapping the competitiveness of American
business. They inherited their anti-government leanings from
their father.  Abolishing Social Security  Fred was an early adviser to the founder of the anti-
communist John Birch Society, which fought against the civil
rights movement and the  United Nations . Charles and David have
supported the Tea Party, a loosely organized group that aims to
shrink the size of government and cut federal spending.  These are long-standing tenets for the Kochs. In 1980,
David Koch ran for vice president on the Libertarian ticket,
pledging to abolish Social Security, the Federal Reserve System,
welfare, minimum wage laws and federal agencies -- including the
Department of Energy, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
the Central Intelligence Agency.  What many people don’t know is how the Kochs’ anti-
regulation political ideology has influenced the way they
conduct business.  A Bloomberg Markets investigation has found that Koch
Industries -- in addition to being involved in improper payments
to win business in Africa,  India  and the  Middle East  -- has sold
millions of dollars of petrochemical equipment to Iran, a
country the U.S. identifies as a sponsor of global terrorism.  The ‘Koch Method’  Internal company documents show that the company made those
sales through foreign subsidiaries, thwarting a U.S. trade ban.
Koch Industries units have also rigged prices with competitors,
lied to regulators and repeatedly run afoul of environmental
regulations, resulting in five criminal convictions since 1999
in the U.S. and Canada.  From 1999 through 2003, Koch Industries was assessed more
than $400 million in fines, penalties and judgments. In December
1999, a civil jury found that Koch Industries had taken oil it
didn’t pay for from federal land by mismeasuring the amount of
crude it was extracting. Koch paid a $25 million settlement to
the U.S.  Phil Dubose, a Koch employee who testified against the
company said he and his colleagues were shown by their managers
how to steal and cheat -- using techniques they called the Koch
Method.  Refused to Falsify  In 1999, a  Texas  jury imposed a $296 million verdict on a
Koch pipeline unit -- the largest compensatory damages judgment
in a wrongful death case against a corporation in U.S. history.
The jury found that the company’s negligence had led to a butane
pipeline rupture that fueled an explosion that killed two
teenagers.  Former Koch employees in the U.S. and  Europe  have testified
or told investigators that they’ve witnessed wrongdoing by the
company or have been asked by Koch managers to take what they
saw as improper actions.  Sally Barnes-Soliz, who’s now an investigator for the State
Department of Labor and Industries in  Washington , says that when
she worked for Koch, her bosses and a company lawyer at the Koch
refinery in Corpus Christi, Texas, asked her to falsify data for
a report to the state on uncontrolled emissions of benzene, a
known cause of cancer. Barnes-Soliz, who testified to a federal
grand jury, says she refused to alter the numbers.  “They didn’t know what to do with me,” she says. “They
were really kind of baffled that I had ethics.”  Koch’s refinery unit pleaded guilty in 2001 to a federal
felony charge of lying to regulators and paid $20 million in
fines and penalties.  Corporate Cultures  “How much lawless behavior are we going to tolerate from
any one company?” asks David Uhlmann, who oversaw the
prosecution of the Koch refinery division when he was chief of
the environmental crimes unit at the U.S. Department of Justice.
“Corporate cultures reflect the priorities of the corporation
and its senior officials.”  Koch Industries declined to make either Charles Koch, who
lives near corporate headquarters in Wichita, or  David Koch , who
lives in  New York , available for interviews.  Melissa Cohlmia, Koch’s director of corporate
communications, said in an e-mailed statement that the company
has developed a good relationship with environmental regulators
and now complies with all rules. Cohlmia says the company has
learned lessons from past mistakes, including the improper
payment scheme that Koch outlined in its letter filed in French
court.  ‘Steps to Correct’  “We are proud to be a major American employer and
manufacturing company with about 50,000 U.S. employees,” she
wrote. “Given the regulatory complexity of our business, we
will, like any business, have issues that arise. When we fall
short of our goals, we take steps to correct and address the
issues in order to ensure compliance.”  Cohlmia says Koch fired the employees and sales agents
involved in the illicit payments and strengthened internal
controls.  Regarding sales to Iran, she wrote, “During the relevant
time frame covered in your article, U.S. law allowed foreign
subsidiaries of U.S. multinational companies to engage in trade
involving countries subject to U.S. trade sanctions, including
Iran, under certain conditions.”  Koch has since stopped all of its units from trading with
Iran, she says.  Lobbying Washington  The Koch brothers have vaulted into the American political
spotlight in recent years. Koch Industries has spent more than
$50 million to lobby in Washington since 2006, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan group that tracks
political donations. The company opposed derivatives regulation
and greenhouse gas limits.  The brothers have backed a foundation that has trained
thousands of Tea Party activists. The Tea Party, a popular
movement whose name stands for Taxed Enough Already, has grown
into a potent force in national politics. Sixty representatives
of Congress, out of a total of 435, identify themselves as Tea
Party members. Virtually every Republican candidate for
president -- including Texas Governor Rick Perry and Minnesota
Congresswoman Michele Bachmann -- has solicited the group’s
support.  Integrity and Compliance  Koch Industries’ political action committee, KochPAC,
donated $50,000 to Texans for Rick Perry last year for his
gubernatorial campaign, according to the Texas Ethics
Commission. It has also donated to support Bachmann’s
congressional campaigns, Federal Election Commission
records show.  The company tells all of its employees around the world
that its top two values, which it calls Guiding Principles, are
integrity and compliance. Koch Industries and its subsidiaries
have won 436 awards for safety, environmental excellence,
community and customer service and innovation since January
2009, Cohlmia says.  The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration has
recognized several of the company’s units for their commitment
to the workplace, the company says. Koch Industries has also
supported charitable causes in Wichita and beyond, including the
Kansas Special Olympics and Big Brothers Big Sisters. The
company has also helped enlistees in the U.S. Army Reserve.  Koch Industries has donated millions of dollars to the
Nature Conservancy, the Red Cross, the Salvation Army and
victims of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .  Reputation is Critical  David Koch has contributed more than $135 million to
cultural institutions, including Lincoln Center for the
Performing Arts in New York and the Smithsonian’s National
Museum of Natural History.  Koch Industries zealously guards its public image.  “A company’s reputation is critical to how it will be
treated by others and to its long-term success,” Charles Koch
wrote in “The Science of Success: How Market-Based Management
Built the World’s Largest Private Company” (Wiley, 2007). “We
must build a positive reputation based on reality, or others
will create one for us based on speculation or animus and we
won’t like what they create.”  The illicit payments uncovered by Ludmila Egorova-Farines
raised the specter of a new blow to the company’s effort to
improve its reputation following criminal convictions and civil
penalties.  Avoiding Scandal  The company wanted to avoid a bribery scandal similar to
that of  Siemens AG (SIE) , says Ged Horner, a managing director at
Koch-Glitsch in the U.K. from 2002 until he retired in 2010.  “The only thing that would seriously impact the
profitability and continuity of Koch Industries was a compliance
issue,” Horner says.  In November 2006, the U.S. Department of Justice and German
prosecutors opened an investigation into bribery by Munich-based
Siemens, Europe’s largest engineering company. Siemens and three
of its subsidiaries pleaded guilty in December 2008 to charges
of violating the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act from 1998 to
2007.  Siemens paid $1.6 billion in penalties, admitting it had
paid bribes to companies in Argentina, Bangladesh, Iraq and
Venezuela.  “Koch decided that if it could happen to Siemens, it could
happen to them,” Horner says.  Koch Chemical Technology Group, a Koch Industries
subsidiary run by  David Koch , hired Egorova-Farines in April
2008 for the newly created position of compliance and ethics
manager for Europe and  Asia .  French Investigation  The division, which makes distillation, pollution control
and water filtration equipment, recruited her from accounting
firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, where she was a consultant for
four years on integrating corporate cultures after mergers. As
soon as she joined Koch, the company flew her to Wichita to
attend an internal compliance conference, she says.  The company then asked her to investigate Koch-Glitsch in
France because it had heard that managers were awarding salary
increases inappropriately, Egorova-Farines says. The company
never mentioned anything about improper payments for contracts
when it gave her that assignment, she says. She declines to
discuss the details of her findings, saying it would
be unprofessional.  The specifics of illicit payments for contracts by Koch-
Glitsch can be found in two French labor court cases. The
complaints were brought separately by Egorova-Farines and Leon
Mausen, business director of Koch-Glitsch France from 1998 to
2008.  Illicit Payments  Koch-Glitsch fired Mausen on Dec. 8, 2008, sending him a
termination letter that described illicit payments from 2002 to
2008 in Algeria, Egypt, India, Morocco, Nigeria and Saudi
Arabia. In the Middle East, Koch-Glitsch paid what the
termination letter describes as an exceptionally high commission
of 23 percent to one of its sales agents.  “A portion of that money was intended to pay a customer’s
employee in order to secure the contract,” Koch wrote.  The customer was an unnamed Egyptian company that was
partially owned by the state. Koch-Glitsch made similar payments
to win other contracts with public and private companies in
Egypt and Saudi Arabia, Koch wrote in its letter to Mausen.  Koch-Glitsch gave envelopes stuffed with cash to a Moroccan
company, Koch wrote in its letter. Koch-Glitsch also made an
improper payment to secure a contract with a Moroccan government
organization, Koch wrote. The company made similar payments to
an unnamed Nigerian government agency to win contracts, Koch
wrote.  Koch Blamed Employee  Koch-Glitsch  inflated its bid price to a private company in
India in 2008, the letter said. A Koch employee explained the
reason in an e-mail copied to Mausen and dated Feb. 6, 2008:
“Add an extra 2 percent for a third person whose name I would
rather give you only on the phone at this time.”  A Koch-Glitsch agent increased the commission paid to an
Algerian agent in 2007 and 2008 to cover what Koch described as
an unlawful payment to secure a deal with an unnamed French
company.  Koch’s spokeswoman Cohlmia says Koch Industries acted
firmly and decisively in response to what it had learned.  In its Dec. 8, 2008, termination letter to Mausen, Koch
blamed him for the illegal payments. In July 2009, Mausen sued
Koch for severance and performance pay in the Arles Labor Court
in southern France.  On Sept. 27, 2010, the court said Mausen hadn’t acted on
his own.  “It was not Mr. Mausen alone who was giving
authorizations,” the court wrote.  Company policy required approval from other Koch-Glitsch
managers, including Christoph Ender, the president of Koch-
Glitsch for Europe and Asia, the court said.  ‘Without Doing Due Diligence’  “Ender, manager of Koch-Glitsch France, as well as the
controllers and auditors who were assisting him, allowed such
business practices developed with Mr. Mausen to continue without
doing due diligence in their reviews concerning the payment of
commissions and the final beneficiaries of said commissions,”
the labor court wrote.  An appeals court in Aix-en-Provence issued a second ruling
on June 14, 2011, saying the company couldn’t justify
terminating Mausen for the payment scheme because his managers
had been aware of the practices for more than 60 days before he
was fired. The court ordered Koch-Glitsch to pay Mausen 150,808
euros ($206,170).  Mausen declined to comment, beyond saying he disputed
Koch’s arguments in court. Ender, who is now a Koch-Glitsch
executive in Wichita, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Koch’s Cohlmia says Ender “had no knowledge of
Mr. Mausen’s misconduct at the time it occurred, as Mr. Mausen
concealed it from him.”  Initially On Track  As for Egorova-Farines, her career was initially on track
after she exposed bribery. Koch Chemical promoted her to a
permanent position after her trial period expired in mid-2008,
court records show. She was dispatched to offices in  Germany ,
 Russia  and Switzerland, she says.  “I worked hard to drive cultural change to make these
units compliant,” she says.  Egorova-Farines was hospitalized for seven weeks starting
in February 2009, according to the decision in her lawsuit
against Koch-Glitsch for wrongful termination.  The company fired her on June 16, 2009, saying later in
court that she didn’t have the skills she’d listed on her resume
and that she had failed to share documents with others at the
company, according to the court record. She contested Koch’s
arguments.  Court Ruling  Neither Egorova-Farines nor the labor court knew at the
time that Koch had cited the company’s six-year pattern of
improper payments in its termination letter to Mausen, she says.
The court ruled against her on Feb. 11. She filed an appeal two
months later in Paris.  She said in court that Koch had harassed her and retaliated
against her for uncovering the payment scheme. She asked to be
reinstated in her Koch job and paid for the time she was out of
work. Egorova-Farines, who was born in  London , now runs a
business practices consulting firm in Paris.  Koch’s Cohlmia says the labor court found that the company
treated Egorova-Farines fairly and provided her with chances to
perform adequately.  The payments to win contracts documented by Koch
investigators may violate U.S. law, says  Sara Sun Beale , a
professor at Duke Law School in Durham, North Carolina. She says
Koch’s termination letter to Mausen gives clear guidance to
federal prosecutors.  ‘Smoking Gun’  “It sounds like a smoking gun,” says Beale, who co-
authored “Federal Criminal Law and Its Enforcement” (Thompson
West, 2010). “It really should get the Justice Department’s
attention. When you have a smoking gun, you launch an
investigation.”  Such a probe would fall under the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, a 1977 law that makes it illegal for companies and their
subsidiaries to pay bribes to government officials and employees
of state-owned companies.  Justice Department spokeswoman  Laura Sweeney  says the
agency won’t confirm or deny the existence of any investigation.  While Koch-Glitsch was conducting its internal probe of
illicit payments for contracts, the U.S. government was
investigating Koch’s European unit on another front: sales to
Iran.  On Aug. 14, 2008, investigators from the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security met with George Bentu, who had worked as a
sales engineer from 2001 to 2007 for Koch-Glitsch in Germany,
Bentu says. In a four-hour interview at the U.S. consulate in
 Frankfurt , the officials asked about documents showing details
of the company’s trades with Iran, he says.  Legal Sidestep  Homeland Security spokeswoman Barbara Gonzalez declined
to comment.  Internal company records show that Koch Industries used its
foreign subsidiary to sidestep a U.S. trade ban barring American
companies from selling materials to Iran. Koch-Glitsch offices
in Germany and Italy continued selling to Iran until as recently
as 2007, the records show.  The company’s products helped build a methanol plant for
 Zagros Petrochemical Co.,  a unit of Iran’s state-owned National
Iranian Petrochemical Co., the documents show. The facility, in
the coastal city of Bandar Assaluyeh, is now the largest
methanol plant in the world, according to IHS Inc., an
Englewood, Colorado-based provider of chemicals, energy and
economic data.  Engineer Challenged Sales  “Every single chance they had to do business with Iran, or
anyone else, they did,” Bentu, 46, says.  Bentu, a German engineer who earned his master’s degree in
chemical engineering from Montana State University in Bozeman in
1990, joined Koch-Glitsch in 2001. His duties included drawing
up bids for potential buyers of the company’s distillation
equipment, which is used in making fuels, fertilizers,
detergents and other products.  Bentu says he had been working at Koch-Glitsch in
Viernheim, about 80 kilometers (50 miles) south of Frankfurt,
for two months when he first saw an order destined for Iran.
Concerned that the transaction might run afoul of U.S. law,
Bentu asked his manager about it, he says. Bentu says his boss
told him not to worry, that the company’s U.S. lawyers made sure
the deals with Iran were legal.  U.S. companies have been banned from trading with Iran
since 1995, when President Bill Clinton declared it a threat to
national security. Iran supports Iraqi militants and Taliban
fighters as well as terrorist groups, including Hamas and
Hezbollah, according to the U.S. State Department.  Getting Around Ban  Koch Industries took elaborate steps to ensure that its
U.S.-based employees weren’t involved in the  sales to Iran ,
internal documents show.  Koch Industries may not have violated the law if no U.S.
people or company divisions facilitated trades with Iran, says
Avi Jorisch, a Treasury Department policy adviser from 2005 to
2008. That’s impossible to determine without a complete
investigation, Jorisch says.  Internal Koch-Glitsch correspondence shows that the company
coordinated with Koch Industries lawyers in the U.S. to make
sure that American employees didn’t work on sales to Iran. Elena
Rigon, now Koch-Glitsch compliance manager for Europe, based in
Italy, in December 2000 addressed a memo outlining compliance
guidelines to company managers in her region.  ‘Axis of Evil’  In another e-mail, Rigon said all offices had to go through
a checklist for each estimate quoted for materials headed
to Iran.  “Your staff shall send this form to me since I have to
send it to the lawyers in the USA as part of the compliance
program,” Rigon wrote in the e-mail. “If somebody happens to
find out that any U.S. persons are involved in this project or
U.S. material is delivered to Iran you CANNOT quote.”  Rigon declined to comment.  “Koch-Glitsch had protocols in place that were consistent
with applicable U.S. laws allowing such sales at the foreign
subsidiary level,” Koch’s Cohlmia says.  In his annual State of the Union address on Jan. 29, 2002,
in the wake of the 9/11 attacks in New York and Washington,
President George W. Bush said that Iran was part of what he
called the “Axis of Evil.”  A year later, in his Jan. 28, 2003, address to Congress,
Bush said, “In Iran, we continue to see a government that
represses its people, pursues weapons of mass destruction and
supports terror.”  Soliciting Iranian Orders  The following day, Koch-Glitsch was sent a purchase order
to supply petrochemical equipment for the Zagros plant, which
was being designed and built by two engineering firms, Pidec in
Iran and Lurgi in Germany, according to company documents.  On May 31, 2004, Koch-Glitsch secured another contract for
1.2 million Euros, to help expand the Zagros facility. The plant
helped Iran turn its vast natural gas reserves into methanol,
which is used for making plastics, paints and chemicals.  The Italian office of Koch-Glitsch sought work on other
projects in Iran -- the expansion of the Abadan refinery, the
country’s largest, and the development of South Pars, part of
the world’s largest natural gas field, the documents show.  Koch-Glitsch told employees in 2006 that the company was
winding down business in Iran, Bentu says. At that point, he
says, his bosses still asked him to work on Iran bids. He says
he told them he was no longer willing to sign off on such work,
leading to arguments between Bentu and his managers.  ‘Totally Betrayed’  Bentu says he felt dismayed because Koch Industries clearly
tells all of its employees around the world that  integrity  is
the company’s No. 1 value.  “You feel totally betrayed,” Bentu says. “Everything
Koch stood for was a lie.”  Bentu, who was earning about 49,000 euros a year, says the
company forced him out in April 2007 and paid him 25,000 euros
severance.  In 2009, Bentu was interviewed as part of a probe by the
 Bundeskartellamt , the German antitrust agency. It was looking
into whether Koch-Glitsch had collaborated with a rival, Montz
GmbH, a smaller petrochemical equipment maker in nearby Hilden,
to rig bids they made to supply products to companies.  In November 2010, Koch-Glitsch and Montz each paid 250,000
euros as part of a settlement with the regulator for sharing
information from December 2002 to August 2008. The German
regulator said the violations were a minor infraction. Koch-
Glitsch closed its office in Viernheim in 2009, Bentu says.
Several former employees went to work for Montz.  Guenther Frey, general manager for Montz, declined to
comment.  Cohlmia says of the agency’s ruling, “The decision did not
find that Koch-Glitsch GmbH engaged in price fixing or any
illegal behavior.”  Felony Conviction  This wasn’t Koch Industries’ first brush with complaints of
improper competition. In October 2000, the FBI secretly recorded
the telephone calls of Troy Stanley Sr., director of textile
staples at KoSa, then a Luxembourg company with its main office
in Charlotte, North Carolina.  Koch Industries and a Mexican company established KoSa as a
joint venture in 1998 to buy the Hoechst AG unit that produced
polyester staples, which are used in making textiles. KoSa
pleaded guilty in October 2002 to a felony charge of conspiracy
to restrain trade and paid a $28.5 million fine.  Stanley pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to
restrain trade in December 2004 and was sentenced to one year of
probation and a $5,000 fine.  ‘Anti-trust Conspiracy’  “Officers, directors, managers or employees participated
in the conspiracy” between September 1999 and January 2001,
KoSa admitted in the plea agreement.  The conspiracy began before KoSa bought the business and
continued during its ownership, Stanley testified. Koch bought
out its partner in 2001. The criminal activity occurred while
Koch was a 50 percent owner.  During the next eight years, Koch Industries paid $76
million to settle antitrust claims brought by KoSa’s customers,
and $59 million in legal fees, according to court records. KoSa
is now part of Koch’s Invista unit.  A prosecution of KoSa by Canada’s attorney general for
price fixing followed in August 2003. KoSa pleaded guilty and
paid a C$1.5 million fine.  Cohlmia says a KoSa subsidiary “unknowingly bought into an
ongoing antitrust conspiracy.” Once the company found out about
the wrongdoing, it stopped the conspiracy and cooperated with
the U.S. Justice Department, she says.  Benzene Emissions  The price-fixing convictions came after years of
investigations, environmental lawsuits and fines that had
plagued Koch’s oil pipeline and refining divisions.  In April 1996, Koch environmental technician Sally Barnes-
Soliz walked into the offices of Texas regulators in Corpus
Christi and told them the company had lied about spewing benzene
into the air.  Koch Refining Co. had recruited Barnes-Soliz in 1991 to
work in the safety department at the company’s Corpus Christi
refinery. Barnes-Soliz, then 30, had earned a bachelor’s degree
in science and environmental health and a Master of Science in
industrial hygiene at Colorado State University in Fort Collins.  “I loved that job,” she says, describing how she helped
protect plant workers and neighborhood residents from the many
hazards at the refinery. “It’s important to me that people are
safe and their job is not the reason they die.”  Federal rules in 1995 required the plant, one of two
refineries Koch owns in Corpus Christi, to reduce benzene
emissions to less than 6 metric tons a year. Benzene, a chemical
compound refined from crude oil, was found to cause leukemia in
1928 by two Italian doctors who detected the cancer in a worker
exposed to benzene for five years.  False Report  Four federal agencies -- the National Institutes of Health,
the Food and Drug Administration, the Environmental Protection
Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration --
say that benzene is a cause of cancer.  On Jan. 6, 1995, Koch’s refining unit informed the Texas
Natural Resource Conservation Commission, or TNRCC, that it had
installed a new anti-pollution device called a Thermatrix that
used flameless heat to burn off the benzene. The machine lacked
sufficient capacity for the job, Barnes-Soliz says, and refinery
workers disconnected it within days.  “The refinery was just hemorrhaging benzene into the
atmosphere,” she says.  Three months after disconnecting the machine, Koch filed a
quarterly report with Texas regulators, while concealing that it
had violated the emission rules.  Pressured to Change  On Aug. 17, 1995, Koch Industries attorney Vincent Mietlicki wrote a memo to another company lawyer, Thomas Meek,
saying the refinery had given the state incorrect information
about its uncontrolled benzene emissions.  “I think it goes without saying that there is a need to
correct our first quarterly report which is misleading and
inaccurate,” he wrote.  That December, a refinery manager asked Barnes-Soliz to
tally the plant’s annual benzene emissions for a report to state
regulators, Barnes-Soliz says. She found 91 metric tons of
uncontrolled benzene emissions, more than 15 times higher than
what the rules allowed.  “I redid the calculation a lot of times,” Barnes-Soliz
says.  Those levels of emissions could increase the  cancer risk  to
refinery employees and the public, she says. Barnes-Soliz
reported the results in a document dated Jan. 4, 1996, to
Mietlicki, the same lawyer who had written the memo calling out
the inaccuracies in the quarterly report Koch filed with the
state. She says Mietlicki and other Koch executives pressured
her to lower the figures in her report.  Falsified Document  “There were a lot of meetings to try and get me to change
the number,” she says. “It was hard, but I held firm to
my convictions.”  Barnes-Soliz’s bosses went around her. On April 8, 1996,
Koch reported to Texas regulators that its Corpus Christi plant
had uncontrolled emissions of 0.61 metric tons for 1995, or
1/149th the quantity she had found.  “When I saw they had actually falsified that document, I
had no recourse but to notify the authorities,” Barnes-Soliz
says.  On April 18, 1996, on her lunch break, she drove to the
state’s TNRCC office and reported that Koch had lied about its
benzene emissions. By the time Barnes-Soliz walked in,
environmental regulators were already investigating Koch in
Corpus Christi.  Oil Slick  The EPA had sued Koch Industries a year earlier for a
series of pipeline leaks in several states, including one that
left a 12-mile-long oil slick on Nueces and Corpus Christi bays
in October 1994. Her statement triggered another probe by state
regulators and the FBI.  During the next three years, investigators compiled
evidence that included hundreds of internal memos about benzene
emissions. In 1999, Koch’s lawyers tried to stop prosecutors
from using the documents in court.  Koch argued that records of the company’s internal
investigation regarding benzene rules were protected by
attorney-client privilege. U.S. District Judge Janis Graham Jack
in Corpus Christi rejected that claim, ruling that the privilege
doesn’t apply when used to help commit a crime or fraud. She
singled out Mietlicki.  ‘Front Man’  “The government has submitted evidence which indicates
that Koch was intentionally using Mietlicki and his
investigation and expertise in reference not to prior
wrongdoing, but to future wrongdoing,” the judge wrote. “The
February memo strongly suggests that Koch was using Mietlicki
(and his investigation and expertise) as a ‘front man’ to impede
the TNRCC from ascertaining the extent of its noncompliance.”  The February memo was sealed by the court.  A federal grand jury issued a 97-count indictment against
Koch Petroleum Group, Mietlicki and three refinery managers on
Sept. 28, 2000. Koch Petroleum Group pleaded guilty to a felony
charge of lying to the government about its benzene emissions in
April 2001.  Judge Jack fined Koch Petroleum $10 million and ordered
that it pay another $10 million to fund environmental projects
in south Texas. Koch earned $176 million in profit from the
Corpus Christi plant in 1995, prosecutors told the court. The
company said in a hearing that it would have cost $7 million to
comply with the benzene emission regulation.  Koch Petroleum changed its name to Flint Hills Resources in
2002.  In the agreement to plead guilty, prosecutors dropped the
charges against the four individuals.  ‘Ultimately Collapsed’  Koch spokeswoman Cohlmia says the company reported its
compliance issues to the state before a whistle-blower did so.
She says the federal case was flawed, citing testimony by a
prosecution expert witness.  “The government’s case ultimately collapsed after the
company finally had an opportunity to challenge the government’s
key expert witness,” she says.  Uhlmann, the federal prosecutor who led the  probe , says
Koch’s after-the-fact response is a public relations whitewash.  “The Koch case was a classic case of environmental crime,
significant violations of law occurring alongside widespread
efforts to conceal those violations, which Koch has admitted,”
Uhlmann says. He now teaches at the University of Michigan Law
School in Ann Arbor.  Empty Office  Mietlicki, who is now assistant principal at John Paul II
High School in Corpus Christi, says he can’t comment on details
of the case.  “I know all of my actions as a lawyer, throughout all my
years of practice, were nothing but honest and truthful,” he
says.  After the company found out that Barnes-Soliz had tipped
off state regulators, Koch stripped her of her responsibilities
and moved her to an empty office with no tasks and no e-mail
access, she says.  “They were pressuring me to quit,” she says.  She left the company in July 1996. Barnes-Soliz sued Koch
in January 1997, saying the company harassed and mistreated her
after she became a whistle-blower. Koch settled the lawsuit in
July 1999 for an undisclosed amount.  The Corpus Christi case was one of a series of challenges
Koch Industries faced in the 1990s over environmental issues. In
1997, a company now owned by ConocoPhillips sued Koch for toxic
waste dumping at a refinery in Duncan,  Oklahoma .  ‘Replete With Evidence’  In March 1998, U.S. District Court Judge Vicki Miles- LaGrange in Oklahoma City ordered Koch to pay for 15 percent of
the cleanup costs for dumping at the site between 1946 and 1953.
That decision was upheld by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
10th Circuit in May 2000.  “The record is replete with evidence Koch used unlined
ditches, pits and ponds to dispose of hazardous waste at the
site,” the appeals court ruled, finding that Koch had tainted
groundwater. “The pollution of any Oklahoma waters, including
groundwater, has been prohibited by state statute since the
early 1900s -- well before Koch’s waste disposal activity at the
refinery.”  By March 2007, Koch Industries had paid just $440,899 and
still owed $2.97 million for its share of the cleanup, Conoco
told the court.  “Koch simply refuses to pay its share as ordered by this
court,” Conoco said.  Companies Settled  The two companies settled in February 2009. Terms weren’t
disclosed.  Cohlmia says, “We understand that appropriate remediation
is occurring and Koch has met all of its obligations with
respect to this matter.”  A Koch unit in Rosemount, Minnesota, pleaded guilty in 1999
to two federal misdemeanors of  violating the Clean Water Act  and
paid $8 million in fines and penalties. The company used fire
hydrants to pump more than a million gallons of wastewater
contaminated with ammonia onto the ground.  Koch also increased its dumping of wastewater on weekends
when it didn’t monitor discharges, circumventing the reporting
requirement of its permit, the EPA said. Koch also admitted that
it negligently released between 200,000 gallons (757 kiloliters)
and 600,000 gallons of aviation fuel into a nearby wetland.  Cohlmia says the company cooperated with state and federal
regulators to resolve the Rosemount issues and has met all of
its obligations.  “In March, 1999, Koch Petroleum Group took full
responsibility for past underlying discharges,” she says.  Koch Industries also spent much of the 1990s defending
itself against what a U.S. Senate subcommittee called a
widespread scheme to steal oil on Indian land.  Twin Brother  The Senate held hearings in May 1989 after  Bill Koch , David
Koch’s twin brother, told a U.S. Senate special committee on
investigations that Koch Industries was stealing oil on American
Indian reservations, cheating the federal government of
royalties.  Bill Koch had a long-standing feud with his brothers after
his failed attempt to take over the company in the early 1980s.
He sold his shares in June 1983 and later lost a lawsuit
claiming he’d been shortchanged.  The Senate committee sent investigators to Oklahoma to
secretly observe oil companies, including Koch, buying crude on
Indian land. The federal agents hid in ditches, crouched behind
scrub cedars and ducked behind cows to avoid detection by Koch
Oil’s purchasers, FBI agent Richard Elroy testified to the
committee in May 1989.  ‘Theft is Widespread’  The investigators caught Koch Oil’s employees falsifying
records so that the company would get more crude than it paid
for, shortchanging Indian families, Elroy said. Koch’s records
showed that the company took 1.95 million barrels of oil it
didn’t pay for from 1986 to 1988, according to data compiled by
the Senate.  “The theft is widespread and pervasive, and these people
are being horribly victimized,” Elroy testified.  Elroy told the committee that Charles Koch gave a
deposition that said that no one could make exact measurements.  “There was a lot of uncertainty and tremendous
variations,” Elroy quoted Koch as saying. The full deposition
is sealed, which is committee policy.  The committee concluded in a November 1989 report that Koch
Oil had engaged in a widespread, sophisticated scheme to steal
millions of barrels of oil. The Senate referred the case to the
Justice Department, which convened a grand jury that never
indicted the company.  “We believe that our practices were consistent with
industry practice,” Cohlmia says.  The Civil Trial  Bill Koch brought a lawsuit on behalf of U.S. taxpayers,
claiming that Koch Industries’ scheme defrauded the government
of royalties. The case came to trial in 1999. Former company
employees testified that Koch Industries trained them to steal.  Phil Dubose, who worked for Koch Industries from 1968 to
1994, told the jury how the scheme worked.  “The Koch Method is to cheat the producer out of crude
oil,” he said.  He testified that he was able to steal 2,000 barrels a
month from one customer.  “You used every available tool to mismeasure the crude oil
in Koch’s favor,” says Dubose, who is now retired.  Charles Koch testified in the trial, saying the company had
the highest standards.  “By 1988, I thought we had developed the best measurement
approach, controls and so on of any crude oil purchaser in the
industry,” Koch said. “And that’s why we became the No. 1
crude oil purchaser in the United States.”  24,587 False Claims  Two days before Christmas 1999, the jury delivered the
verdict: Koch Industries had made 24,587 false claims in buying
oil, underpaying the U.S. government for royalties on Native
American land from 1985 to 1989. Koch paid the U.S. $25 million
to settle the case in 2001.  The Koch brothers, meanwhile, reached an agreement, with
undisclosed terms, dropping all litigation against each other.  While the Koch brothers battled over oil, Koch Industries
clashed with regulators over its failure to properly maintain
its pipelines. In 1995, the EPA sued the company, saying poor
maintenance resulted in corrosion that contributed to hundreds
of spills.  The following year, before the EPA case was resolved, a
leak in a Koch butane pipeline led to an explosion that killed
two teenagers.  Burned Alive  On Aug. 24, 1996,  Danielle Smalley  and her high school
friend and neighbor Jason Stone, both 17, smelled gas outside
Smalley’s mobile home in rural Lively, Texas, 50 miles southeast
of Dallas. The house had no telephone, so they decided to drive
the Smalley family’s pickup truck to a neighbor’s home to call
911.  They never made it.  The truck stalled after the couple drove into a fog-like
cloud, says Danielle’s father, Danny Smalley, who watched them
drive away. It was butane vapor, leaking from a corroded steel
pipeline. Seconds later, as Danielle restarted the truck, the
gas ignited into a fireball, burning Danielle and Jason to
death.  Smalley’s father sued Koch Industries in 1997 in the
Kaufman County, Texas, district court for the wrongful death of
his daughter.  ‘Definitely Responsible’  “I will tell you Koch Industries is definitely responsible
for the death of Danielle Smalley,” Bill Caffey, an executive
vice president of the company, testified in a 1999 deposition
during Smalley’s lawsuit.  Caffey oversaw pipeline safety at the company. He testified
that he thought the pipeline was safe before the explosion. Koch
Pipeline Co., the unit that managed the Texas pipeline, knew the
line had corroded and didn’t fix it, an investigation by the
National Transportation Safety Board concluded in November 1998.  The 570-mile-long pipeline carrying liquid butane from
Medford, Oklahoma, to Mont Belvieu, Texas had corroded so badly
that one expert, Edward Ziegler, likened it to Swiss cheese. The
company didn’t give 40 of the 45 families near the explosion
site -- including the Smalley and Stone families -- any
information about what to do in case of an emergency, the NTSB
wrote.  Danny Smalley hired Ziegler, a third-generation oilman and
certified safety professional, as an expert witness. Ziegler had
previously been retained by Koch Industries as an expert witness
in an unrelated case. Ziegler told the jury that he’d never seen
a company disregard safety to this extent in his more than 25-
year career.  ‘A Total Failure’  “This is an example of a total failure of a company to
follow the regulations, keep their pipeline safe and operate it
as the regulations require,” Ziegler, who now operates his own
pipelines, testified.  A memo forwarded by Caffey to another Koch executive vice
president justified putting a 70-mile section of the pipeline
back into operation after being closed for three years because
it could earn more than $7 million in operating income a year.  “We were to work on reducing wasteful spending,” Caffey
said in his deposition.  In his  2007 book , Charles Koch didn’t comment on the
pipeline explosion. He did, however, offer this observation:
“Our organization does not reward failure.”  Koch Industries didn’t penalize Caffey, the executive in
charge of pipeline safety. The company doubled his annual bonus
to $900,000 for 1996, the year the fatal blast occurred,
according to court records. In his deposition, lawyers asked
Caffey whether the disaster came up during his annual review.  ‘I Don’t Believe’  “I don’t believe we discussed that specifically in my
review,” he said.  Caffey, who stayed with Koch for a decade after the
explosion and now runs the BB River Ranch in Comanche, Texas,
says the explosion was a one-of-a-kind tragedy.  “I have never known any company executive more focused on
compliance than Charles Koch,” he says.  The state jury awarded Danny Smalley $296 million in its
Oct. 21, 1999, verdict. The jury found that Koch Industries
acted with malice because it had been aware of the extreme risks
of using the faulty pipeline.  Smalley later settled for an undisclosed amount. Stone’s
family also settled. Danny Smalley used settlement money to
start the  Danielle Dawn Smalley Foundation  for pipeline safety
education. Large pipeline operators such as ExxonMobil Corp., BP
Plc and Kinder Morgan Inc. -- and not Koch -- accept free
services from the foundation, Smalley says.  ‘Never Forget’  “You see two children burned to death in front of you, you
never forget that,” he says. “I want to stop other parents
from ever having to see that.”  Cohlmia says Koch Industries used the lessons learned from
the explosion to help avoid similar accidents. The company
immediately accepted responsibility for the explosion, which was
the only one of its kind, she says.  Three months after the Smalley verdict, Koch settled the
five-year-old EPA case for pipeline leaks, along with a second
EPA case brought in 1997. The company paid $35 million to
resolve those cases, which covered more than 300 oil spills in
six states.  For six decades around the world,  Koch Industries  has
blazed a path to riches -- in part, by making illicit payments
to win contracts, trading with a terrorist state, fixing prices,
neglecting safety and ignoring environmental regulations. At the
same time, Charles and David Koch have promoted a form of
government that interferes less with company actions.  ‘Overall Concept’  “My overall concept is to minimize the role of government
and to maximize the role of the private economy and maximize
personal freedoms,” David Koch told the National Journal in
May 1992.  In his 2007 book, Charles Koch says his company had
difficulty keeping up with changing government regulations and
that it did eventually build an effective compliance program for
20 areas ranging from environmental to antitrust to safety
regulations.  “We were caught unprepared by the rapid increase in
regulation,” he wrote. “While business was becoming
increasingly regulated, we kept thinking and acting as if we
lived in a pure market economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .
David Evans in Los Angeles at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net .  Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net .  Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net .  Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at +39-02-8064-4218 or
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net .  Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at +49-173-653-6805 or
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   Alan Katz in Paris at +33-1-5365-5007 or  akatz5@bloomberg.net   Heather Smith in Paris at +33-1-5365-5064 or
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   Karin Matussek in Berlin at +49-30-70010-6218 or
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   Justin Blum in Washington at +1-202-6241861 or
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   Phil Mattingly in Washington at +1-202-654-4316  Marie-France Han in New York at +1-212-617-6436 or
 mhan30@bloomberg.net   Ashley Lutz in New York at +1-212-617-8478 or
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   Anthony Dipaola in Dubai at +971-50-298-5067 or
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at +971-4-3641054 or
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at +1-248-827-2947 or
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at +1-609-279-4603 or  jneumann2@bloomberg.net . 