-- 
NBA, Players ‘Still Very Far Apart’ After Seven Hours of Talks, Union Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-02T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/nba-players-still-very-far-apart-after-seven-hours-of-talks-union-says.html
Officials from the  National
Basketball Association  and its players’ union will meet again
tomorrow, two days after their longest negotiating session since
the start of the 3-month-old lockout.  The two sides met for more than seven hours at a Manhattan
hotel yesterday -- the second consecutive day of talks -- and
focused on finding common ground surrounding the salary-cap
system, union head  Billy Hunter  told reporters.  “They put some concepts up, we put some concepts up, and
we’re still miles apart,” said Hunter, executive director of
the union. “There’s a huge bridge gap and I don’t know whether
we are going to be able to close it.”  Lead negotiators will meet again tomorrow and the full
negotiating groups, including the owners’ labor-relations
committee and the  National Basketball Players Association ’s
executive committee, will gather Oct. 4 as the scheduled Nov. 1
start date for the NBA season draws nearer.  The groups are trying to decide how to split money from a
league that had about $4.3 billion in revenue last season. NBA
Commissioner  David Stern  has said the league collectively lost
at least $300 million in each of the past three seasons.  They did not focus on the economic split between the
players and owners yesterday. After making 57 percent of
basketball-related income in the previous deal that expired July
1, the owners’ most recent proposal called for the players to
get 46 percent, while the players have offered to drop their
take to the 54 percent range.  Salary Cap Focus  With no movement on that, they spent the day discussing the
salary cap -- how much a team can pay its players.  “We’re not near anything, but wherever that is, we’re
closer than we were before,” Stern said.  With training camps already postponed indefinitely and 43
preseason games through Oct. 15 canceled, Stern said the league
had nothing to announce regarding the remaining preseason games
or the Nov. 1 scheduled start to the season.  “Stay tuned,” he said. “We have nothing more to say
other than we won’t do it on Monday.”  Hunter, for one, said the start of the season still can be
saved.  “If we are able to get a deal by sometime next week, then
I would think it might be possible,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 