-- 
Nesat Kills 3 in China as Typhoon Nalgae Nears

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-02T02:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/nesat-kills-3-in-china-as-typhoon-nalgae-nears.html
Typhoon Nesat killed three people,
washed away homes and flooded highways in southern  China ’s
Guangxi region as authorities readied for a second storm
approaching the area.  Nesat destroyed 2,200 homes, damaged 6,100 others and
rendered 3,620 hectares of cropland “useless,” the official
Xinhua News Agency cited local authorities as saying yesterday.
Xinhua cited one villager in Guangxi’s Pubei County as saying
all of his sugarcane crop had been broken by the winds.  Typhoon Nalgae, packing maximum sustained winds of 119
kilometers (74 miles) per hour, is heading toward the Paracel
islands near China’s Hainan province and the Vietnam coast at
10-15 kilometers per hour, the website of China’s meteorological
service  reported  as of 5 a.m. Beijing time.  Disaster authorities in the  Philippines  issued their
strongest storm warning for 10 provinces as Nalgae struck the
main island of  Luzon  yesterday, four days after Nesat caused at
least 50 deaths and $137 million in damage to crops and
infrastructure in the island nation.  Downpours were forecast in Metro  Manila , and some rice-
growing districts were still flooded from Nesat’s rains, said
Graciano Yumul at  Pagasa , the state weather bureau.  Rainfall  Maximum rainfall from Nesat in the provincial capital of
Nanning, as well as Beihai, Qinzhou and Fangchenggang, totaled
400 millimeters (15.7 inches), Xinhua said. Nesat was downgraded
to a tropical storm on Sept. 30.  As it swept past  Hong Kong  Sept. 29, Nesat felled trees,
ripped bamboo scaffolding from buildings and forced the city’s
stock exchange to shut. It slammed into the Chinese island
province of Hainan with typhoon winds of 151 kilometers per
hour, forcing the evacuation of 450,000 people and causing 5.8
billion yuan ($909 million) of damage, Xinhua said. It then
moved on to northern  Vietnam .  Nesat was the strongest typhoon to hit China this year and
the most powerful to strike Hainan province in six years,
according to the  Chinese weather agency . Authorities in Hainan
ordered ships back to port, canceled ferry services and halted
flights and high-speed rail services Sept. 29 ahead of the
storm’s arrival.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  