-- 
Netanyahu Accepts Quartet Talks Proposal; Palestinians Ask Settlement Halt

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-10-02T20:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/netanyahu-accepts-quartet-s-proposal-for-peace-talks-without-preconditions.html
Israel  welcomed an initiative by the
U.S. and its partners in a Middle East mediating group aimed at
restarting peace negotiations and called on the Palestinians to
accept the proposal.  “While Israel has some concerns, it will raise them at the
appropriate time,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a
statement e-mailed today by his office in Jerusalem. He called
on the  Palestinian Authority  “to enter into direct negotiations
without delay.”  A senior Palestinian official said the Netanyahu statement
was “not enough.” Israel must freeze settlements and accept
the West Bank’s pre-1967 boundaries before talks can resume,
said Nabil Shaath, a senior adviser to Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas .  The so-called Quartet, which comprises the U.S.,  United
Nations , European Union and  Russia , issued the proposal on Sept.
23 after Abbas appealed for the UN to approve a Palestinian
application for full membership. Members of the group have been
trying to pressure Abbas to drop the statehood initiative, which
the U.S. has vowed to veto, and focus on pursuing a peace
agreement with Israel.  The Quartet called for Israelis and Palestinians to agree
within a month on how to resume negotiations with the goal of
reaching a peace agreement by the end of 2012.  “We welcome the Israeli government’s announcement today
expressing readiness to resume negotiations with the
Palestinians, as called for by the Quartet,” U.S. State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in a statement.
“The Palestinians expressed support for the Quartet approach on
September 29.”  Settlement Freeze  Talks between Israel and the Palestinians broke down a year
ago after Netanyahu refused to renew a 10-month freeze on
settlement construction. Abbas has said that building in
settlements has to stop before peace talks resume.  Yasser Abed Rabbo, secretary-general of the Palestine
Liberation Organization’s executive committee, said Sept. 29
that the Quartet proposal contained “encouraging elements.”  Israeli Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon today rejected
Palestinian, U.S. and European criticism of plans approved last
week to build at least 900 new apartments in Gilo, a portion of
east Jerusalem that Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East war.  “Gilo is not a faraway settlement,” Ayalon told reporters
during a tour of the area. “This is within the heart of
 Jerusalem . This is within a contiguous part of a growing city.”  U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said
Sept. 27 that the approval of the new housing in Gilo was
“counterproductive” to the Quartet proposal for reviving peace
talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  