-- 
New Zealand Vows to Stay Course on Debt-Reduction Plans After Rating Cut

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-02T11:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/new-zealand-will-stay-its-course-after-credit-rating-cuts-english-says.html
New Zealand  and the companies that
cut its  credit rating  last week have a different view of the
country’s ability to curb government and household debt, Finance
Minister  Bill English  said.  Standard & Poor’s , which reduced New Zealand’s long-term
foreign currency rating to AA from AA+ on Sept. 30 said there’s
a likelihood household and corporate debt will continue to rise
even as earthquake-related spending pressures and fiscal
stimulus to support growth strain the government’s ability to
curb borrowing.  “We’re not ignoring what they’re saying,” English said on
TV New Zealand’s “ Q&A” program  yesterday. “They have a
different view than we do of where we’ll end up.”  New Zealand will stay its course and maintain the focus on
changing the tax system to make it more competitive and getting
government debt under control, English said. The country joined
the U.S. and  Italy  among nations that saw their ratings cut this
year after Christchurch, New Zealand’s second-largest city, was
hit by earthquakes in the past 12 months, straining government
coffers.  New Zealand’s sovereign credit rating was cut one step to
AA by Fitch, which also cited the southern Pacific nation’s high
level of external debt and its persistent current account
deficit as the reasons. The outlook is stable after the rating
was reduced from AA+, Fitch said in a Sept. 30 statement.  The rating cuts add to concerns in New Zealand that
borrowing costs will increase. In 2009, Prime Minister John Key
said a rating cut could add 1 percent to 2 percent to  mortgage
rates  and cost the government an additional NZ$600 million ($457
million) to finance its debt. English said today the situation
is different and New Zealand is benefiting from lower  interest
rates  around the globe.  ‘Upward Pressure’  “There may be some upward pressure on rates but bear in
mind interest rates currently are at 45-year lows,” English
said. “Interest rates around the world are still headed down.”  New Zealand’s currency fell to its lowest level in six
months against the dollar after the rating cuts. The kiwi
dropped 1.3 percent against the dollar last week. It’s down 10.1
percent this month and down 7.5 percent during the quarter. The
Australian dollar has lost 8.8 percent since Aug. 31 and has
declined 9.1 percent during the past three months.  The rating cuts occurred as New Zealanders prepare to head
to the polls in a general election on Nov. 26.  The governing  National Party  has almost double the support 
of the opposition  Labour Party , according to a One News Colmar 
 poll  released yesterday. The Nationals had 56 percent support of 
those polled compared with 29 percent who said they'd vote for 
Labour in the survey of 1,008 eligible voters.  English said New Zealand is benefiting from having most of
its trade with  China  and  Australia , two economies that are
outperforming the rest of the world.  “There’s always some risks around an economy like China
which has been growing at double-digit growth, 12 to 14
percent,” English said. “Even if it slows down though, we
believe it’s still a pretty positive story for our food-related
exports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  