-- 
New York Fed May Demand Liquidity Reports From European Banks

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-10-03T12:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/new-york-fed-may-demand-europe-s-banks-produce-more-details-on-liquidity.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
may ask foreign lenders for more detailed daily reports on
liquidity as the U.S. steps up monitoring of risks from  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis, according to two people with knowledge of
the matter.  Regulators held informal talks with some of the largest
European lenders about producing a “fourth-generation daily
liquidity” or 4G report, according to the people, who asked for
anonymity because communications with central bankers are
confidential. The reports may cover potential liabilities such
as foreign-exchange swaps and credit-default swaps, said one
person. The U.S. has already increased the number of examiners
embedded in these banks, the person said.  Concern is growing that European lenders may falter as
Greece teeters on the brink of insolvency. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has warned that failure to bolster
European backstops would threaten “cascading default, bank runs
and catastrophic risk” for the global economy. European finance
ministers were scheduled to meet today on how to shield banks
from the fallout of a Greek default.  “The Fed is trying to understand what the pressure points
are in terms of liquidity and potential risks that are imposed
by foreign banks to domestic institutions in our financial
system,” said  Kevin Petrasic , an attorney at the Washington-
based law firm of Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLC. “There
is a little bit more sense of urgency as a result of what’s
going on in Europe.”  Liquidity Risk  U.S.-based money funds, which buy short-term commercial
paper, have been shunning securities issued by some banks based
on the continent, and European Central Bank Governing Council
member Yves Mersch said Sept. 28 that liquidity shortages pose
the main risks to the region’s banking system.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York , declined to comment. The largest European bank holding
companies by assets in the U.S. include units of  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria S.A.,
according to Federal Reserve data.  Duncan King , a spokesman for
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, Thaddeus Herrick, a spokesman for
Spain-based BBVA and London-based HSBC’s Rob Sherman said they
couldn’t comment.  U.S. banks are starting to provide a 4G report and they are
being phased in this month, said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing
partner of Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics Inc.
Some Europeans are asking U.S. counterparts for information on
how to prepare the report even though there has been no formal
request from the Fed so far, one of the people said.  Avoiding a Squeeze  “The report requires rapid and in some cases daily data on
a banks’ assets, liabilities and potential claims to measure the
degree to which the bank could be caught in the classic borrow-
short, lend-long squeeze,” Petrou said. “The 4G is one of the
tools to reveal  liquidity risk .”  The forms aren’t public, according to Petrou, and the New
York Fed declined to provide a copy.  Euro-zone banks and other institutions were more than $350
billion in debt to the Fed’s emergency-lending facilities at one
point during the 2008-2009 financial crisis, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News. The analysis was based on Fed
documents released earlier this year after court orders upheld
Freedom of Information Act requests by Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News, and News Corp.’s Fox News Network
LLC. Fed lending to these entities totaled more than $100
billion on an average day.  Swap Contracts  Regulators lack access to data on foreign institutions
operating in the U.S. that would allow them to “make informed
judgments about the adequacy of such firms’ capital and
liquidity buffers,” William C. Dudley, president of the New
York Fed, said in a Sept. 23 Washington speech.  U.S. prime money-market funds cut their exposure to euro-
zone bank deposits and commercial paper, or short-term IOUs, to
$214 billion in August from $391 billion at the end of last
year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data. The funds are
rationing their credit to European banks because of concerns
that financial institutions will take large losses if a euro-
zone nation defaults.  Credit-default swaps allow bondholders to buy protection
against losses if an issuer doesn’t pay its debts. The contracts
can entitle the holder to face value if the borrower defaults.
Lawmakers and regulators have blamed misuse of swaps and lack of
disclosure for helping to trigger the 2008 financial crisis.  A  currency swap  is a contract in which one party borrows
one currency from another, and simultaneously lends another to
the second party. Foreign-exchange swaps are used to raise
foreign currencies for financial institutions and their
customers, such as exporters and importers as well as investors.  Currencies and their related derivatives are among the most
actively traded markets in the world, with average daily
turnover reaching $4 trillion as of September 2010, according to
Bank for International Settlements estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  