-- 
Obama Tells U.S. Gay Activist Group Opponents Want to Turn ‘Clock Back’

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-10-02T01:06:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/obama-tells-u-s-gay-activist-group-opponents-want-to-turn-clock-back-.html
President  Barack Obama  told the
largest U.S. gay-rights group that the progress made on policies
that have benefited the gay community still is threatened by
opponents who want to “turn the clock back.”  With the presidential election 13 months away, Obama listed
the measures taken since he’s been in office, including repeal
of the prohibition against gays serving openly in the military,
passage of a hate-crimes law, and policies that expand the
rights of same-sex couples. The battle, he said, isn’t over.  “This is a contest of values, that’s what’s at stake here,
this is a fundamental debate about who we are as a nation,”
Obama said in his address to the  Human Rights Campaign  national
dinner in Washington, delivering his second keynote address to
the group.  Obama is seeking to revive enthusiasm among his core
supporters before the 2012 elections amid concern about the
economy and his struggle with Congress over how to trim the
nation’s debt. The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.3 percent pace in
the second quarter and unemployment is forecast by the White
House to average 9.1 percent this year.  Obama mixed a recitation of his records on gay rights with
a pitch for the $447 billion package of tax cuts and spending
he’s proposed to spur hiring and criticism of the Republicans in
Congress and those vying for their party’s nomination to
challenge him next year.  Republican Candidates  “We believe in a big America,” he said, that doesn’t let
roads and schools crumble.  Without naming them directly, Obama criticized the nine
Republican presidential candidates for remaining silent at a
Sept. 22 debate when a question asked by a gay soldier from  Iraq 
was booed by several members of the audience.  “We don’t believe in the kind of smallness that says it’s
OK for a stage full of political leaders, one of whom could end
up being the president of the  United States , being silent when
an American soldier is booed,” he said. “You want to be
commander-in-chief you can start by standing up for the men and
women who wear the uniform of the United States even when it’s
not politically convenient.”  About 3,000 people attended the dinner at the convention
center in downtown Washington. Obama drew his biggest cheers
from the crowd that he followed through on a promise he made to
them two years ago to end the military policy on gays known as
“don’t ask, don’t tell.”  “No one has to live a lie to serve the country they
love,” he said, drawing a standing ovation.  Jobs Plan  He appealed to them to support his jobs plan and put
pressure on lawmakers to pass it.  “HRC you know how Congress works, I’m counting on you to
have my back,” he said.  Joe Solmonese, president of the Human Rights Campaign, made
a similar pitch in introducing the president.  “No president has done more to improve the lives of LGBT
people than President Obama,” Solmonese said. “President
Barack Obama has stood with us, ladies and gentlemen, this is
our moment to stand with him.”  John Aravosis, the founder of the AMERICAblog website and
an Obama supporter in 2008 questioned whether Obama can again
generate the interest and support that fueled his first
presidential campaign.  “We know democratic constituencies across the board are
less enthusiastic -- the president doesn’t really invest in long
term political relationships,” Aravosis said. Still, he said he
thinks the gay community may be more willing to give than other
Democratic activists because of the repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t
tell, which he said is “something real.”  “The question for people on the left is whether his move
back to the base is a temporary arrangement,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  