-- 
Obama Poised to Submit Trade Accords to Congress

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-03T16:19:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/obama-poised-to-submit-three-trade-deals-business-groups-say.html
President  Barack Obama  may send free-
trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and  Panama  to
Congress for consideration as soon as today, according to a
person familiar with the administration’s plans.  Obama said at a Cabinet meeting today that the
administration will make an announcement on the pending trade
deals “in the next day or so.”  The trade pacts reached under President  George W. Bush  and
revised by Obama have been stymied in a stalemate with  House
Republicans  over benefits for workers hurt by import
competition. The Senate voted to extend the aid on Sept. 22, and
House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said he would
consider the program, called Trade Adjustment Assistance, in
tandem with the trade deals once the Obama administration
submits legislation to enact the agreements.  A second person, a Colombian government official who said
he has been briefed on the plans, said he expected Obama to act
on the accords today or tomorrow. Both people spoke on condition
of anonymity in advance of the announcement.  “I would fully expect them to move these as quickly as
possible, and I would hope they would move them” today, Doug
Goudie, director of international trade policy for the  National
Association of Manufacturers  in Washington, said yesterday in an
interview. “Everything is ready for them to go.”  President Lee’s Visit  The administration may seek to advance the free-trade
agreements before South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  visits
Washington Oct. 13, John Murphy, vice president of international
affairs at the Washington-based U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the
nation’s biggest business group, said in a Sept. 30 interview.  “The White House is clearly motivated to get a move on if
at all possible because of President Lee’s state visit,” Murphy
said. “There’s a belief in some quarters that if they could
send up the FTAs as early as Monday afternoon or Tuesday
morning, that might allow them to get the FTAs and TAA out of
the House maybe by the end of the week.”  The  South Korea  deal, the biggest since the North American
Free Trade Agreement, would boost U.S. exports by as much as
$10.9 billion in the first year in which it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The accord
with Colombia would increase exports by as much as $1.1 billion
a year.  Obama, in a Sept. 8 speech to Congress introducing his $447
billion job-creation plan, called on lawmakers to pass the trade
accords and renew the worker aid.  “The president should send in the agreements,”  Michael
Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, said yesterday in an e-mail. The
speaker is “confident we can get them done by mid-October,”
Steel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  