-- 
London Beats Moscow as Russian Listings Flee Failures of Medvedev’s Market

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-10-02T20:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/london-beats-moscow-as-russian-listings-flee-failures-of-medvedev-s-market.html
Russia ’s largest gold company moved
its share listing to London from Moscow in July, and the
nation’s biggest phosphate fertilizer producer is considering
the same change, a blow to President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s plan to
turn the former Soviet capital into a global financial hub 20
years after the fall of Communism.  While companies in Russia, the world’s largest energy
exporter, are reaping record profits from rising commodities, an
increasing number of the nation’s biggest businesses prefer to
list their shares overseas to avoid trading halts, local
currency swings and regulations that are less stringent than
Europe’s. Polyus Gold International Ltd. said it moved to London
to gain access to foreign investors, while OAO Phosagro sees a
primary listing in the U.K. capital as its “ultimate goal.”  Russian stock trading in  London  has outpaced volumes in
Moscow for 13 straight months, with the gap reaching a three-
year high of 50 percent in August, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Medvedev has made finance a cornerstone of his plan
to diversify the economy, while Prime Minister Vladimir Putin,
the former president who announced Sept. 24 he will run for the
office again in March, says Russia must avoid liberal
“experiments.”  “We do prefer to access the London shares,” said Lewis Kaufman, a Santa Fe, New Mexico-based money manager at Thornburg
Investment Management whose Thornburg Developing World Fund has
beaten 87 percent of peers the past 12 months and owned London-
listed shares of Russian gas producer OAO Gazprom as of July.
“Russia’s ambitions in the capital markets area and broader
willingness to diversify their economy are still some time
away.”  TNK-BP, Yukos  Russia is ranked 123rd in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing
Business Index, after Uganda and Ethiopia, and Transparency
International rates Russia 154th on its Corruption Perceptions
Index, below Libya.  Imprisoned former chief executive officer of Yukos Oil Co.,
Mikhail Khodorkovsky, is a reminder of the risks of investing in
Russia. Yukos, once Russia’s largest oil producer, was
bankrupted during Putin’s presidency in 2006 after the
government claimed more than $30 billion in back taxes.
Khodorkovsky was jailed for fraud and oil embezzlement, charges
he said were linked to his financing of opposition political
parties.  London-based BP Plc’s proposed $7.8 billion share swap and
oil exploration accord with state-owned OAO Rosneft collapsed in
May after Russian billionaire partners in TNK-BP, the U.K.
company’s existing joint venture, won a legal challenge to block
the deal.  BRIC Stock Sales  Russia is the only one of the four largest emerging markets
where share offerings in London exceeded local equity sales this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sugar producer Ros Agro Plc and Yandex NV, operator of
Russia’s most popular search engine, led companies raising at
least $5 billion selling shares in London and  New York  in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the
$4.6 billion financed through Moscow exchanges, the data show.  In  Brazil , companies raised at least $10 billion from
selling equity in local markets this year without any deals in
New York and London, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 India ’s local share sales exceeded overseas offerings by more
than $6 billion this year, while the gap in  China  was about $50
billion, the data show.  Polyus Gold gained its U.K. listing in July after a reverse
takeover by its London-traded subsidiary. Moscow-based Phosagro,
the largest phosphate fertilizer maker in Europe, is “at the
beginning of the process” of seeking a primary listing in
London, Chief Executive Officer Maxim Volkov said in a Sept. 21
interview on Bloomberg Television.  FTSE 100 Goal  Evraz Group SA (EVR) , Russia’s largest steelmaker by output, said
on Aug. 3 it may move its primary listing to London from
 Luxembourg  to allow it to qualify for entry to the  FTSE 100
Index (UKX) , made up of the U.K.’s biggest companies on the London
Stock Exchange. Evraz’s market value of $6.9 billion is bigger
than about 40 companies in the FTSE gauge, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The 30-day average value traded of 10 of the biggest
Russian companies in London has been higher than the same
companies’ Moscow-listed shares since August 2010, with the gap
averaging 33 percent during the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It hit 50 percent on Aug. 26, the widest
since November 2008, the data show.  Medvedev said in June he plans to meet with the heads of
international banks this month to discuss how to turn Moscow
into a global financial hub. The transformation is “already
taking hold,” the 46-year-old former corporate lawyer said
during a speech in Moscow’s Red Square on Sept. 4.  Dimon, Blankfein  JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. CEO Lloyd Blankfein are part of a
27-member panel Medvedev assembled this year to advise Russia on
how to boost the financial clout of the nation’s capital.
Medvedev said on Sept. 24 he may swap positions with Putin by
taking over as prime minister.  Monika Schaller, a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on whether Blankfein will attend the
meeting this month. Brian Marchiony , a spokesman at New York-
based JPMorgan, declined to comment on Dimon’s plans.  Russia’s former President Boris Yeltsin dismantled seven
decades of totalitarian rule and oversaw the breakup of the
 Soviet Union  in 1991, laying the groundwork for an equity market
that has grown to $760 billion, the 14th-biggest worldwide,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A decade of rising oil
revenue has made Russia the fourth-largest emerging economy,
after China, Brazil and India.  Profits Surge  At the same time, Russian equities trade at the lowest
valuations in emerging markets after Yukos’s bankruptcy,
Russia’s five-day war against neighboring Georgia in 2008 and
the BP deal’s collapse eroded investor confidence in Russia’s
corporate governance and the rule of law.  Earnings at companies in the benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  hit a
record in August after rising more than fourfold since the end
of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Micex
companies earned about $122 billion during the past 12 months,
more than the $90 billion of net income reported by companies in
 Germany ’s benchmark  DAX index (DAX) , the data show. The Micex is
valued at 5.1 times reported profits, the lowest among equity
gauges in 21 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  While Russian policy makers made some progress improving
transparency and regulation in recent years, Moscow still lags
behind the “gold standard” of London, said Aaron Johnson,
Ernst & Young’s IPO leader for the Commonwealth of Independent
States, a grouping of former Soviet states.  BRICs Retreat  Russia “is putting a lot of effort into this, but there’s
still a ways to go before the platform will be on par with
London,” Johnson said in an interview. “That’s why you see a
lot of Russian companies still heading to London for their
capital raising needs.”  The Micex index of ruble-denominated shares traded in
Moscow has declined 19 percent this year, while the  MSCI BRIC (MXBRIC) 
Index of stocks in Brazil, Russia, India and China, the four
biggest emerging markets, sank 27 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
has dropped 14 percent.  Companies seek listings overseas “because of the weakness
of the local financial market,” Stanislav Voskresensky,
Russia’s deputy economy minister, said in a Sept. 22 interview
in New York. While reforms “can’t be done overnight,” policy
makers are on the “right track,” he said.  Price Gap  Micex doesn’t require listed companies to report results
using International Financial Reporting Standards, there are no
minimum requirements for free float -- or shares available for
trading -- and no rules preventing company executives from
selling their stakes soon after the IPO, according to Ernst &
Young’s Johnson. The level of detail on disclosure of risks and
financial performance in share-sale prospectuses is
“substantially higher” in London than Moscow, he said.  Investing in dollar-denominated global depositary receipts
of Russian companies in London reduces the risk of foreign-
exchange losses and unexpected bourse closures, according to
Thornburg’s Kaufman, who helps oversee about $83 billion. GDRs
also have easier settlement procedures, said Gareth Morgan, a
London-based money manager at F&C Asset Management, which
oversees about $156 billion.  The ruble weakened more than 30 percent during the global
financial crisis three years ago and the Micex exchange halted
trading more than 25 times as prices sank, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Most stock transactions in Moscow are settled on the same
day, meaning investors must provide the cash or shares upfront,
compared with two or three days for most large bourses in  Europe 
and the U.S., according to Julian Rimmer, a trader of Russian
shares at CF Global Trading in London.  Hong Kong   GDRs of OAO Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly,
traded at an average premium of 1 percent over the company’s
Micex-listed shares during the past five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. OAO Sberbank’s London-listed
equities surged as much as 11 percent higher than the stock in
Moscow on Sept. 16 amid speculation Russia’s largest lender
imposed a limit on the number of shares that can be sold as
GDRs.  The biggest stock sale by a Russian raw-materials company
since 2009 was United Co. Rusal’s Hong Kong initial public
offering in January 2010. The world’s largest aluminum maker
raised about $2.2 billion selling shares on the Hong Kong Stock
Exchange, the first IPO by a Russian company in the city.  ‘World Class’  The planned merger between the Micex exchange, which
handles about 70 percent of equity transactions in Russia, and
the  RTS , which dominates derivatives trading, by December will
help lure investors to Moscow by making it easier to add new
products and push for regulatory reforms, according to Ruben Aganbegyan, president of the Micex.  Regulators and the bourse plan to address two of the main
concerns of foreign investors by creating a central depository
and settlement procedures in line with the biggest exchanges,
Aganbegyan said in a Sept. 20 interview in London.  While Russia’s bourses have taken steps to make trading
easier, the government needs to improve regulation of the
financial system and reform the domestic pension industry before
it can become a financial hub, said Plamen Monovski, who helps
oversee about $2.2 billion as chief investment officer of
Renaissance Asset Managers in London.  Russian pension assets were about 3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2009, compared with 14 percent in Poland and
74 percent in the U.K., data compiled by Renaissance Asset
Managers show. A bigger pension industry will provide a “shock
absorber” for Russian markets during times of global financial
stress and help reduce volatility, Monovski said.  “Things like the mergers of exchanges that are being done,
this is decoration, not really the essence,” Monovski said.
“The Russian regulators really need to join the cohort of the
countries that we think of as world class.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  