-- 
Payroll Gain Probably Failed to Cut U.S. Unemployment as Confidence Waned

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-10-02T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/payroll-gain-probably-failed-to-cut-u-s-unemployment-as-confidence-waned.html
Gains in U.S. payrolls in September
were probably too small to reduce joblessness and manufacturing
almost stalled as concern mounted that the global recovery was
losing momentum, economists said before reports this week.  Employment climbed by 50,000 workers after no change in
August, according to the median forecast of 67 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before Labor Department data Oct. 7.
Factories grew at the slowest pace since July 2009, a survey of
purchasing managers may show tomorrow.  The European debt crisis, political haggling in the U.S.
and a plunge in stock prices have led to a drop in consumer and
business confidence that may keep hurting spending and hiring.
The risk that the world’s largest economy may fall back into a
recession has prompted the  Federal Reserve  and President  Barack Obama  to announce further measures to spur the expansion.  “The first things employers tend to do when the outlook
weakens is they stop hiring,” said  Julia Coronado , chief
economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in New York. “A lot
of indicators are suggesting further weakening in the labor
market.”  The  unemployment rate  was 9.1 percent in September for a
third month, according to the survey median.  Private payrolls, which exclude government jobs, rose
90,000 after a gain of 17,000 in the prior month, economists
forecast the employment report will also show.  Verizon,  Minnesota   While a labor dispute at Verizon Communications Inc.
depressed employment in August, its resolution may have added
about 45,000 workers back to payrolls last month, according to
economists like  John Herrmann  at State Street Global Markets in
 Boston .  Conversely, the return of state government workers in
Minnesota lifted the August payroll count by 23,000, a boost
that wasn’t repeated last month.  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter following a 0.4 percent gain in the first three months
of the year, the weakest performance in two years, the Commerce
Department reported last week.  Consumer spending  grew 0.7
percent, the least since the last three months of 2009.  Manufacturing, a stalwart of the expansion, barely grew
last month, a report may show Oct. 3. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index fell to 50.3 from 50.6 in August,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. A reading of 50
is the dividing line between contraction and expansion.  Orders Stall  A Commerce Department report the following day may show
factory orders were little changed in August after a 2.4 percent
gain the prior month, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Services, which make up about 90 percent of the economy,
probably also slowed last month, another report may show on Oct.
5. ISM’s non-manufacturing index fell to 52.8 from 53.3 in
August, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The projected gain in total payrolls would bring the
average from July through September to 45,000, down from 97,000
in the second quarter and 166,000 in the first three months of
the year.  Sustained increases of around 200,000 a month are needed to
bring unemployment down about a percentage point over a year,
according to  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD Securities
Inc. in  New York .  Through August, the economy had recovered about 1.9 million
of the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  Fed’s View  “Economic growth remains slow,” Fed policy makers said
Sept. 21 as they announced a plan to bring down longer-term
lending rates. While officials said they “expect some pickup in
the pace of recovery over coming quarters,” they anticipate
“the unemployment rate will decline only gradually.”  Obama last month proposed a $447 billion jobs plan that
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast would help avoid a
return to recession by maintaining growth and pushing down the
unemployment rate next year.  Investors have turned more pessimistic. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index had its biggest quarterly drop from July
through September since 2008.  Illinois  and New York are among states that are bracing for
job cuts to avoid partial government shutdowns. Illinois will
have to lay off more than 1,900 state employees and close seven
facilities to avoid a partial government shutdown next spring,
Democratic Governor Pat Quinn said Sept. 9.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest  U.S. bank , is among firms
that have turned more cautious about hiring. It said last month
it will limit hiring to only “critical” jobs as the economic
slowdown continues and revenue slumps.  “We are currently only filling positions we believe are
critical to the line of business or function,”  Shannon Bell , a
spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, said in an interview
Sept. 15.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  