-- 
Dubai Stocks Beat Emerging Markets as Wealth, Valuations Buoy Persian Gulf

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-10-03T10:54:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/persian-gulf-stocks-beat-emerging-markets-on-valuations-wealth.html
Persian Gulf  shares outperformed
emerging markets for a second quarter as Dubai stocks reached
the cheapest levels in six months and  government spending  in the
region spurred economic growth.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of regional shares retreated
6.5 percent and Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 5.6 percent in
the period amid concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is
worsening. That compares with a 23 percent slump for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. Dubai’s measure is valued at 0.6 times
book value, or assets minus liabilities, while developing
nations shares trade at 1.5 times.  “Before the selloff in global markets, equity prices and
valuations in the region were already at attractive levels due
to political tensions” earlier this year, said Yong Wei Lee,
who helps oversee about $1.2 billion as a senior  fund manager  at
Emirates NBD Asset Management in Dubai. Some Gulf nations have
“accumulated large fiscal reserves” that “support their large
infrastructure spending plans, which provides a cushion from the
economic slowdown in developed markets.”  Oil-exporting economies in the  Middle East  and North Africa
will expand 4.9 percent in 2011, compared with growth of 1.5
percent in the U.S. and 1.6 percent in the euro region, the
 International Monetary Fund  said last month. Saudi Arabia, which
depends on oil for 86 percent of its revenue, ordered sweeping
increases in spending, including $67 billion on housing and
funds for the military and religious groups to stave off
protests. Crude prices have averaged 23 percent more this year
from the same period of 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Beacon of Stability  Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates  have been spared
protests that spread across the Middle East, toppling leaders in
 Egypt ,  Tunisia  and  Libya  and leading to violent protests in
Bahrain and  Syria . Gulf Arab oil exporters, including Qatar, the
U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia  supply about a fifth of the world’s
crude.  The Gulf Cooperation Council “stands out as a beacon of
financial and political stability,” says Paul Cooper, Dubai-
based managing director at Sarasin-Alpen & Partners Ltd., which
oversees more than $500 million in the Middle East. “It can
boast an accelerating rather than decelerating economy, budget
surpluses rather than budget deficits and low and falling
debt.”  Qatar, which plans to invest $88 billion on infrastructure
to host the 2022 soccer  World Cup , forecasts economic expansion
of about 16 percent this year, the world’s fastest-growing
economy, and a budget surplus of $6.1 billion. Qatar’s QE Index
gained 0.4 percent last quarter, the sixth-best performance
among 94 benchmark indexes tracked globally by Bloomberg.  Bucking Trend  A drop of 6.3 percent in the quarter left Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  valued at 1.1 times book value, compared with 1.8
in Saudi Arabia and 1.1 in  Kuwait . The MSCI World Index tumbled
17 percent last quarter and is valued at 1.5 percent book value
as a worldwide equity rout erased about $9.2 trillion from
global stocks since the end of June as signs mounted that the
world economy is faltering.  Trading volumes in Gulf stocks plunged in the third quarter
from a year ago as foreign funds trimmed holdings of riskier
assets. An average 47 million shares were traded in Abu Dhabi
since the end of June compared with 62 million shares in the
same period of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The value of traded shares in Dubai tumbled to 30.2 million
dirhams ($8.2 million) yesterday, the lowest since August 2004.
Shares with a value of about 89 million dirhams traded today.  “The lack of liquidity will remain a concern to investors
in general,” said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset management
at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital.  Slow Return  Overseas investors who fled Gulf equity markets during the
2008 global financial crisis have been slow to return, according
to Emad Mostaque, a London-based Middle East and North Africa
strategist at Religare Capital Markets Plc. The DFM Index in
Dubai, the second-biggest of the seven sheikdoms that make up
the U.A.E., slumped 72 percent that year. The measure has lost
14 percent so far this year.  Dubai World, a state-owned holding company, rocked global
financial markets in late 2009 after saying it would have to
restructure debt. The company reached a restructuring agreement
with its creditors in March. The emirate’s stock index closed
0.4 percent lower in 2010 than at the end of 2008, while the
 MSCI World (MXWO)  Index rallied 39 percent in the same period and
emerging markets and crude oil more than doubled.  Local Dependency  Dubai’s stock market saw net foreign investment outflow of
56.5 million dirhams in June and 15.9 million dirhams in July,
according to the bourse’s  website .  Gulf “markets are dependent on the locals, who have had a
reasonable year with salary rises and handouts,” Religare’s
Mostaque said. “The Arab Spring led to more foreign money
leaving; as such, you don’t have the day to day correlation of
other global markets.”  Qatar raised the basic salary and pensions of Qatari
civilian employees 60 percent as of Sept. 1. Military officers
got 120 percent more and military personnel of other ranks
received a 50 percent increase. Qatar needs oil at about $55 a
barrel for its budget to break even and the U.A.E. of about $95,
according to a report by Deutsche Bank AG last month. Crude
prices have averaged $95.36 a barrel this year compared with
$77.72 in the year-earlier period.  “Unless we enter a global recession where oil drops to
$50, the region will be fine,” said Sebastien Henin, who helps
oversee $100 million at The National Investor in  Abu Dhabi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  