-- 
Ratio Climbs Most in Seven Months on Leviathan 3 Work Plan

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   S u s a n   L e r n e r
-- 
2011-10-02T15:57:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/ratio-soars-to-highest-in-three-weeks-on-leviathan-3-work-plan.html
Ratio Oil Exploration 1992 LP (RATIL)  jumped
the most in more than seven months after the partners in
Israel’s largest natural-gas discovery said drilling at the
Leviathan 3 site will be finished in mid-November.  Ratio shares advanced 8.8 percent, the biggest jump since
Feb. 22, to 0.286 shekel at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv 
today. Avner Oil Exploration-LP and Delek Drilling-LP, other
partners in the project, increased 2.8 percent and 2.2 percent
to 1.748 shekels and 9.69 shekels, respectively.  Drilling will be completed within budget at a cost of about
$100 million, the partners  said today  in statements to the Tel
Aviv Stock Exchange.  The Tel Aviv Oil & Gas Exploration index has gained 13
percent in the past five trading days, compared with a 1.5
percent increase for the benchmark TA-25 measure.  “Things are becoming clearer, and we are seeing progress
in drilling schedules,” said Richard Gussow, analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in Tel Aviv. “It is becoming more and more
evident every day that Egyptian gas is not reliable and that
makes Israeli gas more valuable.”  Israel  has not received gas from  Egypt  since the last
attack on pipeline operator East Mediterranean Gas Co.’s network
on July 12. Prior to those bombings, Israel received about 40
percent of its gas from Egypt.  Israel Electric Corp., the main buyer of Egyptian gas, is
using imported crude oil and diesel to make up the shortfall.  The use of  diesel fuel  for electricity production doubled
during the first eight months of the year, compared to the year-
ago period, and cost the economy 10 million shekels ($2.7
million) a day, the National Infrastructures Ministry said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Lerner  in Jerusalem at 
 slerner2@bloomberg.net 
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  