-- 
Record RBA Rates Pause Seen in World’s Best Bond Rally: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-03T00:16:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/record-rba-rates-pause-seen-in-world-s-best-bond-rally-australia-credit.html
Australian central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  may keep interest rates unchanged until July, a
record stretch, economists said as speculation of a global
recession spurs the nation’s bonds to lead a worldwide rally.  Stevens will hold the overnight cash-rate target at a
developed-world high of 4.75 percent tomorrow and leave it there
until the middle of next year, the median of 22 economists’
estimates showed. Yields on government notes from one to 12
years in maturity fell below the  Reserve Bank ’s benchmark last
quarter as they rallied 9.9 percent over the past 12 months, the
steepest gains among 26 markets tracked by Bloomberg.  The RBA, which last raised rates in November, is balancing
inflation driven by resources investment and a stronger currency
that’s hurt manufacturing jobs and damaged confidence. Stevens
has opted not to respond to  Australia ’s fastest annual inflation
in three years as Europe’s intensifying debt crisis roiled
financial markets and pushed global equities to the biggest drop
since 2008.  “For the RBA to remain on hold for more than two years
would be very unusual, but I would argue the circumstances are
very unusual right now,” said  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s chief economist in Australia, who last week dropped his
forecast for two rate increases in 2012. The currency’s recent
decline has “done some of the loosening for the RBA and that
will have taken some pressure off,” he said.  Dollar, Yields Slide  The so-called Aussie dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has dropped 13 percent from its record-high $1.1081
reached July 27 amid speculation  Greece  will default and spur a
repeat of the 2008 credit freeze that followed the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. The Australian currency slid 1.2
percent last week to 96.62 U.S. cents and was at 96.74 at 10:48
a.m. in Sydney today.  Ten-year Australian government bond yields fell 15 basis
points in September to 4.22 percent, completing the longest
stretch of monthly declines since at least 1978. Money-market
rates also dropped last quarter, with cash-rate futures
signaling in August the RBA would lower rates as much as 125
basis points by year end.  The tension between the economic stimulus from record
mining investment and the global disruptions spurred by U.S. and
European fiscal crises have left economists split between bulls
and bears with regard to RBA rates.  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey for the key rate’s level
on June 30, 2012, ranged from 4 percent to 5.25 percent, with
five expecting at least one reduction, seven seeing rates
unchanged and 10 predicting an increase in borrowing costs.  ‘Pessimistic’ View  RBA Deputy Governor Ric Battellino signaled last month that
market pricing showing traders betting on rate cuts by the
central bank was “pessimistic.” December cash-rate futures
yielded 4.12 percent today, up from a 2011 low of 3.47 percent
on Aug. 9. The RBA had considered raising borrowing costs in
August after a July 27 report showed annual inflation
accelerated to 3.6 percent in the second quarter.  “The elevated level of inflation will keep the RBA from
cutting rates,” said Paul Bloxham, chief economist for HSBC
Holdings Plc in Sydney. “We have not seen enough weakness in
the global or local economy, as yet, to see the RBA revising
down its forecasts such that inflation heads to the lower part
of the target band.” The central bank aims to keep inflation
within a 2 percent to 3 percent range on average.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent last month from a year
earlier following a 2.9 percent annual gain in August, according
to an index compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the Melbourne
Institute released in Sydney today.  The manufacturing index dropped to 42.3, the lowest level
since June 2009, from 43.3 in August, the Australian Industry
Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released
today. It was the sixth month in seven the index was below 50,
the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  The RBA in August extended the current rates pause to 10
months, the longest stretch without a move since a 13-month
hiatus that ended in May 2006, four months before Stevens took
office as governor. The central bank held borrowing costs from
December 1994 to July 1996 in the  longest period  without a move
since policy makers began targeting inflation with monetary
policy in January 1990.  The RBA boosted its rate seven times from October 2009 to
November 2010, tempering a rise in  consumer debt , which more
than tripled in the past 20 years to 153.7 percent of disposable
income in the second quarter. Investors predict at least 1.25
percentage points of cuts over the next 12 months, according to
a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps trading.  Contracts for the RBA’s October, November and December rate
meetings recovered in recent weeks as central bank officials
repeatedly said it is “too early” to judge what the global
turmoil means for the domestic economy and that market pricing
is due to “technical factors.”  Global Risks  “The technical factors largely refer to the increased
interest in using Australia as a market to hedge global risks,”
said Bloxham, a former central bank official.  The October future yielded 4.71 percent today in Sydney,
compared with 4.53 percent a month earlier.  “Australia is seemingly a good candidate for global money
managers to place trades that assume that if the world does see
a significant downturn, the RBA will cut rates aggressively,”
Bloxham said. “There are few other countries, if any, with
deep, liquid, high-quality paper, where  interest rates  are high
enough to believe that the central bank can respond with
significant moves.”  Stevens slashed rates from 7.25 percent to a 49-year low of
3 percent from September 2008 to April 2009 as the collapse of
Lehman Brothers started a global financial crisis.  Banking System  Since then, the Australian banking system has increased
capital levels, cut its reliance on short-term wholesale funding
and made greater use of deposits as a source of funding, the RBA
said in its financial stability review on Sept. 23. Even so,
credit growth has slowed to the weakest since 1977 and  house
prices  are weakening.  “With house prices softening, borrowers cannot sell their
property as easily if they get into payment difficulty, meaning
fewer cases of arrears are likely to be resolved by the sale of
the property than when prices were rising,” the central bank
said in the half-yearly report.  Loans provided by Australian banks and finance companies
remain subdued, increasing 0.2 percent in August from the
previous month, the central bank said in a report last week.  The nation’s jobs market has also weakened, with monthly
employment growth averaging 2,800 from January through August,
less than a 10th of the average of 30,500 in the first eight
months of 2010. Australia’s unemployment in August rose for a
second straight month, reaching a 10-month high of 5.3 percent.  Swaps Markets  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
on corporate debt surged 104 basis points since June 30 to 217
on Sept. 30, outpacing a 95 basis-point climb to 201 for the
Markit iTraxx  Europe , CMA prices show. The Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index climbed 52 basis points to 144.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate debt instead of government notes widened to 241 basis
points on Sept. 30, the highest in two years, from 177 on June
30, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Myer Holdings Ltd., Australia’s biggest department-store
chain, sees  consumer confidence  at a three-decade low and
doesn’t expect any improvement in at least six months, Chief
Executive Officer Bernie Brookes said in an interview last week.  Elevated U.S. unemployment, Europe’s failure to contain the
debt crisis and slowing Chinese demand for commodities may
contribute to a less robust rebound in Australia’s economy next
year. The  International Monetary Fund  last month lowered its
forecast for the nation’s increase in gross domestic product in
2012 to 3.3 percent, from 3.5 percent in early August.  Flood Rebound  Australia’s economy contracted 0.9 percent in the first
quarter this year from the prior quarter, according to
government figures. GDP rose 1.2 percent in the second quarter,
the most in four years, as growth returned after flooding in the
nation’s northeast.  Driving Australia’s economy is demand from developing
nations including China and  India  for  iron ore , coal and natural
gas. That has spurred the nation’s currency to a 38 percent gain
since Dec. 31, 2008, the most among more than 150 currencies
Bloomberg tracks against the  U.S. dollar .  Battellino, the RBA’s top official after Stevens, said last
month the economy should extend its two-decade expansion.  “It is too early at this stage to judge with any degree of
certainty whether Australia will catch cold from the U.S.,”
Battellino said in a Sept. 21 speech in  New York . “However,
given that over the past 10 to 15 years the Australian economy
has been less vulnerable to severe U.S. symptoms, there are
reasonable grounds for optimism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  