-- 
S&P’s AAA Ratings for CDOs Sold to Australian Towns Will Be Issue of Trial

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-03T06:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/s-p-faces-australia-trial-over-ratings-of-cdos-sold-to-towns.html
Standard & Poor’s , the rating company
being investigated by U.S. regulators over the nation’s credit
downgrade, will face trial in an Australian court to defend
allegations it misled investors with ratings of collateralized
debt obligations, in the first case of its kind.  Two Australian towns and an insurer sued the U.K. arm of
S&P’s owner McGraw-Hill Cos., along with financial services
firms including the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , who were
involved in the sale of AAA-rated securities that plummeted in
value during the global economic crisis in 2008.  “It is my understanding that this is the first trial
globally, focusing on a rating agency’s involvement in the CDO
debacle that materially contributed” to the global downturn,
 John Walker , executive director of litigation funder IMF
( Australia ) Ltd., which is paying for the lawsuit, said in an e-
mail. Walker declined to comment further until the start of the
trial tomorrow.  Statecover Mutual Ltd., a workers’ compensation insurer of
local governments in New South Wales, Bathurst regional council
and Corowa Shire Council seek to recoup the losses they incurred
from the purchase of securities in 2006.  The Bathurst council paid A$1 million ($963,000) to acquire
a so-called Community Income Constant Proportion Debt Obligation
Note, or a CPDO, on Dec. 20, 2006, and was advised less than two
years later that the note was being unwound and the council
would receive a repayment on the note of A$67,043, according to
the statement of claim.  Note Rating  The CPDO note was rated as AAA by S&P, and a financial
market specialist at Local Government Financial Services Ltd.
assured Bathurst’s accountants that the CPDO wasn’t like a CDO,
in which the council had a specific policy not to invest, the
plaintiff said.  “The Standard & Poor’s report was misleading and in
material ways misdescribed the characteristics and operations of
the CPDO note,” according to the filing.  The trial in Sydney Federal Court before Justice Jayne Jagot is scheduled for 10 weeks.  “We believe the case brought by LGFS and others against
McGraw-Hill UK lacks merit,” S&P said in an e-mailed statement
today. “Because the action is before the Australian courts it
is not appropriate to discuss it.”  Standard & Poor’s, based in  New York , on Aug. 5 cut the
U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA. The downgrade contributed to
an equity rout that erased about $6.8 trillion of global stocks
value from late July to mid August.  Flawed Analysis  U.S. government officials have said the downgrade was based
on a flawed analysis that overstated the nation’s debt by about
$2 trillion. The Securities and Exchange Commission is
scrutinizing the method S&P used to cut the rating and whether
the firm properly protected confidential information, according
to a person with direct knowledge of the probe, who declined to
be identified because the inquiry isn’t public.  Standard & Poor’s, along with Moody’s Corp. and Fitch Inc.,
last week won the dismissal of a lawsuit alleging their ratings
of mortgage-backed securities were faulty in the U.S. state of
 Ohio .  Ohio’s Police & Fire Pension Fund, the Public Employees
Retirement System, State Teachers Retirement System of Ohio and
two other public pension plans claimed they lost $457 million on
more than 300 mortgage-backed security investments made from
January 2005 to July 2008.  U.S. District Judge James L. Graham in Columbus threw out
the case Sept. 26, agreeing with the firms that the ratings were
“predictive opinions.” Without specific allegations that the
ratings services intended to defraud investors, the companies
couldn’t be held liable, he said.  Second Lawsuit  The lawsuit involving S&P is the second in Australia to
focus on the sale of collateralized debt obligations as
investments for towns and other groups, ahead of the global
economic downturn.  The Wingecarribee Shire Council and two other
municipalities sued  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s Australian
unit claiming it failed to advise of the risks of collateralized
debt obligations and ignored town policies that required
conservative investments, in pushing risky synthetic CDOs
beginning in 2003.  Justice Steven Rares hasn’t ruled on the case, following a
trial that began March 2 and ended June 7.  Lehman Brothers’ $613 billion bankruptcy in September 2008
triggered a contraction in global credit markets.  The case is: Statecover Mutual Ltd. v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD1268/2010. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  