-- 
Oil Markets Are Balanced Ahead of Libya Return, Saudi, Iran Officials Say

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-10-02T14:50:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/saudi-arabia-s-naimi-says-global-oil-markets-in-balance-asharq-reports.html
Global oil demand is balanced with
supply, said officials from OPEC’s two largest producers Saudi
Arabia and  Iran , as the group evaluates the outlook for economic
growth and the return of Libyan output.  Markets are “stable and in balance,” Saudi Arabian Oil
Minister Ali Al-Naimi was cited by Asharq Al-Awsat newspaper as
saying yesterday in  Riyadh . “The kingdom is ready to play a
positive role to ensure the stability of the market.”  Iran sees no need for the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to raise oil production, given the lack of
clarity about global demand, Mohammad Ali Khatibi, the country’s
representative to the group, told the state-run Mehr news
agency.  Oil capped the largest quarterly drop last week since the
2008 financial crisis, tumbling to a one-year low as signs of
slowing growth in  China , the U.S. and  Germany  heightened concern
demand will weaken. The  International Energy Agency  cut global
oil demand forecasts for this year and next in their latest
market reports released last month.  OPEC is set to meet in December in Vienna to evaluate
supply and demand and consider current production levels.  Production  OPEC’s oil output in September rose to the highest since
November 2008, as a Saudi cut was outpaced by Iraqi and Libyan
gains, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Production increased by
75,000 barrels, or 0.3 percent, to average 30.055 million
barrels a day, according to the survey of  oil companies ,
producers and analysts. Excluding Iraq, the 11 members’ daily
output dropped 15,000 barrels to 27.3 million, 2.44 million
barrels above their target.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer, reduced output by
90,000 barrels, or 0.8 percent, to 9.76 million barrels a day.
August output of 9.85 million barrels a day was at the highest
level since at least January 1989 when Bloomberg monthly data
began. The kingdom exceeded its quota by 1.71 million barrels.  The Kingdom, the world’s largest crude exporter, and
Persian Gulf neighbors Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates
increased output beyond their OPEC limits to help make up for a
shortfall in Libyan exports caused by the conflict in the North
African country.  Those countries backed a plan to raise OPEC’s output quotas
during the group’s last meeting in June, a move that was opposed
by countries such as Iran.  Oil Sales  Middle East producers may target higher minimum  oil prices 
to pay for increased social spending, Citigroup Inc. said in a
briefing. Producers need prices at about $86 a barrel on average
to meet budget requirements, Deutsche Bank AG said.  Saudi state revenue, made up mainly of income from oil
sales, will cover increases in  government spending  and be higher
than the 2011 budget forecast, newspaper al-Eqtisadiah reported
today, citing Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf. The Saudi
economy has “healthy growth” and oil prices are in “great
fluctuation,” the newspaper reported al-Assaf as saying.  Crude for November delivery fell $2.94 to $79.20 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Sept. 29, 2010. Brent oil for November settlement fell $1.19, or
1.1 percent, to settle at $102.76 a barrel on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London . Prices fell 8.6 percent last quarter,
paring their rise so far this year to 8.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  