-- 
HSBC Picked to Underwrite China Non-Financial Bonds, NAFMII Says

-- B y   H e n r y   S a n d e r s o n .   E d i t o r s :   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 
2011-10-02T09:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/hsbc-picked-to-underwrite-china-non-financial-bonds-nafmii-says.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s China unit has
been selected as part of an underwriting group for corporate
bonds in China, the National Association of Financial Market
Institutional Investors said in a notice on its  website.   HSBC was the only foreign bank to be selected to underwrite
commercial paper and medium-term notes, the most liquid bonds in
China, according to the notice, dated Sept. 30. The process
started in April, and a filing has been submitted to the central
bank, said the association, which is overseen by the central
bank.  The announcement could give HSBC greater access to China’s
interbank market, which is regulated by the central bank and is
more than 50 times larger than the exchange market where foreign
companies including UBS Securities Co. and Goldman Sachs Gao Hua
Securities Co. already underwrite bonds. The  interbank market 
had 19.59 trillion yuan ($3 trillion) of outstanding bonds at
the end of August, compared with 375 billion yuan for the
exchange market, according to Chinabond, the nation’s biggest
debt clearing house.  Connie Lee and Vinh Tran, spokespeople for HSBC, couldn’t
immediately be reached by phone for comment.  HSBC Bank (China) Co. helped underwrite 5 billion yuan of
bonds for Bank of  Shanghai , it said in November 2009. UBS
Securities underwrote 19.8 billion yuan of bonds in China so far
this year, according to Bloomberg data, making it the top
foreign underwriter.  A total of 1.1 trillion yuan of commercial paper and
medium-term notes approved by NAFMII was sold in  China  this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with 290 billion yuan of corporate bonds that are approved by
the National Development and Reform Commission, the data show. 