-- 
Singapore Pledges Jail, New Tactics for Financial Criminals

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-10-03T04:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/singapore-pledges-jail-new-tactics-against-financial-criminals.html
Singapore, where assets under
management have risen fivefold to $1.2 trillion since 2001, will
seek tougher penalties for white-collar criminals and co-operate
more with global agencies to deter  money laundering  and  tax
evasion , Attorney General Sundaresh Menon said.  Prosecutors are also considering the use of deferred
prosecution, Menon, 49, said in an interview, a year after
taking office. He was referring to a commonly used method in the
U.S. under which defendants who agree to cooperate with
investigators, pay fines or implement corporate reforms have
charges against them dismissed if they fully comply.  The Asian city state, which has the highest proportion of
millionaires of any place in the world and with economic growth
of 14.5 percent last year boosted by two new casinos, was
criticized in a March  U.S. State Department report  as being
vulnerable to money launderers.  “We’ve gone out of our way to make sure that we’ve got as
strong and robust a framework as possible,” Menon said. “This
has contained the incidence of illicit dealings that might have
happened” because of the increased amount of wealth in
 Singapore , he said.  He dismissed suggestions from the U.S. March report that
Singapore’s bank secrecy laws attract tax evaders and money
launderers.  Tax-Exempt Gains  Singapore, where  bank deposits  for foreigners aren’t taxed
and gains from investments including equities are tax-exempt,
has pledged to comply with international tax standards and was
dropped from the Organization of Economic Co-operation and
Development’s so-called gray list in 2009.  “We’ve one of the best money-laundering legislations in
the world,” said  Andy Yeo , principal partner of Allen &
Gledhill LLP’s white collar crime practice and former prosecutor.
“But is the stick being effectively wielded, given the amount
of the world’s money flowing here?”  Money-laundering convictions in Singapore have climbed to
an average of 21 a year from 2008 to 2010 compared with four
between 2000 to 2007, according to the Financial Action Task
Force, a Paris-based watchdog.  Hong Kong  had  360 money-
laundering convictions  in 2010, compared with 179 in 2007.  A relatively low prosecution rate shows that Singapore’s
regulatory system is working, said Menon, the former managing
partner at Singapore’s Rajah & Tann LLP and previously the head
of the Asian disputes practice of Cleveland-based law firm  Jones
Day .  ‘Throw the Book’  “To some extent, it’s inevitable that people are going to
try in spite of the robust framework we have and the seriousness
with which we take this,” Menon said. “But when it does happen,
I will throw the book at them.”  Singapore has to continue tightening its rules if it wants
to be among one of the world’s major financial centers, said
 Edwin Truman , author of “Chasing Dirty Money: The Fight Against
Money Laundering.”  “It has to if it doesn’t want any questions asked about
the underlying legality of transactions there,” said Truman, a
former U.S. Treasury official.  Aedit Abdullah, a former judge and central bank lawyer
hired by Menon, said that jail terms now handed down for private
sector corruption will be sought for other white collar crimes,
including securities offenses.  “A crime is a crime,” Menon said. “A corporate criminal
should at times be punished even more rigorously because he’s
breaking the law in order to profit.”  Tools in the Armory  Singapore, which is known for imposing high fines for minor
infractions such as littering, uses caning as a punishment for
certain offences. The city-state also enforces the death penalty
for serious crimes such as drug smuggling.  Singapore, which set up a special police unit and Casino
Regulatory Authority has as “many tools in our armory as
possible,” he said.  The Asian city may overtake  Las Vegas  in gaming revenue
this year, according to the American Gaming Association.  The money flows in the casinos do pose “a threat” of
money laundering and that’s recognized, Menon said.  “As a sign that Singapore is serious about enforcing its
laws on money laundering, the authorities have also taken steps
to prosecute for the failing to report suspicious transactions,”
said Eric Chan, a regulatory lawyer at Drew & Napier LLC.  Cross-Border Crime  Fighting increasingly sophisticated cross-border crime
requires better co-operation amongst agencies, he said, noting
that his examination of the potential use of deferred
prosecution agreements came out of meetings this year with U.S.
prosecutors including the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  The U.S. Justice Department and Singapore have cooperated
on many cases and the use of wire taps against  insider trading 
“was very interesting,” Menon said.  Raj Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, was
convicted in May in the largest hedge-fund insider trading case
in U.S. history after prosecutors presented evidence using
secret government wire taps.  In March, Peter Madhavan became the first independent
director to be sentenced to  jail  for breaking Singapore’s
securities laws.  The following month, Singapore’s highest court upheld a
nine-month jail term for Jeanette Ang, 52, for her part in an
“audacious banking scam,” which involved fraudulent bank
transfers to the island from the U.S.  FBI Special Agent Michael Nail, the lead investigator in a
probe concerning several money transfers from the U.S. to bank
accounts in Singapore, testified at the trial, according to the
ruling by Appeal Judge V. K. Rajah.  Former New York prosecutor Sandy Baggett, a Singapore
permanent resident, joins the Economic Crimes and Governance
Division of Menon’s chambers today, the first Singapore public
prosecutor with a U.S. passport.  Apart from cooperating with the U.S., Singapore prosecutors
will also be sent to work temporarily in other international
financial centers, Menon said.  “White collar crime will attract some of the smartest
people on the criminal side,” he said. “We will constantly
have to up our game and enhance our skills and resources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  