-- 
Syrian Opposition Forms Transition Panel; Qaddafi At Large in Sirte Siege

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-10-02T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/syrian-opposition-forms-transition-panel-qaddafi-at-large-in-sirte-siege.html
Syrian activists formed a council to
coordinate efforts to end President Bashar al-Assad’s violent
rule and stop a crackdown that has claimed more than 3,600 lives
this year.  The Syrian National Council will include the head of
 Syria ’s Muslim Brotherhood, an Islamic political party banned in
the country, as well as Kurdish and other groups, Burhan Ghaliun, a political sociologist at Paris’s Sorbonne University
and member of the council, told reporters in Istanbul yesterday.
Assad’s crackdown on dissenters threatens the country with civil
war, he said.  “The council is a big step, and I think it will indeed
help with getting international support,” said Andrew Tabler, a
Syria expert at the  Washington  Institute for Near East Policy
and author of the book “In the Lion’s Den: An Eyewitness
Account of Washington’s Battle with Syria.” “It organizes the
opposition more comprehensively and beyond previous groups
gathered around core principles. It’s a transitional council in
all but name really.’ ‘  Syria’s opposition is following the path taken by  Libya ’s
rebels, who formed a National Transitional Council during that
nation’s uprising. The NTC became the main governing authority
in Libya in late August after rebels seized Tripoli, the
capital, and ended the four-decade rule of  Muammar Qaddafi . The
Libyan and Syrian revolts were inspired by a wave of unrest that
ousted  Tunisia ’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January
and  Egypt ’s President  Hosni Mubarak  the following month.  Syrian Cohesion Lacking  Fadi Hakura, an analyst at Chatham House research institute
in  London , said the Syrian alliance may be fragile. “The so-
called opposition council has been created outside Syrian
territory, there doesn’t seem to be much close cooperation with
the protesters on the ground in Syria, and there aren’t any
clear responsibilities,” Hakura said in a phone interview from
 New York . “The Libyan transitional council was a cohesive unit
with clear objectives and you don’t see that with the Syrians.”  In Libya, opposition fighters yesterday tightened their
cordon around Sirte, the hometown of Qaddafi and one of the last
loyalist strongholds, as NATO said it was preparing to wind down
its mission there.  Interim government forces, which have been shelling Qaddafi
loyalists in Sirte backed by NATO air strikes, are seeking a
two-day truce to let civilians escape the coastal city. A family
of four was killed by machine-gun fire as they fled Sirte Oct.
1, the  Associated Press  reported.  Sirte Hospital Supplies  A doctor led a team from the International Committee of the
Red Cross on Oct. 1 in delivering surgical supplies to Sirte’s
Ibn Sina hospital to treat an estimated 200 people with
injuries, the Geneva-based group said. The team didn’t remain
long enough to fully assess the humanitarian needs, citing a
“volatile security situation,” Hichem Khadraoui, who headed
the Red Cross operation, said in a statement.  “There is a desperate need for oxygen,” Khadraoui said.
“On top of that, the water reservoir has been damaged.”  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s military mission
is nearing completion and may begin winding down its involvement
in the North African country as soon as this week, the AP
reported. Army General Carter Ham, the top U.S. commander for
 Africa , told the  news agency  that U.S. military chiefs likely
will provide NATO officials in Brussels with their assessments
on Libya late this week.  Qaddafi remains at large. The National Transitional Council
has been working to stabilize the economy and establish
authority over factions that rebelled against the deposed Libyan
leader, including the military council in Misrata, the main
rebel stronghold in the west during the seven-month conflict,
which is leading the Sirte operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at   gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  