-- 
Syria Opposition Forms Anti-Assad Transitional Council, Warns of Civil War

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-10-02T15:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/syria-opposition-forms-anti-assad-transitional-council-warns-of-civil-war.html
Syrian activists formed a council to
coordinate efforts to end President Bashar al-Assad’s rule and
stop his deadly crackdown that has claimed more than 3,600 lives
this year.  The so-called Syrian National Council will include the head
of  Syria ’s Muslim Brotherhood, an Islamic political party banned
in the country, as well as Kurdish and other groups, Burhan Ghaliun, a political sociologist at Paris’s Sorbonne University
and member of the council, told reporters in Istanbul today.
Assad’s crackdown on dissenters threatens the country with civil
war, he said.  Syria’s opposition is following the path taken by  Libya ’s
rebels, who formed a National Transitional Council during that
country’s uprising. The NTC became the main governing authority
in Libya in late August after seizing Tripoli, the capital, and
ending the four-decade rule of  Muammar Qaddafi . The Libyan and
Syrian revolts were inspired by a wave of unrest that unseated
 Tunisia ’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January and
 Egypt ’s President  Hosni Mubarak  the following month.  “It benefits everyone to establish a common platform for
these leaderless groups, where there is uncertainty as to
whether they have shared goals,” Soli Ozel, a professor of
international relations and political science at Istanbul’s
Bilgi University, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a good
thing for them to unite under one roof.”  While the council rejects any outside intervention in
Syria’s internal affairs, it seeks United Nations protection for
the Syrian people, Ghaliun said.  Minorities ‘Scared’  Assad’s regime “stands today because minorities are
rightfully scared about who will protect them if it falls,”
said Ozel. “They are forming this council and will slowly seek
to establish their credibility. We’ll see if they will gain the
international community’s respect going forward.”  The council will have an executive panel of six or seven
people, who will rotate chairmanship, said Basma Qadmani,
another opposition figure. The head of the opposition council,
which seeks to establish a democratic government, hasn’t been
decided, Ghaliun said.  Assad’s crackdown has left more than 3,600 civilians dead
since the protests began in March, according to Ammar Qurabi of
the National Organization for Human Rights in Syria. About
30,000 people have also been detained and 13,000 are still being
held, he said. About 700 members of the state security forces
have been killed in the uprising.  Draft Resolution  European nations on the UN Security Council on Sept. 29
circulated a fourth version of their draft resolution on Syria
in a continuing bid to win Russia’s support. It deletes the word
“sanctions,” instead threatening to adopt “targeted
measures” in the event that Assad’s government doesn’t halt
attacks on protesters. The text also drops a reference to
possible referral of alleged crimes to the  International
Criminal Court  and adds a line that “urges all sides to reject
violence and extremism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at   gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  