-- 
U.K. Financial Firms’ Confidence Drops, to Cut Jobs, CBI Says

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-10-02T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/u-k-financial-firms-confidence-drops-to-cut-jobs-cbi-says.html
U.K. financial services firms’ may
cut 8,000 jobs as optimism on the outlook for trading fell for
the first time since March 2009, according to a survey by
Britain’s biggest business lobby group.  “After a torrid couple of months on global financial
markets, the mood has clearly darkened,”  Ian McCafferty , chief
economic adviser at the  Confederation of British Industry  said.
“Uncertainty about future demand, worries about the general
recovery and shifting regulatory sands are weighing on
sentiment.”  The survey found 20 percent fewer respondents said they
were more optimistic about overall business than three months
ago. The jobs losses may occur in the next three months, the CBI
estimated.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in August said they planned to cut 30,000 and
2,000 jobs respectively.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said it would eliminate
about 3,000 roles and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said it plans to
lose 15,000 jobs. Market strains related to the euro-area debt
crisis have dented the outlook for bank earnings and may impede
their ability to strengthen balance sheets, the Bank of
England’s Financial Policy Committee said in a Sept. 28 report.  “I would attribute more of this short-term swing in
confidence to the markets and uncertainty about the economy,
McCafferty said. Companies have shown concern about regulation
for the last four years,” he said.  The CBI and  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , which helped
compiled the report, surveyed 84 banks, insurers, customer-owned
lenders, investment managers and securities firms from Aug. 23
to Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  