-- 
Osborne to Pledge $1.3 Billion Council-Tax Freeze at U.K. Tory Conference

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-03T08:08:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/u-k-s-osborne-to-pledge-850-million-pound-council-tax-freeze.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will pledge to freeze local taxes for a second
straight year as he seeks to show that his  Conservative Party  is
ready to help voters struggling with falling living standards.  Speaking today to the Tories’ annual conference in
Manchester, northwest  England , Osborne will say that the measure
will save families an average 72 pounds ($112) a year, costing
the Treasury 850 million pounds, according to remarks released
by his office. The money will come from savings in central-
government departments.  “Council tax has gone up year after year over the last
decade and it has become a real burden for families,” Osborne
told BBC Television ahead of his speech later this morning.
“Where we can help, we do.”  Osborne is facing pressure from within his own party and
from its Liberal Democrat coalition partners to find ways to
ease the pain felt by voters as inflation erodes household
incomes and the economy struggles to grow.  A plan to eliminate the  budget deficit  by introducing the
deepest public spending cuts since World War II has been the
centrepiece of the government’s policy, drawing criticism from
the opposition Labour Party and unions, which say they’re
leading to stagnation.  Today’s initiative will take effect next April.
Conservatives say the local levy on properties, known as council
tax, was allowed to balloon under previous Labour
administrations, more than doubling while  Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown  were prime ministers from 1997 to 2010.  Science Spending  Osborne will also announce an extra 195 million pounds in
expenditure on scientific research and infrastructure, funded
from underspending across government and an advance on the
proceeds of next year’s sale of electromagnetic spectrum.  A team of physicists based in Manchester who last year won
the  Nobel Prize  for their work on graphene, a one-atom thick
form of carbon graphite, will get 50 million pounds to continue
their work. The remaining 145 million will go to pay for more
powerful computers and higher-capacity high-speed connections.  Britain will spend 150 million pounds to help roll out
mobile phone masts in remote areas, improving reception for 6
million users, Osborne told BBC television today.  Osborne will speak to the conference today after economic
strategy was attacked by a senior member of his own party. In a
pamphlet for the  Centre for Policy Studies  research
organization,  Andrew Tyrie , who heads Parliament’s cross-party
Treasury Committee, said the coalition government still lacked a
“coherent and credible” plan for growth 17 months after taking
office.  ‘Incoherent, Inconsistent’  “There is much to do, and it is not just a question of
gaps in policy; in places it is inconsistent, even incoherent,”
Tyrie wrote.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecasts for U.K.
economic growth last month to 1.1 percent this year and 1.6
percent in 2012 from previous projections of 1.5 percent and 2.3
percent respectively. U.K. consumer confidence fell to a four-
month low in August as Britons grew more pessimistic about the
outlook for the economy,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  Osborne said agreements to prevent the euro-region debt
crisis spreading beyond  Greece  would provide the single largest
boost to the U.K. economy, saying the failure to find solutions
was proving “debilitating.”  Crisis Talks  European finance ministers meeting in Luxembourg today will
consider how to shield banks from the debt crisis and boosting
the region’s rescue fund. The Greek government yesterday
approved 6.6 billion euros ($8.8 billion) of austerity measures
after saying it will miss its 2012 budget-deficit target.  About 30,000 people joined a “ March for the alternative:
jobs, growth, justice ,” organized by the  Trades Union Congress ,
Britain’s umbrella labor movement, outside the conference center
yesterday, Greater Manchester Police said. Demonstrators, who
shouted “Tory scum” at delegates, called on the coalition to
reverse its spending cuts.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday the government
is determined to do everything it can within its deficit-
reduction rules to restore growth.  “We need to do everything we can to fire up the engine of
the British economy,” Cameron told  BBC Television ’s “Andrew Marr Show.” “There’s a step-change taking place right now.”  The premier cited proposed changes to planning rules and a
new proposal to allow developers to build on unused government
land without making advance payments as examples of the sort of
action he is considering. The measures will lead to the creation
of 200,000 homes and 400,000 jobs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  