-- 
U.K. House-Price Decline May Accelerate After Extending Drop in September

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-10-02T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/u-k-house-prices-fall-as-hometrack-forecasts-faster-declines.html
U.K. house prices fell for a fifth
month in September and the pace of the decline may accelerate in
the coming months, property researcher Hometrack Ltd. said.  The average cost of a home slipped 0.1 percent from August
and was down 3.5 percent from a year earlier, the London-based
company said today in an e-mailed report on its monthly survey
of real-estate agents. Prices based on Hometrack’s measure have
fallen in every month but one since July 2010.  Nationwide Building Society  said last week that downside
risks to Britain’s property market have increased as  Europe ’s
debt crisis undermines confidence and global growth prospects
weaken. Almost a third of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
say the  Bank of England  will restart its asset-purchase program
this week to support a faltering recovery.  “Events in the  euro zone , together with pressures on the
domestic economy and household incomes are clearly taking their
toll on  consumer confidence ,”  Richard Donnell , Hometrack’s
director of research, said in a statement. “We expect demand to
continue to slip back” and see “a likely acceleration in the
level of monthly price falls over the final quarter.”  New property listings rose 22 percent in the nine months
through September, double the pace of demand growth, Hometrack
said. On the month, new buyers registering with real-estate
agents fell 2.6 percent from August.  London  Rises  London was one of only two regions tracked by Hometrack to
record an increase in values in September. Prices increased by
0.2 percent, with Yorkshire and Humberside up 0.1 percent.  Nationwide’s house-price report on Sept. 29 showed that
values increased 0.1 percent last month. Chief Economist  Robert
Gardner  said there’s a risk that a worsening debt crisis in
Europe could reduce the availability of credit.  The region’s finance ministers are meeting in Luxembourg
today and tomorrow amid investor concern that  Greece  will
default. The European Commission said last week that the euro-
area’s overhauled rescue fund will likely be in place by the
middle of this month after German lawmakers approved an
expansion of the package on Sept. 29.  In a separate report today,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said
its index of business confidence rose to 7 in September from
minus 3 in August. A measure of companies’ outlook for their
business for the next 12 months rose to 34 from 30.  Nine of 30 economists say the Bank of England will raise
its target for bond purchases at this week’s policy meeting. The
remainder say the Monetary Policy Committee will hold the
program limit at 200 billion pounds ($312 billion).  All 53 economists in a separate poll say the panel will
leave the benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5
percent. The bank announces the decision at noon on Oct. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  