-- 
U.S. Stocks Tumble to 2011 Low as Debt Concern Offsets Economy

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-03T21:02:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-extending-two-week-retreat.html
U.S. stocks tumbled, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a one-year low, as concern over
Greece’s debt crisis and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s slump
outweighed a rebound in manufacturing and construction spending.  Financial shares had the biggest drop in the S&P 500 as
Bank of America fell 9.6 percent to the lowest level since March
2009.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  lost 7 percent amid concern about slower demand
for commodities. American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  slid 33
percent on concern the U.S. is nearing a return to recession and
that the carrier may be forced to seek  bankruptcy protection .  The S&P 500 lost 2.9 percent to 1,099.23 at 4 p.m. New York
time, its lowest close since Sept. 8, 2010. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  declined 258.08 points, or 2.4 percent, to
10,655.30, also the lowest level in more than a year.  “The focus will be on Europe until they get their house in
order,” Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.5 billion as senior
investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co., in Elmira, New
York, said in a telephone interview. “There’s a tremendous
amount of pessimism built into stocks as the market prices in a
recession. In the U.S., we had a good ISM number which shows the
economy is growing slowly, but not going into a recession.”  The  S&P 500  came within 1 percent of extending its decline
from this year’s high to 20 percent, the common definition of a
 bear market . Losses accelerated in the S&P 500 after the gauge
fell below a series of prices considered significant by analysts
who base investment decisions on charts. The index slipped below
1,119.46, its previous lowest close of the year, just before
12:50 p.m. and breached 1,114.22, the worst intraday level of
September, about 15 minutes later.  ‘Accelerated Selling’  “There’s reason to think that the bears will take
control,”  Ryan Detrick , senior technical strategist at
Schaeffer’s Investment Research in Cincinnati said in a
telephone interview. “We violated that low for the year. It
could definitely lead to some accelerated selling here.”  Global stocks slumped as European officials prepared to
meet in Luxembourg today to consider how to shield banks from
the debt crisis and boost the region’s rescue fund after  Greece 
missed a deficit target for 2012. Euro region finance chiefs
will meet again on Oct. 13 to decide whether the austerity push
is enough to win a sixth bailout payment.  European governments are close to resolving Finland’s
demand for collateral to underpin bailout loans, removing an
obstacle to Greece’s second rescue package, three people
familiar with the discussion said.  Economic Reports  Earlier today, stocks rose as a report showed that
manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly accelerated in September
as production picked up, easing concern the world’s largest
economy is stalling. Separately, the Commerce Department said
construction spending in the U.S. rebounded in August, propelled
by the biggest jump in state and local government outlays in
more than two years.  U.S. stocks fell last week as the sovereign debt crisis in
 Europe  and fears of a global slowdown overshadowed improving
economic reports in the U.S. The S&P 500 tumbled 14 percent in
the third quarter, the worst drop since the three months ending
December 2008. The index declined in nine out 13 weeks during
the quarter. For the year, the S&P 500 is down 13 percent.  Bill Gross , the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund,
said the global economy risks lapsing into recession with the
pace of growth falling below the “new normal” level the firm
has predicted since 2009.  ‘Overweight Diabetic’  “Sovereign balance sheets resemble an overweight diabetic
on the verge of a heart attack,” Gross wrote in a monthly
investment outlook posted on  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  website  today. “If global
policy makers could focus on structural as opposed to cyclical
financial solutions, new normal growth as opposed to recession
might be possible.”  Financial shares in the S&P 500 fell 4.5 percent as a
group. Bank of America declined 9.6 percent to $5.53. Financial
shares are under pressure as European regulators struggle to
quell concern that their lenders may be hurt by the sovereign
debt crisis.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  slumped 9.8 percent to $23.11. The bank may
be penalized by regulators in  Japan  for the third time since
2004 after its Japanese retail banking unit possibly breached
rules by failing to fully explain product risk to customers, two
people familiar with the situation said.  The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy declined 3.6 percent. The index has dropped 7
percent over the past two sessions. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average, also a proxy for the economy, slipped 3.6 percent.  AMR, Alcoa  AMR tumbled 33 percent to $1.98, the most since 2003. A
Chapter 11 filing “is certainly not our goal or our
preference,” said Andy Backover, an American spokesman. “We
know we need to improve our results, and we have a sense of
urgency as we work to achieve that.”  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities lost 0.9 percent on
investors’ concern about slower demand for energy and raw
materials. Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, dropped 7
percent to $8.90.  Arch Coal Inc. slipped 9.3 percent to $13.22. The St.
Louis-based coal miner cut its forecast for 2011 adjusted
earnings to no more than $1.40 a share, from a previous
prediction of at least $1.75. Analysts had estimated adjusted
profit $2.01 a share, on average.  Yahoo, Alibaba  Yahoo! Inc. rallied 2.7 percent to $13.53, after Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd. Chairman Jack Ma said he was “very
interested” in buying the Web portal. “Alibaba Group is so
important to Yahoo, and Yahoo is also very important to us,” Ma
said, when asked if he would buy the company. The executive,
whose company is 40 percent owned by Yahoo, spoke at an event at
 Stanford University  near  Palo Alto ,  California , on Sept. 30.  The rout that erased $2.9 trillion from U.S. equities has
pushed valuations in the S&P 500 25 percent below the average
level from the last nine recessions, even as profit estimates
fall.  Companies in the benchmark gauge for American equities
started today’s session trading at 10.2 times 2012 forecast
earnings, compared with the average in economic contractions
since 1957 of 13.7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At
the same time, analysts have cut projections for profits next
year by 2.6 percent to $110.78 a share, the biggest eight-week
drop since 2009, the data show.  Bears say analysts have just started paring earnings
estimates and that shares will prove expensive when gross
domestic product shrinks. Bulls say stock prices have fallen so
much that even should earnings fail to increase in 2012,
equities are inexpensive.  “What you’re seeing is a growth scare,” Wayne Lin, a
 money manager  at Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., said in a
telephone interview on Sept. 29. His firm oversaw $643 billion
as of Aug. 31. “The question is, how much of that is priced in.
I’d say that if we don’t have a double-dip recession, if
earnings just stay flat, these valuations are reasonable. The
market already expects those downgrades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  