-- 
Bond Plunge Shows EU Collateral Damage: Poland Credit

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-10-03T08:41:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/world-s-worst-bonds-show-eu-collateral-damage-poland-credit.html
(Corrects first, second paragraphs to show Polish bonds
were the third worst performers, based on updated data shown in
eighth paragraph.)  Poland , a bond-market darling in the
second quarter, is leaving foreign investors with the third
biggest losses worldwide as the euro region’s debt crisis slows
growth in eastern Europe’s biggest economy.  Polish bonds, the world’s third best for the three months
through June, tumbled 15.7 percent in dollar terms during the
third quarter, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analyst Societies and Bloomberg. The
losses were more than double those of  Spain , one of the euro
zone’s most indebted nations, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Yields on Poland’s benchmark 10-year notes rose to 5.92 percent
on Sept. 30 from as low as 5.53 percent a month ago.  While the central bank forecasts economic growth will slow
to 3.2 percent next year from 4.2 percent in 2011, the zloty’s
16.9 percent retreat against the dollar last quarter is keeping
policy makers from lowering interest rates on concern that an
even weaker currency would spark inflation. Traders expect the
credit picture to worsen as credit-default swaps on Poland’s
debt have doubled this year to as much as 314 basis points.  “People are pulling money from the Polish market because
of fears of contagion as the  euro zone  is Poland’s major trading
partner,” said Ronald Schneider, a fixed income fund manager at
Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage GmbH in Vienna, in an interview on
Sept. 28. He helps manage the equivalent of $1.1 billion in
emerging-market debt, including Polish bonds.  The slump increased the extra yield on Poland’s dollar
bonds compared with  U.S. Treasuries  to a 2-1/2 year high of 331
basis points, or 3.31 percentage points, on Sept. 23, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The spread stood at 309 basis
points on Sept. 30.  Yield Spreads  The additional yield on the country’s 10-year bonds in
zloty compared with their German equivalent in euros reached the
widest gap since November 2002 at 443 basis points on Sept. 22.
The spread was 403 basis points on Sept. 30.  Poland’s $157.4 billion government debt market, which is 33
percent the size of its gross domestic product, is 89 percent
smaller than  Germany ’s. Poland is rated A- by Standard & Poor’s
and A2 by Moody’s Investors Service. That’s higher than  South
Africa  and Brazil and lower than Israel and Spain.  Losses on the country’s bonds in dollar terms compare with
a 5.4 percent drop for Spain in the third quarter, and declines
of 16.8 percent for  Hungary  and 30.3 percent for  Greece . In the
second period of the year, Poland’s government debt with
maturities of more than one year returned 6.7 percent, behind
 New Zealand  with a 12.9 percent gain and  Switzerland  with an
11.2 percent advance, according to the Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Polish bonds against default for
five years climbed 143 basis points during the third quarter to
296 basis points on Sept. 30, after rising as high as 314,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The swaps pay the buyer face value for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Polish contracts are trading 42 basis points below the
average for governments in eastern  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa  included in indexes compiled by Markit. The extra cost
compared with Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, rose 72 basis
points during the last three months to Sept. 30, within 21 basis
points of the highest in 29 months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Economic growth in the euro area, the destination for 55
percent of Poland’s exports, fell to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, the slowest pace since
the bloc’s 2009 recession. The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its forecast for Poland’s expansion next year to 3 percent on
Sept. 20 from 3.8 percent in May.  Consumer Prices  While countries from  Brazil  to Turkey are lowering
borrowing costs to help their economies weather the global
slowdown, Polish policy makers’ “hands are tied” because a
weaker zloty may drive up inflation, Krzysztof Madej, the head
of debt investments at Amplico PTE SA in Warsaw, who helps
manage the equivalent of about $5.3 billion in assets, said in
an interview on Sept. 28.  The zloty slumped to the lowest level in 27 months before
the central bank intervened to strengthen the currency on Sept.
21 for the first time since the  exchange rate  was allowed to
move freely in April 2000. The currency strengthened to 4.4205
per euro on Sept. 30.  Consumer prices in Poland rose 4.3 percent in the year
through August, exceeding the 3.5 percent upper limit of the
central bank’s preferred range for an eighth month. The bank
targets inflation of 2.5 percent, plus or minus one percentage
point.  Weaker Growth  The decline in the zloty may be helping Prime Minister
Donald Tusk to sustain growth by making exports more
competitive, said Dmitri Barinov, who helps manage about $2.7
billion in fixed-income European assets at Union Investment
Privatfonds in  Frankfurt .  International investors increased holdings of Polish bonds
by 122 percent to 154.3 billion zloty in the two years through
August, more than either Polish pension funds or banks, data on
the  Finance Ministry ’s  website show . Foreign funds resumed
buying in August after withdrawing 4.5 billion zloty in July,
the most since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008. They also bought more Polish debt than they sold
so far in September,  Piotr Marczak , head of the Finance
Ministry’s public debt department, said on Sept. 30.  “The growth may be weakening right now but it’s still far
away from a recession-like scenario,” said Barinov, adding that
he may buy Polish bonds should prices fall further. “Bonds may
weaken on a shorter horizon but in the longer term they are a
big buy.”  Currency Options  Central bank Governor Marek Belka said that the weaker
zloty makes it more difficult for the  National Bank of Poland  to
control inflation, according to comments posted on its  website 
on Sept. 22.  “The high volatility of the zloty exchange rate makes
forecasting difficult and increases uncertainty for participants
in the economy, which in turn reduces their propensity to invest
and hurts potential growth,” he said.  The central bank increased borrowing costs four times from
January to June, lifting the main interest rate by 1 percentage
point to 4.5 percent. The Council will announce its next rate
decision on Oct. 5.  Investor concern that Tusk’s plan to cut the  budget deficit 
below 3 percent next year may be hampered after elections on
Oct. 9 is also weighing on the outlook for Polish assets.
Traders predict bigger swings in the zloty than any other
European developing-nation currency, based on implied volatility
on options.  ‘In Denial’  Support for Poland’s ruling Civic Platform party fell 2
percentage points to 34 percent, while that of its closest
rival, Law & Justice, fell three percentage points to 29
percent, according to a Sept. 28 poll by MillwardBrown SMG/KRC
for TVN24 television. No margin of error was given for the poll
of 1,000 people, according to the station’s  website .  The new government must reduce the general deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product in 2012 from estimated 5.6
percent this year to meet European Commission requirements for
candidates planning to join the euro. Poland’s effort to narrow
the shortfall is based on a forecast of 4 percent economic
growth next year.  While Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said on Sept. 27 the
deficit reduction plan is realistic, Citigroup Inc. said the
government is “in denial” as slower growth will reduce tax
revenue, according to a Sept. 14 report by economists Piotr Kalisz and Cezary Chrapek.  “The economic outlook for Poland will keep on
deteriorating” said Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at
Warsaw-based BRE Bank, Poland’s third largest by assets. “The
weaker zloty and elevated inflation rate are going to keep the
central bank” from cutting  interest rates , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  