-- 
‘Arrogant’ London Bankers Learn to Lobby Brussels as Power Moves

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-02-15T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/-arrogant-london-bankers-learn-to-lobby-brussels-as-power-moves.html
  London , the financial capital of
Europe, is coming to grips with a foreign concept: None of its
three most important regulators speaks with a British accent.  For the island nation that opted out of the euro, the start
of three European Union oversight agencies on New Year’s Day has
stirred anxiety about London’s future as a money center and how
to influence the EU, which is overhauling rules from bonuses and
bank capital levels to naked short-selling, high-frequency
trading and over-the-counter derivatives.  “The U.K. has to accept European regulation willingly in
exchange for developing its position as Europe’s financial
center,” said  Simon Gleeson , a financial regulatory lawyer at
Clifford Chance LLP in London. “The U.K. needs to be on the
inside if it is to remain Europe’s financial center.”  The EU regulators will set rules and guidelines for all of
Europe, supervise their implementation and may intervene in
nations during a crisis. National regulators won’t have freedom
to interpret the agencies’ regulations. London bankers, who can
appear “arrogant and patronizing” to EU officials, according
to a report by ex  Barclays Plc  adviser Malcolm Levitt, must
learn to negotiate with European partners as equals if their
finance industry is to prosper, lawmakers and bankers said.  The shift has stirred concern among some Londoners long-
wary of European integration that Brussels may be trying to
weaken the city’s role as the region’s financial center.  ‘National Interest’  “We have a national interest and a right to expect that
our view is heard more than others when it comes to financial
services,” said Andrew Hilton, director of the Centre for the
Study of Financial Innovation, a forum for bankers and
regulators funded by institutions including the  Bank of England .
“If the U.K. doesn’t have the most influence in European
regulation, it would be like saying the auto industry should be
overseen by Latvians or the wine industry should be run by
Estonians.”  No British bank employees are registered as lobbyists
holding passes to enter the European Parliament, according to an
 official listing . By contrast,  Italy ’s  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA , the world’s oldest bank, has 13.  Citigroup Inc . and  Deutsche Bank AG  have four each,  BNP Paribas  SA and Morgan
Stanley have two each, and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. have one each.  “Our rivals from other EU member states recognize the
advantage of maintaining a continued presence in Brussels,”
said Syed Kamall, a lawmaker in David Cameron’s Conservative
Party who represents London in the European Parliament.  Brian Mairs, a spokesman for the  British Bankers’
Association , which lobbies for U.K. banks, said the absence of
passes doesn’t indicate a lack of British influence. “Passes
might be convenient to lobbyists living in Brussels,” he said.  ‘Shift in Power’  The new overseers of U.K. regulation include Italian Andrea Enria, chairman of the London-based  European Banking Authority ,
which is implementing rules that limit upfront cash bonuses.
Portugal’s Gabriel Bernardino heads the European Insurance and
Occupational Pensions Authority in  Frankfurt . Dutchman Steven Maijoor chairs the European Securities and Markets Authority in
Paris, which has the power to ban products deemed risky to
financial stability.  “It’s clearly a shift in power,”  Kamall  said. “The most
effective way for me to stand up for the City when I’m in
Brussels is not to wave a Union Jack and say, ‘We want this.’”  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority,  Europe ’s biggest
financial regulator, is being broken up by Britain’s government.
The limits of the FSA’s ability to shape rules and supervise
firms were exposed during the crisis, former U.K. Chancellor of
the Exchequer Alistair Darling said in an interview.  ‘Push Back’  “We did push back against EU financial regulation until
2007,” said Darling, whose government approved the creation of
the new EU regulators in 2009. “What changed was that during
the banking crisis it became obvious that there were a lot of
issues in relation to regulation that needed to be resolved at a
cross-border level.” Darling is now an opposition lawmaker.  Critics say the EU regulators will push business away from
U.K. financial districts such as the City of London and Canary
Wharf, which paid 53.4 billion pounds ($85 billion) in tax in
the year through March 2010, or 11 percent of the total,
according to accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. London
is home to about 240 overseas banks, including the European
bases for JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs.  ‘Very Foolish’  Britain is also home to about 80 percent of Europe’s  hedge
funds  and about 60 percent of its private equity firms. The U.K.
accounts for about 37 percent of all global foreign exchange
trading and 46 percent of all trading of over-the-counter
interest rate derivatives, according to lobby group TheCityUK.
More than 1 million people work in the financial industry in the
U.K., according to the City of London Corporation.  “It’s very foolish to have given these powers away to the
EU,” said Stuart Wheeler, founder of London-based spread-
betting company  IG Group Holdings Plc  and treasurer of the  U.K.
Independence Party , which wants Britain to leave the EU and got
the second-most votes in the U.K. in the European Parliament
election in 2009. “The burden of regulation that the EU is
imposing on financial companies is far too great.”  British financial representatives can make “chauvinistic
and counterproductive” arguments, said Malcolm Levitt, a former
U.K. Treasury official. He wrote a December report entitled
“Getting Brussels Right” based on 68 interviews in London and
Brussels. U.K. firms can be too slow to get involved with EU
policymaking, he said. They should avoid “self-serving
pleading” and show how they benefit the EU, he said.  ‘Learning to Engage’  The U.K. won’t be without influence on the new EU
watchdogs: FSA Chief Executive Officer  Hector Sants , 55, is on
the board of the new insurance agency. FSA banking director
Thomas Huertas is alternate chairman of the new EU banking
authority, filling in for Enria when he’s unavailable; Alexander Justham, the FSA’s director of markets, is on the board of the
securities and markets regulator. London’s lobbyists say lenders
will also adapt the way they make their arguments to the new
regulators.  “The City is learning to engage more proactively” with
the EU, said Angela Knight, CEO of the British Bankers’
Association, which represents 200 lenders including  HSBC
Holdings Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc . “We need a more
peer-to-peer approach.”  The BBA’s priorities in Brussels include monitoring laws to
incorporate the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s new
rules and to manage bank failures, Knight said. The BBA is
resisting regulators’ plans to force a leverage ratio on banks
as well as any attempts by other EU states to dilute the Basel
Committee’s definition of core Tier 1 capital, a measure of
lenders’ financial strength, by widening the definition to
include instruments beyond common equity and retained earnings.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  The elected European Parliament is reviewing laws
restricting naked short-selling and trading in over-the-counter
derivatives. The European Commission, the EU’s executive body,
is readying an overhaul of market rules to cover dark pools and
high-frequency trading.  Both moves are being challenged in London. More disclosure
of short positions on securities such as sovereign debt could
have “serious unintended consequences” and may force trading
of securities to leave the EU, according to  Andrew Baker , chief
executive of the London-based Alternative Investment Manager
Association, which lobbies for hedge funds. Naked short sellers
bet against a security, such as a government bond, without first
borrowing it.  The case for more oversight of dark pools, trading
platforms that allow investors to buy and sell securities away
from regulated exchanges so they don’t have to disclose
positions, is “often exaggerated,” according to U.K. Treasury
minister Mark Hoban.  ‘Manage Its Grief’  Bank officials such as Sacha Polverini, Barclays’s director
of European public policy, said they see the benefits of the new
European regulators. They will create “increased consistency in
the way prudential rules are implemented,” he said.  “As  Germany  has to manage its grief about the demise of
German monetary authority and accept the  European Central Bank ,
I think exactly the same is true of the U.K. with financial
regulation,” said Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow who works on
regulation at Bruegel, a Brussels-based research group. “The
City has nothing to gain from fighting yesterday’s fight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  