-- 
‘Spider-Man’ Ticket Prices Soar, Plummet in Fragmented Market

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-02-15T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/-spider-man-ticket-prices-soar-plummet-in-fragmented-broadway-market.html
Actors aren’t the only ones having
their ups and downs at “ Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark.”   At the  Ticketmaster  site linked to the Broadway musical,
regular orchestra seats are $147.50. If you’re shrewd, though,
you can pay as little as $89 for the same seat.  If you’re not, you can pay $200 and up.  There are at least a half-dozen prices for comparable
seats, depending on how and where you shop.  While such price variations aren’t new, they’re
particularly visible at “Spider-Man,” thanks to Ticketmaster’s
new “interactive seat map” that displays which seats are
available and allows you to choose among them.  In the fragmented, often confusing Broadway ticket market,
it’s sometimes hard to tell discounters from resellers when they
are displayed side-by-side on the Internet. Savvy consumers get
bargains while the uninitiated and last-minute shoppers pay up -
- as they do on airlines.  “On the plane, no two passengers pay the same price,”
said Dan Geisler, who with his wife, Odeda, manages
 BroadwayBox.com , one of the largest distributors of theater
discount codes. It posts codes on the Internet for discounted
seats from the two official Broadway ticket-sale sites,
Ticketmaster and  Telecharge .  Applying free discount codes from BroadwayBox.com,
 Playbill.com  or  TheaterMania.com  can reduce the $147.50
orchestra tickets charged for “Spider-Man” weekday performances
by the box office and Ticketmaster to $89 this month and $109
next month.  Another option is to buy from the three booths operated by
the  Theatre Development Fund , which has same-day discounts of as
much as 50 percent.  CheapTickets  Type “Broadway tickets” in Google and one of the first
sites listed is CheapTickets, a ticket exchange owned by  Orbitz
Worldwide Inc ., the online travel agency.  For the March 3 evening “Spider-Man,” the least-expensive
orchestra seat from CheapTickets was $225, including service and
delivery fees. That’s more than double the cheapest orchestra
ticket from Ticketmaster with a discount code.  For the March 5 evening performance of “ The Phantom of the
Opera ,” CheapTickets offered center orchestra seats near the
stage for $307 to $461. The official seller, Telecharge, had
them for $210.  Brian Hoyt, an Orbitz spokesman, said many CheapTickets
users are travelers booking at the last minute.  “Especially if an event is sold out, this is an
alternative option for them to purchase tickets,” he said.  Tickets Available  Unlike concerts and sporting events that can sell out in
minutes, Broadway shows usually have tickets to all performances
at various prices, said Philip Smith, the chairman of the
 Shubert Organization , which owns Telecharge and 17 Broadway
theaters.  “We do receive complaints from customers who inadvertently
bought from a reseller thinking they were purchasing tickets
from the original ticketing site,” Smith said.  Reselling can be profitable.  Broadway.com  adds a service
charge of as much as $42 for each regular full-priced orchestra
ticket. In the first nine months of 2010, its ticketing
operation -- which includes hotel and restaurant packages --
earned a $4.2 million profit on revenue of $79.3 million,
according to a disclosure by former parent  Hollywood Media Corp .
Key Brand Entertainment Inc., a closely held theater producer
and tour operator, bought Broadway.com in December.  Discount Codes  BroadwayBox is also profitable, said Dan Geisler. Its
discount codes were used to buy 1 million tickets last year,
mostly on Broadway. The nine-year-old company also lists marked-
up tickets to high-demand shows such as “Jersey Boys.”  To advertise discounts, it sends daily “e-mail blasts” to
its 500,000 registered users, charging producers $7,000 to
advertise Broadway and as much as $4,550 for off-Broadway.  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 