-- 
Actelion Said to Bar Some Hedge Funds From Investor Presentation

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-02-15T14:10:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/actelion-said-to-bar-some-hedge-funds-from-company-s-investor-presentation.html
  Actelion Ltd . is preventing some
hedge fund shareholders from attending a presentation at the
biotechnology company’s headquarters this week, according to two
people with knowledge of the situation.  Actelion is limiting attendance at the Feb. 17 event in
Allschwil,  Switzerland , to the company’s largest shareholders
and to research analysts from investment banks, according to the
people, who declined to be identified because their discussions
with the company were confidential.  Hedge funds have been following Actelion because of
speculation that Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company may
be acquired.  Amgen Inc . has been considering a takeover bid for
the company, people familiar with the situation said in
November. Actelion also has come under pressure from Elliott
Advisors (UK) Ltd., its largest shareholder, which is pushing
the company to consider a sale. Chief Executive Officer Jean- Paul Clozel has said Actelion should remain independent.  “This is not a shareholder meeting,” Roland Haefeli, a
spokesman for Actelion, said in a telephone interview. “This is
a sellside-driven analyst event that for full disclosure
purposes is being made available to all investors via webcast.
The AGM of shareholders is in early May and immediately after
the analyst day, the company will reach out to investors via a
roadshow.”  Funds that tried to sign up for the presentation were told
that the meeting is reserved for investment-bank analysts and
certain large investors, according to one shareholder. Investors
are being told they can follow the presentation via a webcast,
he said.  Actelion’s Progress  The investor-relations page of the company’s  website  says
the event is “for members of the press, institutional
investors, and sell-side analysts who closely follow Actelion’s
progress.” The presentation occurs on the day the company
announces 2010 earnings.  Elliott, part of a $17 billion hedge fund founded by Paul Singer, will be at the event, another person familiar with the
situation said.  The fund said in a letter Feb. 7 that it’s concerned
Actelion’s strategy may destroy  shareholder value . Elliott also
said Actelion should reveal “formal or informal approaches”
about a potential sale and how the board will evaluate future
expressions of interest.  A previous letter from Elliott called for the resignation
of Actelion Chairman Robert Cawthorn and for Clozel to step down
from the board. The fund will propose the steps at the annual
shareholder meeting May 5. Actelion says the proposals “risk
destabilizing the company.”  Insomnia Pill  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.
Betting on mergers and acquisitions is a common hedge fund
strategy.  The Swiss company has had several setbacks over the past
year. Actelion said Jan. 28 it halted development of an
experimental insomnia pill because of concern that patients
wouldn’t be able to tolerate the medicine. The company’s
Tracleer medicine, which dominates the market for a lung
condition called  pulmonary arterial hypertension , failed a test
to widen its use last year. The clazosentan drug didn’t help
patients who had suffered from bleeding in the brain in another
study.  Clozel, a former scientist with  Roche Holding AG , founded
Actelion in 1997 to develop medicines that Basel, Switzerland-
based Roche had given up on.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  