-- 
Air Force, Lockheed Negotiating Satellite Failure Cost

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-15T16:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/air-force-lockheed-negotiating-over-satellite-failure-cost.html
  Lockheed Martin Corp . may pay for a
failure on its first Advanced Extremely High Frequency satellite
that led to the $1.7 billion spacecraft not reaching its orbit,
U.S. Air Force officials said today.  A blocked fuel line caused the failure and the Air Force is
in negotiations with Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed on the
penalty, Air Force officials, including Erin Conaton, the
undersecretary of the service, said.  “We are in the midst of active negotiations,” Conaton
told reporters today in the Pentagon. “We are looking at the
operational and the financial implications.”  “We have had conversations directly with Lockheed about
how we ended up with this particular anomaly and getting
reassurances from them about what this means for” the second
and third satellites getting prepared for launch.  Lockheed spokesman Stephen Tatum said the company “was
focused on achieving mission success.” He declined to discuss
the negotiations or quality mistake.  The first of six planned satellites in the Advanced
Extremely High Frequency communications program was launched
August 14th aboard an Atlas V booster rocket, also built by
Lockheed. It was supposed to use its smaller thrusters to reach
geosynchronous orbit of 22,236 miles altitude in three months.  Due to a problem with its propulsion system, the satellite
is moving into position more slowly than planned. It isn’t
expected to reach its final orbit before August, at least nine
months late, according to the  Air Force ’s Space and Missile
Systems Center in  Los Angeles ,  California .  Tatum said the “orbit raising process is on track.”  Air Force ‘Lucky’  The Air Force has four of the Advanced EHF satellites on
contract and has included in the fiscal 2012 budget the initial
$975 million needed for the fifth and sixth satellites. The
service wants to buy the satellites under a new “block” buy
approach rather than one each in consecutive years to save as
much as 10 percent. The new approach must be approved by
congressional defense committees also reviewing the orbit
failure.  Air Force was “very lucky the thing didn’t end up having a
catastrophic failure. This is a serious issue for us and one
that we are spending a huge amount of time on,” Conaton said.  Conaton praised the “ingenuity and creativity” of Air
Force personnel and said the Lockheed has been “very helpful”
in the process of trying to figure out “once the problem
happened, how to get this thing safely into orbit.”  ‘Quality Mistake’  “It should not have happened,” Deputy Under Secretary of
the Air Force for Space Programs Richard McKinney said. “It was
a quality mistake and we took steps to make sure it does not
happen again,” he said. “It was obviously a very serious
error.”  “It appears that there was a blockage in one of the fuel
lines,” McKinney said. Lockheed thinks “it was caused by some
cleaning material that was used in a line that was not properly
vacated when they went through production.”  Since then “we’ve gone through all the spacecraft that
have gone the same sort of process” and Lockheed is clearing
them for launch, McKinney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  