-- 
Air Products Drops Hostile Bid After Airgas Wins on Poison Pill

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-02-16T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/air-products-loses-court-bid-to-invalidate-airgas-defense-against-takeover.html
  Air Products & Chemicals Inc ., after
a  Delaware  judge upheld Airgas Inc.’s main anti-takeover
defense, dropped its $5.9 billion hostile bid for the packaged-
gas supplier.  “It is abundantly clear that the Airgas Board is
thoroughly entrenched in its position, so we have decided to
withdraw our offer and move on,” John E. McGlade, Air Products’
chairman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Air Products had pursued Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas
for more than a year. Delaware Chancery Court Judge William B. Chandler III yesterday rejected Air Products’ claim that
Airgas’s poison-pill defense was flawed because it gave
directors too much power to deflect offers for the company.  “The board’s actions do not forever preclude Air Products,
or any bidder, from acquiring Airgas or from getting around
Airgas’s defensive measures if the price is right,” Chandler
said in a 153-page ruling.  Air Products, based in Allentown,  Pennsylvania , raised its
bid on Dec. 9 to $70 a share from $65.50. Airgas officials
repeatedly rejected Air Products’ advances, claiming the company
is worth at least $78 a share. Airgas’s board turned down the
latest offer, which Air Products executives called their “best
and final” bid, on Dec. 22.  ‘Great Disservice’  “The Airgas board of directors has done a great disservice
to Airgas shareholders by never allowing them to decide for
themselves whether they want to accept our $70 per share all-
cash offer,” McGlade said. “Air Products has many other
compelling growth opportunities around the world that we are
continuing to pursue.”  Air Products is the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases
producer behind Praxair Inc. The company’s offer for Airgas,
made public on Feb. 4, 2010, ranks as the eighth-longest-running
hostile takeover offer in the U.S. since Bloomberg started
tracking the deals more than a decade ago.  Oracle Corp .’s 2003
bid for PeopleSoft Inc., which dragged on for more than 1 1/2
years, holds the record.  Airgas fell $2.98, or 4.7 percent, to $60.75 at 6:40 p.m.
after the close of New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday.
The shares earlier dropped as much as 5.3 percent to $60.34 in
after-hours trading.  The shares may decline to less than $60 as investors who
bet on an Air Products takeover sell their stakes, said Thomas L. Hayes, a Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.
Airgas may start a buyback to buoy the stock, said Hayes, who
rates Airgas “overweight” and doesn’t rate Air Products.  Staggered Terms  Chandler’s ruling reinforces the vitality of the poison-
pill defense, said  Charles Elson , a finance professor at the  University of Delaware  who runs the school’s Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance . Such defenses, designed to make takeovers
prohibitively expensive, have been upheld by the Delaware
Supreme Court in recent years as a legitimate tool for directors
seeking to negotiate the best price for investors, Elson said.  “I think you’ll see more of a push to end staggered terms
for directors rather than attacks on poison pills as a result of
this decision,” Elson said in a phone interview.  Air Products argued in court filings that Airgas’s use of
staggered director terms, which limit the number of board
members up for election at any one time, in combination with the
pill amounted to overkill. Airgas officials refused to
deactivate the poison pill, saying in court filings that the
company wasn’t being properly valued by Air Products.  ‘Legitimate Purpose’  Chandler said the poison pill “served its legitimate
purpose” in helping Airgas directors negotiate a higher price.
He refused to second-guess the board’s judgment in maintaining
the defense and rejecting a bid it saw as too low.  “As the  Supreme Court  has held, a board that in good faith
believes the hostile tender offer is inadequate may properly
employ a poison pill as a proportionate defensive response to
protect its shareholders from a low-ball bid,” Chandler wrote.  Airgas officials were pleased with Chandler’s ruling,
Chief Executive Officer  Peter McCausland  said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Airgas remains steadfast in its belief that Air Products’
offer is clearly inadequate,” McCausland said. “It has always
been our objective to create value for our stockholders, and we
remain committed to achieving that goal.”  Airgas shares won’t be punished as much as they would have
been a few months ago because the economy has improved the
company’s prospects, Laurence Alexander, a New York-based
analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in a telephone interview.  Air Products’ shares may gain from the end of its pursuit
of Airgas, said Alexander, who rates Air Products “buy” and
Airgas “hold.” Air Products rose 78 cents to $91 at 6:54 p.m.
in after-hours trading yesterday.  “This lets people focus on the underlying fundamentals of
the company,” Alexander said. “The big question now is, what
does Air Products do with their balance sheet?”  The case is Air Products and Chemicals Inc. v.  Airgas Inc .,
CA5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 