-- 
Taiwan Mulls Letting Chinese Investors Take Stakes in LCD Makers

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-02-15T06:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/taiwan-mulls-letting-chinese-investors-take-stakes-in-lcd-makers.html
Taiwan is considering ending a ban
on investors from mainland China buying stakes in the island’s
flat-panel makers, as part of efforts to increase cross-strait
investments.  The  Industrial Development Bureau  is studying the
feasibility of Chinese investors and how much they may be
allowed to buy, Woody Duh, director-general of the Taipei-based
agency, said by phone today. Duh declined to give possible stake
sizes.  Ending the ban would allow liquid-crystal-display makers
such as  AU Optronics Corp . and  Chimei Innolux Corp . to attract
Chinese investors as they expand in the mainland. AU Optronics
on Dec. 17 won approval from Taiwan’s  Ministry of Economic
Affairs  to build a $3 billion LCD plant in the eastern Chinese
city of Kunshan.  “Having Chinese investors will help Taiwanese panel firms
secure orders from their partners and be more competitive
against South Korean rivals such as Samsung Electronics Co. and
LG Display Co.,” Charles Hsu, an analyst at Taipei-based Fubon
Securities Co., said by phone.  Attracting investors will also help local LCD makers fund
capacity expansion and equipment upgrade, Hsu said. AU Optronics
and Chimei Innolux may spend more than NT$150 billion ($5.1
billion) on capital expenditure this year, he said.  The Commercial Times on Feb. 14 reported the economic
ministry proposed to  Taiwan ’s Cabinet that Chinese investors be
allowed to buy as much 20 percent of local LCD companies, citing
people it didn’t identify. Any strategic alliances with Chinese
home-appliance companies such as  TCL Corp ., Haier Group Corp. or
Sichuan Changhong Electric Co. will help local panel producers
expand on the mainland, the Taipei-based newspaper said.  Economic Focus  Tensions between Taiwan and China eased after Taiwanese
President Ma Ying-jeou abandoned his predecessor’s pro-
independence stance and focused on economic issues. The LCD
industry wasn’t included in the 100 sectors and services opened
to Chinese investors in June 2009.  Taiwan’s Cabinet is reviewing a proposal from the Ministry
of Economic Affairs to further ease restrictions on investments
from mainland  China , the  Government Information Office  said in
an e-mailed statement on Feb. 14.  China, Taiwan’s largest export market, regards the
independently governed island as part of its territory,
threatening to attack if it declares formal independence. The
two sides split more than 60 years ago after Mao Zedong’s
communists took control of China, forcing the ruling Kuomintang
to retreat to Taiwan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  