-- 
Albert Pujols and Cardinals Approach Deadline to Agree on New Contract

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-15T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/albert-pujols-and-cardinals-approach-deadline-to-agree-on-new-contract.html
  Albert Pujols  and the  St. Louis 
Cardinals said they’ll suspend contract negotiations for the
rest of the season if they don’t reach an agreement on a new
deal by a club-imposed deadline of noon New York time tomorrow.  A three-time winner of the National League’s Most Valuable
Player award, Pujols is entering the final season of an eight-
year, $111 million contract. He’s likely seeking a new multiyear
contract from the Cardinals that would make him among the
highest-paid players in Major League Baseball history.  Cardinals General Manager John Mozeliak said he remains in
contact with Pujols’s agent, Danny Lozano, on a regular basis as
the deadline approaches. He declined to give specifics on the
negotiations in comments to reporters yesterday at the team’s
spring training facility in Jupiter,  Florida .  “It’s a process and obviously it’s an iconic player,”
Mozeliak said, according to  MLB.com . “When you go through an
experience like this, you learn a lot. But frustration isn’t
coming to mind.”  Mozeliak wouldn’t comment on a USA Today report that
Pujols, 31, rejected a recent contract offer from the Cardinals,
who start spring training tomorrow. Pujols has spent his entire
10-year major league career with St. Louis, making nine All-Star
teams while hitting .331 with 408 home runs and 1,230 runs
batted in.  Even if the sides don’t reach agreement by tomorrow, the
Cardinals would retain exclusive negotiating rights with Pujols
from the end of the 2011 regular season until five days after
the  World Series . Pujols, who will make $16 million this season,
would become a free agent after that window and the Cardinals
would have to bid against other teams to retain him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  