-- 
Algeria Challenges Similar to Egypt, El-Erian Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-02-15T16:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/algeria-challenges-similar-to-egypt-el-erian-says-update1-.html
  Algeria  possesses many of the same
social and political maladies that led to the ouster of Egypt’s
government, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co.  “They have similar challenges in the sense that youth
unemployment is high, they are exposed to food crisis, and
there’s a sense of political repression,” El-Erian, who’s also
co-chief investment officer at Pimco, said in a telephone
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The
big difference is that Algeria is a higher per-capita-income
country, and therefore can absorb more.”  Algeria, which has seen protests similar to those that
ousted presidents of Egypt and Tunisia, may lift a 19-year-old
state of emergency in the next few days, Minister of Foreign
Affairs Mourad Medelci said yesterday.  Algeria’s per capita gross domestic product exceeds Egypt’s
by 44 percent while its  unemployment rate , at 9.9 percent in
2010, tops Egypt’s jobless rate by 0.2 percentage point,
according to the CIA World Factbook. Demands for democracy and
civil rights, invigorated by the mass protests that toppled
Egypt’s Hosni Mubarak last week, have also spread to countries
such as Bahrain and Yemen.  “If you rank countries in terms of youth unemployment,
food prices, per capita income, there’s quite a few countries
around the world, including in Asia, that are vulnerable right
now,” El-Erian said.  El-Erian, the son of an Egyptian diplomat, spent much of
his youth in Egypt and  Europe . Writing in the Financial Times
today, El-Erian said the energy that overcame autocratic rule
and corruption must take up the challenge of Egypt’s economic,
institutional, political and social rehabilitation.  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , is the world’s
biggest manager of bond funds and oversees more than $1 trillion
in assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  