-- 
Malone's Liberty Global Eyes Cable Assets in Search of Scale in Europe

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-02-15T14:45:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/malone-s-liberty-global-eyes-cable-assets-in-search-of-scale-in-europe.html
  Liberty Global Inc ., controlled by
U.S. billionaire  John Malone , would be “opportunistic” about
buying cable assets in western Europe as it seeks to bulk up,
Chief Executive Officer Mike Fries said.  “We’re looking to get bigger in the markets that we’re in,
in our core sector, cable,” he said at the  Cable Congress  in
Lucerne, Switzerland, today. “That’s the best investment
opportunity for us, to have better scale, bigger scale.”  Bids for  Germany ’s No. 3 cable company Kabel Baden-
Wuerttemberg GmbH & Co KG are due tomorrow, although no bids
have been submitted, the executive said, declining to say
whether Liberty would be among the contenders. If owners of
cable operator Ziggo B.V. in the  Netherlands  wanted to sell,
“we would probably look at that,” he said, adding that “to my
knowledge they are not doing anything.”  Companies such as Liberty -- which has 3 billion euros
($4.1 billion) available for acquisitions -- want to participate
in the consolidation of the European cable industry, seeking to
ride the exploding appetite for high-definition content and
broadband Internet. Demand for such services is allowing cable
companies with fast triple-play services -- television, Internet
and phones -- to boost growth and ring in profit.  “We’re always opportunistic in terms of creating a bigger
more successful business,” Fries said.  Liberty Global shares have risen 19 percent this year,
closing on the Nasdaq Stock Market at $42.07 yesterday and
giving the company a market value of about $10 billion.  Kabel BW spokesman Martin Herkommer didn’t return a call
seeking comment on bids for the company.    Europe  Focus  Eighty percent of Liberty Global’s revenue comes from
Europe and two thirds of that comes from four countries,  Belgium , Netherlands, Switzerland and Germany, Fries said. In
Central-Eastern Europe, the company has a presence in five
countries.  “They are doing just fine, but it’s a small part of our
business,” he said.  Fries said on a conference call in December that large
cable-television assets such as Spanish cable operator Grupo
Corporativo Ono SA and Dutch company Ziggo could come onto the
market in six to 18 months either by way of initial public
offerings or sales.  Liberty Global’s UPC is the second-largest cable operator
in the Netherlands and the biggest in  Austria . In  Switzerland ,
it owns Cablecom, the largest competitor in that market.  Fries today said the company would like to stay focused on
western European markets, such as Switzerland, Austria,
Netherlands, Germany and Belgium.  European Expansion  “We have 3 billion in cash,” he said. “It depends on
what you think that could buy. Would we spend every nickel of
it? Probably not. But usually today you can leverage businesses
five times, so if somebody sells something for seven (times),
you only need two times of equity, so arguably 3 billion euros
could be ok.”  Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Global last year paid 2
billion euros and assumed 1.5 billion euros in debt to acquire
Cologne-based Unitymedia GmbH in 2010. The company is
considering a bid for Kable BW, two people with knowledge of the
deliberations said in December.  EQT Partners AB, the private-equity firm partly owned by  Sweden ’s Wallenberg family, hired banks to prepare a potential
sale or IPO of Kabel BW, which may fetch about 2 billion euros,
two people familiar with the process said in November.  In Europe, Liberty Global is present in  11  European
countries and also owns Chellomedia, a producer and distributer
of TV channels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 