-- 
America Movil May Bid in Polkomtel’s $5 Billion Sale

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-02-15T21:58:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/america-movil-may-make-offer-for-poland-s-polkomtel-in-5-billion-sale.html
  America Movil  SAB, looking for a
foothold in Europe, said it may seek to buy Polkomtel SA,
Poland’s largest mobile-phone company, which is seeking a bid of
at least $5 billion.  Latin America’s largest wireless carrier will decide in the
next few days whether to make an offer, said a company official
who can’t be named under company policy. America Movil may pull
out of bidding for a stake in Serbia’s Telekom Srbija AD, the
official said.  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , is
seeking to enter new markets as growth slows in its home region.
The company said last week it expects to add as many as 17
million new mobile-phone customers this year, a 7.6 percent
increase, compared with a gain of about 12 percent in 2010.  “They’re looking for markets where they can grow and where
the acquisition price is adequate,” said Manuel Jimenez, an
analyst at Ixe Grupo Financiero SAB in  Mexico  City, today in an
interview. “It would be a different kind of challenge, but the
company has experience in managing cellular telephone assets, so
the barriers wouldn’t be insurmountable.”  America Movil, based in Mexico City, is always evaluating
opportunities to enter new markets, the company official said.
Katarzyna Meller, a spokeswoman for Polkomtel in Warsaw,
declined to comment today. Reuters reported America Movil’s
interest in Polkomtel today.  Market Leader  Polkomtel had more than 13 million subscribers at the end
of 2010, or about 30 percent of the market. Poland had more than
118 mobile-phone lines for every 100 people at the end of the
third quarter, topping the average of 93 in Latin America’s
seven largest countries, according to Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit.  America Movil offers wireless service throughout South
America, Central America, Mexico and the U.S. It doesn’t provide
service anywhere outside the Western hemisphere. The company ran
into government opposition in a 2007 attempt to gain a stake in
Telecom Italia SpA and pulled out of a 2005 auction of wireless
licenses in Spain because it disagreed with the terms.  $5 Billion Price  The owners of Polkomtel, including copper producer  KGHM
Polska Miedz SA , power utility PGE SA, oil refiner PKN Orlen SA
and  Vodafone Group Plc , plan to sell the mobile-phone company in
the first half of this year.  The sellers plan to use the 2008 sale by TDC A/S of a 20
percent stake in Polkomtel, which valued Poland’s largest mobile
phone company at 3.7 billion euros ($5 billion), as a benchmark
price, Jacek Krawiec, chief executive officer of Orlen, told
reporters in October.    Telenor ASA  of Norway, Swedish carrier  TeliaSonera AB , and
Spain’s  Telefonica SA  were among about 20 investors who acquired
Polkomtel’s sale documents, Rzeczpospolita  reported  Feb. 9.
America Movil also obtained the documents, the company official
confirmed.  America Movil rose 13 centavos to 34.18 pesos at 4 p.m. New
York time in Mexico City trading. The shares have dropped 3.6
percent this year.    Deutsche Telekom AG ,  Telekom Austria AG , Weather
Investments SpA and Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS are the
other possible bidders for the Serbian government’s sale of a
stake in Telekom Srbija, the state phone company, Danas
newspaper reported Feb. 2.    France Telecom SA  lost interest in the bid because of a 1.4
billion euro minimum price for the stake, the newspaper said.
While America Movil continues to participate in the bidding
process, it probably won’t make an offer because of strategic
considerations including price, the company official said.  “At this moment, we are not finding outside of Latin
America any good opportunity,” Chief Executive Officer Daniel Hajj said last week on a conference call with analysts. He said
the company would be open to acquisitions in Eastern  Europe  or  Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  