-- 
Manchester United's Berbatov May Get Contract Extension: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-02-15T11:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/manchester-united-s-berbatov-may-get-contract-extension-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Berbatov Deal    Manchester United  is preparing to offer leading scorer
Dimitar Berbatov a contract extension to 2014 that would
increase his wages to 150,000 pounds ($240,000) a week, the
 Telegraph said .  The 30-year-old has scored 20 goals this season and makes
about 100,000 pounds a week, the newspaper said. Manager  Alex Ferguson  plans to break the club’s rule of not signing players
over the age of 30 to more than one-year deals, the Telegraph
said.  Carroll’s Debut  Liverpool striker Andy Carroll may make his debut against
United at Anfield on March 6, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Carroll, who became the most expensive English player ever
when he moved from Newcastle for 35 million pounds in January,
has practiced in the last several days as he recovers from a
thigh injury, the newspaper said.  Puyol’s Injury  Barcelona captain Carles Puyol failed to recover from a
knee injury and will miss tomorrow night’s Champions League game
at Arsenal in  London ,  the Sun said .  Eric Abidal will take his place, and the Gunners will try
to take advantage of the Frenchman’s lack of pace, the newspaper
said.  Barcelona’s Fear  Barcelona forward and reigning FIFA World Player of the
Year Lionel Messi said he and his teammates are frightened of
Arsenal’s Theo Walcott and his speed,  the Telegraph said .  Walcott came on in last season’s first match between the
clubs with Barcelona leading 2-0 and the game ended 2-2. He then
set up Nicklas Bendtner’s goal that gave the Gunners a short-
lived 1-0 lead in the game in Barcelona, which the hosts won 4-
1.  “He was one of the most dangerous players I have ever
played against,” Messi said.  Not a Chance  Zlatan Ibrahimovic said he wasn’t interested in joining  Manchester City  over AC Milan, no matter how much the English
club was willing to offer,  the Daily Mail said .  There was speculation City was willing to pay the Swede as
much as 500,000 pounds a week when he wanted to leave Barcelona
after last season, the newspaper said.  The player decided City would take too long to become a top
European team and so moved to  Italy , where he’s scored 13 league
goals this season, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 