-- 
Manchester United's Bonds Climb Amid Speculation About Takeover by Qatar

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-02-15T09:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/manchester-united-bonds-soar-amid-qatari-takeover-speculation.html
Bonds of  Manchester United  rose to a
record amid speculation the 18-time English soccer champion may
be sold to the Qatari royal family.  Manchester United’s 250 million pounds ($400 million) of
8.75 percent notes due 2017 were at 111.44 pence in the pound,
taking their gain since Feb. 8 to 5.59 pence, or 5.28 percent,
according to generic prices on Bloomberg. Newspapers including
the London-based Daily Mail reported that Qatar Holding LLC is
interested in buying the team.  “A lot of investors expect the Qatar deal to happen now,”
said  Jonathan Moore , an analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in  London . “As a result, you would have a stronger owner
financially with no real concerns about them taking cash out of
the club. Plus, a new owner might decide to take out the bonds,
which would mean paying a premium.”  The Qataris were offering 1.6 billion pounds, compared with
the 1.8 billion pounds demanded by the Glazer family, the
current owners, the  Daily Mail  reported Feb. 13. Philip Townsend, a spokesman for Manchester United and its owners, said
no approach has been made to buy the club, and the team isn’t
for sale.  The Glazers, who loaded the club with debt in their 2005
leveraged buyout, are unpopular with Manchester United fans
because of the strain they’ve put on the team’s finances.  The club also has $425 million of bonds due 2017, which
gained 4.75 cents to 110.875 cents on the dollar, Bloomberg data
show.  Make-Whole Clause  Both notes have a so-called make-whole clause, which would
force a new owner wanting to redeem the bonds early to make an
additional payment equivalent to the present value of the bonds
plus a premium. That would probably cost about 100 million
pounds, Evolution’s Moore said.  The bonds also have change-of-control clauses, allowing
investors to sell them back to the club at 101 pence in the
pound.  The team has been the best performer in the Premier League
since the Glazer’s 2005 takeover, winning three straight
championships between 2007 and 2009 and the 2008 Champions
League.  Still, United, which tops the table this year, is
overpriced at 1.6 billion pounds, according to Stephen Schechter, founder of London-based investment bank Schechter
Co., a sport finance firm that has helped soccer teams including
Newcastle United, Southampton and  Germany ’s Schalke raise money.  “I don’t know today who has the horsepower to buy it,” he
said. “I thought the Glazers paid top dollar when they bought
it. So if you add 15, 20 percent to that, that’s its maximum. I
don’t think it’s worth more.”  Bond holders should cash in while the price is high,
Schechter said. “If I saw a bid of 110 I’d sell because until
the deal is closed there’s no guarantee that it’s going to
close,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this s
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  