-- 
Apple Starts App Store Subscription-Payment Service

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-15T23:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/apple-starts-subscriptions-on-the-app-store.html
  Apple Inc . started a subscription
service for publishers of newspapers, magazines and other
content applications, letting them sell multiple issues through
a single purchase in the company’s online App Store.  The subscriptions will be sold using the same App Store
billing system that lets customers buy individual applications
for the iPhone or iPad, the Cupertino, California-based company
said today in a statement. Publishers that participate will have
to offer their lowest subscription rates within Apple’s store.  “All we require is that, if a publisher is making a
subscription offer outside of the app, the same (or better)
offer be made inside the app,” Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  said in the statement. Jobs remains involved with
strategic decisions while on medical leave.  Apple said it keeps 30 percent of the subscription fee for
any customers whom it helps publishers draw. If a publisher
brings an existing or new customer to the App Store by selling a
subscription directly on its website, it keeps 100 percent of
the revenue. Publishers must develop their own authentication
technology to prove they routed customers to the App Store,
according to the statement.  Companies with paid subscriptions for applications include
movie-rental service  Netflix Inc . and online-music provider
 Rhapsody International Inc.,  as well as a few magazine and
newspaper publishers.  ‘Economically Untenable’  Apple’s decision to take a 30 percent cut of any
subscription purchased through its App Store is “economically
untenable” for Rhapsody, President Jon Irwin said in an e-
mailed statement. “We would not be able to offer our service
through the iTunes store if subjected to Apple’s 30 percent
monthly fee vs. a typical 2.5 percent credit card fee,” he
said.  Rhapsody is “determining an appropriate legal and business
response” to Apple’s announcement, Irwin said.  Netflix spokesman  Steve Swasey  declined to comment.  Apple is also not releasing consumer information to
publishers for customers who buy subscriptions directly through
the App Store, a sticking point in negotiations with companies
including Time Warner Inc.’s magazine group, Time Inc.  “The announcement raises many questions around consumer
data that we would need to work through and agree on,” Time
Inc. said in an e-mailed statement.  Time, which is still negotiating with Apple, came to an
agreement with  Google Inc . last week to sell Sports Illustrated
for Android-powered smartphones and tablets.  “Many publishers realize that there is life outside
Apple’s garden wall,” said Grzegorz Piechota, president of the
International Newsmedia Marketing Association  Europe , a trade
organization that represents European publishers.  350,000 Applications  The App Store offers more than 350,000 applications to
users of iPhones, iPods and iPads, the company said today.
Customers had downloaded 10 billion apps through the store as of
Jan. 22. About $1.1 billion of applications were sold through
the App Store in 2010, making Apple’s revenue share about $317
million, according to estimates from  Brian Marshall , an analyst
at Gleacher & Co. in  San Francisco .  “Apple just wants to control everything through the App
Store,” Marshall said. “Apple already has low pricing out
there, so I don’t think this subscription-billing model is
anything material.”  Apple rose 72 cents to $359.90 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares climbed 53 percent last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 