-- 
Arab Rumblings May Lead to Democracy, Free Markets: David Pauly

-- B y   D a v i d   P a u l y
-- 
2011-02-15T00:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/arab-rumbling-may-spark-democracy-free-markets-commentary-by-david-pauly.html
Is this 1989 in the Arab world?  Twenty-two years ago, the  Soviet Union ’s police state began
collapsing under its own weight -- leading to democracy and
capitalism throughout Eastern Europe.  A striking parallel is developing in the Mideast.  Hundreds of thousands of Egyptians, protesting peacefully,
forced President Hosni Mubarak, 82, to resign last week after 30
years of autocratic rule.  The Egyptian masses took a cue from their North African
counterparts in  Tunisia , who in January shoved long-time
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali into exile.  Demonstrations against dictatorships have spread to Yemen
and Algeria. Jordan’s King Abdullah changed his government.
Bahrain threw cash at its people. Non-Arab  Iran , while
officially praising Egypt’s revolution, steeled itself against
demonstrations by its own dissidents.  It’s far too early to declare victory for representative
government and free markets across Arab lands. While military
minders in  Egypt  have dissolved Mubarak’s parliament and
promised elections in six months, maneuvering from dictatorship
to democracy will be tricky.  Satraps in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, where so much of the
world’s oil is, and in Syria -- where oil isn’t a factor -- show
little sign of relinquishing control.  Capitalism Rising  Still, the coincidence between 20ll in the Middle East and
1989 in Eastern Europe is intriguing for what it might portend
for the world economy.  Former Soviet satellites Poland, the  Czech Republic ,
Slovakia,  Hungary , Bulgaria,  Romania  and the Baltic states are
now members of the European Union, trading freely with the likes
of the U.K. and  Germany .  Even Russia, the linchpin of the old dictatorship, is a
freer place, and its companies can partner with Western
corporations. Unfortunately, the nation has backtracked under
Vladimir Putin.  Remember, there’s already one democracy in the Arab world,
though it’s incomplete and the result of U.S. coercion. Iraq
can’t get its Sunni and Shiite Muslims and its Kurds to agree on
much, yet it has a somewhat functional parliament and its people
get a fair vote.  Just as Egypt is a model for non-violent rebellion against
a dictator, it might become a force for free markets. Democracy
and capitalism are twins. Egypt is by far the largest Arab
state, with a population of more than 80 million -- more than
three times as many people as  Saudi Arabia .  Entrepreneurial Spirit  Those who took to the streets in recent weeks were proud
and persistent, the kind of folks who become successful
entrepreneurs, if given the chance. Though Egypt doesn’t have
the same oil wealth as many of its neighbors, it grows cotton
and manufactures textiles.  Tourism is already big in this country, where the
population congregates along the Nile River. Visiting the
Pyramids and Egypt’s other monuments should be even more popular
without Mubarak’s thugs lurking around. Egypt, whose culture
goes back 6,000 years, could be another  France , where tourism is
a major economic force.  Who knows what the limits are. The Middle East in the
future may see widespread voting by women and religious
tolerance. Economic competition among nations might lead to the
breakup of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries oil
cartel. An Arab bloc that trades numerous goods with  Europe  and
the U.S. would be less likely to view outsiders as enemies.  Events may show this view to be hopelessly naive. Muslim
extremists might co-opt any revolution. The old Soviet empire
isn’t completely free, as anyone in Belarus or Kazakhstan knows.
Ukraine may be backsliding.  Still, the similarity with what’s going on today in the
Mideast with what happened two decades ago in Eastern Europe is
as hopeful as it is fascinating.    David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are his.)  To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in Fort
Myers, Florida / or  dpauly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  