-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline on Retail Sales; Pound Rallies, Bahrain Bonds Retreat

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-02-15T17:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/asian-stocks-advance-on-china-inflation-data-treasuries-fall-oil-climbs.html
Stocks retreated, pulling the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from a 32-month high and
trimming an earlier gain in  Europe , after American retail sales
grew less than economists forecast and prices of imported goods
climbed. The pound rallied, while Bahrain bonds dropped.  The S&P 500 fell 0.2 percent to 1,329.13 at 12:48 p.m. in
New York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.1 percent after
rising as much as 0.3 percent. The pound strengthened against
all 16 of its major counterparts after U.K. inflation
accelerated. Oil reversed gains after rising 1.4 percent.
Bahrain bonds sank, sending yields on the sovereign 10-year
dollar note to a record, as anti-government protests escalated.  U.S. retail sales grew at the slowest pace since a drop in
June, while import prices climbed more than forecast. Stocks
gained earlier, and the euro rallied against most peers, after
German investor confidence advanced for a fourth month and
Japan’s central bank raised its economic assessment for the
first time in nine months.  “I’m not surprised to see a pullback after the strong rally
that we’ve had,” said Tom Wirth, senior investment officer for
Chemung Canal Trust Co., which manages $1.6 billion in Elmira,  New York . “Retail sales came in weaker-than-expected, but they
were affected by weather distortions. On the other hand, you had
good manufacturing data which suggests that the economy is still
on sound footing.”  Snowy Data  Energy and raw-material producers led losses among seven of
10 groups in the S&P 500 after the benchmark index for U.S.
stocks closed yesterday at the highest since June 2008, having
nearly doubled from its bear-market low almost two years ago.
Retail purchases increased 0.3 percent, following a 0.5 percent
December gain that was less than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed today. The median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 0.5 percent gain.  Winter storms spread last month from the Midwest and the
South to  New England , covering 71 percent of the country with
snow on Jan. 12, according to the National Climatic Data Center.  “It’s quite simple -- people are trying to discern between
weather conditions and economic momentum,” said  Alan Gayle ,
senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in
Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees $52.5 billion. “There’s been
some confusion about the impact of the weather on the overall
figures, as we saw with retail sales today. That adds up to some
nervousness following a strong advance for stocks.”  Import Prices, Empire Fed  The U.S. import price index climbed 5.3 percent in January
from the same month in 2010, more than the 4.4 percent median
forecast in a survey of economists. The New York Federal Reserve
Bank’s so-called Empire State Index of manufacturing rose to
15.4, the highest reading since June.  Today’s retreat in the  S&P 500  came after its 97 percent
rally from a 12-year low in March 2009 left it trading at 15.9
times its companies’ reported operating earnings, the most
expensive valuation in eight months. The gauge’s 14-day relative
strength index, a measure of stock-market momentum, climbed to
72.46 yesterday. Readings above 70 are typically considered
signals to sell to traders who monitor the RSI.  “We’re a little cautious in the short-run because investor
psychology is too bullish right now and the market looks
stretched,” said Craig Hester, president of Hester Capital
Management, which oversees about $1.1 billion in Austin,  Texas .
“We try to be somewhat contrarian right now, it’s not a
fundamental call on the market because we still believe
investors can make money this year and we think we will reach
1,400 on the S&P 500.”  Exchange Mergers    NYSE Euronext  fell 3.1 percent after announcing terms of
its takeover by Deutsche Boerse AG, creating the world’s largest
owner of equities and derivatives markets. The stock had rallied
18 percent through yesterday since news of the combination broke
on Feb. 9.  Deutsche Boerse  slipped 1.7 percent in  Frankfurt ,
paring declines of as much as 3.9 percent earlier.  BM&FBovespa SA slipped 3.9 percent in  Sao Paulo  as Bats
Global Markets and Claritas Investments discussed plans to build
a new equities exchange to challenge the company, the fourth
largest bourse in the world by stock-market value.  The pound strengthened 0.6 percent to $1.6139, and 0.6
percent to a one-month high against the euro. The two-year U.K.
government note fell, sending the yield two basis points higher.
Consumer prices rose 4 percent in January from a year earlier,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London ,
matching the median economist estimate. That’s the highest rate
of inflation since November 2008 and added to pressure on the  Bank of England  to increase  interest rates .  Bahrain Protests  Bahrain’s dollar bonds due 2020 fell, sending yields up 27
basis points to 6.42 percent, the highest level since the debt
was issued in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The cost of insuring Bahrain’s bonds against default jumped 15
basis points to 258.5, the highest since August 2009, according
to CMA prices for credit-default swaps.  Protests against the government escalated today as a second
demonstrator was reportedly killed and police used tear gas to
break up the funeral march of an opposition supporter.  Stone-throwing protesters in  Yemen  clashed with police as
they marched toward the presidential palace, and Iranian
security forces yesterday used tear gas to break up the biggest
anti-government protests since the aftermath of the disputed
presidential election in June 2009.  Popular demands for democracy and civil rights, following
mass protests that toppled  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak , are rattling
rulers of a region that holds about three-fifths of the world’s
oil reserves.  Oil climbed to as high as $85.97 a barrel in New York,
before reversing gains to trade at $84.67, near a two-month low.
Wheat dropped form the highest price since 2008, while cotton
climbed for the sixth time in seven sessions.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.1 percent. Barclays Plc
rallied 5.8 percent in London after posting profit that beat
analysts’ estimates. Danone, the world’s largest yoghurt maker,
jumped 3.3 percent in Paris after profit also topped forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  