-- 
Most Asian Stocks Decline as China Inflation Rekindles Tightening Concern

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-02-15T10:41:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/asia-stocks-fluctuate-before-china-reports-inflation-rio-tinto-declines.html
Most Asian stocks fell, with the
regional benchmark index reversing an earlier gain, as Chinese
banks led declines on renewed concern the nation will raise
interest rates, hampering the global economic recovery.  China Construction Bank Corp. lost 1.6 percent in  Hong Kong 
on concern China will raise interest rates after the nation’s
inflation rate exceeded the government’s target for a fourth
month.  China  Minsheng Banking Corp., a commercial bank operator,
dropped 0.8 percent in Shanghai. Jiangxi Copper Co. jumped 3.2
percent in  Shanghai  as the price of copper climbed to a record
high.  The Chinese government “will still need to continue
monetary tightening throughout the year which will drag on
stocks,” said Zhang Ling, general manager at Shanghai River
Fund Management Co.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed 137.92 as of
7:39 p.m. in Tokyo, after gaining as much as 0.4 percent and
falling 0.2 percent. Almost eight stocks fell for every seven
that rose. The benchmark gauge last week sank 2.7 percent after
China raised borrowing costs and anti-government protests
intensified in  Egypt , eventually forcing President  Hosni Mubarak 
to resign.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  lost 1 percent, while China’s
Shanghai Composite Index was unchanged. Japan’s Nikkei Stock
Average gained 0.2 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid
0.1 percent.  China Financials Gain  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index rose 0.2 percent yesterday in  New York ,
buoyed by optimism about a new government in Egypt and a jump in
exports in China.  Financial shares posted the biggest decline among the 10
industry groups on the MSCI Asia Pacific index.  China Construction Bank dropped 1.6 percent to HK$6.58 in
Hong Kong. New World Development Co., which gets about 35
percent of its revenue from China, slid 1.1 percent to HK$13.84.
China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., controlled by the
nation’s construction ministry, declined 1.9 percent to HK$13.26.
China Minsheng Banking lost 0.8 percent to 5.18 yuan in Shanghai.  China’s consumer prices rose 4.9 percent last month from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said in a statement on its
website today. That compared with a 4.6 percent gain in December
and the median forecast of 5.4 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of 27 economists. A separate central bank report showed
banks signed 1.04 trillion yuan ($158 billion) in new loans,
less than forecast while still the third-highest January total.  China Tightening  China’s central bank raised borrowing costs for a third
time in four months last week. The country may increase  interest
rates  again in the first quarter because of pressure from rising
consumer prices, the State Information Center said in a research
report published in the China Securities Journal newspaper.
China has raised the reserve ratio requirements for major banks
seven times since January last year.  “We probably will get another reserve-requirement-ratio
hike by the end of this month or early next month, but in terms
of the frequency of tightening, it’s going to be much less than
in the past three months,” Mingchun Sun, chief economist at
Daiwa Capital Markets, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 0.2 percent through
yesterday in 2011, compared with gains of 5.9 percent by the S&P
500 and 4.8 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.8 times for the S&P 500 and 11.4 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Among other stocks that gained today, material shares
posted the biggest gain among the MSCI Index’s industry groups.  Copper Reaches Record  Jiangxi Copper, the largest producer of the metal, jumped
3.2 percent to 42.34 yuan in Shanghai. Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.
jumped 3 percent to 1,526 yen. Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s largest
commodities trader, rose 1.7 percent to 2,391 yen. BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, increased 0.2 percent
to A$47.36 in Sydney.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum climbed 1.8
percent yesterday, the most this month. Copper for delivery in
three months increased to a record in  London  yesterday after a
report showed that imports of the metal rose in January in China,
the world’s largest copper consumer.  Copper prices are rising because “there’s strong demand
for infrastructure development in emerging nations, especially
in China, so related companies will get a boost,” said
Mitsushige Akino, who oversees about $450 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.  Japan Economic Outlook  In Japan, shares also gained after the nation’s central
bank raised its assessment of the economy for the first time in
nine months.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, climbed 1
percent to 3,910 yen, the biggest single positive support for
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-
largest carmaker, rose 1.2 percent to 3,685 yen. NTT DoCoMo Inc.,
Japan’s largest mobile-phone operator, advanced 1.5 percent to
154,200 yen.  “Data released since the start of the year have clearly
indicated the economy is rebounding,”  Chotaro Morita , chief
strategist at Barclays Capital Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, said before
the BOJ’s announcement. “It’s natural BOJ officials would
reveal their confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ；
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 