-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Climate Change May Disrupt Supplies

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-02-15T09:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/asia-commodity-day-ahead-climate-change-may-disrupt-supplies.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  *T ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  Forecast   Prior      Time  (N.Y.)
Empire Manufacturing      FEB     15.00     11.92        8:30
Import Price Index MoM    JAN      0.8%      1.1%        8:30
Import Price Index YoY    JAN      4.4%      4.8%        8:30
Advance Retail Sales      JAN      0.5%      0.6%        8:30
Retail Sales Less Autos   JAN      0.6%      0.5%        8:30
Total Net TIC Flows       DEC    $43.7B    $39.0B        9:00
Net Long-term TIC Flows   DEC    $40.0B    $85.1B        9:00
Business Inventories      DEC      0.7%      0.2%       10:00
NAHB Housing Market Index FEB        16        16       10:00
ABC Consumer Confidence   FEB 13              -46       17:00  Metal Prices: ($/ton)  Last  % Chg  RSI
Copper          10,102   -0.6  64
Aluminum         2,508   -0.2  54
Zinc             2,508   -0.5  60
Lead             2,630   -0.4  60
Nickel          28,802   -0.4  72
Tin             32,300   -0.5  85  Other Markets:  Last  % Chg % YTD
U.S. Dollar Index    78.652   +0.1  -0.5
Crude Oil            $85.06   +0.3  -7.7
Gold              $1,364.13   +0.2  -4.0
MSCI World Index   1,345.32   +0.3  +5.1  TOP STORY:    Climate Change  to Cause ‘Massive’ Food Disruptions (Update1)  Global food supplies will face “massive disruptions” from
climate change, Olam International Ltd. forecast, as Agrocorp
International Pte. said corn will gain to a record, stoking food
inflation and increasing hunger.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Corn Set for Record on Surging Demand, Agrocorp Says (Update1)  Corn may surge to a record in the first half and be the
best-performing agricultural commodity as increased government
purchases help to “inflame” the market, according to Agrocorp
International Pte.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Gains to Record on Lower-Than-Expected  China  Inflation  Copper in  London  climbed to a record as a lower-than-
expected inflation rate in China, the largest consumer, eased
concern the government would continue policy tightening that
could curb demand for metals. Aluminum gained.  MINING:    Australia  Blocked Rare Earth Deal on Supply Fears (Update1)  China’s bid to gain control of the world’s richest rare
earth deposit in 2009 was blocked by Australia’s Foreign
Investment Review Board on concern it would threaten supply to
non-Chinese buyers.  Sumitomo Metal Mining to Spend 14 Billion Yen on Nickel Capacity  Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. will invest 14 billion yen ($168
million) between 2011 and 2013 to boost production capacity of
electrolytic nickel and cobalt at a plant in Japan.  Mongolia Temporarily Stops Issuing Mine Exploration Licenses 9  Mongolia’s parliament passed a law banning the issue of
mining-exploration licenses until April 30, Xinhua News Agency
said, citing unidentified local media.  Batista’s MMX Receives $800 Million Loan Offers for Serra Azul  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the miner controlled by
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , said it received three
offers for $800 million in project finance loans to help develop
the $2.1 billion Serra Azul iron-ore venture.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Commodities May Extend Advance on Global Recovery, Ulrich Says  Commodity prices may extend an advance as the global
economy recovers, with gains likely for copper and coking coal,
and China’s moves to control inflation are not a “bearish
sign,” according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Gold Advances in  Asia  as China’s Inflation Fuels Hedge Demand  Gold advanced in Asia on speculation rising inflation
across the globe will fan demand for the metal as a store of
value after China’s consumer prices exceeded the government’s
2011 target for a fourth month.  Soros Raises SPDR Gold Holding 0.5% in Fourth Quarter (Update2)  Investor  George Soros  increased his SPDR Gold Trust share
holding by 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter and  John Paulson 
kept his investment unchanged, filings with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission show.  Lone Pine Hedge Fund Purchases Citigroup Shares, Gold Options  Lone Pine Capital LLC, the Greenwich, Connecticut-based
hedge fund run by Stephen F. Mandel Jr., bought stock in
Citigroup Inc. and options to purchase gold shares in the fourth
quarter, according to a regulatory filing.  AGRICULTURE:  Australian Weather Cost on Farming A$1.6 Billion, Ludwig Says  The effect of rainfall and flooding on Australian
agriculture from November through to January was more than A$1.6
billion, Agriculture Minister Joe Ludwig said, citing estimates
from the Australian Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics
& Sciences. Ludwig gave the estimate in an e-mailed copy of a
speech delivered in Brisbane today.  Standard Chartered Raises Sugar Forecasts, Lowers Crop Outlook  Standard Chartered Plc raised its sugar forecasts by one
cent to 32 cents a pound for the first quarter and to 30 cents
for the second quarter.  Rubber Advances on China Inflation Data, Higher Crude  Oil Prices   Rubber  gained for a fifth day as January inflation in
China, the world’s largest buyer, rose less than economists
estimated, and crude oil prices gained.  Corn Advances as Adverse Weather Threatens Crops; Soybeans Gain  Corn futures advanced as adverse weather continued to
threaten crops around the world, tightening global supply.
Soybeans also gained.  China Grain Supply Balanced, Won’t Rely On Imports (Update1)  China’s grain supply  is in balance with demand and
stockpiles are ample to meet consumption, Nie Zhenbang, director
of the State Administration of Grain, said in an interview with
Chinese Communist Party magazine Ziguangge.  Coffee to Remain ‘Very Tight’ as Stockpiles Stay Low (Update2)  Global coffee supplies will likely be “tight” through the
rest of the year as stockpiles held by exporting nations such as  Colombia  stay near a 40-year low, according to the head of the  International Coffee Organization .  Cattle Rise on Speculation Beef Demand May Gain; Hogs Steady  Cattle futures rose to the highest in more than a week on
speculation that U.S. beef demand will rebound after a slump in
wholesale prices. Hogs were little changed.  SHIPPING:  Shipping Glut Sinks Gesco Bonds as Revenues Tumble:  India  Credit  Yields on the bonds of India’s biggest shipping companies
are rising to records as the nation’s corporate borrowing costs
surge and freight revenues slump because of a glut of vessels.  Baltic Index Rises a Sixth Session as Demand Develops  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity-shipping costs,
rose for a sixth consecutive session as demand strengthened.  ECONOMIES:  China’s Inflation Quickens to 4.9% as Rents Advance (Update3)  China’s inflation exceeded the government’s 2011 target for
a fourth month as prices excluding food rose the most in at
least six years, escalating pressure on the central bank to keep
raising  interest rates .  Obama’s $3.7 Trillion Budget Sets Fight in Congress (Update3)  President  Barack Obama  sent Congress a $3.7 trillion budget
that projects the federal deficit will exceed $1 trillion for
the fourth consecutive year in 2012 before falling to more
“sustainable” levels by the middle of the decade.  ‘Several Years’ of Tame U.S. Inflation Lie Ahead: Chart of Day  “Inflation is not and will not be an issue for the  U.S.
economy  for at least several years,” largely because of
declines in worker pay and benefits, according to Brian Belski,
chief investment strategist for Oppenheimer & Co.  OTHER MARKETS:  Yen Weakens as China Inflation Slower Than Forecast; Euro Rises
The yen weakened against most of its major counterparts after a
Chinese report showed inflation quickened less than economists
estimated, damping demand for safer assets.  Asian Stocks Rise on China CPI, Metal Prices and U.S. Data  Asian stocks rose, leading the regional benchmark index
higher for a second day, as China reported slower than estimated
inflation and metal prices rose ahead of a U.S. report expected
to show retail sales climbed.  Oil Gains First Time in Three Days Amid Middle Eastern Unrest  Oil climbed for the first time in three days in  New York  as
civil unrest spread from  Egypt  to crude-producing countries in
the Middle East, renewing concern supplies may be disrupted.  SPORTS:  Woods Fined by European Tour for Spitting on Course (Update1)    Tiger Woods  will be fined by the European Tour after the
former top-ranked golfer spat on the green while lining up a
putt at the Dubai Desert Classic.  Brazil’s Ronaldo Retires After Losing Health Battle (Update1)  Ronaldo, who holds the career record for World Cup goals,
said he’s retiring from soccer because of health problems.    Bill Murray ’s Pro-Am Win Helps Pebble Beach Golf Ratings Rise  Preliminary television ratings for the AT&T Pebble Beach
National Pro-Am rose 53 percent over a year earlier as D.A.
Points captured his first U.S. PGA Tour title and comedian Bill
Murray also finished a winner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  