-- 
AT&T's CEO Says Loss of Sole Hold on IPhone Good for Industry

-- B y   G r e g o r y   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-02-15T21:16:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/at-t-s-ceo-says-loss-of-exclusive-iphone-distribution-is-good-for-industry.html
  AT&T Inc . Chief Executive Officer
Randall Stephenson said the loss of an exclusive U.S. hold on
the  Apple Inc . iPhone will help the industry because it has led
to free promotion of the device.  “It’s good for the industry, you can’t turn on a TV now
without seeing an Apple commercial,” Stephenson said today in
an interview in  Barcelona ,  Spain . “So the iPhone is getting
broadly promoted.”  He said AT&T would lose some customers to  Verizon Wireless ,
which began selling the  iPhone  for the first time last week,
although the Dallas-based carrier is poised to add contract
customers this year. AT&T will promote handsets running on  Google Inc .’s Android software to help drive sales.  “When you have an iconic device and you lose exclusivity
to another carrier, it’ll have an effect, obviously,”
Stephenson said. “Verizon is going to have a lot of success
with the iPhone, just like we did.”  Verizon may activate as many as 2 million iPhones in the
first quarter, according to analysts such as  Wells Fargo & Co .’s  Jennifer Fritzsche . AT&T activated 15.2 million iPhones in 2010.  Stephenson said AT&T is investing in infrastructure in
cities such as New York and  San Francisco  to help boost network
coverage and improve the carrier’s image against Verizon. He
said he was aware of initial reviews of the Verizon iPhone that
gave it credit for dropping fewer calls than the AT&T version.  High Priority  “The plan starts with continuing to drive voice quality,”
said Stephenson. “We’ll be investing a lot of money and work in
New York and San Francisco; that’s a high, high priority.”  Stephenson also said he expects the AT&T iPhone’s ability
to handle Web surfing and voice communication simultaneously to
be a selling point for some customers. The Verizon iPhone can
only handle one operation at a time.  AT&T will continue to disclose quarterly iPhone
activations, as it did while it was an exclusive product,
Stephenson said. It is the only device for which AT&T provides
specific sales details.  AT&T is also seeking to drive revenue through new customers
for its cloud-computing services, Stephenson said. The business,
which stores data on servers to be accessed on multiple devices,
will represent “multiple billions” in four or five years, from
under a billion dollars in revenue this year, he said.  Spectrum Crunch  Stephenson said the U.S. wireless industry may face a
crunch in spectrum capacity over the coming 10 years as data use
rises. As a result, the carrier is continuing to add capacity
through spectrum purchases, which he said amount to about one
per month.  “We have built for the time being a decent 700 megahertz
position,” he said.  He said he supported a proposal by President  Barack Obama 
to expand mobile broadband use through an auction of airwaves
relinquished by television broadcasters that’s expected to raise
as much as $27.8 billion.  “Obama is right on track,” with that proposal, Stephenson
said in the interview.  AT&T fell 22 cents to $28.24 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have lost 3.9 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  