-- 
Tata Steel Profit Misses Estimates on Higher European Raw Material Costs

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-02-15T15:35:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/tata-steel-reports-third-quarter-profit-rises-to-10-03-billion-rupees.html
  Tata Steel Ltd ., India’s biggest
producer of the alloy, reported third-quarter group profit that
missed analyst estimates because of higher raw material costs at
its European unit.  Net income, including that of Tata Steel  Europe  Ltd., more
than doubled to 10.03 billion rupees ($220 million) in the three
months ended Dec. 31 from 4.73 billion rupees a year ago, the
Mumbai-based company said today in a statement. The median
estimate of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was 10.7 billion
rupees. Sales rose 10 percent to 286.1 billion rupees.  Tata Steel Europe, which contributes more than two-thirds
of group production and owns no coal or iron ore mine, paid
about 62 percent more for coking coal and almost double for iron
ore in the quarter, based on benchmark prices. The Indian unit
gets all of its  iron ore  and about half of its coal needs from
its own mines.  The cost of raw materials at Tata Steel Europe increased by
more than $150 a ton in the quarter from a year earlier, Chief
Financial Officer Koushik Chatterjee said today at a media
briefing in Mumbai, without giving percentage figures.
Coal spot prices may continue to rise this year after floods in  Australia  lowered supplies and as demand gains in China and
India, researcher McCloskey Group Ltd. said last month.  Tata Steel shares fell 0.6 percent to 616.60 rupees at the
end of trading today in Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive Index of
the Bombay Stock Exchange gained 0.4 percent. The results were
announced after the market closed.  Riversdale Options  The company, the largest shareholder of  Riversdale Mining
Ltd . with 24.14 percent stake, is discussing options with Rio
Tinto Group, Tata Steel Managing Director H.M. Nerurkar said
today at the briefing. Rio last week extended its A$3.9 billion
($3.9 billion) offer for the Australian company.  “The coal from Riversdale is important,” Nerurkar said.  The A$16 a share cash bid expires on March 4, London-based
Rio, which owns 14.96 percent of the Sydney-based company, said
on Feb. 10. It’s seeking at least 50 percent of Riversdale’s
stock.  Tata Steel’s Indian operations earned a profit of 15.1
billion rupees in the period, compared with 11.9 billion rupees
a year earlier, Tata Steel said in a statement to the Bombay
Stock Exchange today. The median estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was 14.7 billion rupees. Sales rose 16
percent to 73.2 billion rupees.  Dussehra, Diwali  Demand for cars in India increased more than 29 percent
during the Hindu festivals of Dussehra and Diwali and the
wedding season in the last quarter. Indian steelmakers including
Tata Steel, Steel Authority of  India  Ltd. and JSW Steel Ltd.,
raised prices by as much as 15 percent in the period, Nirmal
Bang Securities Ltd. analyst Giriraj Daga said.  “Things have changed a lot since the third quarter of last
year as seen in the rising demand for cars and  consumer
durables ,” Daga said by phone from Mumbai before the results.  Tata Steel started construction work on a planned 6 million
ton mill in the eastern state of Orissa after acquiring about
three-quarters of the land needed for the project, Nerurkar said
today. The company plans to spend as much as $2.5 billion every
year, depending on progress of the Orissa mill, Chatterjee said.  Rising automobile demand pushed up the average price of
benchmark hot-rolled steel, used to make cars and motorcycles,
by 20 percent last quarter, according to Steel Business Briefing.
Vehicle deliveries climbed in January, the 24th consecutive
monthly year-on-year increase, according to figures released by
the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  on Feb. 9.  Weak Consumption  Sales of autograde steel in India failed to prop up overall
consumption, which dropped in November and December after
untimely rains delayed construction of homes and public works.
Steel consumption fell 5 percent in November and 3.2 percent in
December, according to steel ministry data.  Steel demand for the year ending March 31 is forecast to
grow at 10 percent, G.K. Basak, executive secretary of the steel
ministry’s joint plant committee, said in December.  Tata Steel last month raised 34.80 billion rupees selling
57 million shares at 610 rupees apiece in a follow-on public
offer as part of plans to fund expansion and repay debt. The
offer added to the 3.53 billion pounds ($5.6 billion) of loans
taken on Sept. 29 to replace debt used to buy Corus Group Plc in
2007 for $12.9 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  