-- 
Australian Dollar Rises as BHP Billiton Reports Record Profit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-02-16T17:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/australian-dollar-is-near-two-week-low-as-u-s-stocks-commodities-decline.html
The Australian dollar advanced from
within a cent of a two-week low against the greenback as  BHP
Billiton  Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, reported
record first-half profit.  New Zealand’s currency advanced from almost this year’s low
versus the greenback after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said
whole milk powder prices rose to the highest level in more than
two and a half years. The Aussie gained a day after the  Reserve
Bank  of  Australia  said in minutes of its February meeting that a
“slightly restrictive” policy was appropriate.  “There will be some resistance above parity, but the
Aussie is still a buy on dips,” said Jim Vrondas, a manager at
the online currency dealer OzForex Ltd. in Sydney. “The RBA
expects growth to improve.”  Australia’s currency rose 0.3 percent to 99.92 U.S. cents
at 12:29 p.m. in  New York , from 99.64 cents yesterday, when it
dropped to 99.44 cents, the lowest level since Jan. 31. New
Zealand’s dollar increased 0.1 percent to 75.27 U.S. cents, from
75.19 yesterday, when it fell to 75.05 cents, the lowest level
since Dec. 28.  BHP Billiton, based in  Melbourne , said today first-half
profit rose 72 percent, driven by an almost threefold gain in
iron ore earnings.  The Reserve Bank said in minutes of its February meeting
released yesterday that a “slightly restrictive” policy stance
was appropriate. The bank raised this month its 2011 inflation
forecast to 3 percent, the high end of its target range, as
reconstruction in Queensland and record jobs growth adds to
price pressures.    New Zealand ’s currency rose for the first time in six days
after Auckland-based Fonterra said whole milk powder prices
gained 8.4 percent from two weeks earlier, reaching the highest
for the near-term contract since July 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  