-- 
Australian Westpac Leading Index Advanced 0.8% in December

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-02-15T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/australian-westpac-leading-index-advanced-0-8-in-december.html
An Australian index of leading
economic indicators rose in December as the economy strengthened
before flooding struck the nation’s northeast.  The index, a gauge of future economic growth, rose 0.8
percent from a month earlier to 280.7,  Westpac Banking Corp . and
the Melbourne Institute said in Sydney today. The index grew at
an annual rate of 4.2 percent in December, after gaining 3.6
percent in November.    Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens held the
benchmark rate at 4.75 percent for a second straight meeting
after a quarter percentage-point rise in November. In testimony
to a parliamentary panel last week, he said natural disasters in
the past two months in the nation’s northeast won’t derail the
expansion.  “With inflation softening further in late 2010, a very
cautious consumer weighing on demand and the full extent of
recent severe weather events still unknown, the Reserve Bank
will be strongly inclined to continue its policy pause in
March,” said Matthew Hassan, senior economist at Westpac in
Sydney. “Westpac does not expect to see the next rate hike
until the September quarter.”  Government figures last month showed consumer prices
advanced last quarter at the slowest pace in almost two years as
a stronger currency lowered costs for goods from abroad.  Westpac’s leading index tracks eight gauges of activity,
including company profits and productivity, to give an
indication of how the economy will perform over the next three
to nine months.  The coincident index, a measure of the current state of the
economy, rose to 269.1 in December from 268.3 a month earlier.  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  