-- 
Azeri Opposition, Emboldened by Egypt, Warns Aliyev

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-02-17T12:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/azeri-opposition-emboldened-by-egypt-gives-two-month-warning.html
(Corrects caption of photo attached to story published on
Feb. 16.)    Azerbaijan ’s political opposition is
seeking to replicate the uprisings that drove out authoritarian
rulers in Egypt and Tunisia, this time in a former Soviet oil
province that supplies an increasing share of Europe’s energy.  President Ilham Aliyev, who took over from his father in
2003 in the first dynastic succession in the former  Soviet
Union , faces the same fate that befell Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak 
last week if he doesn’t annul the November election that gave
his supporters all but one of 125 seats in parliament, said Isa
Qambar, head of the Musavat, or Equality, political party.  “All autocratic regimes are doomed to failure,” Qambar
said in an interview in the capital Baku on Feb. 13, after
protesters forced Mubarak, 82, to resign after three decades in
power. “In two months, they may beg us for a fresh election. In
that case, we may agree, but the people won’t.”  The U.S. and  Europe  have been courting Azerbaijan, where
the first oil well was drilled in 1846, as an alternative crude
supplier to  Russia  and the Middle East since the senior Aliyev,
a former KGB officer, was in power. The country has the third-
largest oil reserves in the former Soviet Union and can pump
enough crude to meet 75 percent of British demand.    Oil companies  led by London-based  BP Plc  have invested more
than $31 billion in the Caspian Sea state since the 1991 Soviet
collapse, equal to almost two-thirds of the country’s annual
gross domestic product.  Flash Point  More than 90 percent of Azerbaijan’s 9 million people are
Muslim and the growing disparity in  living standards  between the
ruling elite and the general population could reach a flash
point similar to that in Egypt, said Anna Walker, a Central Asia
analyst at London-based advisory firm Control Risks.  The Aliyev family has dominated Azeri politics for 40
years. Heydar Aliyev, father of the current leader, became
president in 1993 after serving as the Kremlin’s local Communist
Party boss from 1969 to 1982. His son, 49, scrapped a two-term
limit in 2009, allowing him to stay in power indefinitely.  Azerbaijan is more corrupt than Tunisia and Egypt,
according to  Transparency International , which in 2010 ranked
the country 134 out of 178 on its  global corruption index ,
compared with  Tunisia ’s 59th place and Egypt’s 98th. Since the
recent unrest in the Middle East, the government has started a
rare anti-corruption campaign, using state-controlled media.
Yesterday, Aliyev sacked the head of the prison service and the
national water company.  Circumventing Russia  Azerbaijan can pump up to 1.2 million barrels of oil a day
to Turkey through the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, a project
funded in part by western governments to allow Caspian energy
supplies to circumvent Russia. The country may also be a key
source of natural gas for the European Union-backed planned 7.9
billion-euro ($11 billion) Nabucco pipeline across  Turkey .  Eldar Namazov, a political analyst in Baku, said Aliyev
appears increasingly unconcerned or distant from the plight of
average Azeris, more than 11 percent of whom live below the
official poverty line. In September, during a visit by Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev , state television spent hours showing
Aliyev at his new retreat near Baku that resembles the
presidential Elysee Palace in Paris. The same state media
largely ignored the events in  Egypt  and Tunisia.  “Like in Egypt and Tunisia, an authoritarian regime is in
charge in Azerbaijan,” Namazov said. “Corruption is rife.
Elections are rigged and young people are jobless. Despite all
the pressure, the opposition has survived.”  Opposition ‘Dreaming’  Ali Hasanov, a presidential aide, declined to comment on
whether the events in Egypt and Tunisia have altered the
president’s governing strategy. Ali Ahmadov, deputy head of the
ruling Yeni Azerbaijan party, said in comments reported by the
pro-government Azeri-Press Agency that opposition leaders are
“dreaming” if they think the events in Egypt and Tunisia can
be repeated in Azerbaijan.  Abdullah Gul, president of Azerbaijan’s western neighbor
Turkey, said after Mubarak resigned Feb. 11 that the entire
Islamic world is experiencing an extraordinary awakening.  “Change is being led by the people because the leaders
wouldn’t do it,” Gul said on CNN-Turk television. Mubarak’s
departure followed that of Tunisia’s Zine el Abidine Ben Ali
last month.    Iran , Yemen, Bahrain   Demonstrators in Iran, Yemen and Bahrain, inspired by the
Egyptian uprising, all clashed with security forces in their
respective countries this week. Azerbaijan, carved up by the
Russian and Iranian empires in the 1800s, continues to have
extensive cultural and commercial ties with both neighbors,
particularly Iran, where almost a quarter of the population
speaks Azeri. Azerbaijan’s relationship with Egypt has been more
personal, with Ilham Aliyev erecting a Mubarak statue in
Azerbaijan in 2007 after Mubarak erected one of his father.  The Mubarak statue in the northern Baku suburb of Khirdalan
was the focus of protesters last week demanding the monument’s
removal. That campaign by youth activists was one of the first
in the country to use social networking strategies similar to
those employed by protesters in Egypt and Tunisia.  One of the new breed of activists, a 20-year-old student
named Jabbar Savalanli, was arrested after using Facebook to try
to organize a “Day of Rage” protest in Baku’s main Azadliq
Square. He was held on drug charges and faces three years in
prison if convicted, said Asabali Mustafayev, a defense lawyer.  “Sweeping changes are inevitable in Azerbaijan, too,”
said Qambar of the Musavat party. “The Azeri people, society
and opposition are prepared to implement these changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  