-- 
Bahrain's Shiites May Rally After Funeral for Killed Protester

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-02-16T05:56:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/bahrain-shiites-may-rally-after-funeral-for-second-person-killed-in-unrest.html
Bahraini protesters may rally for a
third day today after the funeral for the second demonstrator
killed during clashes in the Persian Gulf state.  Thousands gathered yesterday in the capital, Manama, to
demand democracy and an end to discrimination against the Shiite
Muslim majority as unrest inspired by popular revolts in  Tunisia 
and Egypt swept across the Middle East. Fighting broke out 
before the funeral of the first protester killed on Feb. 14, the 
official  Bahrain News Agency  said.  Protests in Bahrain, Yemen and Iran raised concerns about
instability in a region that holds about three-fifths of global
oil reserves. Sunni-ruled Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy's Fifth
Fleet, and its neighbor Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy
and world’s biggest oil producer, are U.S. allies. Many among
Bahrain’s populace retain cultural and family links with Shiite-
dominated  Iran .  Saudi Arabia  has a Shiite minority population in
the Eastern Province, where most of its oil is produced.  “Fear that civil unrest could spread into oil-producing
states in the Middle East is keeping investors nervous,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in  London .  Brent crude futures rose Feb. 14 to the highest in more
than two years as popular demands for civil rights, invigorated
by protests that toppled Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak  last week,
rattled the region. Brent for April settlement rose to $103.08,
the highest settlement since September 2008. It dropped $1.44, 
or 1.4 percent, to $101.64 yesterday.  The cost of insuring Bahrain sovereign debt soared to the
highest since August 2009, according to CMA prices for credit-
default swaps. Five-year contracts jumped 20 basis points
yesterday to 263.5 basis points.  Oil Production  Iran is the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum-Exporting Countries, producing about 3.7 million
barrels a day, according to Bloomberg data.  Bahrain  pumped about
32,000 barrels a day of crude in 2009 and 1.49 billion cubic
feet of gas, according to the  national oil and gas authority .  In Yemen, another oil and gas producer, stone-throwing
protesters clashed with police yesterday as they marched toward
the presidential palace, on the fifth day of demonstrations
calling for an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s rule.
Iranian security forces the previous day used tear gas to break
up the biggest anti-government protests since the aftermath of a
disputed presidential election in June 2009.  In Manama late yesterday, Bahraini protesters set up
makeshift camps at the Pearl Roundabout, one of the main traffic
junctions in the capital. “People are saying that this is our
Tahrir Square,” said Nabeel Rajab, head of the Bahrain Center
for Human Rights, in an interview. He was referring to the focus
of protests in Cairo that led to the ouster of Mubarak.  Shiite Majority  Shiites, who represent as much as 70 percent of Bahrainis,
say they face job and housing discrimination from the ruling Al
Khalifa family and its supporters. The country experienced
clashes between Shiites and police before parliamentary
elections in October.  King Hamad, a  Sunni Muslim , has ordered an increase in food
subsidies and social welfare payments, and a grant of 1,000
dinars ($2,653) to each Bahraini family. The monarch earlier
said that the process of political and social change “will not
stop,” the Bahrain News Agency reported. Interior Minister
Sheikh Rashed Al Khalifa apologized to the nation and said the
people who caused the deaths were arrested.  Like Bahrain’s protesters, Iran’s opposition movement says
it has drawn inspiration from the Arab revolts that removed
Mubarak and Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. It accuses
Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  of
meeting popular demands for change with violent repression.  Iran Protests  The demonstration in Tehran was backed by opposition
leaders including Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi, who
challenged Ahmadinejad in the 2009 election and said the result
was rigged. Tens of thousands of protesters were dispersed by
security forces using tear gas and baton charges, Al Jazeera
television said. Two people were killed in the unrest, state-run
Press TV said.  In  Egypt , the army took control after Mubarak’s resignation
on Feb. 11 and has pledged to oversee a rewriting of the
constitution to prepare for free elections. Tunisia is also
preparing for elections under an interim government after Ben
Ali’s Jan. 14 ouster, and opposition groups including the main
Islamic movement are competing with representatives of the
former ruling party to steer the transition.  All of the region’s governments are classified as
autocratic regimes in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s  2010
Democracy Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Bahrain at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 