-- 
BOJ Raises Economy View for First Time in Nine Months

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-02-15T08:17:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/bank-of-japan-raises-economic-assessment-as-global-growth-bolsters-exports.html
The  Bank of Japan  raised its
economic assessment for the first time in nine months as faster
overseas growth bolsters exports and production.  “Japan’s economy is gradually emerging from the current
deceleration phase,” the central bank said in a statement today
after keeping the key interest rate between zero and 0.1 percent
and the size of an asset-buying program at 5 trillion yen ($60
billion) by a unanimous vote.  Japanese government bond yields are climbing on
expectations global growth will accelerate this year and
commodity inflation will increase worldwide, with the benchmark
10-year yields rising to a nine-month high last week. A brighter
outlook combined with economists’ forecasts for the recovery to
take hold this quarter may reduce the possibility of the central
bank bolstering credit-easing measures.  “Unless the economy significantly deviates from its
gradual recovery path, there’s little chance of further
easing,” said Noriaki Matsuoka, an economist at Daiwa Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “Overseas economies are improving, and
it looks like both production and exports bottomed out.”  The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average has risen 4.5 percent this
year, and advanced 0.2 percent at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo
today. Japan’s benchmark 10-year government bond yields have
also climbed since the start of 2010, reaching a 10-month high
of 1.35 percent last week. They were at 1.3 percent today.
Japan’s currency traded at 83.61 per dollar, weaker than the 15-
year high of 80.22 on Nov. 1.  ‘Relatively Contained’  “We’ll continue to carefully monitor movements” in bond
yields, BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said at a press
conference in Tokyo today. “Increases in Japan’s long-term
rates have been relatively contained compared with other
countries” because of the central bank’s pledge to keep rates
close to zero, he said.  Gross domestic product shrank at a smaller rate than
estimated in the final three months of 2010 and economists
forecast growth will resume this quarter, the government said
yesterday.  Twelve of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last
week said the BOJ will probably raise rates in 2013 at earliest,
while two said borrowing costs will increase in 2012 and one
said the bank will refrain from any increase until 2014.  “With good economic data and rising stocks, investors are
starting to reflect” the economy’s improvement in their
expectations for interest rates, said Tadashi Matsukawa, head of
fixed income at PineBridge Investments Japan Co., which manages
about 2.5 trillion yen in assets.  Profits Rise  Overseas demand boosted profits of Japanese companies last
quarter, offsetting the economy’s contraction and the yen’s 2.6
percent gain during the period.  “As the growth rate of the global economy has started
increasing again led by emerging and commodity-exporting
economies, Japan’s exports and production are showing signs of
resuming an uptrend,” Shirakawa’s board said in the statement.  Asked by reporters whether an increase in commodity prices
would hurt Japan’s economy, the governor said elevated costs can
erode incomes, though they are also a reflection of global
demand. He also said the yen is stronger than when  oil prices 
peaked in 2008, helping ease the effect of commodities on the
nation’s terms of trade.  Companies listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s first
section predicted that their profits rose 19 percent in the
three months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, according to
Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting Co. Their profits will
gain 54 percent in the year ending March 31, it said.  Toshiba Forecast  Toshiba Corp., the world’s second-biggest maker of  flash
memory , last month raised its full-year profit to 100 billion
yen from 70 billion yen as demand rises for smartphones and
tablet computers worldwide.  Improving profits have helped drive up the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average by 4.9 percent this year.  “As long as stock prices remain firm, the chance for the
BOJ to come under rising political pressure to do more will
probably be limited” even if the yen strengthens, said  Seiji Shiraishi , chief economist at HSBC Securities in Tokyo.  The BOJ lowered rates to between zero percent and 0.1
percent and unveiled a 5 trillion yen asset-buying fund in
October. Shirakawa last week repeated the bank will expand the
fund should the economy deteriorates and more monetary stimulus
is needed.  Shirakawa said on Feb. 7 that the economy is “about to
emerge” from a pause and deflation is “gradually abating.”
Kazuo Momma, the central bank’s top economist, said in January
the economy will probably start picking up steam in the first
quarter, followed by  Hidetoshi Kamezaki , a BOJ board member, who
this month said the economy’s lull will be overcome “quickly.”
Japan’s gross domestic product contracted at an annualized 1.1
percent in last quarter, less than economies estimated.  Japan’s export growth accelerated and factory output rose
for a second consecutive month in December and the leading
indicator of the Cabinet Office’s business conditions rose to
its highest level since April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  