-- 
Barclays Selling Russian Retail and Commercial Unit

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-02-15T17:23:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/barclays-plans-to-sell-russian-retail-commercial-banking-unit.html
  Barclays Plc  plans to sell its
Russian retail and commercial lending arm to focus on  investment
banking , the bank’s Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  said
today.  “In  Russia  we’ve made a decision to focus our business on
government entities, large corporates and multinationals and to
exit the retail business where we were unable to compete,”
Diamond said today on a conference call after the bank announced
its 2010 results.  The U.K.’s third-largest bank acquired Russian retail
lender Expobank for $745 million in March 2008 before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. pushed the economy to
its steepest contraction on record the following year as
commodity prices tumbled. In a  statement  announcing the Expobank
deal, Barclays said the acquisition would generate a profit and
achieve a return on investment “significantly above the cost of
equity” by 2011.  Barclays was the eighth-biggest underwriter of debt and
equity in Russia last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Expobank, which was rebranded, focuses on Western Russia
with branches in Moscow and  St. Petersburg . Barclays hired
Nikolai Tsekhomsky, former VTB Group Chief Financial Officer, to
run the business, which has more than 400,000 clients and a
network of more than 350 automated telling machines and local
branches, according to its website. It employs about 1,500
people.  Asset Sales  Renaissance Credit, the consumer finance arm of Moscow’s
Renaissance Group,  said  in May last year it agreed to acquire 14
Barclays branches.  Barclays will strengthen its position in Russian  capital
market , focusing on corporate and investment banking, Diamond
said on the call.  The lender was recently added to a list of 10  banks chosen
by the Russian state to advise on asset sales, Bob Foresman,
chief executive officer of Barclays in Russia, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. Russia chose the banks in October
last year to help raise least one trillion rubles ($34 billion)
from asset sales over the next three years. Foresman was hired
from  Renaissance Capital  as country head in September 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  