-- 
Barclays 2010 Net Beats Estimates on Investment Bank, Declining Writedowns

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-02-15T16:40:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/barclays-2010-profit-beats-estimates-as-writedowns-shrink-bonus-pool-cut.html
  Barclays Plc , the first of Britain’s
biggest banks to post annual earnings, reported full-year net
income that beat analyst estimates as investment-banking profit
almost doubled and writedowns shrank.  Net income for 2010 fell to 3.56 billion pounds ($5.7
billion), the U.K.’s third-largest bank said in a statement
today. Analysts had estimated profit would drop to 3.2 billion
pounds, according to the median of 13 surveyed by Bloomberg,
after a one-time gain from the sale of its asset-management unit
boosted profit to 9.39 billion pounds in 2009.  Pretax profit at Barclays Capital, the securities unit led
by  Rich Ricci  and Jerry Del Missier, climbed to 4.78 billion
pounds in 2010. Fixed-income and equities trading revenue rose
10 percent in the fourth quarter from the previous three months,
contrasting with declines at JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., and Deutsche Bank AG. The unit will pay about 2.6
billion pounds in bonuses, 12 percent less than 2009.  “The results look decent,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an
analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London, who has an “outperform”
rating on the lender.   Barclays Capital  had a very good
performance in the fourth quarter compared with its peers.”  Total revenue at Barclays Capital rose 20 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months. Writedowns for
Barclays as a whole dropped 30 percent to 5.67 billion pounds in
2010, the London-based bank said.  Shares Rise  “We continue to see good impairment trends across the
group and are cautiously optimistic that we will see further
improvement in 2011,” Finance Director  Chris Lucas  said in the
statement. “The group is embarking on a program to reduce its
underlying cost base.”  The shares rose 5.8 percent to 328.75 pence at the close of
trading in London, the most in more than six months. The stock
has gained 26 percent this year, making it the best performer of
Britain’s five biggest banks. The bank will pay a final dividend
of 2.5 pence a share, for a total of 5.5 pence for the year.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , who replaced  John Varley  last month, is reviewing Barclays’s operations and may
close units that aren’t generating sufficient returns. The
lender had the highest costs in relation to its revenue in the
first half of last year compared with its U.K. peers. Diamond
eliminated almost 2,000 jobs this year, and like other banks,
Barclays is being pushed by regulators to hold more capital. The
government-sponsored Independent Banking Commission is also
examining whether to recommend the ring-fencing of investment
banking activities from consumer banking.  Return on Equity  Barclays today set a target for return on equity of at
least 13 percent. That’s down from the 18 percent Diamond has
said the bank has averaged over the past three decades. The
profitability target is based on an average core Tier 1 capital
ratio of 9 percent, which may not be “sufficient,” Barclays
said, as tougher capital rules lower returns. Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, last week cut its target to
more than 15 percent from more than 18 percent.  “The new environment will necessitate lower returns than
the period just preceding the recent crisis,” Diamond, 59,
said. “We have already undertaken a strategic review of our
operating model that should take out considerable running costs
over the medium-term, and you should expect us to continue to
act to adjust our business and asset portfolio mix as required
to achieve our return goals.”  Barclays Capital  Barclays reaped 6.33 billion pounds from the sale of its
Barclays Global Investors asset-management unit in December
2009. Group pretax profit in 2010, excluding asset sales, rose
32 percent to 6.07 billion pounds.  Revenue at Barclays Capital dropped 25 percent to 13.33
billion pounds in 2010. Income from trading fixed income,
currencies and commodities fell to 8.81 billion pounds from
13.65 billion pounds the previous year.  Diamond expanded the bank’s Barclays Capital securities
unit by hiring in equities and mergers and advisory in Europe
and  Asia  following his acquisition of the North American
operations of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. The unit
accounts for the majority of Barclays’s annual profit.  Total pay at its securities unit rose by about 23 percent
even as it reduced bonuses to keep a pledge to the British
government. Average compensation per employee at the securities
unit increased about 23 percent to about 235,806 pounds for 2010
from about 191,000 pounds in 2009, Barclays filings show. The
bank said the number increased for 2010 because it included
deferred awards from previous years.    George Osborne   Britain’s four biggest banks, including Barclays, last week
promised Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne that total
bonuses for their U.K.-based employees will be lower than last
year, an agreement dubbed Project Merlin. Diamond told a
parliamentary committee last month that it’s time for banks to
end “the period of remorse and apology” and start rebuilding
confidence.  The bank’s western European consumer banking division
posted a pretax loss of 139 million, compared with profit of 280
million pounds in the year-earlier period. Profit at Barclays’s
British consumer unit rose 39 percent to 989 million pounds,
helped by a decline in provisions for bad loans and a gain on
the purchase of Standard Life Bank, purchased in October 2009.  Barclays’s corporate banking unit swung into a loss of 631
million pounds, from a profit of 157 million pounds in 2009
because of a jump in bad loans in  Spain , the lender said.  “It remains the case that the group is dominated by
Barclays Capital, but we are particularly encouraged by the
resurgent performance from Barclays’ U.K. businesses,” wrote  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas SA who has an
“outperform” rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in  London  at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  