-- 
Frank Seeks to Increase SEC Funding in House Debate

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-02-15T18:43:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/barney-frank-seeks-to-boost-sec-funding-in-house-budget-debate.html
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank 
will push to increase funding for the Securities and Exchange
Commission, working against a Republican proposal this week to
cut the agency’s budget.  The House today began debating a  bill  to fund the federal
government past March 4. Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, has
filed an amendment that would increase the SEC’s funding by $131
million as the agency takes on new regulatory duties under the
Dodd-Frank Act. Republicans, who hold the House majority, have
proposed cutting the agency’s budget to $1.07 billion from its
current level of $1.11 billion.  Frank’s proposal would reduce funding for two Internal
Revenue Service departments and two General Services
Administration programs to offset additional funds for the SEC.
Frank, the top Democrat on the House Financial Services
Committee, has said Republicans are using budget cuts to
“strangle” the financial regulation law that bears his name.  Dodd-Frank has become central to the spending and debate in
Congress. Republicans, who almost unanimously opposed the law,
have said regulatory budgets are ripe for cuts.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has pushed lawmakers for a
budget increase since late last year, when Congress considered
another continuing resolution to fund the government. Lawmakers
agreed Dec. 21 to continue funding the government at its current
levels, denying budget increases sought by the SEC to implement
the regulatory overhaul.  Government funding for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 has
been caught up in partisan battles over taxes and spending after
Republican gains in the November elections.  President  Barack Obama , in his fiscal 2012 budget proposal
released yesterday, requested that the SEC receive a $305
million increase over its 2010 funding level. The budget also
calls for a staff increase of 16 percent. Congress will begin
its consideration of that proposal in the next few months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  