-- 
Bavaria Would Consider German State Purchase of EADS Stake

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-02-15T16:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/bavaria-would-consider-german-state-purchase-of-eads-stake.html
Bavaria said it would consider a
state purchase of shares in European Aeronautic Defence & Space
Co. to preserve jobs in the region should  Daimler AG  sell its 15
percent stake.  The southern German state views the aerospace industry and
EADS, the owner of aircraft maker Airbus SAS, as “key” to
regional development, Bavarian Economy Minister Martin Zeil said
in an e-mailed response to questions today. The federal and
state governments “must work closely together” on a solution
should Stuttgart-based Daimler sell its EADS stake, he said.  “One must assess and discuss extremely carefully whether a
further state holding should also be considered in the most
extreme case,” he said.  Zeil’s remarks put him at odds with federal lawmakers in
his Free Democratic Party, who prefer finding a private investor
to a state purchase. Bavaria’s position also adds pressure to
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition government, which is
divided on whether to contemplate a state holding. Allies in her
Christian Democrat-led bloc last week said they were prepared to
break with German policy and weigh a direct investment. The FDP
serves as junior coalition partner in the government  German and French institutions each hold a 22.5 percent
stake in EADS. Lawmakers in Merkel’s coalition said it was
imperative that Germany remain at parity with  France  in the
ownership structure.  More than 18,000 of EADS’s 120,000 employees work in
Bavaria, according to Zeil’s ministry. That includes the
company’s German headquarters in Ottobrunn, outside the state
capital Munich.  Hamburg Production  The state government in the northern port city of Hamburg,
which has more than 11,000 EADS workers, said last week it must
remain the production location for “essential” Airbus parts.
The matter will be an issue for Hamburg’s new government, which
will be elected on Feb. 20, the city said.  In  Germany , Daimler has voting rights over the full 22.5
percent stake, including the 7.5 percent held by a group of
banks and states. The French government owns 15 percent, with
another 7.5 percent held by publisher Lagardere SCA.  Daimler has fended off speculation that it may reduce its
stake before the current shareholder agreement expires at the
end of next year, saying that it will seek to find a “stable
and balanced” resolution for EADS.  German officials will meet on Feb. 23 to discuss the
government’s strategy. Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s spokesman, said
on Feb. 7 that Germany and France are in “intensive dialogue”
about EADS’s ownership structure in anticipation of a Daimler
sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  