-- 
Berkshire Exits BofA ‘a Loser’ on Three-Year Holding

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-02-15T14:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/berkshire-departs-bank-of-america-as-a-loser-on-stake-after-three-years.html
  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc . sold its stake in  Bank of America Corp ., ending an
investment that spanned three and a half years in which the
lender’s stock lost more than two-thirds of its value.  Buffett’s firm had no shares in the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank at the end of 2010, compared with 5 million
shares three months earlier, Berkshire said late yesterday in a
regulatory filing that lists the company’s U.S. stockholdings.  Berkshire, where Buffett serves as chief executive officer
and head of investments, entered the Bank of America stake with
the purchase of 8.7 million shares in the second quarter of
2007. The lender’s CEO at the time,  Kenneth Lewis , was expanding
through acquisitions and telling investors that the U.S. housing
slump would be over within months.  “He’s closing out a loser,” said Jeff Matthews, author of
“Pilgrimage to Warren Buffett’s Omaha,” whose Ram Partners LP
invests in Berkshire and Bank of America. “We bought it during
the crisis. But its earnings power coming out the crisis has
been reduced.”  Bank of America fell 6 cents to $14.83 at 9:50 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The lender traded for
more than $48 at the end of June 2007.  Buffett, 80, is reshaping Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s
stock portfolio amid changes among the company’s investment
managers. Lou Simpson, once identified by Buffett as his
emergency stand-in, retired late last year. Berkshire, the
biggest shareholder of  Coca-Cola Co . and  Wells Fargo & Co .,
hired former hedge fund manager Todd Combs to help Buffett with
investments.  Nike, Lowe’s  Berkshire also eliminated its stakes in Nike Inc.,  Comcast
Corp .,  Nalco Holding Co .,  Fiserv Inc ., Lowe’s Cos. and Becton,
Dickinson & Co. in the fourth quarter. In November, Berkshire
disclosed that it had sold holdings of  Home Depot Inc ., trash
hauler Republic Services Inc. and  Iron Mountain Inc ., a provider
of records management. Buffett’s U.S. portfolio had 25 stocks
and a value of about $52.6 billion at the end of December.  “It makes one wonder if he’s setting up his portfolio for
transition,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief investment
strategist at Berkshire shareholder YCMNet Advisors. “It
certainly would be more helpful when someone comes in to the
portfolio to have 25 names rather than 50 names, where they’d
have to spend a lot of time cleaning up messes.”  Faulty Mortgages  Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , who replaced Lewis
early last year, is facing increased regulation and lawsuits
from investors who said the company sold faulty mortgages.
Moynihan oversaw a $2.2 billion net loss in 2010 as the shares
dropped 11 percent, the worst performance among the 10 biggest
U.S. banks.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the bank, said the
company doesn’t comment on investor purchases or sales of the
firm’s stock.  Charlie Pajor, a spokesman for Naperville, Illinois-based
Nalco, said Berkshire did “very well with their investment” in
the provider of water-treatment services. Berkshire took a stake
in Nalco in the fourth quarter 2008, when the company had an
average price of less than $13 a share. The stock traded for
more than $31 on Dec. 31.  Berkshire also sold its stake in  Nestle SA ’s American
depositary receipts traded in the U.S.  Buffett, also Berkshire’s chairman, has trimmed the stock
portfolio since the 2008 financial crisis and focused on buying
whole companies. He acquired Burlington Northern Santa Fe last
year for $26.5 billion to add a railroad to Berkshire’s
collection of more than 70 subsidiaries in industries spanning
insurance, energy and ice cream.  Wells Fargo  Buffett has said Berkshire will divide his roles as head of
investments and operations among more than one successor. Combs
specialized in financial-services investments at hedge fund
Castle Point Capital Management LLC.  Buffett has said he built his equity portfolio by buying
and holding stocks of companies that he believes have durable
competitive advantages. Berkshire’s stake in San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home lender, was valued at more
than $10 billion at the end of December after Berkshire added
shares in the fourth quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Wells Fargo climbed 21 cents to $34.08 at 9:50 a.m.
in  New York .  Buffett told CNBC in 2009 that while Bank of America
excelled at gathering deposits, “they’ve got some activities
that are maybe less wonderful.”  Lewis overpaid for Merrill Lynch & Co. in a deal struck the
same day Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in
2008, Buffett told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission,
according to remarks released last week by the panel. Bank of
America completed its $18.5 billion purchase of Merrill Lynch in
January of 2009.  Lewis “paid a crazy price, in my view,” Buffett said.
“He could have bought them the next day for nothing because
Merrill was going to go when Lehman went.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 