-- 
Berlusconi to Stand Trial April 6 on Prostitution, Abuse of Power Charges

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-02-15T16:56:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/berlusconi-to-stand-trial-april-6-on-prostitution-abuse-of-power-charges.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  was ordered to stand trial on charges of abuse of
power and paying a minor for sex, fueling calls for his
resignation amid a deepening clash with the nation’s judiciary.  Judge Cristina Di Censo today approved a request by Milan
prosecutors for Berlusconi to be tried. She fixed an April 6
start for the proceedings, according to a statement read to
reporters. Berlusconi’s trial will be heard by a panel of three
women judges.  The premier, who has denied any wrongdoing, has called the
charges “disgusting” and “groundless.” A conviction on both
counts could carry a maximum sentence of 15 years, though it’s
unlikely Berlusconi, 74, would be jailed, given his age and the
probability he could run out the statute of limitations during
the appeals process.  “The judge’s decision implies that the supporting
documentation submitted by prosecutors contains enough evidence
of a crime, and is sufficient to warrant a trial,” said
criminal lawyer Fabio Belloni who represented Parmalat SpA
founder Calisto Tanzi in a fraud case.  Berlusconi has regularly accused the prosecutors of trying
to destroy him since he entered politics in 1994. By his count,
he’s been targeted in 105 probes and trials, faced 2,500 court
hearings and spent more than 300 million euros ($409 million) in
consultant and legal fees. He describes himself as history’s
“most persecuted man.” He’s never been convicted, and he’s won
two elections while facing criminal charges.  ‘Politicized Process’  “This was something we expected in the framework of a
politicized process that is seeking to remove Berlusconi from
power,” Fabrizio Cicchitto, head of Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty Party in the Chamber of Deputies, said in  Rome .
Berlusconi canceled plans to speak at an unrelated press
conference today in Sicily.  Berlusconi has refused to cooperate with the investigation
and has questioned the legitimacy of the Milan court to hear the
case. Under Italian law, he won’t have to testify or attend the
trial.  “Berlusconi is a defendant and not a witness in this
case,” said Giuseppe Vaciago, with Vaciago law firm in Milan.
“In Italy the defendant is not obliged to be in court. You can
have the trial without the defendant.”  Ruby Heart-Stealer  The trial will examine his relationship with Karima El
Mahroug, a Moroccan nightclub performer nicknamed Ruby Heart
Stealer who attended at least one party at his Milan mansion in
February 2010 when she was 17. The abuse-of-power charge stems
from his role in helping secure her release from police custody
in Milan after her detention in May on unrelated theft charges.  The premier, who owns Italy’s biggest private broadcaster,
referred to El Mahroug as a relative of former Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  when he phoned the police on her behalf,
Interior Minister Roberto Maroni told parliament in November.
She is not related to Mubarak and has denied having sexual
relations with the Italian leader or being a prostitute.  Berlusconi, who says he’s never paid for sex, has said he
didn’t know that El Mahroug was a minor and denied pressuring
police to release her. He’d only phoned to help a young woman in
a “tragic situation,” he said.  El Mahroug was released by police into the custody of
Nicole Minetti, 25, a former showgirl and dental hygienist who
was elected a regional representative for Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party in March 2010. Prosecutors allege that Minetti,
also targeted in the probe, helped secure young women for
Berlusconi’s parties.  No-Confidence Vote  The premier’s conservative government survived a no-
confidence motion in parliament by three votes on Dec. 14, as
Italian newspapers began to publish details of the Ruby story.
Hundreds of thousands of women demonstrated in more than 200
Italian cities and towns on Feb. 13 to defend the dignity of
women and call on Berlusconi to quit. The case is also straining
Berlusconi’s support from Catholic voters, and the director of
Avvenire, the newspaper of  Italy ’s national Bishops conference,
endorsed the women’s protest in a Feb. 12  editorial.   “The Italian political situation is completely frozen
now,” said Rocco Buttiglione, a member of parliament for the
opposition Union of Centrist Party. “Everything has become more
and more partisan, making dialogue more difficult.”  Opinion Poll  In an opinion poll prepared by Ipsos released on Feb. 8 on
the television program Ballaro, 61 percent said that Berlusconi
should resign, with 33 percent saying he should remain in
office. The same poll showed that Berlusconi’s coalition
maintained about a 3 percentage point lead over the biggest
opposition bloc, a similar margin to that of an IPR poll
released Feb. 2.  The prosecutors announced their probe of Berlusconi on Jan.
14, a day after Italy’s Constitutional Court overturned parts of
a law granting him virtual immunity from prosecution while in
office. The ruling opened the door to the resumption of pending
corruption trials against Berlusconi, and prosecutors on Feb. 8
received approval to restart on March 11 a bribery trial against
the premier. In that case, Berlusconi is accused of paying a
U.K. lawyer $600,000 to lie on his behalf in another trial.
Berlusconi has denied any wrongdoing in that case.  Under Italian law, the prostitution charge carries a
maximum sentence of three years and Berlusconi faces a penalty
of 12 years if convicted of abuse of power. Conviction on the
underage prostitution charge won’t require prosecutors to prove
the two engaged in intercourse. If convicted, Berlusconi would
be able to appeal twice in a process that can typically drag on
for years before a binding verdict is delivered.  Search Denied  The lower house of parliament on Feb. 3 voted to deny a
request by prosecutors to search the Milan office of Giuseppe
Spinelli, one of Berlusconi’s accountants. Spinelli is suspected
of making payments on behalf of the premier to women who
attended parties at his residences.  In their search request, prosecutors said that Berlusconi
had provided some young women who frequented his Milan mansion
with cash and gifts including use of apartments in the city.  Friends of the premier who are also targeted in the probe
“identified, selected and accompanied a relevant number of
young women, who prostituted themselves with Silvio Berlusconi
in his residence and were paid money by him,” even though the
funds were distributed by intermediaries, Chief Milan Prosecutor
Edmondo Bruti Liberti wrote in the  document .  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jeffrey Donovan  at   jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net  