-- 
Berlusconi Will Be Judged by Three Women in Underage Prostitution Trial

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 
2011-02-15T15:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/berlusconi-will-be-judged-by-three-women-in-underage-prostitution-trial.html
When Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  stands trial on charges he paid an underage girl for
sex, he’ll be judged by a female panel.  Giulia Turri, Orsola De Cristoforo and Carmen D’Elia were
named today as the judges who will preside over the April 6
trial in Milan. Turri, for one, is no stranger to tough cases.
In 2009, she granted a dismissal of a tax-evasion probe
involving Google Inc. managers. Last July, she ordered house
arrests as part of a high-profile investigation into cocaine use
and trafficking at Milan night clubs.  “In my career as a lawyer I’ve met all three, and they
made a great impression,” said criminal lawyer Fabio Belloni,
who represented Parmalat SpA founder Calisto Tanzi in a fraud
case. “They were always very scrupulous and have performed
their duties rigorously.”  The trial will probe Berlusconi’s relationship with Karima
El Mahroug, a Moroccan nightclub performer nicknamed Ruby Heart
Stealer who attended a party at his Milan mansion last February
when she was 17. The abuse-of-power charge stems from his role
in helping secure El Mahroug’s release from police custody in
Milan after her detention in May on unrelated theft charges.  Two days ago, hundreds of thousands of women took to the
streets across  Italy  to protest Berlusconi’s behavior and demand
better treatment for women. The female-led protest was sparked
by the investigation into whether Berlusconi paid El Mahroug for
sex and abused his power in trying to cover it up.  “In the court we have wonderful judges and most of them
are women,” Giuseppe Vaciago, a criminal lawyer in Milan, said
in a telephone interview. “So this is not so strange, but it is
a bit ironic.”  ‘Disgusting, Groundless’  The premier, who has denied any wrongdoing, has called the
charges “disgusting” and “groundless.” He isn’t obliged to
attend the trial or testify, said his lawyer, Niccolo Ghedini.  Berlusconi, Italy’s third-richest man, has been rebuked for
his remarks on women throughout his political career spanning
almost two decades. He advised a college graduate looking for
work in 2008 to “perhaps try and marry a millionaire.” In
2003, he told prospective investors at the New York Stock
Exchange that Italian “secretaries are beautiful.”  His ex-wife, Veronica Lario, said he has a “sickness” for
“hanging out with underage girls,” following 2009 media
reports about his friendship with aspiring model Noemi Letizia.  Italy,  dubbed  by British writer Tobias Jones as “the land
that feminism forgot,” ranked 74th out of 134 countries in a
World Economic Forum  Gender Gap  Index, behind Malawi and  Kazakhstan . With the exception of  Malta , Italy has the  lowest
ratio  of working women in the European Union, 46 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  