-- 
Bernanke Defends Lehman Actions to His ‘Deathbed’

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-02-15T14:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/bernanke-defends-lehman-action-to-deathbed-in-sesssion-with-crisis-panel.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, in a confidential talk with the commission probing the
causes of the financial crisis, said he would defend to his
“deathbed” his actions prior to the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  “I will maintain to my deathbed, that we made every effort
to save Lehman, but we were just unable to do so because of a
lack of legal authority,” Bernanke said, referring to the 2008
failure that intensified a crisis that Bernanke said was the
worst in history, according to an 89-page  transcript  of the
interview by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission.  The record of the session, made public yesterday, shows
Bernanke using less-guarded language than his speeches and
testimony as he answers questions from panel members. In
accounts that are similar in substance to his public statements,
he says  Germany ’s labor system is “less efficient” than the
U.S.’s, talks about the “blogosphere” and tosses out a
reference to the 1968 disaster-novel “Airport.”  Bernanke, 57, defended the Fed’s supervision of individual
banks while saying the central bank was “to some extent,
culpable” for not regulating subprime mortgages.  “The Fed didn’t do a perfect job, but -- and lots of
things that we see now that can improve and are improving,” he
said. “But I don’t think we were particularly culpable on the
supervision part relative to the rest of the world.”  Panel Report  Parts of the interview were quoted in the panel’s final
report, which cites the Nov. 17, 2009, “closed-door” session
in 11 footnotes. The Fed chief discussed topics including the
central bank’s failures and why the government rescued Bear
Stearns Cos. while letting Lehman go bankrupt.  The FCIC’s meeting with Bernanke lasted 90 minutes and was
held at the commission’s eighth-floor office near the White
House, according to Bernanke’s daybook from the Fed. It begins
with a monologue about his view on the crisis’s causes before he
takes questions.  The FCIC initially said last week the Bernanke interview
would be withheld and transferred to the  National Archives ,
which would make it public in five years. The session was
originally considered confidential, and the panel sought the
Fed’s agreement to make it public, said Tucker Warren, a
spokesman for the panel. The central bank agreed late Feb. 11 to
its publication, Warren said.  ‘Proprietary’ Information  In a Feb. 11 article, Bloomberg News quoted Warren as
saying the FCIC was withholding records when there was “legal
or proprietary information in those interviews that meant they
could not be made public,” or no audio, transcript or summary
exists. The FCIC on Feb. 10 released more than 300 witness
interviews.    Michelle Smith , a spokeswoman for the Fed, declined to
comment yesterday.  Bernanke said an overhaul of financial regulation being
debated by Congress at the time “will be a failure if we could
not contemplate the failure” of a firm such as  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc .  “That is, there needs to be a system by which Goldman
Sachs will go bankrupt and Goldman Sachs’ creditors could lose
money,” the Fed chief said, in a reference to the securities
firm that was the most profitable in Wall Street history before
it converted to a bank in 2008.  Bernanke blamed “poisonous” politics surrounding the $700
billion Troubled Asset Relief Program for the failure of the
government’s capital injections into banks to spark lending.
“The general response of bankers has been to give the money
back as fast as they can; or if they have to keep it for some
reason, not to base any lending on it,” Bernanke said.  Novel Example  The Fed chief brought up the technique of the author of
“Airport,” Arthur Hailey, to show how the FCIC might explore
how different businesses and issues evolved before the financial
crisis.  “There’s this long discussion of Character A, and then
completely separate, Character B, and then all of a sudden at
the end there’s some kind of huge crisis and they’re all
squished together,” Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  