-- 
BHP Damps M&A Talk, Spending $80 Billion on Mines

-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-02-16T06:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/bhp-billiton-reports-first-half-profit-of-10-5-billion-beating-estimates.html
  BHP Billiton Ltd ., the world’s
largest mining company, damped talk that it’s looking to make
major acquisitions, instead committing to spend $80 billion to
expand and develop its own mines and oil fields.  “As one looks at a buy versus build equation, the clear
opportunity for us is to invest money in our own portfolio,”
Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers , 48, said on a
conference call today. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. have been named as possible targets for BHP.  Investor and regulator concern helped sink three
investments proposed by Kloppers in the past four years worth
more than $100 billion, including last year’s offer for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. BHP, which today reported record
first-half profit, earmarked the  capital spending  for iron ore,
oil and natural gas, coking coal and copper projects.  “They probably are going to be less aggressive in their
acquisitive trail in comparison to where they had been
previously,” Jamie Spiteri, head dealer at Shaw Stockbroking
Ltd. in Sydney, said by phone today. “They’ve been unsuccessful
in recent years acquiring very big assets and there’s been a lot
of corporate and political sensitivity.”  BHP declined 1.6 percent to A$46.59 at the 4:10 p.m.
Sydney time close after reporting a 72 percent gain in first-
half profit to $10.5 billion. Its first-half dividend of 46
cents, up from 42 cents a year earlier, missed a projected
dividend of 48 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Flat Dividend  The stock may be down today because “the strength in the
Australian dollar with respect to the U.S. currency has meant
that, in effect, the dividend in Australian dollar terms is
flat,” Peter Rudd, mining and resources research manager at
Armytage Private Ltd., said on Bloomberg TV today.  Kloppers’ growth strategy partly echoes that of counterpart
Roger Agnelli at Vale SA, the world’s largest  iron ore  exporter.
He’s spending $24 billion on organic growth this year and has
said Rio de Janeiro-based Vale’s not going after acquisitions.
BHP is spending $15 billion this year on projects.  “They have plenty on their plate in terms of organic
growth,” Armytage’s Rudd said in an interview with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move Asia.” “Asset
prices have gone up quite substantially in a number of different
areas now. So they now need to pay on any acquisition close to
top dollar.”  Mining takeovers reached the second-highest value on record
last year, worth $144.5 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Metal prices in  London  have almost doubled in the
past two years as the global economy rebounded.  Further Investments  The company today expanded its existing share buyback
program to $10 billion, from $4.2 billion in November. That was
higher than a forecast $5 billion increase by Citigroup Inc. and
met UBS AG’s expectations.  BHP plans to spend the $80 billion by the end of the 2015
financial year and expects to approve investments in coking coal
and iron ore, Kloppers said today on an analyst and investor
conference call. BHP is also studying an expansion of the
Olympic Dam mine in  South Australia  that would transform the
site into the world’s fourth-largest copper and gold operation.  “There is robust, ongoing volume growth as we look forward
and as these projects move through execution,” Kloppers said on
the call with investors.  Anadarko surpassed a two-year high in New York trading in
December after The  Daily Mail  reported BHP may make a $90-a-
share bid. Woodside and closely held coal producer Drummond Co.
were other possible targets, UBS said in November. BHP is
considering takeovers in the  energy industry , J. Michael Yeager,
CEO of the company’s oil and gas division, said in September.  Massive Bodies  BHP doesn’t want “higher leverage, second-tier or below
asset type acquisitions,” Kloppers said.  “Our strategy is to expand massive ore bodies over time
and we feel that’s where we allocate capital,” he said. “That
does not rule out acquisitions” of smaller projects that can be
joined into bigger projects, he said, citing BHP’s C$341 million
($345 million) takeover of Athabasca Potash Inc. in January 2010
which had a project adjacent to its own Jansen development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in  Melbourne  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 