-- 
BHP Says Gas Venture With Exxon `Immensely Valuable' After Cost Overruns

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-02-16T02:43:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/bhp-says-bass-strait-gas-venture-with-exxon-immensely-valuable-.html
  BHP Billiton Ltd .,  Australia ’s
biggest oil and gas producer, said the Turrum and Kipper gas
venture off the southeast coast remains “immensely valuable,”
even after the company’s share of the estimated costs doubled.  BHP expects its spending on Turrum and Kipper, operated by  Exxon Mobil Corp ., to rise to $2.3 billion, the Melbourne-based
company said in January. The companies attributed the increased
budget to rising labor costs, design changes and mercury found
in the reservoir during the Kipper drilling in the Bass Strait.  “The fact that we are proceeding with this supplemental
investment means we believe this is still a value-creating
project for us,” Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said
on a call with reporters after the company’s petroleum division
reported a 23 percent increase in underlying profit before
interest and tax, or EBIT, in the six months through Dec. 31.  Rising labor and raw material expenses are part of
“industry-wide cost pressures,” BHP said today. Australian
resources companies face a potential  labor shortage  that
threatens to drive wages higher as more projects compete for
workers, Energy Minister Martin Ferguson said last month.  BHP fell 1.9 percent to A$46.44 at 1:40 p.m. Sydney time,
compared with a drop of 0.1 percent for the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index.  Rising Oil Prices  BHP’s petroleum unit plans to drill exploration wells in  Malaysia , Brunei, Colombia and Australia during the next six
months while a “degree of uncertainty is associated with the
new regulatory environment” after the BP Plc oil spill in the
U.S.  Gulf of Mexico , the company said in a statement today.  No production permits were issued in the Gulf of  Mexico  in
the second half of last year, BHP said. The deferral of drilling
“was a major constraint on our business” and the resulting
decline in volumes cut underlying EBIT by $464 million, BHP
said.  Even so, first-half underlying profit before interest and
tax for the oil and gas division climbed to $2.85 billion from
$2.33 billion, bolstered by a 13 percent increase in  oil prices 
and a 6 percent gain for gas, BHP said.  Energy contributed more than a fifth of BHP’s earnings
before interest and tax of $14.8 billion.  Oil and gas production in the six months was in line with a
year earlier as a cost of delays in the Gulf and flooding in
Pakistan offset gains from the Pyrenees project off Australia,
BHP said. Production for the year ending in June is expected to
be in line with the 2010 financial year, BHP reiterated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  