-- 
Bloomberg News Launches Consumer Comfort Index

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-15T16:02:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/bloomberg-news-launches-consumer-comfort-index.html
                                
Press Release  Weekly Survey Tracks Consumer Views on the State of the U.S.
Economy  NEW YORK -- Bloomberg News announced today the launch of the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, a weekly, random-sample survey
tracking Americans’ views on the condition of the U.S. economy,
their personal finances and the buying climate. The survey,
formerly sponsored by ABC News since 1985, will be released on a
weekly basis beginning Thursday, February 17 at 9:45am ET on the
Bloomberg Professional service and subsequently on
Bloomberg.com.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is produced by Langer
Research Associates of New York. Each release includes results
among 1,000 randomly selected adults, with breakdowns available
by age, race, sex, education, political affiliation and other
groups. The Index has significant long-term correlations,
including on a time-lagged basis, with a variety of key economic
indicators.  In addition to its three measures of current sentiment, the
Consumer Comfort data include a monthly gauge of economic
expectations, based on the share of Americans who say the
economy is getting better, getting worse or staying the same.
The first expectations results will be included in this week’s
release.  “The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is a natural extension of
Bloomberg’s continued commitment to the most comprehensive
reporting of the U.S. economy,” said Matthew Winkler, Editor-in-
Chief of Bloomberg News.  “The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index provides a rich, ongoing
source of intelligence on Americans’ views of economic
conditions,” said Gary Langer, president of Langer Research
Associates. “We’ve tracked these attitudes in representative,
national surveys on a weekly basis continuously for 25 years.
Combining that expertise with Bloomberg’s depth in financial
data and news reporting is ideal for Bloomberg’s news and data
clientele.”  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses. Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms. Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations with more than 2,300 news and
multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  About Langer Research Associates
Langer Research is a custom research firm specializing in survey
design, management and analysis. Based in New York, Langer
Research is the primary news polling provider for ABC News and
produces in-depth surveys and data analysis for other media,
foundation, business and government clients. Field work services
for the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index are provided by
SSRS/Social Science Research Solutions of Media, Pa.  Contact:  Meghan Womack, +1 212-617-8514,  mwomack4@bloomberg.net 
 