-- 
BP Misled Investors Before Gulf Spill, Lawyers Say

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-02-15T18:36:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/bp-misled-investors-before-gulf-oil-spill-inflating-shares-lawyers-say.html
  BP Plc  investors accused the company
of lying about its commitment to safety and inflating company
shares for three years before the explosion of the Deepwater
Horizon set off the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  BP management claimed the company learned its lesson after
an accident at a Texas refinery in 2005 killed 15 workers and
injured hundreds, the lawyers said in a lawsuit brought by
institutional investors, including Ohio’s pension plan.
Investors discovered after the rig explosion that the company
didn’t live up to promises to increase its focus on safety and
maintenance, the lawyers said yesterday in an amended complaint.  “The truth about BP and its lack of commitment to and
implementation of safety processes to avoid preventable
incidents began to emerge,” said attorneys for the  Ohio  and New
York state pension funds. “Investors were deceived as to BP’s
true risk profile in deep sea drilling.”  The investor securities-fraud suit is among hundreds of
claims filed in U.S. courts after the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig last April. Injury, economic
loss and environmental suits are combined before a federal judge
in  New Orleans . The investor suit, which seeks unspecified
billions of dollars in lost share value, is combined with other
shareholder actions in federal court in Houston.  Securities Law  Investors claim BP violated U.S. securities law by
misleading investors before and after the spill. They also claim
that BP publicly touted a commitment to safety while cutting
budgets and personnel and rejecting internal complaints.  “BP engaged in continuous and systematic retaliation
against employees who reported concerns about the safety and
integrity of BP’s operations,” investor lawyers said. Beyond
terminations, the company’s senior vice president for drilling
operations for the  Gulf of Mexico  resigned over safety concerns
in late 2009, the lawyers alleged.  “This latest news continues to make the case for oil-spill
legislation,” Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat,
said today in a conference call with reporters. He is pursuing a
change in the U.S. Oil Pollution Act, which caps damages at $75
million from oil spills, unless gross negligence is found.  This legislation “is essential,” Menendez said. “If you
make the mess, you clean up the mess.”  London-based BP fell about 40 percent in the weeks after
the explosion, investors said in yesterday’s filing. The drop
eliminated billions of dollars in the company’s market value,
shareholders’ lawyers said.  Class-Action Suit  The Ohio and  New York  pension plans are seeking class-
action, or group, status for the suit, covering investors in
American depositary receipts from Jan. 16, 2007, to May 28,
2010. They also seek recovery of losses over that period for
U.S. investors who bought BP ordinary shares on foreign markets.  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman, declined to comment on the
amended complaint today.  BP investors began filing shareholder lawsuits in May,
alleging securities fraud, within weeks of the explosion.
Lawyers for the investors added details to their claims in
yesterday’s new complaint.  The lawyers said multiple incidents before the explosion
reflected flawed company safety and maintenance procedures in
the U.S.  BP in 2007 agreed to pay a $50 million criminal fine for a
violation of U.S. environmental law related to the explosion at
its Texas City,  Texas , refinery in 2005. The company was also
fined by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration
for safety violations at the plant.  Clean-Water Violation  The company pleaded guilty to violation of the  Clean Water
Act  and agreed to pay $20 million over the 2006 release of more
than 200,000 gallons of oil from its Prudhoe Bay oil field in  Alaska . The U.S. claimed neglect of company pipelines caused the
spills.  BP responded by promising to change its corporate culture,
the investors said. The company instead ignored internal
concerns and cut back safety and compliance staff, they said.  “Cutbacks and layoffs hit their height in 2009,” the
investors said. BP merged its U.S. group compliance office in
Houston with its global compliance and ethics office in  London ,
leading to “huge staff reductions,” according to a former
company manager, cited as a confidential witness in the
complaint.  Compliance Personnel  Houston compliance staffing was cut 33 percent, while that
in London was reduced 44 percent, the investors’ lawyers said.
The company also cut back staff in its health, safety, security
and environment department, according to the complaint.  Cuts in this department “led to resignations and
terminations of HSSE managers who complained or raised issues
about the cuts,” the investor lawyers said.  Just before the Deepwater Horizon was dispatched to drill
the Macondo well, BP’s senior vice president for Gulf drilling
operations, Kevin Lacy, resigned “because of disagreements with
BP over its lack of commitment to process safety,” the lawyers
said.  Lacy was recruited by BP in 2007 to improve and standardize
drilling policies and he resigned “because he believed that the
company was not adequately committed to improving its safety
protocols in offshore drilling” compared with that of its
industry peers, investor lawyers alleged.  BP continued to mislead investors after the Gulf spill,
downplaying the size as it attempted to cap the well, investor
lawyers said yesterday.  ‘Recklessly Disregarded’  “BP knew or recklessly disregarded that its statements
regarding the size of the oil spill were false and materially
misleading when made,” according to the complaint.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison in Houston is
overseeing three categories of BP investor claims consolidated
in his court -- derivative suits brought on behalf of the
company, shareholder  securities-fraud  suits claiming diminished
share value and claims by BP employees over losses in their
retirement savings funds allegedly caused by the mismanagement.  The lawsuit names as defendants the company and current and
former executives including Chief Executive Officer Robert W. Dudley and former CEO Anthony B. Hayward.  In December, Ellison appointed the New York and Ohio
pension funds as lead plaintiffs in the shareholder fraud claim.
The amended complaint was filed by lawyers representing the
pension funds from the firms Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll in  Washington , Berman DeValerio in  Boston  and Yetter Coleman in
Houston.  Investor Subclass  Ellison also established a subclass of individual investors
who bought BP ADRs from March 2009 to April 20, 2010, the date
of the explosion.  The individuals filed a separate complaint Feb. 11. These
investors, including California state court Judge Peter D. Lichtman in  Los Angeles , claim that BP management represented
that the company had the commitment, resources and risk-
management procedures in place to safely drill in the deep-water
Gulf of Mexico.  “These representations were untrue, and the catastrophic
consequences are now manifest in the sullied waters and beaches
of the Gulf, the decimated businesses operated by Gulf
residents, and the massive losses suffered by BP investors,”
their attorneys, Joseph Cotchett and  Richard Mithoff , said in
the Feb. 11 filing.  “While focusing on marketing itself as being able to
achieve substantial revenue growth from new oil exploration in
the Gulf of Mexico, BP misled investors that it was conducting
such operations in a safe manner,” the lawyers said.  Explosion ‘Predictable’  “The Deepwater Horizon explosion was not the result of
unforeseeable forces, but rather the predictable outcome of BP’s
intentional decision to disregard repeated warnings,” they
said.  Ellison also named interim lead lawyers for claims in
consolidated BP securities litigation under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act.  Liner Grode Stein Yankelevitz Sunshine Regenstreif & Taylor
LLP  of  San Francisco  and  Milberg LLP  of New York were appointed
co-lead counsel for ERISA claims by BP employees while  Harwood
Feffer LLP  and  Squitieri & Fearon LLP , both of New York, were
designated the plaintiffs’ executive committee for this
litigation track.  Ajamie LLP  and the  Lanier Law Firm , both of Houston, were
appointed as co-liaison counsel for the BP ERISA claims.  The case is In re  BP Plc  Securities Litigation, 4:10-md-
2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 