-- 
British Land Net Income Falls to $418 Million as Property Recovery Slows

-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-02-15T10:35:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/british-land-third-quarter-profit-falls-as-u-k-property-recovery-slows.html
British Land Co., the U.K.’s second-
largest real estate investment trust, said third-quarter profit
fell as a recovery in the  property market  slowed.  Net income for the three months through December dropped to
261 million pounds ($418 million) from 623 million pounds a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement. Pretax profit
excluding changes in property values rose 10 percent to 64
million pounds.  British Land, which focuses on prime retail space and
central London office properties, has made 400 million pounds of
acquisitions during the fiscal year starting in April, it said
today. Chief Executive Officer Chris Grigg said the company may
make more purchases this year as property owners including banks
offer more “realistic” prices.  “We think there will be a higher deal flow from a variety
of sources including the banks and we are well-placed to take
advantage of that,” Grigg said today in an interview.  Year-earlier profit was boosted by a gain of 321 million
pounds on higher property values and disposals. This year the
gain was 92 million pounds. Earnings from funds and joint
ventures fell to 110 million pounds from 256 million pounds a
year earlier.  Investors have been drawn to malls as they seek higher
returns than those available from cash or government bonds. The
value of U.K. shopping-center purchases announced or completed
in 2010 was the highest in four years, according to real estate
advisers including Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  Mall Purchase  Today, British Land announced the purchase of the Green
Lanes Shopping Centre in southwest  England  for 30 million
pounds. Last month, the company bought the Drake Circus shopping
mall, also in the southwest, for 240 million pounds, its largest
acquisition in almost four years.  The City of London is facing a shortage of prime  office
space  after projects were postponed following the onset of the
financial crisis. Last month, British Land restarted
construction on the Leadenhall Building skyscraper known as the
Cheesegrater in a joint venture with Toronto-based Oxford
Properties Group Inc. It will be completed in mid-2014 for 340
million pounds.  The value of British Land’s properties increased 2.3
percent to 9.2 billion pounds in the third quarter. Net asset
value rose 25 percent to 548 pence a share.  “There are signs of a modest rental recovery for good
quality retail assets, as well as more obviously in the central  London  office market,” said Alan Carter, an analyst at
Evolution Securities with an “add” rating on the stock.
“British Land’s portfolio captures quality exposure to these
areas.”  British Land gained as much as 1.4 percent in London
trading and was little changed at 548.5 pence as of 10:26 a.m.
The stock has advanced 22 percent in the last six months, giving
the company a market value of 4.84 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  