-- 
British Sugar to Close Four Plants on Beet Shortage

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-02-15T18:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/british-sugar-to-close-four-plants-on-beet-shortage-update1-.html
British Sugar, a division of  Associated British Foods Plc ., plans to close four U.K.
processing plants temporarily after fluctuating temperatures
devastated the crop, managing director Gino De Jaegher said
today.  The Newark processing facility will close on Feb. 18 and
those in Wissington, Cantley and Bury St. Edmundson will stop
processing on Feb. 21, De Jaegher said at the National Farmers
Union conference in Birmingham today. The plants will remain
closed unless growers indicate they have beets ready for
processing, he said.  Plant reopening will be determined on a “day-to-day
basis,” De Jaegher said. British Sugar is still assessing
damage to the nation’s crop and hasn’t yet made estimates on how
much will be lost. The company will not offer farmers a premium
on their crops because the price was preset, De Jaegher said.  Associated British Foods fell the most in almost six months
in London trading after saying last month that growth in 2011
would be “moderated by the eventual impact of the adverse
weather conditions on U.K. sugar production.” The U.K. sugar
unit provides about 10 percent of earnings before interest and
taxes, Finance Director John Bason said.  AB Foods’s beet crop suffered after record early snowfall
and cold weather followed by a swift thaw led to degeneration of
the vegetables, the company said at the time. The company had
processed 75 percent of the crop as of Jan. 20, and said it
would update the market further Feb. 28.  AB Foods, which also owns the Primark clothing store chain,
reported a 7 percent increase in revenue from sugar, excluding
the effect of acquisitions and disposals, as prices rose for the
sweetener.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net 
-0- Feb/15/ :43 GMT 