-- 
Bulgaria May Not Need to Sell Eurobonds in 2011, Djankov Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-02-15T15:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/bulgaria-probably-won-t-need-to-offer-eurobonds-this-year-djankov-says.html
  Bulgaria  probably won’t need to tap
international bond markets this year to finance its  budget
deficit  as the economy returned to growth, adding to state
revenue, Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  said.  "We will not go to the Eurobond market this year, simply
because we ended 2010 with a larger fiscal reserve than
forecast," Djankov said in an interview in Brussels today. "Our
calculations show that for covering the deficit in 2011, we
don’t need any additional financing. We have enough reserves."  Bulgaria’s public debt is 14 percent of gross domestic
product, the third-lowest in the European Union after Estonia
and  Luxembourg . The bloc’s poorest nation last year ran a budget
deficit of 3.9 percent of GDP, which it seeks to cut to less
than 3 percent this year to meet EU rules.  The government last year said it considered an
international bond sale for the beginning of 2011 to raise 800
million euros ($1.1 billion). A pickup in economic growth in the
fourth quarter helped raise revenue and add to fiscal reserves,
Djankov said.  The economy expanded 2.1 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier, compared with revised 0.2 percent growth in the
third quarter, according to preliminary figures published by the
Sofia-based statistics institute today. In the first two
quarters the economy contracted. The office hasn’t provided a
full-year figure.  "We’d like to wait and see what happens in the first three
quarters of this year," Djankov said. "If the economy picks up
as we have predicted, then outside financing is not necessary."
The government is predicting 3.6 percent economic growth for
2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  