-- 
Bulgaria’s Djankov Sees Spending Caps Easing Euro Path

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-02-16T15:40:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/bulgaria-constitutional-spending-cap-to-help-euro-finance-minister-says.html
Bulgaria’s euro adoption efforts
will get a boost from a government plan to include spending
limits in the country’s constitution that mirror a European
Union-wide push to curb deficits and debt, Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  said.  The proposals include capping the deficit at less than 3
percent of gross domestic product, limiting government
expenditures to 37 percent of GDP and that requiring corporate
and income tax changes be approved by two-thirds of Parliament,
Djankov said in an interview in Brussels yesterday. The rules,
if adopted, would come into effect in 2013.  “The path toward the euro zone will be easier, because we
will be able to show that the fiscal discipline is not only now,
but that it will be maintained over time,” Djankov said. “It
is an independently good policy to have, but it certainly will
help us in the drive for the euro.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has called for debt caps in
national constitutions modeled on those adopted by  Germany  in
2009 as the euro region struggles to contain a sovereign debt
crisis and seeks to rebuild investor confidence.  Poland  adopted
limits in 1997, while  France  and  Hungary  are considering similar
fiscal rules.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said last month he seeks
to anchor a balanced budget in France’s constitution. Hungarian
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  last month proposed adding
constitutional guarantees, including a cap on government debt,
to avoid future budget-deficit overruns.  Poland, the largest of the EU’s eastern members, requires
the government to balance the budget or face legal proceedings
once debt reaches 60 percent of GDP.  Scrapped Euro Plan  Bulgarian government bond due in 2020 gained for the first
time in four days, pushing the yield down to 5.514 percent as of
4:30 p.m. in Prague, from 5.556 percent in the previous day. The
yield on the bond maturing in 2013 also dropped, after rising in
the previous two days, to 4.232 percent from 4.267 percent.    Bulgaria , which joined the EU in 2007, currently has no
official target date for adopting the euro. Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov ’s government, which took office in July 2009, scrapped
plans last year to apply for to join the pre-euro exchange-rate
mechanism after it was forced to revise the 2009 and 2010
deficit beyond the EU limit.  The EU said on Jan. 27 that Finland, Cyprus,  Denmark  and
Bulgaria are taking steps to tackle their budget deficits and
require no additional measures under the bloc’s monitoring
program, known as the excessive-deficit procedure. The Bulgarian
government seeks to cut its budget deficit to 2.5 percent of GDP
this year, from 3.9 percent last year.  Parliamentary Support  Before restarting the application for the exchange-rate
mechanism, known as ERM, and the euro-area entry process,
Bulgaria must show that its deficit for this year has fallen
below the EU’s threshold of 3 percent of GDP, Djankov said. For
the coming months, the Cabinet will make its priority getting
the constitutional amendments through Parliament, he said.  Three-quarters of the deputies, or 180 lawmakers, must back
the proposal in three separate votes on different days, Djankov
said.  Borissov’s minority government has 116 lawmakers and may
gain the support of two smaller groups that have backed it
previously: the Attack party, with 20 lawmakers, and the so-
called Blue Coalition of the Union of Democratic Forces and
Democrats for Strong Bulgaria, which has 14 seats.  Djankov may also enlist the support of some of the 13
independent lawmakers, who left various parliamentary groups. He
will still be short by about 20 votes unless some lawmakers
within the two opposition parties, the Bulgarian Socialist Party
and the ethnic-Turk Movement for Rights, which control 76 seats
in the assembly, back the plan.  ‘High Hurdle’  “It’s quite a high hurdle, but I’m quite confident we will
get this three-quarters majority,” Djankov said. “In addition
to the ruling party and our partners, the opposition parties
have on numerous occasions stated that they would like to impose
more fiscal discipline on the government as well.”  Djankov also said Bulgaria probably won’t need to tap
international bond markets this year to finance its budget
deficit as the economy returns to growth, adding to state
revenue.  “We will not go to the Eurobond market this year, simply
because we ended 2010 with a larger fiscal reserve than
forecast,” Djankov said in the interview. “Our calculations
show that for covering the deficit in 2011, we don’t need any
additional financing. We have enough reserves.”  Bulgaria’s public debt is 14 percent of gross domestic
product, the third-lowest in the EU after Estonia and  Luxembourg .  The government last year said it considered an
international bond sale for the beginning of 2011 to raise 800
million euros ($1.1 billion). A pickup in economic growth in the
fourth quarter helped raise revenue and add to fiscal reserves,
Djankov said.  The economy expanded 2.1 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier, compared with revised 0.2 percent growth in the
third quarter, according to preliminary figures published by the
Sofia-based statistics institute yesterday. In the first two
quarters the economy contracted. The office hasn’t provided a
full-year figure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  