-- 
Buy Nvidia Puts to Bet on Drop After Earnings, Jefferies Says

-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 
2011-02-15T15:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/buy-nvidia-puts-to-bet-on-drop-after-earnings-jefferies-says.html
Investors should buy  Nvidia Corp .
put options because the maker of computer-graphics chips is
likely to retreat after reporting earnings tomorrow, according
to Jefferies & Co.  Jefferies recommended buying March $22.50 puts to sell the
stock, saying Nvidia “is due for a pullback.” Shares of the  Santa Clara , California-based company fell 2.3 percent to $22.58
at 10:36 a.m. in  New York . They have advanced 47 percent so far
this year, compared with a 7.3 percent gain for technology
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “The positive news flow with respect to tablets is
starting to slow,” strategists led by David Silber, Jefferies’
New York-based head of equity derivatives, said in a report
today. “Long holders are looking for a reason to sell the stock
and those on the sidelines are looking for an opportunity to
short the stock.”  Analysts are predicting that orders from makers of fourth-
generation phones and tablet computers will help Nvidia reverse
revenue declines caused by market-share losses in personal
computers. On Jan. 12, Nvidia jumped 15 percent, the most in 31
months, after an analyst at Raymond James & Associates raised
his price estimate on the shares to $40 from $24.  The company’s February options “are fairly priced,”
Jefferies said in recommending the purchase of the March puts.
“We prefer options vs. shorting the stock” because of high
volatility and momentum in the shares, which “could be
dangerous” for a short seller.  Short interest was 1.5 percent of shares outstanding as of
Feb. 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Data
Explorers, a New York-based research firm. That compares with a
3.9 percent short interest for the  S&P 500  as of Jan. 31,
according to data compiled by U.S. exchanges and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 