-- 
HTC Joins Samsung in Tablet Wars With 7-Inch Android Device

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-02-15T10:42:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/htc-joins-samsung-in-tablet-wars-with-7-inch-android-device.html
  HTC Corp ., the Taiwanese maker of  Google Inc . Android and  Microsoft Corp . Windows-based mobile-
phone handsets, unveiled its first tablet computer as it joins
rivals in the chase to take market share from  Apple Inc .’s iPad.  The HTC Flyer tablet will feature a 7-inch screen and
front- and rear-facing cameras, mimicking the features of
Samsung Electronics Co.’s first Galaxy Tab, which the South
Korean company introduced four months ago. Samsung unveiled a
newer tablet this week with a 10-inch screen, higher-quality
cameras and the latest version of Android, which is also used in
the HTC Flyer.  HTC, based in Taoyuan,  Taiwan , joins Samsung, Hewlett-
Packard Co. and Research in Motion Ltd. in the market for
tablets, now dominated by Apple’s iPad, which sold more than 15
million since its April release, Apple Vice President Eddy Cue
said Feb. 2. Global shipments of tablet devices will more than
double this year, led by Apple and Android-based models,
according to  researcher  IDC Corp.  “We are not interested in rushing out another me-too
device, and I don’t think any of you are either,” HTC Chief
Executive Officer Peter Chou said at a press conference in  Barcelona , where he introduced the new tablet. It will weigh
about 415 grams (0.9 pound), or the weight of a paperback book,
Chief Marketing Officer John Wang said.  HTC’s choice of a 7-inch screen comes after Samsung sold 2
million Galaxy tablets by the end of December, following its
October release. Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , whose
iPad sold 3.3 million units in its first fiscal quarter of
sales, told investors in October that 7-inch tablets will be
“dead on arrival” because the screens are too small, and
predicted rivals will increase the size in later versions.  Differentiating Devices  HTC is looking to its own software to differentiate its
devices from rival Android tablets. Its 30 million-pound ($48
million) acquisition of Saffron Media Group Ltd., which develops
software for delivering content over the Internet, and its $40
million investment in games-on-demand provider OnLive Inc. may
help HTC lure users to its tablets and smartphones.  The Flyer includes support for taking notes on-screen with
a stylus, as well as playing back audio recordings from the time
a note was written. The devices will begin shipping in the
second quarter of this year, the company said.  HTC today also introduced five Android-based smartphones,
including two that feature dedicated hardware connecting users
to  Facebook Inc .’s social-networking service.  Global tablet sales reached 17 million units last year and
will climb to 44.6 million this year, Framingham, Massachusetts-
based IDC  said  in January. That figure could climb to 70.8
million units next year, it added.  HTC is the world’s fifth-largest smartphone vendor,
shipping 8.6 million units in the fourth quarter, IDC  said  Feb.
7. It trailed Nokia Oyj, Apple and Samsung, which was fourth
with 9.7 million units, IDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Barcelona via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 