-- 
HTC May Offer Larger Tablet Computers to Rival Apple, Samsung, CEO Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-15T11:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/htc-may-offer-larger-tablet-computers-ceo-peter-chou-says.html
  HTC Corp . may introduce larger
tablet computers than the 7-inch screen “Flyer” device that
the Taiwanese company unveiled today to challenge the dominance
of  Apple Inc .’s iPad.  “We’re working on several form factors,” HTC Chief
Executive Officer Peter Chou said on the sidelines at an
industry conference in Barcelona today when asked whether the
company may offer bigger tablets. Sales from tablets are
“extremely important” for the company, he said.  HTC, the Taiwanese maker of  Google Inc . Android and  Microsoft Corp . Windows-based mobile-phone handsets, today
unveiled the HTC Flyer, a tablet featuring front- and rear-
facing cameras.  HTC, based in Taoyuan,  Taiwan , joins Samsung Electronics
Co., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Research in Motion Ltd. in the
market for tablets, now dominated by the iPad. Apple has sold
more than 15 million iPads since its release in April, Apple
Vice President Eddy Cue said Feb. 2. Global shipments of tablet
devices will more than double this year, led by Apple and
Android-based models, according to  researcher  IDC Corp.  Samsung unveiled a newer tablet this week with a 10-inch
screen, higher-quality cameras and the latest version of
Android, which is also used in the HTC Flyer.  Weight of a Paperback Book  “We are not interested in rushing out another me-too
device, and I don’t think any of you are either,” HTC’s Chou
said at a press conference, where he introduced the new tablet.
It will weigh about 415 grams (0.9 pound), or the weight of a
paperback book, Chief Marketing Officer John Wang said.  HTC’s choice of a 7-inch screen comes after Samsung sold 2
million Galaxy tablets by the end of December, following its
October release. Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , whose
iPad sold 3.3 million units in its first fiscal quarter of
sales, told investors in October that 7-inch tablets will be
“dead on arrival” because the screens are too small, and
predicted rivals will increase the size in later versions.  HTC is looking to its own software to differentiate its
devices from rival Android tablets. Its 30 million-pound ($48
million) acquisition of Saffron Media Group Ltd., which develops
software for delivering content over the Internet, and its $40
million investment in games-on-demand provider OnLive Inc. may
help HTC lure users to its tablets and smartphones.  The Flyer includes support for taking notes on-screen with
a stylus, as well as playing back audio recordings from the time
a note was written. The devices will begin shipping in the
second quarter of this year, the company said.  New Android Smartphones  HTC today also introduced five Android-based smartphones,
including two that feature dedicated hardware connecting users
to  Facebook Inc .’s social-networking service.  Global tablet sales reached 17 million units last year and
will climb to 44.6 million this year, Framingham, Massachusetts-
based IDC  said  in January. That figure could climb to 70.8
million units next year, it added.  HTC is the world’s fifth-largest smartphone vendor,
shipping 8.6 million units in the fourth quarter, IDC  said  Feb.
7. It trailed Nokia Oyj, Apple and Samsung, which was fourth
with 9.7 million units, IDC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Barcelona via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  