-- 
Cable Operators Fight Google, Apple Threat in Europe's Television Market

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-02-15T23:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/cable-operators-fight-google-apple-threat-in-europe-s-tv-market.html
  Europe ’s cable television operators,
faced with a threat from video content aggregators such as  Google Inc . and  Apple Inc ., say they’ll fight to keep customers.  While the continent’s increasingly digitized homes are
ringing in higher revenue for the operators, they are also
seeing TV customers deserting them for  Internet TV , or IPTV, and
other so-called over-the-top providers that bypass cable
packages and provide content directly through Web browsers.  “With companies like Apple, Google and Amazon entering our
markets, the stakes are rising and we need to step up to the
challenge,” Adrian von Hammerstein, chief executive officer of
Germany’s largest cable operator,  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG ,
said yesterday at the  Cable Congress  in Lucerne,  Switzerland .
“The TV market is ours to lose.”  In 2010, Europe’s cable operators’ TV revenue rose more
than 10 percent to 10.1 billion euros ($13.6 billion), and is
expected to grow to 13.2 billion euros in 2014, according to
data provided by IHS Screen Digest analyst Guy Bisson. The
number of TVs with cable feed, however, slid by 0.4 percent in
2010 and is projected to fall another 0.5 percent by 2014.  “It is not about Google,” said Andrew Barron, Chief
Operating Officer of  Virgin Media Inc . “There are hundreds of
over-the-top platforms and there will be more. As customers are
faced with a vast amount of choice in a fragmented market, the
question is how do we become their guide?”  To be sure, a drop in cable TV customers has coincided with
an increase in other services people demand from their cable
operators -- Internet and telephony, for example.  Larger Battle  “Yes, IPTV is growing and we have seen it as a logical
consequence of a large group of customers converting to digital
TV: some of them will chose other digital alternatives,” said
Manuel Kohnstamm, president of the industry association Cable
Europe. “That’s fine, we’re okay with that.”  Still, the battle for eyeballs is also a larger fight for
control over more interactive media -- from the Internet and
telephony to games and social networking.  “Cable has to look over its shoulder in a big way,” said
Tom Rogers, the CEO of digital-video recording pioneer  TiVo
Inc ., which is making deals with European and U.S. cable
operators to provide set-top boxes that will not only organize
content from the traditional TV channels, but that will also
integrate social networking features such as Facebook.  “People love the choice that cable operators provide,” he
said. “Cable operators are the largest providers of content and
choice, but it wouldn’t take a whole lot for the consumer to go
elsewhere if the amount of that choice or the presentation of it
would excel somewhere else.”  Framing the Experience  He said cable operators should be the ones that provide the
framing of the viewing experience.  “How it is packaged is going to be critical,” he said in
an interview. “They have to be worried that if they don’t
develop that role sufficiently, they will be overcome by Google,
Apple and others who want that customer relationship that the
cable operators have built up over the last couple of decades.”  Rogers said that two years ago he would have been concerned
that the cable industry was going to get “eaten alive” because
of the trend toward more over-the-top consumption. “I’m
heartened by the last year of activity,” he said.  TiVo recently struck a content-system deal with  Spain ’s
Grupo Corporativo Ono SA, and its CEO Rosalia Portela said in an
interview that she’s not too concerned about losing customers to
over-the-top providers. Rather than fight the trend, Ono is
joining it, she said.  “We are trying to achieve that through the Ono connection
you could have access to anything,” Portela said. We’re talking
to everybody. We are less concerned than other traditional
operators. Having Hulu or Netflix or Google is an advantage
because we have the access that some other companies don’t.”  One Box    Liberty Global Inc .’s is planning a box that includes
standard video-on-demand and recording features with Internet
video viewing. It “remains to be decided” exactly how open the
system will be to the likes of Google, said CEO Mike Fries. The
company’s Chief Technology Officer Balan Nair said that the
system, dubbed “Project Horizon,” won’t block Google.  “There’s no reason to do that,” Nair said. “As far as
embracing it, there’s one particular element that I like
personally: it’s the search function.”  Kabel Deutschland’s von Hammerstein said the trick is to
integrate over-the-top, video-on-demand and linear TV into one
user interface. He said he is open to partnerships with over-
the-top providers such as an Internet platform that  Germany ’s
ProSiebenSat.1 AG and Bertelsmann AG’s RTL are planning, and the
German public broadcasters’ Mediathek.  “Everybody is talking to everybody,” he said. “The
question is what makes sense for the customer. To me it’s more
of a content-centric view: what do customers want and then it’s
about what’s the best way to get it.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  