-- 
Canada January Existing Home Sales (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-02-15T14:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/canada-january-existing-home-sales-text-.html
National resale housing activity
climbed further in January 2011, according to statistics
released today by The  Canadian Real Estate Association  (CREA).  Seasonally adjusted national home sales activity rose 4.5 per
cent in January 2011 compared to the previous month, reaching
the highest level since April 2010. Led by Vancouver and
Toronto, seasonally adjusted sales activity posted monthly gains
in more than half of all local Canadian markets in January.
National sales activity has improved steadily since last summer,
and now stands almost 25 per cent above the low point reached in
July 2010.  “We anticipated the recent announcement of tighter mortgage
regulations, which will come into effect this March, would pull
forward sales activity into the first quarter of 2011,
particularly in some of Canada’s more expensive housing
markets,” said Gregory Klump, CREA’s Chief Economist. “The sharp
rise in sales activity in Toronto following the announcement
provides early evidence confirming this,” said Klump.  “It will take some time before the longer term impact of the
latest mortgage regulations on the housing market can be known,”
said Georges Pahud, CREA’s President. “For that reason, further
action shouldn’t be taken until the impact can be measured. In
the meantime, if last year can be used as any guide, sales
activity may heat up further as we get closer to the date on
which tighter mortgage regulations come into effect, especially
in some of  Canada ’s pricier markets. That said, local housing
market trends often diverge from national trends, so buyers and
sellers should consult their local REALTOR to understand how the
market is shaping up where they live.”  Actual (not seasonally adjusted) national sales activity via the
Multiple Listing Service (MLS) Systems of Canadian real
estate Boards came in 6.6 per cent below levels in January 2010.
This was the smallest year-over-year decline since
May 2010.  Actual (not seasonally adjusted) new listings on Canadian MLS®
Systems normally post their biggest month-over-month increase in
January. January 2011 was no exception, marking the first time
since 2007 that new listings more than doubled in January
compared to the previous month. As a result, seasonally adjusted
new listings rose 3.9 per cent from December levels, the largest
monthly gain since March 2010.  Sales activity has been on the rise and prices have been stable
since last autumn, so CREA had been expecting potential
sellers who shied away from the market last summer to begin
listing their properties in early 2011. Because sales activity
and new supply rose in tandem in January, the national resale
housing market remained balanced. The national sales-to-new
listings ratio, a measure of market balance, stood at 55.7 per
cent in January 2011, which is little changed from the previous
two months. Just over half of local markets in Canada were in
balanced market territory in January.  The number of months of inventory represents the number of
months it would take to sell current inventories at the
current rate of sales activity, and is another measure of the
balance between housing supply and demand. The seasonally
adjusted number of months of inventory stood at 5.5 months at
the end of January on a national basis. This is the lowest level
since last March.  About two-thirds of local markets recorded year-over-year gains
in average price in January 2011. The national average
price for homes sold in January 2011 was $343,675. While this is
little changed compared to the previous three months,
it represents an increase of 4.5 per cent compared to January
2010.  Much of the year-over-year gain in January 2011 resulted from a
jump in the number of multi-million dollar home sales in a
couple of areas in Greater Vancouver, the effects of which were
amplified at the local, provincial, and national levels by the
fact that actual monthly volumes for sales activity are low in
January compared to other months.  The Canadian Real Estate Association (CREA) is one of Canada’s
largest single-industry trade associations, representing more
than 100,000 REALTORS working through more than 100 real estate
Boards and Associations.  Further information can be found at:
 http://www.crea.ca/public/news_stats/media.htm   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  