-- 
Canada Appeals Court Ruling on Globalive License

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-02-15T21:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/canada-will-appeal-federal-court-ruling-on-globalive-license-clement-says.html
Canadian Industry Minister Tony Clement said the government will appeal a court ruling that
overturned a cabinet decision to grant a wireless phone license
to Globalive Communications Corp.  “We believe that our decision was the right one for
Canadian consumers and we defend it vigorously,” Clement told
reporters today in Ottawa, adding the government may change
federal legislation to settle the dispute. “We want and
encourage choice and competition.”  Globalive, backed by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ’
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, began selling phones under the Wind
Mobile brand in December 2009 after the government reversed a
decision by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission. A federal judge on Feb. 4 quashed the cabinet order
that had overruled the regulator’s decision saying Globalive
didn’t meet  Canada ’s foreign ownership rules.  “We are pleased that the government has decided to appeal
the Federal Court’s decision,” Wind Chairman Anthony Lacavera
said in a statement. “Today the government put another stake in
the ground for wireless competition in this country.”  When Clement overruled the CRTC on Globalive, he said there
were differences over the interpretation of whether foreigners
had “effective control” of the company. The CRTC had ruled
that a non-Canadian holds two-thirds of Globalive’s equity, is
the principal source of technical expertise, and provides access
to an established trademark.  “Improper considerations were fundamental” to Clement’s
overruling of the regulator, Mr. Justice Roger Hughes said in
his court ruling.  Clement said today that Globalive is “Canadian enough”
under the act, and that the wireless firm can continue operating
pending the appeal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 