-- 
Canvas Coverup, Ali in Focus, Green Caribbean: N.Y. Uptown Art

-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 
2011-02-15T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/canvas-coverup-ali-in-focus-green-caribbean-n-y-s-uptown-art-galleries.html
As I enter  L&M Arts  gallery on  Manhattan ’s 78th Street, I find myself wondering whether I’ve
mistaken the opening date. It looks as if David Hammons’s show
is still being installed.  One canvas is covered with plastic, plastic hangs from the
ceiling between the two exhibition rooms and there are no
explanatory labels or signs to ease my confusion -- except for
what looks like a charcoal mark on one wall. It’s Hammons’s
signature.  “He didn’t want any sign, so he signed on the wall,” says
gallery director Sukanya Rajaratnam. “It’s very him.”  An installation and performance artist, Hammons mounted the
L&M exhibition himself. There are big, colorful canvases covered
up with various materials -- including several kinds of plastic,
a towel and a piece of silk.  Hammons has also done the series “Body Prints,” made by
pressing his grease- or margarine-covered body onto paper. One
is currently on view at Manhattan’s  Museum of Modern Art , which
owns several. In another piece, called “Higher Goals,” he
attached basketball backboards and hoops to telephone poles in  Brooklyn ’s Cadman Plaza.  One work at L&M is a canvas almost entirely hidden by an
armoire, leaving most viewers outside the furniture trade in a
state of frustration.  “It’s deliberately inaccessible,” says Rajaratnam. “The
armoire is a metaphor for all of Hammons’s work.” Also fairly
inaccessible are the prices, ranging from $800,000 to $1.2
million.  Getting as close as I can to one of these intriguing works,
I’m not surprised to find that its blue plastic veil isn’t
hiding an unfinished work. There’s a complete painting back
there. Hammons delays judgment and sustains suspense -- he gets
a lot of mileage from what might well have been a Hefty bag.  “David Hammons” runs through Feb. 26 at 45 E. 78 St.
Information: +1-212-861-0020;  http://www.lmgallery.com/   Ali and King  Flip Schulke (1930-2008) boasts 11,000 civil-rights images
in his portfolio, as well as innovative underwater photographs
and portraits of boxer  Muhammad Ali . Some of these are on view
at  Keith de Lellis Gallery .  Schulke shot for the black magazines produced by Johnson
Publishing Co., and after an assignment to photograph  Martin Luther King , Jr. in 1958, he became friends with the civil-
rights leader.  He captured a well-known image of King’s expressive hands
while he was preaching at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta in
1963, and one of the veiled Coretta Scott King at her husband’s
funeral in 1968. The latter was used for the cover of  Life
Magazine , and both are part of the show.  Prices range from $2,500 to $7,500. You can take home a
historic  Fidel Castro  shot from 1959 for $4,000.  If you’re wondering how many others might own your print,
gallery owner Keith de Lellis sounds reassuring.  “Schulke wasn’t printing for the art market, as people
weren’t really collecting photographs as social and cultural
documents,” he said.  “Flip Schulke: Witness to Our Times” runs through Feb. 26
at 1045 Madison Ave., #2. Information: +1-212-327-1482;
 http://www.keithdelellisgallery.com/   Return to Trinidad  Strong brush strokes in a wide range of green with touches
of blue, red, black and white fill  Hurvin Anderson ’s often
abstract paintings at  Michael Werner  Gallery.  The artist, of Jamaican descent, had his first solo museum
show, “Peter’s Series,” as part of  Tate Britain ’s “Art Now”
in 2009. The present exhibition, called “Subtitles,” revisits
images drawn from Trinidad that he has worked with before.  The colors aren’t typical of the Caribbean islands cliche,
and for the first time Anderson uses photography in what he
calls a strategic way.  “I subsequently projected the images onto the canvas. I
printed things on them, and inverted the paintings,” Anderson
said in an interview with curator Matthew Higgs, published in
the exhibition catalog.  Prices range from $100,000 for the large ones to $30,000
for the small ones. My favorite is a diptych that goes for
$200,000.  “Hurvin Anderson: Subtitles” runs through March 12 at 4
E. 77 St. Information: +1-212-988-1623;
 http://www.michaelwerner.com/index.htm   (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 