-- 
CB Richard Ellis to Buy Majority of ING Real Estate Unit for $940 Million

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-02-15T21:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/cb-richard-ellis-to-buy-majority-of-ing-commercial-unit-for-940-million.html
  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc ., the
world’s biggest commercial property broker, agreed to buy the
majority of  ING Groep NV ’s global real estate  investment
management  unit for about $940 million as the Dutch bank and
insurer seeks to reduce property-related risk.  CB Richard Ellis will purchase businesses from ING Real
Estate Investment Management, or REIM, with 44.7 billion euros
($60.5 billion) in assets, Amsterdam-based ING said in a
statement today. ING also agreed to sell $100 million in equity
stakes in REIM funds and the real estate investment management
firm Clarion Partners. The U.S. company will be bought by
Clarion management and Lightyear Capital LLC.  ING is cutting its investments to real estate to limit
risks and shrink its balance sheet. Its real estate management
investment business managed 66.2 billion euros in assets,
including the World Trade Center in Amsterdam, at the end of
December for more than 650 clients.  “With these transactions we continue to deliver on our
strategic objectives of reducing exposure to real estate,
simplifying our company and further strengthening our capital
base,” ING Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said in the
statement.  The sales will lead to a gain of about 500 million euros
for ING, the company said.  High Range  ING shares fell 0.3 percent to 8.98 euros in Amsterdam
trading today. They have gained about 23 percent this year.  “The selling price is at the high range of my estimates,”
said Jan Willem Weidema, an Amsterdam-based analyst at ABN Amro
Bank NV. “It is slightly disappointing, however, that they
didn’t sell a bigger part of the  seed capital  in this
transaction.”  ING’s insurance operations had about 2 billion euros in
seed capital, or equity interests, in REIM funds at the end of
2009, Weidema estimated. The bank had equity stakes of about 1
billion euros, he said.  For CB Richard Ellis, the acquisition gives the Los
Angeles-based company a “a much more consistent stream of
income,” because of the steady fees of asset management, said  Ben Thypin , an analyst at Real Capital Analytics Inc., a
commercial-property research firm in New York.  “They become the largest property fund manager in the
world,” Thypin said.  Share Gain  CB Richard Ellis shares gained 71 cents, or 2.9 percent, to
$25.34 at 4:01 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading, the highest closing price since October 2007.  The company’s revenue from global investment management
more than doubled in the fourth quarter to $79.8 million, Chief
Financial Officer Gil Borok said in an earnings conference call
on Feb. 4. Assets under management totaled $37.6 billion at the
end of 2010.  “This is truly a once-in-a-generation, perhaps once-in-a-
lifetime opportunity within the industry,” Chief Executive
Officer Brett White said on a conference call today discussing
the transaction.  The acquisition may add 10 cents a share to CB Richard’s
annual earnings, on the assumption the firm earns a 0.4 percent
management fee and has a 20 percent profit margin, Ross Smotrich, an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said
in a note this morning.  ‘Strong’ Positive  “This is a strong perceptual positive for the stock,”
Smotrich said in the note. “It speaks to CBG’s global platform
and puts the company in line with growing institutional demand
to own real estate.”  Smotrich has an “overweight/neutral” rating on the stock.  Clarion Partners will be sold for $100 million to
management and Lightyear Capital, a New York-based private-
equity firm, ING said. Steve Furnary, chairman and CEO, will
continue in his current role, while Lightyear Chairman Don Marron will serve as lead director of the board, according to a
separate statement from the companies.  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services company, expects
the transactions to be completed in the second half of the year.
The company last year sold its stake in a Canadian industrial
property portfolio, Summit Industrial Fund LP.  ING REIM’s Australian business, which has 4.8 billion euros
under management in five listed funds, wasn’t part of the
transactions, ING said. The bank and insurer will pull out of
the Australian activities in a “timely and controlled manner,”
the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  