-- 
China Construction Bank Unit to Boost Research Team by 40%

-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 
2011-02-15T01:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/china-construction-bank-unit-to-boost-research-team-by-40-.html
CCB International Securities Ltd.,
the brokerage arm of  China ’s second-largest bank, plans to
expand its research team by as much as 40 percent to meet rising
demand for analysis of Chinese stocks and economy.  The unit of  China Construction Bank Corp . may hire as many
as 20 people this year in the mainland and  Hong Kong , Timothy Sun, managing director and co-head of research at the brokerage,
said in an interview. That’s after an expansion last year that
took staff strength to 50 from 10, he said.  CCB International joins rivals including UBS AG and ICBC
International Holdings Ltd. in competing for talent as banks
embark on a hiring spree to tap investors’ demand for financial
services in the world’s second-biggest economy. The expansion
plans are taking place as concerns about tighter monetary
policies led to an 8.2 percent decline in the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index from its Nov. 8 high to yesterday.  “The recent decline in the market will not scale back
hiring at CCBI’s research team,” Sun said. “Short-term
volatility in the market will not deter its goal to establish
one of the strongest research teams in the market.”  Customers in  Australia ,  Singapore  and the Middle East are
demanding more analysis and trips into China, Sun said. There’s
also increasing interest from Chinese fund managers under the
qualified domestic institutional investor, or QDII, program, he
said.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest lender, aims to double the
workforce at its China operations to as many as 1,200 people
over the next five years, Yoon Chi-Won, the co-head of the
company’s Asia-Pacific unit, said this week.  South Korea ’s
Samsung Securities Co. plans to hire as many as 20 people in
Hong Kong to bolster its Asian business.  Hiring Spree  Paul Schulte, previously at Nomura Holdings Inc., joined
CCB International as its global head of financial strategy and
Asia banks research in September. The brokerage also hired Tim Bacchus, formerly from Macquarie Group Ltd., Clarisse Pan from
Nomura, and Xin Zhao from Cazenove  Asia  Ltd. in 2010, Sun said.  Standard Chartered Plc completed the purchase of Cazenove
Asia in 2009.  “We’re particularly strong in areas such as banks and
property, where we add tremendous value simply because we’re
China’s second-largest bank,” Sun said. The team is looking to
expand to cover the pharmaceutical industry, he said.  The bank’s network will help the brokerage offer better
macro analysis, said Peter So, co-head of research at CCB.  Japan’s government yesterday released data that show China
overtook it to become the world’s No. 2 economy in 2010. Still,
the Shanghai index plunged 14 percent last year after the
government ordered banks to set aside more reserves and boosted  interest rates  to tame inflation.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecast losses in China’s stock
market will persist on concern of tighter monetary policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hanny Wan in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 