-- 
China Grain Supply Balanced, Won’t Rely On Imports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-15T04:57:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/china-grain-is-in-balance-large-imports-unrealistic-state-agency-says.html
  China ’s grain supply is in balance
with demand and stockpiles ample to meet consumption, Nie Zhenbang, director of the State Administration of Grain, said in
an interview with Chinese Communist Party magazine Ziguangge.  Total global trade in grains amounts to 40 percent of
China’s annual consumption and with tightening supplies in the
world market, large-scale imports to meet domestic needs are
“unrealistic,” Nie was cited as saying. The interview was
posted on the administration’s  website . The agency is
responsible for managing the country’s grain reserves.  Wheat advanced in  Chicago  to the highest level since 2008
yesterday and traded at a record in Zhengzhou, China, as demand
increased and on speculation a drought in the Asian nation, the
biggest grower, may damage plants. Food prices climbed 10.3
percent in January from a year earlier, government data showed.  China has experienced floods, droughts, frost and other
natural disasters and still achieved bumper grain harvests in
the past seven years, he said. Grain output reached a record
last year of 546.4 million metric tons, Nie said. There was no
mention of the effects on grain output from a drought in the
north of the country.  Snowfalls in China’s major wheat-growing regions failed to
ease the drought and the dry spell is likely to affect crops,
Chen Lei, deputy director at the State Flood Control and Drought
Relief Headquarters, said Feb. 12. China’s northern drought-
affected areas are not forecast to have “any significant
rainfall” over the next three days, according to a statement on
the National Meteorological Center’s website today.  China Inflation  China’s inflation exceeded the government’s 2011 target for
a fourth month in January as prices excluding food gained by the
most in at least six years, escalating pressure on the central
bank to keep raising  interest rates . Grain prices climbed 15
percent in January from a year earlier and fruit gained 35
percent, according to the statistics bureau today.  Corn and indica rice supply exceeded demand, while medium-
grain rice supply is tight, Nie  said. Corn has turned to being
“largely-balanced” from a situation whereby supply exceeded
demand, Nie said.  Wheat futures for May delivery fell 0.3 percent to $9.01 a
bushel at 12:32 p.m. in  Shanghai  on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price yesterday reached $9.1675, the highest for a most-
active contract since August 2008. The price on the Zhengzhou
Commodity Exchange dropped 0.8 percent to 3,056 yuan ($464) a
ton after yesterday reaching 3,110 yuan, the higest ever.  Grain stockpiles at central and local government warehouses
are at “quite high levels,” enough to control the market if
necessary, Nie said, without elaborating.  Still, China’s grain production in the long term is limited
by arable land and water supply while its consumption growth
will be inelastic, he said.  --Feiwen Rong. Editors:  Richard Dobson , Jake Lloyd-Smith  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  