-- 
China's January Lending Jumps by $182 Billion, Adding to Overheating Risks

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-15T06:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/china-s-january-lending-jumps-by-182-billion-adding-to-overheating-risks.html
Chinese banks extended 1.2
trillion yuan ($182 billion) of new loans in January, Xinhua
News Agency reported today.  Lending matched the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 22 economists and adds to overheating risks in the
fastest-growing major economy.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government is grappling with
elevated inflation and the risk of bubbles in the real-estate
market after a boom in credit drove the nation’s recovery
from the financial crisis. Asian central banks may need to
raise  interest rates  further to limit the threat of
overheating and prevent a “hard landing,” International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said
Feb. 1.  “Excessive liquidity remains a big headache for policy
makers and continued strong lending growth will complicate
authorities’ efforts to contain inflation and asset prices
gains,” Fang Sihai, chief economist at Hongyuan Securities
Co. in Beijing, said before today’s data.  Today’s number compared with 481 billion yuan in
December as  China ’s banks stuck to a pattern of front-loading
lending at the start of each year.  New loans were less than the 1.4 trillion yuan in
January last year. Policy makers have trimmed credit growth
from 2009’s record and may raise interest rates again as
early as the second quarter and keep boosting lenders’
reserve requirements, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The central bank raised rates last week for the third
time since mid-October and has pushed banks’ reserve
requirements to the highest in more than two decades.  China’s
economy  expanded a more-than-expected 9.8 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2010 from a year earlier.  Banks extended 7.95 trillion yuan of new loans last year,
exceeding the government’s target of 7.5 trillion yuan.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Cherian Thomas.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  