-- 
China's Inflation Exceeds Target for Fourth Month, Adding Rates Pressure

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-15T08:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/china-s-january-consumer-prices-increase-4-9-producer-prices-climb-6-6-.html
  China ’s inflation accelerated in
January as prices excluding food rose the most in at least six
years, bolstering the case for more interest-rate increases to
tame overheating risks in the fastest-growing major economy.  Consumer prices rose 4.9 percent from a year earlier after
a 4.6 percent December gain, the statistics bureau said on its
 website  today. A separate central bank report showed banks
signed 1.04 trillion yuan ($158 billion) in new loans, less than
forecast while still the third-highest January total.  “Inflationary pressures haven’t abated and China has
already entered into an era of structural inflation,” said Liu Li-gang, an Australia & New Zealand Banking Group economist in
Hong Kong. He sees “more monetary policy tightening ahead.”  The acceleration in inflation reflects rising rents, a 48
percent surge in  money supply  in two years and increasing
domestic demand in the nation that’s replaced Japan as the
world’s second-biggest economy. Policy makers may front-load
monetary-policy tightening in the first half of the year as
inflation remains elevated, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Morgan Stanley.  The yuan gained 0.1 percent to 6.5897 per dollar as of 3:51
p.m. in Shanghai, while the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index
closed little changed.  Money Supply  January lending of more than double December’s level
sustained a pattern of Chinese banks extending more credit at
the start of each year. At the same time, the latest amount was
160 billion yuan less than the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of analysts.  Xinhua News Agency corrected its earlier report that new
lending was 1.2 trillion yuan.  A smaller gain in M2, the broadest measure of money supply,
added to the signs that central bank tightening is starting to
take effect after record lending drove China’s economic recovery.
M2 climbed 17.2 percent, less than a 19 percent median forecast
and a 19.7 percent gain in December.  In the inflation data, producer-prices climbed 6.6 percent,
the most in eight months. Consumer-price inflation has exceeded
the government’s 2011 target of 4 percent for four months.  Economists had anticipated a 5.4 percent gain in the  consumer price index , according to the median of 27 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey. Alterations to the CPI’s components
that took effect last month boosted the rate by 0.024 percentage
point, the statistics bureau said.  Food Costs  “The driver of the below-consensus reading is the smaller-
than-expected increase in food prices,” said Lu Ting, a Hong
Kong-based economist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Food prices climbed 10.3 percent last month from a year
earlier, according to today’s report. Vegetable prices rose 2
percent, fruit prices surged 35 percent and grain rose 15
percent, according to the statement.  Non-food prices rose 2.6 percent from a year earlier.  Asian economies, with rising food costs and inflows of
capital driving inflation, may need to raise  interest rates 
further to limit the risk of overheating and prevent a “hard
landing,”  International Monetary Fund  Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said Feb. 1.  India ’s benchmark wholesale-
price index rose 8.23 percent in January,  Indonesia ’s inflation
is 7 percent and  South Korea ’s is 4.1 percent, the latest
government data show.  The People’s Bank of China has raised its benchmark one-
year lending and deposit rates by a quarter percentage point
three times since mid-October and also ratcheted up banks’
reserve requirements.  ‘Worrying Sign’  China’s consumer prices jumped 1 percent in January from
December, the third-biggest monthly increase in almost a year,
the statistics bureau said today.  “The spillover of price pressures throughout the inflation
basket should be a worrying sign for the People’s Bank of China
and as a result we expect the recent fast pace of monetary
tightening to continue,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, an economist
with Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .  Companies from Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. to Starbucks Corp.
and McDonald’s Corp. have raised prices. U.S. fast food chain
McDonald’s may increase the cost of some meals again in the
second half, Tim Fenton, president for  Asia , the Middle East and
Africa said in a Bloomberg TV interview yesterday.  China’s one-year deposit rate, which now stands at 3
percent, has lagged behind inflation for about a year. The
government aims to keep consumer price gains within 4 percent
this year, state television reported Dec. 14, citing the
National Development and Reform Commission.  Reserve Requirements  The central bank last month asked lenders to set aside more
money as reserves for a seventh time since the beginning of last
year and the government has also intensified a crackdown on
property speculation.  China became the world’s No. 2 economy after Japan’s gross
domestic product fell an annualized 1.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, the Japanese government said yesterday. The
International Monetary Fund estimates the Chinese economy will
grow 9.6 percent this year, six times faster than Japan.  Under revised CPI weightings, the component for residence-
related charges, which include rent and utility costs, was
increased by 4.22 percentage points, the statistics bureau said.
Other categories got smaller weightings, with food declining by
2.21 percentage points, the agency  said .  Inflation Driver  It didn’t give the exact make-up of the index. Food
previously accounted for a third of the basket of goods and was
the main driver of inflation last year. Residence-related costs
jumped 6.8 percent in January from a year earlier, the most
since August 2008, today’s data show.  The statistics bureau also revised the calculation of the
components of the producer-price index, adding about 2000
products to the basket and adjusting the weightings. The change
reduced January’s yearly producer-price inflation by 0.05
percentage points, the bureau said, without disclosing a
breakdown of the basket.  China may increase retail gasoline and diesel costs as soon
as this week to reflect higher international crude prices,  Shanghai  Daily reported Feb. 11, citing consulting company C1
Energy. The world’s largest rice consumer last week increased
the minimum purchasing prices for the 2011 crop by as much as 22
percent to boost stockpiles and increase production.  --Li Yanping. With assistance from  Jay Wang  in  Singapore , Huang Zhe, Zheng Lifei in Beijing. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Sunil Jagtiani.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  