-- 
CIT Fourth-Quarter Profit Falls From Third Quarter

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-02-15T13:52:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/cit-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-from-third-quarter-correct-.html
(Correct date in the second paragraph.)    CIT Group Inc ., the business lender
led by John A. Thain, said fourth-quarter earnings fell from the
previous period as interest income declined and credit costs
increased.  Net income dropped to $75 million, or 37 cents a share,
from $115.8 million, or 58 cents, in the third quarter, New
York-based CIT said in a statement today. The average estimate
of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for 41 cents in
adjusted earnings. The company didn’t provide results for the
fourth-quarter of 2009 because it was reorganizing during the
period, said  Curt Ritter , a CIT spokesman.  Thain, 55, the former Merrill Lynch & Co. CEO who was hired
as CIT’s chief executive a year ago, has been shrinking the
company and looking for less expensive sources of funding while
aiming to keep a viable base of customers. CIT earlier this
month announced a restatement for the first three quarters of
2010, increasing net income by about $25 million.  “I am pleased with the significant progress we have made
this past year,” Thain said in the statement. “We will
continue to serve the small business and middle-market sectors,
the engines of economic growth in the U.S.”  CIT is seeking to recover from a bankruptcy that wiped out
$2.3 billion in U.S. bailout money. Once the biggest independent
commercial lender in the U.S., CIT entered bankruptcy in
November 2009 after racking up losses on home loans and being
shut out of short-term capital markets.  The government lost its investment in the bankruptcy, and
CIT had to submit to tighter supervision by regulators at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  