-- 
Citigroup’s McWhinney Leaves Wealth-Management Job

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-02-15T02:22:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/citigroup-s-mcwhinney-leaves-wealth-management-for-digital-job.html
  Citigroup Inc ., the third-largest
U.S. bank by assets, said that Deborah Doyle McWhinney will
leave her position as head of personal wealth management for a
newly created role in the global transactions business.  McWhinney, 55, will become head of “global digital
merchant acquiring,” according to an internal memorandum
obtained by Bloomberg News, the contents of which were confirmed
by Sean Kevelighan, a spokesman. She will report to Paul Galant,
head of global enterprise payments.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  began an
overhaul of consumer-banking operations last year to halt a
slide in deposits. Last September, he appointed Cecelia “Cece” Stewart from Morgan Stanley to run the retail bank and she
started her new job last month. McWhinney reported to Stewart.  “Over the past two years, Debby has done an excellent job
of setting a strategy and driving execution for Citi’s personal
banking and wealth management business, building tremendous
momentum in products, risk and  wealth management ,” Galant and
Stewart said in the memo. “She has led this business through
massive industry and regulatory changes and has positioned the
business for future growth.”  McWhinney was appointed in April 2009 by Teresa “Terri” Dial, the then-head of U.S. consumer banking replaced by Manuel Medina-Mora last year.  As head of personal wealth management, McWhinney oversaw
what was left of Citigroup’s brokerage business. The financial
crisis forced the bank to sell its Smith Barney unit into a
joint venture with Morgan Stanley. The bank didn’t say who will
replace McWhinney.  Citigroup gained 3 cents to $4.91 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading today. The company has climbed about
54 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  