-- 
Citigroup Bought by Hedge Funds Lone Pine, Moore

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-02-15T17:20:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/citigroup-bought-by-hedge-funds-moore-appaloosa-update1-.html
  Citigroup Inc ., the third-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, drew investments from  hedge funds  including
Lone Pine Capital LLC and Moore Capital Management LLC in the
fourth quarter as the U.S. government cut its stake.  Lone Pine, Stephen F. Mandel’s Greenwich, Connecticut-based
hedge fund, bought 145.1 million shares in Citigroup valued at
$686.5 million as of Dec. 31, making it Lone Pine’s largest
holding, according to a filing yesterday with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Mandel joins  John Paulson , whose hedge fund told clients in
January that it made more than $1 billion on its Citigroup
investment over the prior 18 months. Appaloosa Management LP,
Highfields Capital Management LP and Viking Global Investors LP,
also reported buying shares during the quarter in the bank run
by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit .  “Banks have been a pretty profitable trading area for a
lot of the hedge funds and they are doing it again with Citi,”
said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as
chairman of New York-based Holland & Co. “Right now it looks
like Pandit has been able to calm the seas and we may have a
period where things are lined up for smooth sailing. Unless
things change dramatically, it’s probably a chance for them to
make some more money.”  Moore Capital, the $15 billion hedge fund run by Louis Moore Bacon in New York, bought 40.9 million Citigroup shares in
the period worth about $194 million at Dec. 31, according to a
filing.  Shares Climb  Appaloosa Management LP,  David Tepper ’s hedge fund, more
than doubled its holdings in the New York-based bank. Appaloosa,
based in Short Hills,  New Jersey , purchased 66.3 million shares
in the fourth quarter, boosting its stake to 117.5 million
shares, according to a filing.  The U.S. Treasury Department sold the last of its stake in
the New York-based bank in December, disposing of 2.4 billion
shares. The government, which acquired the investment as part of
a $45 billion bailout in 2008, made about $12 billion in profit
from its holdings.  Citigroup shares rose 21 percent in the three-month period
ending Dec. 31, and gained almost 43 percent in 2010. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose about 13 percent last year.
Citigroup was up 1 cent to $4.90 as of 11:48 a.m. today in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  Highfields, the Boston-based hedge firm founded by Richard
Grubman and Jonathon Jacobson, bought 22 million Citigroup
shares worth $104 million at the end of December, according to a
filing.  Paulson’s Stake  Viking, co-founded by Andreas Halvorsen, bought almost 54
million shares, pushing its holding to about 151 million shares.
Eric Mindich’s Eton Park bought 20 million Citigroup shares,
bringing its holdings to 80.5 million at the end of December,
according to an  SEC filing .  Tudor, the $11.5 billion hedge fund founded by  Paul Tudor Jones  out of Greenwich,  Connecticut , bought 3.94 million shares
of the bank valued at $18.7 million as of the end of December.  Officials at Lone Pine, Eton Park,  Moore Capital  and Tudor,
declined to comment, while officials at Appaloosa, Viking and
Highfields, didn’t immediately return calls.  Paulson, 55, who became a billionaire by betting against
U.S. mortgage markets, cut about 10.5 million shares from his
Citigroup holdings, according to an SEC filing. His $35.9
billion hedge fund, Paulson & Co., held about 413.5 million
shares at the end of 2010, down from 424 million at the end of
September.  ‘Upside Potential’  “Citigroup demonstrates the upside potential of many of
the restructuring investments we have added to our portfolio and
our ability to generate above-average returns in large
positions,” Paulson said in a January letter, a copy of which
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Money managers overseeing more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 45 days of each quarter’s end to show U.S.-
listed stocks, options and convertible bonds. The filings don’t
show non-U.S. securities or how much cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  