-- 
Climate Change May Cause ‘Massive’ Food Disruptions

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-02-15T10:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/climate-change-may-cause-massive-food-disruptions-olam-s-verghese-says.html
Global food supplies will face
“massive disruptions” from  climate change ,  Olam International
Ltd . predicted, as Agrocorp International Pte. said corn will
gain to a record, stoking food inflation and increasing hunger.  “The fact is that climate around the world is changing and
that will cause massive disruptions,” Sunny Verghese, chief
executive officer at Olam, among the world’s three biggest
suppliers of rice and cotton, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “We’re friendly to wheat, corn and soybeans
and bearish on rice.”  Shrinking global food supplies helped push the United
Nations Food & Agriculture Organization’s World Food Price Index
to a record for a second month in January. As food becomes less
available and more expensive, “hoarding becomes widespread,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at FAO, said Feb. 9,
predicting prices of wheat and other grains are more likely to
rise than decline in the next six months.  Corn futures surged 90 percent in the past year, while
wheat jumped 80 percent and soybeans advanced 49 percent as the
worst drought in at least half a century in  Russia , flooding in  Australia , excessive rainfall in  Canada , and drier conditions in
parts of  Europe  slashed harvests.  ‘Inflame’ the Market  Corn may be the best-performing agricultural commodity,
surging to a record in the first half, while wheat will advance
as increased government purchases help “inflame” the market,
said Vijay Iyengar, managing director of Agrocorp International,
who’s traded agricultural commodities since 1986.  Global warming may help lift the prices of corn, wheat and
rice by at least two-thirds by 2050, a study by the
International Food Policy Research Institute showed in December.
“There is an increasing likelihood of a food crisis globally
due to climate change,” South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
told his secretaries on Feb. 7, according to a statement.  Last year was the  warmest on record , together with 2005 and
1998, the Geneva-based  World Meteorological Organization  said.  May-delivery corn, trading at $7.0575 a bushel at 6:45 p.m.
Singapore time, was 12 percent below its record in 2008, when
declining food supplies caused riots in 30 countries including
Haiti and Egypt. May-delivery soybeans fell 0.2 percent to
$14.13 a bushel, while wheat for delivery in the same month
slipped 0.6 percent to $8.985 a bushel. Rough-rice for March
delivery declined 2.4 percent to $15.36 per 100 pounds.  Corn Imbalance  Global corn stockpiles were forecast by the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  to drop at the end of this season to a four-year
low, while inventories of wheat will slump 10 percent from a
year ago as harvests trail behind demand for both crops. Soybean
inventories will drop to a two-year low, the agency said.  “Corn is where demand is most imbalanced” against supply,
Iyengar said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday. “Increased
purchasing by governments “tends to inflame markets,” he said.  Food prices have become too high for some  developing
countries  to buy the agricultural products they need, raising
the risk of food riots, French Agriculture Minister Bruno Le
Maire said earlier this month.  “We don’t want too many storms, because that tends to
contribute to excited decision-making,” Agrocorp’s Iyengar said,
referring to supply problems influencing governments’ import
policies and purchasing volumes. “It also puts pressure on the
lower strata of people in various countries. You see the poorer
people tend to hurt more.”  Intensified Hoarding  Protests, prompted in part by rising food prices, spread
across North Africa and the Middle East in the past month,
driving Tunisia’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali into exile
after 23 years in power and ending Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak’s 30-year rule.  Sales and shipments of wheat by the U.S. to  Egypt , the
world’s biggest buyer, jumped to 2.9 million tons since June 1,
more than six times higher than the same period a year earlier,
according to USDA figures dated Feb. 3.  Algeria bought 2.95 million tons of wheat from Dec. 16 to
Jan. 26, according to crops office FranceAgriMer. That was
“probably” the most the country had ever bought in a five-week
period, said Xavier Rousselin, the office’s head of arable crops.
Loadings of French soft wheat destined for  Morocco  more than
tripled to 1.16 million tons from 350,000 tons a year earlier,
the company said.  Hoarding of agricultural products will intensify, although
it will have limited impact on prices because supplies are
sufficient, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including  Jeffrey Currie  said in January.  ‘Perfect Harvests’  “With  Algeria , they bought 800,000 tons in one tender,”
Agrocorp said, referring to one in a series of wheat tenders
that accelerated the purchases by the world’s fourth-largest
importer. “That makes the market excited,” he said.  Global corn production will need to increase by 6 percent,
and wheat output by between 3 to 4 percent in the 2011-2012 crop
season to rebuild global stockpiles, Abbassian has said.  “You need two perfect harvests through the summer of 2012
to get stockpiles back to an acceptable level,” said Jason Lejonvarn, a commodities strategist at Hermes Fund Managers Ltd.,
forecasting a peak of about $8 a bushel for corn. “Corn will
have to stay above $7 to get acreage” in countries including  Brazil , he said in Singapore yesterday.  With demand growing and stockpiles dwindling, prices will
remain high “if there is any supply disruption in any part of
the world,” Olam’s Verghese said. “We’re experiencing that
today in the grains complex, the cotton complex and the coffee
complex.”  Cotton Firm  Cotton stockpiles will plunge to the lowest since 1996,
according to USDA data. Jose Sette, the executive director of
the  International Coffee Organization , said Feb. 11 that
stockpiles of coffee held by exporting nations probably will be
little changed at about 13 million bags, the lowest since the
group started keeping records in the 1960s.  “Cotton will continue to remain firm until the new crop
arrival starts and that is expected sometime in October,”
Verghese said. Futures traded at a record $1.9455 per pound in  New York  on Feb. 11 as exports from the U.S. gained amid tighter
global supplies.  Prices may remain “around these levels, and then it will
correct itself a little bit,” he said, without giving forecasts.  Rough-rice production may be 700.7 million tons, or 467.3
million tons of milled grain, up about 3 million tons from a
November estimate, the FAO said last week. The forecast would be
a 3 percent rise from the 2009 season, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  