-- 
Clinton to Support Facebook Freedom, Fight Censorship

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-02-16T21:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/clinton-to-promote-technology-to-ensure-global-internet-freedom.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
vowed the U.S. will step up support for global Internet freedom,
as citizens using social networking sites run by Facebook Inc.
and Twitter Inc. organize demonstrations spreading across the
Mideast and North Africa.  Clinton, in her second major speech against Internet
restrictions, said recent protests show how technology can
accelerate “political, social, and economic change” or “slow
or extinguish that change,” referring to government efforts in
Egypt,  Iran ,  Syria  and elsewhere to restrict online and mobile
media.  The U.S. will help “people in oppressive Internet
environments get around filters, stay one step ahead of the
censors, the hackers, and the thugs who beat them up or imprison
them for what they say online,” she said yesterday in a speech
in Washington.  For more than a year, Clinton has led the Obama
administration’s  efforts to promote online freedom . During
protests against Mubarak, she urged Egypt to unblock Facebook
and Twitter, which were used to organize protests. She praised  Google Inc . for resisting Chinese censorship in her January 2010
speech on the Internet, and has called on technology companies
to stand firm against repressive regimes and protect user
privacy.  ‘Freedom to Connect’  Clinton noted that 2 billion people are online, nearly one-
third of humankind, and said the U.S. supports the universal
right of all people to gather and communicate online, the
“freedom to connect” as she called it.  “The Internet has become the public space of the 21st
century-the world’s town square, classroom, marketplace, coffee
house, and nightclub,” she said.  Clinton announced the creation of a State Department office
for Cyber Issues that will be led by Christopher Painter, an
official on President Barack Obama’s National Security Council
and former federal prosecutor specializing in computer crime.  The State Department this month started Twitter feeds in
Arabic, which reached 570,000 in its first days, and Farsi,
which reached 288,000 people within hours, officials said.
Clinton announced the department will soon launch similar feeds
in Chinese, Russian and Hindi.  A year ago , Clinton laid out three goals, which she
underscored yesterday: to promote Internet freedom and push back
against governments that restrict it; to press U.S. corporations
to resist censorship and defend privacy; and to fund new online
and mobile technologies that evade censorship and repression.  Internet Diplomacy  “Monitoring and responding to threats to Internet freedom
has become part of the daily work of our diplomats and
development experts,” Clinton said in a nearly hour-long speech
at George Washington University. “We are taking a comprehensive
and innovative approach -- one that matches our diplomacy with
technology, secure distribution networks for tools and direct
support for those on the front lines.”  In the last year, Clinton and her deputies have criticized
the repression of online activists and journalists in  Egypt ,  Tunisia ,  Azerbaijan , Syria and China, among other countries.  The secretary threw her support behind the “multi-
stakeholder system” that governs the Internet, which may be a
reference to a dispute over the  Internet Corporation for
Assigned Names and Numbers . Icann, as it is known, is a
California-based nonprofit group that ensures an Internet
address typed in one country appears the same in all countries.  Redirecting Queries  Several nations, including China, have pushed to allow
governments to redirect Internet queries within their borders.
The current system, which brings together the technology
industry, non-profit groups and governments to determine
standards, has maintained an Internet that looks the same
worldwide, unless a government actively blocks sites.  Clinton said businesses must “choose whether and how to
enter markets where Internet freedom is limited.”  Representative William Keating, a Massachusetts Democrat,
has proposed legislation to restrict U.S. companies from selling
to “repressive regimes” software that can be used to censor
content on the Internet.  “The Internet is going to be a terrific tool for
democracy. We cannot have American companies” be involved in
“repressing human rights,” Keating told Bloomberg Television
today.  Government Demands  Last August, Clinton said the U.S. was pressing
governments, including the  United Arab Emirates , to resolve
disputes with  Research In Motion Ltd ., the Waterloo, Ontario-
based maker of the BlackBerry smartphone. The UAE,  Saudi Arabia 
and  India  had threatened to shut down BlackBerry service unless
authorities were allowed to monitor messaging.  The secretary praised the work of the  Global Network
Initiative , a group of financial services firms, rights groups
and communications companies committed to resisting government
censorship and demands for private user information. The group
has also discussed the issue of whether to sell technologies
that could be used to violate rights. So far, Google,  Microsoft
Corp ., and Yahoo! Inc. are the only technology corporations that
have joined the group.  “We’re quite conscious that decisions that companies
make” that might once have seemed “like pure business
decisions have an effect on human rights,” Ben Scott, an
innovation policy adviser to Clinton, said in an interview.  The State Department will award more than $25 million this
year to support counter-censorship technology, secure mobile
communications, digital safety training and assistance to
dissidents under threat for web-based activism, she said.  Circumventing Firewalls  Since fiscal year 2008, Congress has allocated $50 million
to support Internet freedom and help overseas users circumvent
firewalls erected by repressive regimes. Critics such as Indiana
Senator  Richard Lugar , who  released a report yesterday  urging
more action supporting Internet freedom in  China , have assailed
the Obama administration for not spending Congressional funds
fast enough or focusing them on anti-censorship technology.  Lugar, the ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, called on Clinton to transfer at least $8
million of available funds to the  Broadcasting Board of
Governors  to focus on circumvention technology. The agency,
which oversees government media including  Voice of America ,
funneled a $1.5 million grant last year to the Global Internet
Freedom Consortium, a group that provides anti-censorship
software and is associated with the Falun Gong, a Buddhist
spiritual sect banned in China.  While Clinton acknowledged that “some have criticized us
for not pouring funding into a single technology,” she argued
that the State Department is taking “a venture capital-style
approach, supporting a portfolio of technologies, tools, and
training.”  WikiLeaks Releases  Clinton defended the Obama administration against charges
of hypocrisy in its fight against online release of classified
U.S. cables by the WikiLeaks group, saying its support for an
open Internet does not negate the rule of law. “Government
documents were stolen, just the same as if they had been
smuggled out in a briefcase,” she said.  The secretary also denied reports that the U.S. government
had coerced private companies to deny service to WikiLeaks.  Yesterday in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia , the  Justice Department  argued it should be able to obtain account
data of Twitter users for its investigation of how WikiLeaks
acquired and released classified documents.  Clinton asserted that there are costs to governments who
try to open the Internet for business and close it for political
or social expression.  “When countries curtail Internet freedom, they place
limits on their economic future,” she said. “Barring criticism
of officials makes governments more susceptible to corruption,
which creates economic distortions with long-term effects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  