-- 
McMansion, Bad Gift Hinder Race Relations in Comedy: S.F. Stage

-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 
2011-02-15T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/mcmansion-dumb-gift-hinder-race-relations-in-clybourne-park-s-f-stage.html
“Clybourne Park,”  Bruce Norris ’s
comedy about race and real estate in  Chicago , gets a skillfully
cringe-inducing production at San Francisco’s  American
Conservatory Theater .  Act 1 gives us the neighborhood in 1959, when white,
middle-class homeowners Russ and Bev have agreed to be the first
to sell their place to a “colored” family, as one of their
concerned friends puts it.  “For all we know, the family could be perfectly nice,”
Bev says in total innocence. Earlier, while cleaning out her
kitchen for the move, she offers to give a junky old chafing
dish to her black housemaid, Francine, rather than throw it
away. Francine spends the rest of the act trying to fend off the
hand-me-down.  Act 2 is set in the same living room in 2009, when white,
middle-class Steve and Lindsey have just bought the house and
are meeting with representatives of the now-black neighborhood,
seeking permission to tear down the double-decker and put up a
McMansion.  A talented seven-member cast -- including  A.C.T. stalwarts 
Rene Augesen, Anthony Fusco and Gregory Wallace -- portrays
both sets of characters. Directed by  Jonathan Moscone , they
bring alive the clueless and/or angry whites and the insulted
and/or angry blacks as much as the sometimes schematic script
will allow. (There’s a subplot about Russ and Bev’s dead son
that might as well carry a neon sign saying “Theatrical
Device.”)  Norris tries for some of the same wordplay that David Mamet
employs, yet here the vernacular American speech often turns
into shaggy-dog stories or shouting matches rather than clever
give and take. (There’s a long digression, for example, about
the meaning of the word Neapolitan, as in ice cream.)  Still, Norris is onto something here. He demonstrates that
however much U.S. race relations have improved over the past
half-century, a well-meaning white liberal can put his foot in
his mouth with astonishing ease.  Through Feb. 20 at A.C.T., 415 Geary St.,  San Francisco .
Information: +1-415-749-2228;  http://www.act-sf.org . Rating:
** 1/2  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 