-- 
Colombia Peso in `Comfort Zone' Limits Need for Controls, Echeverry Says

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-02-15T14:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/colombia-peso-in-comfort-zone-limits-need-for-controls-echeverry-says.html
Colombia’s Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said government measures to stem capital
inflows and a stronger world economy have put the peso in a
“comfort zone” and limited the need for  capital controls .  Echeverry, in an interview yesterday at his Bogota office,
didn’t rule out the use of controls if the peso resumes
strengthening. For now, faster-than-expected economic growth has
boosted  tax revenue , reducing financing needs. An improved  U.S.
economy  has also helped take pressure off the peso, he added.  “I thought that by mid-February my situation would be much
more stressful than it is,” said Echeverry, 48, who took office
with President  Juan Manuel Santos  last August. “It’s exactly
the opposite of what we were expecting three months ago.”  Policy makers have stepped up efforts to curb a rally by
the peso, which has gained 32 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
over the past two years. To keep pressure off Latin America’s
second best-performing currency over that period, the government
eliminated most tax exemptions on foreign borrowing and delayed
repatriating $1.5 billion held overseas, most of it dividends
from state oil company  Ecopetrol SA .  Echeverry said the central bank, if needed, will extend a
dollar buying program that expires next month. The peso has
weakened 5.6 percent to 1,896.10 per U.S. dollar yesterday since
the central bank began buying at least $20 million daily in the  spot market  on Sept. 15. The program was extended in October
until “at least” March 15.  “I will try to provide the central bank with the room to
maneuver that allows it, if necessary, to keep intervening,”
said Echeverry, who is one of seven members of the Banco de la
Republica’s board. “Remember that intervening is costly, but if
you need to do it, we will do all our efforts to help the bank
keep intervening.”  Bond Swap  The government is weighing a swap of peso-denominated
bonds given that bonds are coming due in May, Echeverry said,
while declining to provide further details.  Colombia  has about
10 trillion pesos ($5.3 billion) worth of securities known as
TES coming due that month.  “I’m just saying that there’s a possibility,” said
Echeverry, adding that the public credit office is responsible
for announcing any debt management plans. “It can be done.”  Echeverry plans to balance the budget within four years,
and create a dollar-denominated sovereign wealth fund using
royalties from oil and coal sales, dividends from Ecopetrol and
tax revenue.  Capital Controls  Echeverry said capital controls such as those imposed by  Brazil , where a tax on inflows was tripled to 6 percent last
year, are a last resort.  “I don’t like invasive measures, I don’t think they work
that much,” said Echeverry, who has a doctorate in economics
from  New York University . “But all of us have a pain threshold,
and I’ll know my pain threshold when I feel it.”  Buoyed by $6.5 billion foreign direct investment through
the third quarter of 2010, the peso outperformed every major
Latin American currency except Brazil’s real over the past two
years. Bank of America forecasts the peso will strengthen
another 2.4 percent this year to 1,850 per dollar.  At the same time Colombia risks attracting speculative
capital given near-zero U.S. and European interest rates, policy
makers are seeking to damp inflation that accelerated after the
heaviest flooding in 30 years washed out roads and destroyed
crops, causing food prices to surge.  Inflation, Rates  Since slowing to five-decade low of 1.84 percent last
March, the country’s annual inflation rate has nearly doubled,
reaching 3.40 percent last month. Inflation will end 2011 at
3.61 percent, according to a central bank  survey  of 42 analysts.  The central bank last month kept its benchmark rate at a
record low 3 percent for a ninth straight meeting. The bank
expects the  South America ’s fourth-biggest economy to grow 4.5
percent in 2011, as spending to repair infrastructure damaged by
the heavy rains in December causes growth to accelerate in the
second half of the year.  Trade, China  Echeverry said the government is seeking to diversify
exports away from commodities and open new markets instead of
relying on the U.S. and  Venezuela  for trade.  A free-trade accord with the U.S. has languished since its
signing in 2006, with President  Barack Obama  so far refusing to
send it to Congress for ratification. Last week, unilateral
trade privileges for Colombian exports under a U.S. program to
award it for cooperation in the drug war expired.  Colombia in November 2008 signed a bilateral investment
treaty with China, granting most favored nation status to each
other’s companies.  China  has since invested in Colombian oil
blocks and stepped up purchases of coal from the South American
country.  Santos, in a Feb. 13 interview with the Financial Times,
said China and Colombia are in talks to expand the deepwater
Buenaventura port on  Pacific Ocean  and connect it with a rail
link to coal deposits near Colombia’s Atlantic coastline.  Echeverry said the governments hope to advance in talks
with the Chinese on the investments this year, without providing
more details.  “The Chinese are the ones looking at us more
intensively,” he said.     “If you diversify, you can have a
solid, long-term strategy for growth and for spreading the
benefits for a commodity boom.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  