-- 
Confidence in Equities Among Global Investors at Record, BofA Merrill Says

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-02-15T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/confidence-in-equities-among-global-investors-at-record-bofa-merrill-says.html
Money managers are more bullish on
global stocks this month than at any time in the past decade,
according to a BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research survey.  A net 67 percent of respondents, who together manage $569
billion, had an “overweight” position on global equities, the
highest level since the survey first asked the question in April
2001. That compares with 55 percent in January and 40 percent in
December. Meanwhile, a net 9 percent is “underweight” cash,
the lowest allocation since January 2002.  The February survey “is one of the most bullish in
years,”  Gary Baker  and  Michael Hartnett , equity strategists at
BofA Merrill Lynch, wrote in a report today. “Surging inflation
expectations show we are no longer in a Goldilocks environment
and a meaningful tactical correction in risk assets could be
caused by a jump in  interest rates  or weaker U.S. growth.”  A net 34 percent of survey respondents are now
“overweight” U.S. equities, up from 27 percent in January.
Appetite for euro-area stocks has also risen, to net 11 percent
“overweight” from 9 percent “underweight” in January.
Meanwhile, February saw the biggest decline in emerging-market
exposure in the survey’s history, with net 5 percent of managers
now “overweight” global emerging-markets equities, down from
January’s 43 percent.  “Unusually, higher risk appetite has been accompanied by a
dramatic downsizing in  asset allocation  to emerging markets, as
surging global growth expectations have increased the value
attractions of developed-market alternatives,” London-based
Baker, head of European equities strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch,
said in a statement.  The survey was conducted between Feb. 4 and Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in  London  at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  