-- 
ConocoPhillips Not Interested in Reversing Seaway Pipeline

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-02-15T22:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/conocophillips-not-interested-in-reversing-seaway-pipeline.html
  ConocoPhillips  isn’t interested in
reversing the Seaway pipeline that brings crude from the U.S.
Gulf Coast to the fuel hub in Cushing, Oklahoma, where
inventories of crude oil reached a record high last month.  “We don’t really think that’s in our interest because we
need more crude in the area” to supply the company’s refineries
in the Midcontinent, Jim Mulva, ConocoPhillips’s chief executive
officer, said during a conference call hosted by ISI Group
today.  Stockpiles at Cushing, the delivery point for futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , rose in the week
ended Jan. 28 to 38.3 million barrels, according to the Energy
Department. That was the highest level in records begun in 2004.
Last week TransCanada Corp. started deliveries to the hub from
its Keystone pipeline, which connects Alberta and Cushing.  “A reversal would send up to 350,000 barrels a day of
crude from Cushing directly to Houston, significantly releasing
pressure on the Cushing complex,” said JBC Energy GmbH, a
Vienna-based researcher.  The 530-mile (853-kilometer) Seaway pipeline, operated by  Enterprise Products Partners LP , carries crude northbound from
Freeport,  Texas , to Cushing. It also supplies refineries in the
Houston area and has a usable storage capacity of 3.4 million
barrels, according to the company’s website.  Barclays Capital analysts said last week that the high
inventories at Cushing and the new Keystone deliveries have
combined to separate WTI, the U.S. benchmark, from Brent crude
oil traded in  London . Brent’s premium to WTI, which averaged 63
cents in 2010, surged to $15.85 Feb. 11.  Rick Rainey, a spokesman for Enterprise, said in an e-mail
that ConocoPhillips and Enterprise would have to agree to
reverse the pipeline. Seaway’s former operator, Teppco Partners
LP, said in 2007 it would consider a reversal.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  