-- 
Contador Says He's Suffered `Irreparable' Damage After Winning Doping Case

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-02-15T23:52:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/contador-says-he-s-suffered-irreparable-damage-after-winning-doping-case.html
Three-time Tour de France champion
Alberto Contador said his image won’t recover even after being
cleared of doping.  A three-man Spanish cycling federation panel yesterday
rejected a Jan. 26 proposal by its chairwoman to ban the rider
for one year, federation President Juan Carlos Castano said by
telephone. Contador blamed eating contaminated beef for testing
positive for the banned stimulant clenbuterol on the last rest
day of the 2010 Tour.  “There’s been irreparable damage to my image,” Contador
told Spanish television station VEO7. “I’ve been living this
uncertainty for many months. They have been months I wouldn’t
wish on anyone.”  The case may not be over. Cycling’s ruling body, the  Union
Cycliste Internationale , and the  World Anti-Doping Agency  can
appeal the decision to the Lausanne, Switzerland-based  Court of
Arbitration for Sport  within 30 days. The UCI said in a
statement it was considering whether to appeal.  The test found Contador had 50 picograms per milliliter of
clenbuterol in his body. A picogram is one trillionth of a gram.  The decision to clear Contador “is very surprising,”
Brian Cookson, a British member of the UCI’s management
committee, said in a phone interview. “If any amount of
clenbuterol is present, that’s an offense. I’m puzzled to
understand the Spanish federation’s interpretation of the
situation.”  Similar Case  Castano said it would be “desirable” that WADA doesn’t
appeal after choosing not to in a similar case involving table
tennis player Dimitrij Ovtcharov. The Ukraine-born German was
cleared on Oct. 14 after testing positive for 75 picograms per
milliliter of clenbuterol.  “The panel has applied WADA’s rules,” Castano said. “It
found there was no blame or negligence on the part of  Alberto
Contador .”  An international tribunal should in future be put in charge
of decisions of “such magnitude” to avoid accusations of bias,
Castano said.  “It would be advisable to change the system,” he said.  Clenbuterol is a drug used to treat respiratory disorders
such as asthma and can increase aerobic capacity by improving
the flow of oxygen in the bloodstream. Farmers sometimes use the
stimulant illegally to bulk up cattle.  “One thing is clear -- I’m not going to eat meat now,”
Contador told VEO7.  Contador, suspended since September, can return to
competition even if there is an appeal. Television Espanola
reported that the Spaniard will participate in a race in  Portugal  that starts tomorrow.  “I’m happy,” Contador told the broadcaster. “But after all
these months of what I’ve gone through you can’t just turn the
page.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  