-- 
Corn Advances as Adverse Weather Threatens Crops; Soybean Futures Climb

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-02-15T03:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/corn-advances-as-adverse-weather-threatens-crops-soybean-futures-climb.html
Corn futures advanced as adverse
weather continued to threaten crops around the world, tightening
global supply. Soybeans also gained.  May-delivery corn climbed 0.5 percent to $7.1025 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 10:38 a.m.  Singapore  time. The
price yesterday advanced to $7.21 a bushel, the highest level
for the most-active contract since July 2008, before ending 1.5
percent lower.  The grain may surge to a record in the first half and be
the best-performing agricultural commodity as increased
government purchases help to “inflame” the market, Vijay
Iyengar, managing director at Agrocorp International Pte., said
in an interview in Singapore yesterday. Agrocorp joins Rabobank
International and Blackstone Group LP’s  Byron Wien  in
forecasting record corn price in 2011 as global stockpiles drop.  “As the global economy recovers with steady growth, the
crop prices may remain at historically high levels for a number
of years,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte.,
said in a report e-mailed today.    Climate change  will continue to “cause massive
disruptions” to the supply of grains, coffee and cotton,
supporting prices, said  Olam International Ltd ., one of the
world’s three biggest rice suppliers.  “The fact is that climate around the world is changing and
that will cause massive disruptions to supply chains,” Sunny
Verghese, Olam chief executive officer, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “We’re friendly to wheat, corn and
soybeans and bearish on rice.”  Mexico Corn  The corn harvest in Mexico, forecast to be this year’s
third-largest importer of the grain, may be cut by as much as 12
percent after freezing weather in the north, a unit of the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said yesterday.  A cold snap during the first week of February will likely
reduce production this year by 1 million to 3 million metric
tons, the unit said in a report on its website.  Mexico ’s
Agriculture Ministry last month forecast white and yellow corn
output to rise to 25.2 million tons in 2011.  Before the report on Mexico, the USDA forecast that global
corn stockpiles will drop at the end of this season to a four-
year low, while inventories of wheat will slump 10 percent from
a year ago, as flooding and drought in some of the world’s
biggest producers pushed harvests below demand. Soybeans will
drop to a two-year low, according to the USDA.  Farmers in the U.S., the world’s largest producer of corn,
may increase this year’s plantings of the grain by 4.3 percent
to 92 million acres, the most since 2007, the USDA said in a
separate report yesterday.  Soybean acreage in the U.S., also the world’s largest
grower and exporter of the oilseed, will expand 0.8 percent to a
record 78 million acres, while combined winter- and spring-wheat
acreage will rise 6.3 percent to 57 million acres, the USDA said
yesterday.  “We believe the rise in crop plantings may not solve our
immediate food crisis,” Ker said.  Soybeans for May delivery increased 0.3 percent to $14.2025
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, ending three days of
losses. Wheat for May delivery lost 0.2 percent to $9.025 a
bushel in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  