-- 
Corn Set for Record on Surging Demand, Agrocorp Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-02-15T08:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/corn-may-jump-to-record-as-governments-boost-purchases-agrocorp-forecasts.html
Corn may surge to a record in the
first half and be the best-performing agricultural commodity as
increased government purchases help to “inflame” the market,
according to Agrocorp International Pte.  “Corn is where demand is most imbalanced” against supply,
said Managing Director Vijay Iyengar, who’s traded agricultural
commodities since 1986. Corn reached an all-time high of $7.9925
a bushel in June 2008 and would need to rise more than 13
percent from yesterday’s close to exceed that level.  Agrocorp joins Rabobank International and Blackstone Group
LP’s  Byron Wien  in forecasting corn at a record in 2011 as
demand gains and global stockpiles decline. Corn has surged 89
percent over the past year, beating rallies in wheat and
soybeans and contributing to accelerating global food inflation.  Increased purchasing by governments “tends to inflame
markets,” Iyengar, who correctly called an end to rice’s record
rally in 2008, said in an interview in Singapore yesterday.  Corn traded at $7.0625 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade at 4:33 p.m. in Singapore today after reaching $7.21
yesterday, the highest price since July 2008. Wheat, trading at
$9 a bushel, has risen 80 percent over the past year after  Russia  banned exports, floods hurt the Australian harvest, and
concern mounts that drought may hurt  China ’s winter crop.  ‘Get Worse’  As corn reserves get lower, the price spikes exponentially,
said Jason Lejonvarn, a commodities strategist at Hermes Fund
Managers Ltd., forecasting a peak of about $8. “The situation
will get worse, rather than better.” Hermes has about 1.2
billion pounds ($1.9 billion) allocated to commodities.  The  Food and Agriculture Organization ’s World Food Price
Index surged to a record for a second month in January, boosted
by higher prices of grains, dairy products and sugar. Tightening
global supply of grains, including wheat and corn, may mean
“hoarding becomes widespread,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior
economist at the United Nations agency, said this month.  Global corn stockpiles are forecast by the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  to drop at the end of this season to a four-year
low of 122.5 million metric tons. Rising demand from meat and
ethanol producers is pushing corn use above output for a second
year, according to the USDA.  ‘Two Perfect Harvests’  “You need two perfect harvests through the summer of 2012
to get stockpiles back to an acceptable level,” Hermes Funds’
Lejonvarn said in an interview. “Corn will have to stay above
$7 to get acreage” in countries including  Brazil , he said.  Corn will climb to a record in the coming months, according
to a Feb. 10 report from Rabobank International’s Luke Chandler,
the global head of agricultural commodities. Blackstone’s Wien
forecast a price of $8 a bushel as rising living standards in
the developing world boost demand.  In China, about 42 percent of the total area planted with
wheat in eight major producing provinces has been hit by a dry
spell that may last into the spring, Minister of Agriculture Han
Changfu said on Feb. 9. That helped push wheat to $9.1675 a
bushel yesterday, the highest level since August 2008.  “If something dramatic happens to China, then definitely
it will lend fuel to the fire,” Iyengar said, referring to
potential losses in that nation’s crop. China is the world’s
largest grower and consumer of wheat.  China’s wheat harvest may be less than 100 million tons
this year, New York-based Commodore Research said in a note e-
mailed Feb. 3 by President  Jeffrey Landsberg . That compares with
the last harvest of 114.5 million tons, according to USDA data.  The drought in China may hurt the wheat crop, jeopardizing
the goal of rebuilding stockpiles, the FAO’s Abbassian said.
Global wheat output must grow at least 3 percent to 4 percent in
the 2011-2012 season to rebuild global reserves, Abbassian said.  Harvests of wheat around the world will total 645.4 million
tons this season, while demand will be at 665.2 million tons,
according to the USDA  estimate  on Feb. 9. That will drain
stockpiles to 178 million tons, the lowest level since 2008-2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  