-- 
Crowd-Favorite Pekingese, Deerhound Advance at Westminster Show

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-02-15T13:25:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/crowd-favorite-pekingese-scottish-deerhound-advance-at-westminster-show.html
A regal three-year-old Pekingese, a
Scottish deerhound, a Chinese Shar-Pei and a bearded collie who
likes to stand on his hind legs and hug people advanced to the
final round of the  Westminster Kennel Club  show in New York that
ends tonight.  The four champion purebreds face the winners of the
sporting group, which includes Golden Retrievers; working dogs, 
such as Akitas; and terriers, before the best in show is named. 
Judges will name winners of various individual breeds during the 
day. The best in show will be picked at about 11 p.m. New York 
time.  The top dog will be decided by Paolo Dondina, the first
Italian national to pick best in show at Westminster.  “I just hope we go out there and look good,” said David
Fitzpatrick, the handler of Malachy, the Pekingese who was the
No. 2 dog last year in the  American Kennel Club  competition.
“I’ve never shown to an Italian judge.”  An 11-pound hairy ball of charisma, Malachy was a crowd
favorite at  Madison Square Garden .  “It’s the best Pekingese I’ve ever seen,” said Frank
Sabella, the judge who selected him as the top toy dog and the
author of “Your Poodle, Standard Miniature and Toy.”  The Pekingese is of Chinese origin, according to the
American Kennel Club, with large, dark eyes and a “lion-like”
image.  The Pekingese bested a tiny Pomeranian, a crowd favorite as
it ran around in circles on the floor of the arena.  Last year’s top ranked dog, a Smooth Fox Terrier named
Dodger, will not compete, even though it’s in  New York  with its
owners and officially entered at Westminster.  “There was no reason to show him,” said Phillip Booth,
Dodger’s co-owner in an interview last night.  “People don’t realize how subjective it is,” he said of
Westminster.  Sitting out may have saved Dodger’s reputation. The judge
assigned to assess Smooth Fox Terriers passed over Dodger at
several shows in the past two years.  To contact the writer on the story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 