-- 
Crude Oil Gains a Second Day in London Amid Middle East Unrest

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-02-15T13:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/crude-oil-advances-a-second-day-in-london-on-middle-east-supply-concern.html
Oil in  London  rose for a second day
as civil unrest spread from Egypt to crude-producing countries
in the Middle East, renewing concern supplies may be disrupted.  Brent futures gained as much as 0.9 percent after
demonstrators clashed with security forces in Bahrain, Yemen and  Iran , the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. Prices advanced yesterday after
the Egyptian army dissolved parliament and suspended the
constitution following the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak .
The risk of turmoil spreading to Middle East oil producers is
growing, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note yesterday.  “Fears that civil unrest could spread into oil-producing
states in the Middle East is keeping investors nervous, as they
look towards the likes of  Algeria ,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst with VTB Capital in London.    Brent crude  for April settlement climbed as much as 96
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $104.04 a barrel and was at $103.58 at
11:13 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.
Yesterday it rose to $103.08, the highest settlement since
September 2008. Oil for March delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  was up 71 cents at $85.52 a barrel after
rising as high as $85.58. Yesterday, it slid 0.9 percent to
$84.81, the lowest since Nov. 30.  Oil’s drop in New York pushed its 14-day relative strength
index, a measure of how fast prices have risen or fallen, to
36.9 yesterday, the lowest since August, Bloomberg data show. A
reading of 30 or less typically indicates a market is
“oversold” and set to recover. The index was at 38.86 today.  Brent Premium  Brent’s gains have outpaced those of New York crude,
widening the difference between front-month prices to a record.
The spread between the April contracts was at $14.30 a barrel
today. The March West Texas Intermediate contract in  New York 
expires on Feb. 22.  West Texas crude’s discount is likely to extend as
stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the contract’s delivery point,
climb after the start-up of new pipeline capacity to the area.
Stockpiles rose in the week ended Jan. 28 to 38.3 million
barrels, the highest since at least 2004, according to the
Energy Department. TransCanada Corp. started deliveries to the
storage hub on Feb. 8 in the second phase of its Keystone
pipeline project.  Brent has probably “over-extended” its gains and may
drop, Citigroup said. Additional imports of crude from West
Africa, which is priced using Brent, will also push Brent lower,
Citgroup’s analyst said in a note yesterday.  U.S. crude inventories nationwide probably advanced 2.5
million barrels, or 0.7 percent, in the seven days to Feb. 11
from 345.1 million a week earlier, according to the median
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Spreading Turmoil  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington . The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will publish its data today.  Fresh signs the anti-government demonstrations in North
Africa are spreading through the Arab world have renewed concern
oil supply may be disrupted.  Prices rose to a two-year high last month on speculation
the violence would interrupt flows through the  Suez Canal  and
spread to oil-producing countries. Prices dropped 8 percent in
the 10 days through yesterday as the protests subsided and
Mubarak ceded power to the armed forces.  “The prospect of regional contagion impacting a key oil
supplier appears elevated,” JPMorgan analysts led by  Lawrence Eagles  said in a note yesterday.   Egypt ’s state of transition
will be difficult, but it is the reports of simmering unrest in
key oil exporter Iran as well as regular protests in Algeria,
Bahrain, and Yemen that are of more direct concern to the oil
market.”  Bahrain Protests  Thousands of security officers were deployed yesterday in
Tehran to stop separate groups of demonstrators, rallying
throughout the city, from converging on the central Azadi
Square, al-Jazeera reported.  Iran is the second-biggest OPEC producer behind  Saudi
Arabia  and pumped 3.7 million barrels a day in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yemen and Bahrain
produced a combined average of 355,000 barrels a day in 2009,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Bahraini riot police fired tear gas to break up protests
across the island nation. Yemeni protesters announced plans for
a fifth day of demonstrations after thousands gathered yesterday
in Sanaa to demand President Ali Abdullah Saleh step down,
clashing with police and pro-government demonstrators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  