-- 
Cyprus Court Lifts Freeze on Uralkali, Polyus Stock

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-02-15T13:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/cyprus-court-lifts-freeze-on-russia-billionaire-kerimov-s-assets.html
A Cyprus court lifted an injunction
on Russian billionaire Suleiman Kerimov’s stakes in mining
company OAO Polyus Gold and fertilizer maker OAO  Uralkali , which
have a combined market value of about $8 billion.  The plaintiff, Ashot Egiazaryan, a member of  Russia ’s lower
house of parliament, failed to disclose essential information to
the court in the application and failed to prove urgency because
15 months had passed before he filed a complaint, Nicosia
District Court President Michalis Christodoulou said today.  Egiazaryan will challenge today’s ruling, Andreas
Haviaras, one of his lawyers, said today by phone.  A September order banned Cyprus-registered entities
controlled by Kerimov from making any transactions using stock
in Russian companies, including Uralkali and Polyus. The move
followed a complaint against Kerimov by Egiazaryan, who claims
the businessman forced him to relinquish 25.5 percent of the
 Moskva hotel  near Moscow’s Red Square.  “Mr. Egiazaryan remains determined to secure compensation
for the Moskva Hotel project that was forcibly taken,” Haviaras
said in an e-mailed statement.  Egiazaryan filed a request for $2 billion in damages at the
London Court of  International Arbitration  on Sept. 13, according
to court documents in Cyprus.  Kerimov, ranked by Finans magazine as Russia’s seventh-
richest man with a fortune of $16.9 billion, owns 37 percent of
Polyus, according to a July 2009 company filing, and 25 percent
of Uralkali, according to a June 2010 statement from the
fertilizer maker. The stakes, portions of which are pledged for
bank loans, have a value of about $4 billion and $4.03 billion,
respectively, according to Bloomberg calculations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in London at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  