-- 
Dell’s Profit Exceeds Estimates on Business Spending

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-02-15T22:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/dell-reports-profit-that-tops-estimates-on-business-pc-demand.html
  Dell Inc ., the world’s third-largest
personal-computer maker, reported quarterly profit that exceeded
analysts’ estimates after business customers replaced aging PCs
and expanded their data centers. The shares climbed.  Excluding some costs, profit was 53 cents a share in the
fiscal fourth quarter, which ended Jan. 28,  Round Rock , Texas-
based Dell said today in a statement. Analysts in a Bloomberg
survey had estimated 37 cents on average. The company also
forecast annual sales growth that exceeded projections.  Dell is getting more revenue from products and services for
corporate data centers, part of a plan to double sales from that
business to $30 billion in three years. The company also got a
boost from companies replacing older PCs with new models running  Microsoft Corp .’s Windows 7 software -- a boon that will last a
number of quarters, said Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden.  “The corporate refresh continues,” Gladden said in an
interview. “This is a process that’s going to go on now for a
while.”  Dell jumped as much as 8.6 percent to $15.10 in extended
trading following the report. The shares, up 2.7 percent this
year, had closed at $13.91 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Sales Forecast  In fiscal 2012, which ends in January, Dell expects sales
growth of 5 percent to 9 percent. That would represent $64.6
billion to $67 billion, compared with an average analyst
projection of $64.4 billion.  Corporate spending is helping Dell offset a broader
slowdown in the PC industry, said Abhey Lamba, an analyst at ISI
Group in  New York .  “Given Dell’s exposure to corporate PC shipments, we
believe the company benefitted from the acceleration in
enterprise shipment growth during the quarter, despite
lackluster performance by the PC industry,” Lamba said in a
report earlier this month. He has a “hold” rating on Dell.  Global PC shipments rose 3.1 percent last quarter, missing
projections, as consumers held back on holiday purchases,
according to research firm Gartner Inc. Dell ranked third in the
industry, after  Hewlett-Packard Co . and Acer Inc., Gartner said.  Dell’s net income almost tripled to $927 million, or 48
cents a share, from $334 million, or 17 cents, a year earlier.
Sales rose 5.3 percent to $15.7 billion, matching the average
projection.  Intel Malfunction  The PC industry has been scrambling to fix a design flaw in
one of  Intel Corp .’s new chips. Intel, the world’s largest maker
of computer processors, halted shipments of the product until
later this month, when a new version will correct the
malfunction.  Dell said that the Intel flaw affects four products sold
under its XPS, Vostro and Alienware brands, and the company is
working with customers who bought them.  The defective chip didn’t affect Dell’s sales in the fourth
quarter, and it won’t make a difference in fiscal 2012 either,
Gladden said. Dell put some products using the chips on hold
until Intel provides a fix, he said.  Dell, which gets more than half its sales from desktop and
notebook computers, is making acquisitions to diversify into
data-center equipment and services. On Dec. 13, Dell agreed to
buy data-storage supplier Compellent Technologies Inc. for $960
million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  