-- 
Deutsche Telekom May Buy, Partner in Payments Business

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-15T17:11:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/deutsche-telekom-may-purchase-partner-in-payments-business-to-expand.html
Deutsche Telecom AG may buy or
partner with a payment processor as it looks to expand into
near-field communication transactions using mobile phones.  NFC transactions, which are increasingly supported on high-
end smartphones, will eventually allow users to pay for retail
goods or services such as transit rides by waving their device
across a reader. The NFC market may account for a third of the
$1.13 trillion in global mobile-payment transactions projected
for 2014, according to IE Market Research Corp.  Deutsche Telekom,  Europe ’s largest phone company, may
“have financial relationships and perhaps own a financial
entity” as demand for the transactions and associated services
grows, Chief Technology Officer Ed Kozel said in an interview in
Barcelona today.  “Just as easily, we could have a deep and dramatic
partnership with a financial institution” to help handle the
requirements of large-scale mobile payments, he added.  An explosion of interest in NFC payments is occurring in
part because ”everyone” is expecting  Apple Inc . “to get into
the market, and they know the price of being late” after seeing
the success of devices such as the iPad, Kozel said.  NFC payments may help network operators to increase their
role in the digital economy as they have information about
customers and have shown they can use it in a trustworthy way,
according to  Patrik Karrberg , a researcher in the  London School 
of Economics’ Department of Management.  Opportunities  “If you look at the legislation on a lot of privacy
issues, it’s very national, and the operators are very attuned
to working with that kind of national legislation,” he said
earlier this month. “It’s an opportunity.”  In November,  Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T Inc . and T-Mobile USA
Inc. formed a venture called ISIS to offer an NFC-based service
in 2012. Visa Inc. is testing contactless payments and planning
to roll them out commercially in mid-2011.    France Telecom SA , that country’s largest phone company,
said in December that it will work on a new version of SIM cards
with capacity for contactless payments. Mountain View,
California-based  Google Inc . is also introducing the technology
in the newest version of its Android operating system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Barcelona via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  