-- 
Deutsche Telekom, Volkswagen Workers Face Bribery Investigation

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-02-15T12:50:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/deutsche-telekom-volkswagen-workers-face-bribery-investigation.html
Former and current  Deutsche Telekom
AG  and  Volkswagen AG  managers and employees are being probed by
Stuttgart prosecutors over bribery allegations, a Deutsche
Telekom spokesman said.  Prosecutors started the investigation after Deutsche
Telekom provided them with findings of an internal review,
Harald Lindlar, a spokesman for the company’s T-Systems unit,
said today. The probe looks into whether T-Systems managers
tried to get orders from Volkswagen in exchange for continuing a
sponsorship with soccer club VfL Wolfsburg, he said.  “We decided not to continue the sponsorship and we
didn’t,” Lindlar said in an interview. “But some managers held
talks to weigh options of continuing it and prosecutors are now
looking into that.”  Deutsche Telekom has been battling a spy scandal that led
to a conviction of a former security manager last year. Chief
Executive Officer Rene Obermann was cleared in a separate probe
by German prosecutors over bribery allegations at company units
in  Hungary  and the Republic of Macedonia in January.  Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen spokesman Michael Brendel said the company is cooperating with prosecutors and is
also conducting its own investigation. He declined to comment on
whether Volkswagen managers are being probed.  The internal review led to the dismissal of a former T-
Systems sales manager and another employee, Lindlar said.
Prosecutors last week raided the Deutsche Telekom’s Stuttgart
offices, where the sales manager was based, he said.    Sueddeutsche Zeitung   reported  the case earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Bonn via 
 helfes@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  