-- 
Deutsche Boerse's $9.53 Billion NYSE Purchase May Lead to More Takeovers

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 
2011-02-15T21:07:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/deutsche-boerse-nyse-directors-said-to-vote-today-on-combining-exchanges.html
  Deutsche Boerse AG ’s $9.53 billion
all-stock purchase of New York Stock Exchange parent NYSE
Euronext creates the world’s largest owner of equities and
derivatives markets, and may spur additional mergers.  The deal, which gives Deutsche Boerse 60 percent of the
combined entity, forms an organization with market share in
futures that’s similar to Chicago-based  CME Group Inc . It would
also top  CBOE Holdings Inc . of Chicago in U.S. options. Deutsche
Boerse’s plan follows  Singapore Exchange Ltd .’s October bid for  ASX Ltd ., which runs the Australian stock market, and  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s agreement last week to buy Canada’s  TMX Group Inc .  “I don’t think we’re done with this consolidation round,”
said Peter Kovalski, manager of two financial-services mutual
funds at Alpine Woods Investments in Purchase, New York, which
manages $6 billion. “In order to fend off any new upstart
exchanges, the established exchanges have to continue to drive
their costs down so that it would be cost-prohibitive to put
together the infrastructure needed to form an exchange.”  CBOE Holdings and New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc .
rallied yesterday amid speculation they may be the next exchange
operators to be purchased, said Patrick O’Shaughnessy, an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Chicago.  “It’s fair to say the speculation is somebody might be
wanting to buy either CBOE or Nasdaq,” O’Shaughnessy said
yesterday. “CBOE and Nasdaq are two of the names constantly
thrown around as being potential takeover candidates.”  CME, Hong Kong  CME said today that “like other industry participants, we
will continue to monitor ongoing developments in the global
exchange sector and the implications of those developments on
our long-term growth strategy.”  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., currently the world’s
biggest exchange operator at $23.3 billion in market
capitalization, said last week that it’s open to “alliances,
partnerships and other relationships.”  Deutsche Boerse, which runs the Eurex futures platform and
Frankfurt Stock Exchange, is swapping one share of its own stock
for one share in the new company, while every NYSE Euronext
share will be converted into 0.47 share, according to a
statement today. Reto Francioni, the chief executive officer of
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse, will serve as chairman.  Duncan Niederauer , CEO of New York-based  NYSE Euronext , will keep that
title at the combined organization.  $15 Trillion  While the merged entity will list corporations with about
$15 trillion in value, more than any other exchange, what may
prove more lucrative is ownership of growing venues for trading
futures and options, said Rich Repetto, a New York-based analyst
at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.  “My brain says it makes sense, but my heart is a little
bit disappointed” about the deal, said John Lynch, Charlotte,
North Carolina-based chief equity strategist at Wells Fargo
Funds Management, which oversees about $465 billion.
“Sentimentality aside, it’s the right thing to do if the merger
can reward shareholders with improved exposure to the options
and derivatives market internationally.”    Deutsche Boerse  will get 10 of 17 seats on the combined
company’s board, according to today’s statement. The deal values
NYSE Euronext at 8.3 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 9.35 times Ebitda for TMX and
18.45 for ASX, the data show.  Business Segments  About 37 percent of revenue at the joined company will come
from derivatives trading and clearing, making it the largest
unit based on 2010 revenue, according to today’s statement. Cash
listings along with trading and clearing accounted for 29
percent, settlement and custody made up 20 percent, and market
data and technology services was 14 percent, the statement said.  NYSE Euronext fell 3.4 percent to $38.12 at 4 p.m. in New
York and lost 6.8 percent earlier, the most intraday since May
6, 2010. Deutsche Boerse slipped 2.4 percent to 59.85 euros. The
new company will list shares in New York, Frankfurt and Paris
and be organized as a Dutch holding company.  While the joined company’s name hasn’t been picked,
proposals should be ready for consideration by the companies’
boards in the next month or two, Niederauer said at a press
conference in New York today.  ‘Negative Consequences’  “NYSE is one of the preeminent brands in the financial
industry, and there is no reason it shouldn’t come first in the
new exchange’s name,” Sen. Charles Schumer, a Democrat from New
York, said in a statement today. “If Deutsche Boerse pushes any
alternative name, it would be an indication that they are not
viewing this deal as a merger of equals and that could have
negative consequences with regard to future decisions on the
merger’s implementations.”  NYSE Euronext said last week that derivatives revenue
climbed 14 percent in 2010, while cash equities fell 10 percent.
By 2013, NYSE Euronext may generate more than 50 percent of its
earnings from options and futures, according to  Ed Ditmire , an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in New York, who has an
“outperform” rating on the stock.  Derivatives are financial instruments used to hedge risks
or speculate. They can be based on an underlying asset such as
stocks, bonds, currencies or commodities, or linked to specific
events like changes in interest rates.  Largest in U.S.  NYSE Euronext is the largest U.S. equities exchange
operator with 26 percent of volume last month, according to data
compiled by London-based Barclays Plc. In Europe, the combined
company’s share of stock trading was more than 27 percent over
the past five days, beating London Stock Exchange Group’s 25
percent across its venues, according to data compiled by Bats
Global Markets, an exchange operator in Kansas City, Missouri.  Combined, the companies will manage futures exchanges whose
volume is about the same as those owned by CME. NYSE Liffe, NYSE
Liffe US, Eurex and five NYSE Euronext markets that trade
futures and options together executed about 3.1 billion
contracts last year, the same as CME’s three futures exchanges,
according to data from the Futures Industry Association, a
Washington-based trade group representing Wall Street banks. The
data exclude trading in U.S. options markets, which don’t handle
futures.  The merged company will also join three of the nine U.S.
options exchanges to surpass CBOE as the nation’s biggest
operator. The  International Securities Exchange  is owned by
Eurex, which is controlled equally by Deutsche Boerse and SIX
Swiss Exchange Ltd., while NYSE Euronext operates NYSE Amex
Options and NYSE Arca Options. The three markets handled 43
percent of U.S. options trades last year, compared with CBOE’s
29 percent, according to Options Clearing Corp. data.  ‘Formidable Force’  The deal “reflects the globalization of trading, and will
be a formidable force in a number of asset classes,”  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at Solaris Asset Management
in Bedford Hills, New York, which manages $2 billion, said
yesterday. “It might end up sailing right through, but there
are potential issues from a regulatory standpoint in lots of
different areas and jurisdictions.”  Deutsche Boerse is getting financial advice from  Deutsche
Bank AG ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., Credit Suisse Group AG, and
Societe Generale. NYSE is using Perella Weinberg Partners LP,  BNP Paribas , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley.
Linklaters LLP is providing legal counsel to Deutsche Boerse,
and NYSE is using Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz LLP, Stibbe NV,
and Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP.  Regulatory Approval  The U.S. Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange
Commission will have to sign off on the transaction.  “There’s nothing insuperable that will stand in the way
for the SEC to approve this deal,” said  Robert Colby , who left
the SEC in 2009 after 28 years at the agency. He helped
transform U.S. equities trading from a dealer-driven market to a
series of electronic venues that provide investors with faster
and cheaper executions. “They cleared the same hurdles when
Eurex bought ISE,” said Colby, now a partner at law firm Davis
Polk & Wardwell LLP.  Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex bought New York-based International
Securities Exchange Holdings Inc., an options market, in 2007.
Exchanges have completed almost $100 billion of mergers since
January 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. NYSE
combined with Euronext NV in 2007. TMX bought Montreal Exchange
Inc. in 2008, a year after London Stock Exchange Group purchased
Borsa Italiana SpA.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc . acquired the
New York Board of Trade in 2007.  Losing Out  Four years after losing to the New York Stock Exchange in
the takeover of Euronext, Deutsche Boerse’s Francioni, 55, is
buying both companies and putting his rival’s chief executive
officer in charge.  While Francioni is known for cutting costs by shifting jobs
to Prague from Frankfurt and moving to cheaper headquarters,
Niederauer, 51, built his reputation running  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc .’s specialist operation on the floor of the NYSE, describing
himself as “obsessed” with the structure of equities trading.
He has boosted technology spending as competition with about 50
U.S. trading venues drove NYSE Euronext’s stock price down 54
percent through yesterday since he became CEO in 2007.  “Reto has done a good job, especially on costs,” said
Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, London-based exchange analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein Ltd. “But we are in a different world now. He’s
picked a great opportunity at this juncture to move Deutsche
Boerse into another league, and credit to him, he’s prepared to
step aside to make the deal go through.”  Cost Cuts  The companies said today that the deal will reduce costs by
300 million euros ($405 million) within three years of the
deal’s completion, which they expect in 2011.  Francioni became CEO in 2005 after shareholders ousted
Werner Seifert over his failed attempt to buy the London Stock
Exchange. Deutsche Boerse’s stock rose 57 percent through
yesterday since his appointment was approved.  Niederauer, who spent two decades at Goldman Sachs before
joining NYSE in 2007, has emphasized technology at the 219-year-
old company to combat market-share losses. He built data centers
in Mahwah, New Jersey, and outside London where customers can
house trading systems and bolstered the company’s computer-
services unit with the goal of generating $1 billion in sales a
year.  “I’m a big fan,” said Dick Grasso, the former chairman
and chief executive officer of the New York Stock Exchange who
was forced to quit in 2003 after receiving $140 million in pay.
“He’s driven the exchange through some of the most
competitively challenging waters that the institution has ever
seen,” Grasso, 64, said last week. “He’s done an excellent
job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in Frankfurt at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 