-- 
Barclays's Diamond Pledges to Double `Unacceptable' 2010 Return on Equity

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-02-15T15:12:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/diamond-pledges-to-double-unacceptable-2010-return-on-equity-at-barclays.html
  Barclays Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  said the British lender’s return on equity must
almost double from its “unacceptable” 2010 level and
threatened to close or sell underperforming divisions.  Barclays will target a minimum 13 percent return on equity,
a measure of profitability, by 2013, the lender said in a 
statement today. That's less than its 30-year average of 18
percent.  “There are no sacred cows,” Diamond told analysts in
London today, calling the bank’s 2010 return on equity of 7.2
percent “unacceptable.” “Every business has to be able to
provide returns above the cost of equity,” he said.    Credit Suisse Group AG ,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank,
last week cut its target to more than 15 percent from more than
18 percent. Diamond, who replaced  John Varley  last month, is
reviewing Barclays’s operations and may close units that aren’t
generating sufficient returns. The bank, Britain’s third-biggest
lender, will seek to eliminate 1 billion pounds ($1.62 billion)
of costs by 2013, Diamond said.  The target is based on a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a gauge
of financial strength, of 9 percent. That may not be
“sufficient,” Barclays said, as regulators push banks to hold
more capital to guard against future losses.  The London-based lender, the first of Britain’s biggest
banks to post annual earnings, today reported full-year net
income that beat analyst estimates as investment-banking profit
almost doubled and writedowns shrank. Net income for 2010 fell
to 3.56 billion pounds, beating the 3.2 billion-pound median
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Lower Returns’  The bank will target a return on tangible equity of 15
percent. Barclays will exit  consumer banking  in  Russia  to focus
on corporate and investment banking in the country, Diamond
said. The lender has announced almost 2,000 job cuts this year.  “The new environment will necessitate lower returns than
the period just preceding the recent crisis,” Diamond, 59,
said. “We have already undertaken a strategic review of our
operating model that should take out considerable running costs
over the medium-term, and you should expect us to continue to
act to adjust our business and asset portfolio mix as required
to achieve our return goals.”  Lenders such as Barclays are seeking to generate returns
after the credit crisis removed the leverage that allowed them
to boost profit in the first part of the decade. The  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision ’s rule will require lenders to
more than triple the highest-quality capital they hold to
cushion against losses by 2019. That may reduce the return on
equity of European banks, on average, by 4 percentage points,
and U.S. banks by 3 percentage points, according to estimates by
McKinsey & Co. consultants.  Protium Charge  “We still don’t see how the 15 percent return on tangible
equity mentioned by management can be achieved,” said Arturo de Frias, head of banks research at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London. To reach the target, Barclays would need to boost to
returns from its consumer units to more than 20 percent, and
bring its corporate bank back to profit and generate a 20
percent return, he said. Barclays Capital’s returns would also
have to rise to 20 percent as the Basel III rules threaten those
returns, he said. “We just don’t think this is realistic.”  The bank took a 532 million-pound charge against a loan to
Protium Finance LP, a fund run by former executives to which
Barclays sold $12.3 billion of debt in September 2009. Capital
charges relating to the loan would triple under Basel III
regulations Diamond said.  “We have begun the process to facilitate an early exit and
take an impairment charge,” Diamond said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in  London  at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  