-- 
Diamondback Said to Get $1 Billion Withdrawals After FBI Raid

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-02-15T23:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/diamondback-said-to-get-1-billion-withdrawals-after-fbi-raid.html
Diamondback Capital Management LLC,
among the  hedge funds  raided in November as part of an insider-
trading probe, received withdrawal requests of about $1 billion
for the end of March as of yesterday, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The redemptions total about 17 percent of the firm’s $5.8
billion in assets, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. Clients had until
5 p.m. today to submit their withdrawal requests for the current
quarter.  Diamondback, run by Rich Schimel and Lawrence Sapanski out
of  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said the Nov. 22 raid by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  was focused on one of its portfolio
managers, who was put on leave. The firm said it was told by the
government that it’s not the target of the investigation. Hedge
funds Level Global Investors LP and Barai Capital Management LP
told clients they were closing after their offices were raided.  Diamondback told clients on Feb. 1 that “several large”
investors have stated their intention to remain in the fund.  Blackstone Group LP , which invests client money with Diamondback
and had the most eligible for redemption without penalty, plans
to keep most or all of the assets in the fund, two people
briefed on the firm’s decision said last week.  Diamondback has returned 2.2 percent this year through
Feb.11, the person said. A spokesman for the firm declined to
comment on the redemptions, which was reported earlier today by
the New York Times Dealbook website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  