-- 
Head Shareholders Worry About Sporting-Goods Company Plan for Rights Offer

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-02-15T14:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/head-shareholders-worry-about-sporting-goods-company-plan-for-rights-offer.html
  Head NV , the maker of skis for
Olympic champions Bode Miller and  Lindsey Vonn , has provoked
stockholder ire after threatening to dilute the value of its
shares by as much as 92 percent.  Investors have until Feb. 18 to subscribe to a share
increase worth “approximately 9.5 million euros” ($12.8 million)
or risk seeing their stock’s value cut, Head said in a Feb. 11
announcement. Regulators are looking into possible market
manipulation, Kurt Pribil, co-chairman of Austria’s financial-
market regulator, said in an interview today.  “This is an attempt to extremely dilute other shareholders
in something akin to a legalized raid,” said Wilhelm Rasinger,
the head of Austria’s retail shareholders’ association. “This
plan is appalling.”  Head, the world’s biggest maker of tennis balls and  ski
bindings , trades in Vienna and has its headquarters in
Amsterdam. Chairman Johan Eliasch, who bought control of the
company from  Austria ’s former tobacco monopoly in 1995, is
entitled to buy any subscription rights not taken up by existing
shareholders. Cash from the offer will be used to keep the
business running, Head said in its announcement.  Eliasch “is proposing a highly dilutive rights issuance
where the only person who’s going to benefit is himself,” Marco Elser, a partner at investment bank Advicorp Plc., said Feb. 15
by phone from  Rome . Elser owns Head shares and would add to his
holding if the offer didn’t prohibit him from doing so, he said.  Eliasch didn’t return calls to his office or his London
mobile phone seeking comment.  Underwriting Agreement  Head entered into the underwriting agreement with Eliasch
to ensure that the company sold all of the rights, company
spokeswoman Clare Vincent said in an e-mail late yesterday.
There are no plans to take the company private, she said.  Shareholders in possession of Head stock as of Feb. 10 can
buy 2.27 new shares for every security they own. The 200 million
new, preferred shares the company is issuing will be converted
into ordinary shares within 10 years of being sold, according to
the announcement.  “It is worrying,” said Massimo Baggiani, a portfolio
manager for Banca Intermobiliare SpA in Turin,  Italy , who owns
Head shares. “The company should make sure the process of
subscribing is assured.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  