-- 
ECB Race May Leave Liikanen as a Compromise Choice for President

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-02-15T10:56:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/ecb-race-may-leave-liikanen-as-a-compromise-choice-after-weber-s-departure.html
A jazz-loving Finn with a reputation
for consensus building may emerge as a compromise candidate to
lead the  European Central Bank  during its first cycle of
interest-rate increases for more than three years.  Erkki Liikanen’s chances for the top ECB job have increased
after front-runner  Axel Weber  resigned from the Bundesbank last
week, according to economists  Julian Callow  from  Barclays
Capital , Jens Sondergaard at Nomura International Plc and Tiina Helenius, Finland chief economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB.  Lawmakers who know Liikanen and economists say the Finnish
central bank governor’s strongest attributes are in the
diplomacy and networking he honed during 14 years in the
corridors of the European Commission in Brussels. He may need
those skills to steer the debate among 23 policy makers if he
replaces  Jean-Claude Trichet  as ECB President in October in the
same quarter that economists predict an interest-rate increase.  “Liikanen is a consensus-builder,” Helenius at
Handelsbanken in Helsinki said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “He’s not one to rock the boat.”  The surprise departure last week of Germany’s Weber, one of  Europe ’s most vocal inflation fighters, threw wide open the
succession race to replace Trichet. Potential rivals for
Liikanen, 60, include central bankers  Mario Draghi  from Italy
and Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch.  Germany ’s Klaus Regling, head of
the European Union’s bailout fund, may also be considered, even
if he lacks monetary policy experience.  Rate Debate  If Liikanen wins the job, one of his first tasks may be to
decide whether to raise  interest rates  to counter inflation in
the euro area. Consumer prices are rising at the fastest annual
pace in more than two years.  “Liikanen is a convincing negotiator, who takes initiative
rather than just listening,” said  Pertti Salolainen , a member
of the Finnish parliament who worked with Liikanen to bring  Finland  into the European Union in 1995.  Nomura’s Sondergaard said a key requirement for the ECB
presidency is having diplomatic skills, “in particular in
reconciling the interests of the core and the periphery.” Thus
“a candidate from a smaller country in the euro area is
becoming more likely,” he said. The Bank of Finland declined to
comment on Liikanen’s possible candidacy.  Liikanen, the third Finn to serve on the ECB council, is
not a career central banker, having joined the Bank of Finland
in 2004. As finance minister, he oversaw the boom of the Nordic
economy in the late 1980s, leaving for Brussels as growth
slumped. He then held two posts in the European Commission, in
charge of the EU budget and then  information technology .  ‘Really Great’  “He’s actually a really great candidate,” Risto Siilasmaa, board member at  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, told Bloomberg News on Feb. 9. “I never heard
anyone criticize the work he did for the commission, which is
quite something.”  Even so, the fact that fellow Finn Olli Rehn is the EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner will make Liikanen’s
appointment next to impossible, said Werner Langen, a German
Christian Democratic member of the European Parliament.  “Liikanen would be eminently suitable,” Langen said.
“But with Olli Rehn as commissioner, it’s unthinkable.”  Barclays’s Callow disagrees, saying officials’ desperation
to give the job to the right person may supersede any qualms on
nationality. While he doesn’t see Liikanen as the favorite, he
said Liikanen is cast from a similar mold to Trichet.  No Blue Note  “He’s on par with Trichet, robust but pragmatic,” said
Callow. “I have never heard him hit a blue note on monetary
policy.”  While Liikanen applied for a second term as Finnish central
bank governor yesterday, the country’s finance minister, Jyrki Katainen, told reporters today European governments haven’t
started debating Trichet’s successor, saying the issue is “not
that acute.”  Until last week’s news on Weber, “it’s been between
Germany and  Italy , Weber and Draghi,” Katainen said when asked
if he will put Liikanen’s name forward. “We’ll have to see how
the situation develops.”  Liikanen is the youngest Finn ever elected to parliament,
beginning his career in the legislature in 1972 at the age of 21
and spending 18 years there. He studied political science with
an emphasis on economics and earned a masters degree at the
University of Helsinki in 1975.  Jazz Fan  An avid jazz fan, Liikanen held regular jazz brunches
during his Brussels years and used to be on the supervisory
committee of the annual Pori Jazz festival held on the West
coast of Finland. In 2007 he persuaded Trichet to hold a speech
on the sidelines of the festival.  Liikanen heard a recording of Charlie Parker and  Miles
Davis  playing  ‘A Night in Tunisia’  when he was an exchange
student in 1968 at the Yeshivah of Flatbush high school in  Brooklyn ,  New York . He describes that moment as “a lightning
bolt.”  Liikanen also runs marathons and enjoys cross-country
running and skiing, including competing against colleagues.
Weber participated in the Vaskoolihiihto cross-country skiing
competition in Finnish Lapland with Liikanen in March 2005,
completing a 20-kilometre (12.4-mile) course in 1 hour, 57
minutes and 31 seconds. He beat Liikanen’s time by 8 seconds.  In the race for the ECB’s top job, Weber has dropped out,
while Liikanen is still in the running.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  