-- 
EDF Says Full-Year Earnings Slump 74 Percent on U.S., Italian Markets

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-02-15T15:11:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/edf-2010-profit-slumps-74-after-writedowns-on-u-s-italy-energy-markets.html
Electricite de France SA,  Europe ’s
biggest power generator, reported a 74 percent slump in 2010
profit because of low U.S. electricity prices and weak natural
gas rates in  Italy .  Net income fell to 1 billion euros ($1.35 billion) from a
revised 3.9 billion euros a year earlier, EDF said today in a
statement. That missed the 2.29 billion-euro median estimate of
18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization rose 4.4 percent to 16.6
billion euros, matching analyst estimates.  EDF fell as much as 1.7 percent and was trading down 19.5
cents to 31.08 euros at 4:06 p.m. in Paris. The shares have lost
about 21 percent in the past year.  “EDF’s results were weighed by the provisions and the fact
that 2011 targets are risky,” said Chicuong Dang, an analyst at
KBL Richelieu Gestion in Paris.  EDF is preparing for a government-led overhaul of the
French power market, which will force it to sell as much as a
quarter of its nuclear output to rivals. The utility has based
2011 financial targets on a wholesale price that the government
has said isn’t yet set.  France , which gets about three-quarters
of its electricity from atomic plants, is Europe’s second-
biggest power market after  Germany .  Provisions  The provisions are “a difficult announcement but this
shelters the group from risks,” Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said today. “The group is now de-risked.”  EDF’s energy market provisions were 1.04 billion euros in
the U.S., where power prices were hurt by increased domestic
production of unconventional gas, and 915 million euros in
Italy, in part because of EDF’s stake in  Edison SpA .  “There is a lack of visibility on a number of ongoing
negotiations,” Thomas Piquemal, chief financial officer, said
on a conference call in relation to Edison. “Margins on gas
have fallen and there is overcapacity.”  The Italian utility is losing money on supply contracts
because it’s paying more for natural gas than it can sell the
fuel for. Edison has concluded negotiations with  Eni SpA  for the
supply of natural gas from  Norway , the utility said Feb. 11.  There was a further drop in prices in the second half at
EDF’s U.S. operations, which include nuclear generation in  Maryland , Piquemal said.  EDF is targeting Ebitda growth of 4 percent to 6 percent
this year and a dividend “at least stable” with the 1.15 euros
a share proposed for 2010. The utility said financial targets
are based on obtaining government approval to sell wholesale
power in France at 42 euros a megawatt-hour.  Price ‘Hypothesis’  “We have no confirmation of this price, it’s our
hypothesis,” Piquemal said. French Industry Minister Eric Besson has said the price will be set in April or May and the
law will take effect from July 1.  “Current discussions seem to be heading in a less
promising direction,” WestLB analysts including Peter Wirtz
wrote in a note to clients of talks on the wholesale price. A
“base-case” price of 39 euros would cost 2 percentage points
of annualized growth, the bank said.  France last year passed a law to open up the market by
forcing EDF, which operates the country’s 58 reactors, to sell
as much as 100 terawatts of output to competitors such as  GDF
Suez  SA. The government will set the wholesale price, which will
determine whether rivals can compete in France’s regulated
market.  Proglio wants the wholesale price set at 42 euros a
megawatt-hour to offset costs for maintaining and prolonging the
operating lives of existing reactors. GDF Suez CEO Gerard Mestrallet is pushing for 35 euros a megawatt-hour.  Ebidta Loss  A price of 41 euros a megawatt-hour rather than 42 euros
will result in an ebitda loss of 40 million euros in the second
half of the year and more in the future, Proglio said. “We will
correct our targets, not cancel them,” he said.  “EDF outperformed in its most important division, French
power generation, while all the others were in line with
expectations,” according to Per Lekander, an analyst at UBS AG
in  London . Financial targets set for 2011 are at the “upper end
of consensus.”  EDF’s French 2010 nuclear output rose 5 percent to 408
terawatt-hours from 390 terawatt-hours the previous year. The
state-controlled utility has struggled to raise output in France
after strikes in 2009 pushed production to a 10-year low and
repairs were required at some plants. The oldest reactors are
undergoing extended halts for inspections by safety authorities
to allow them to operate for another decade.  Nuclear Output  An indicator of French reactor availability was 78.5
percent last year, compared with 78 percent in 2009. The utility
said this gauge will remain “at least” steady in 2011 with an
estimated output of 408 to 415 terawatt hours even as nine
reactors are shut for extensive safety inspections. January’s
output of 43.9 terawatt hours was the best ever over a month,
Piquemal said.  French ebitda rose 7.7 percent to 10.12 billion euros last
year due in part to higher nuclear and hydroelectric power.  EDF agreed in December to sell its stake in German utility  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG  for 4.7 billion euros. The
French utility last year sold its U.K. grid, reached a deal to
take control of a joint venture to develop atomic reactors in
the U.S. and transferred half of the French grid into a fund
that will cover costs for dismantling reactors. EDF announced a
provision of 1.1 billion euros in July related to its holding in  Constellation Energy Group Inc .  Debt fell to 34.4 billion euros at the end of December
compared with 42.5 billion euros a year earlier. This doesn’t
account for the German sale, which will reduce debt to 27.3
billion euros, EDF said.  The utility is targeting a net financial debt-to-Ebitda
ratio in the range of 2 to 2.2 times, which would mean debt of
between 30 billion euros and 32 billion euros, Piquemal said.  “We have recovered a certain flexibility in our
finances,” Proglio said, adding that the utility may make
“very selective” acquisitions this year, possibly in  Poland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  