-- 
EDF Says ‘Risks’ Are Part of Ongoing Talks With Edison Partners

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-02-15T15:12:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/edf-says-risks-are-part-of-ongoing-talks-with-edison-partners.html
Electricite de France SA,  Europe ’s
biggest generator, is in talks on its partnership with Italy’s  Edison SpA  after reporting a provision of nearly 1 billion euros
($1.35 billion) for financial “risks” in that country.  “The provisions were made for rational reasons,” Chief
Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said today at a news conference
on EDF’s 2010 results. “We identified a certain number of big
risks that I won’t detail and that are part of the ongoing
discussions. Italy is a strategic market.”  EDF executives today declined to give the breakdown of a
provision of 915 million euros ($1.24 billion) made in 2010
results due to lower natural gas margins and overcapacity in the
market. The French utility reported a 74 percent slump in 2010
earnings on the Italian provision as well as one for operations
in the U.S., where power prices have fallen due to increased
production of unconventional gas.  Edison has said 2010 earnings fell and 2011 profit may be
hurt if long-term gas-contract negotiations fail. The utility is
due to publish results next month.  Edison’s “delay in publishing accounts was due to a lack
of visibility,” Thomas Piquemal, EDF’s chief financial officer,
said today. “At EDF when we lack visibility we make provisions.
This doesn’t anticipate anything about what the board of
directors of Edison will decide in March.”  EDF controls about 50 percent of Edison. A2A,  Italy ’s
largest municipal utility, owns 51 percent of the holding
company Delmi Spa, which jointly owns Transalpina di Energia Srl
with EDF. Transalpina has 61.2 percent of Edison. Carlo Tassara
SpA, the holding company of financier Romain Zaleski, owns a
stake of about 10 percent. The companies control Edison through
an agreement that expires in September 2011 and must be renewed
six months in advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tara Patel at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net  