-- 
Medvedev Seeks Berlusconi’s Support for Energy, Jets

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-02-16T17:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/medvedev-to-seek-support-for-aerospace-energy-projects-in-italy.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
arrived in Italy today seeking the support of Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi for cooperation on energy projects and a new
regional aircraft.  Medvedev will be in  Rome  for two days. He will discuss
cooperation in energy, which accounts for 90 percent of Russia’s
exports to Italy, his foreign-policy aide,  Sergei Prikhodko ,
told reporters at the Kremlin yesterday.  Russia  is also counting
on Italy’s help to promote its SuperJet plane to new customers
including Alitalia SpA, Prikhodko said.  “Italy needs Russian gas and oil, which amount to about
one-third of our consumption,” Berlusconi, standing next to
Medvedev, told a news conference in Rome. “We have a strong
relationship at the political level.”  During Medvedev’s visit, OAO Gazprom Neft, the oil arm of
natural-gas exporter OAO Gazprom, will sign an agreement to
enter  Eni SpA ’s Elephant oil project in  Libya , Prikhodko said.
Gazprom plans to buy a 33.3 percent stake, half of Eni’s current
holding, for $163 million, the Russian company said in November
in a Eurobond prospectus that estimated the oil resources of the
project at 212 million tons.  Developing Ties  Gazprom Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  and his Eni
counterpart,  Paolo Scaroni , will also discuss progress on their
joint South Stream natural-gas pipeline project, which will pass
under the Black Sea.  “We’d like to further develop our ties in the sphere of
gas trade and other energy products, including nuclear energy,”
Medvedev told reporters in Rome, where he opened the year of
Russian culture and language in Italy. He’s due to meet with
Pope Benedict XVI tomorrow.  Russia’s Sukhoi Civil Aircraft Co., meanwhile, is in
negotiations to sell its SuperJet to Alitalia. The plane,
Russia’s first major passenger aircraft since the  Soviet Union 
collapsed in 1991, is due to receive its European certification
by year-end. Italy’s Alenia Aeronautica SpA holds 25 percent in
the Sukhoi unit that makes the SuperJet.  Alitalia has an agreement to operate 20 jets made by  Embraer SA , the world’s fourth-largest airplane maker, said a
press officer at the Brazilian company who declined to be named,
citing company policy.  Alitalia’s Interest  “We hope Alitalia hasn’t lost interest in this jet, and it
will only increase after its certification process is
complete,” Prikhodko said, adding that Medvedev will raise the
issue during talks with Berlusconi.  Vnesheconombank, Russia’s development bank, will sign a
cooperation agreement with Italian state lender Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti. The accord will focus on financing long-term projects
in infrastructure, energy and the environment, VEB Chairman
Vladimir Dmitriev told reporters in Rome. He gave no details.  Russia and Italy will also sign an agreement on the transit
of weapons, ammunition and military personnel through Russian
airspace to  Afghanistan , Prikhodko said.  Medvedev’s visit comes after Berlusconi yesterday was
ordered to stand trial on charges of abuse of power and paying a
minor for sex, fueling calls for his resignation amid a clash
with the  Italy ’s judiciary. The trial is due to begin April 6.  The premier, who has denied any wrongdoing, has called the
charges “disgusting” and “groundless.” A conviction on both
counts could carry a maximum sentence of 15 years, though it’s
unlikely Berlusconi, 74, would be jailed, given his age and the
probability he could run out the statute of limitations during
the appeals process.  The Milan court is investigating Berlusconi’s relationship
with Karima El Mahroug, a Moroccan national and part-time
nightclub performer nicknamed Ruby Heart Stealer, who attended
at least one party at his Milan mansion in February 2010 when
she was 17. The allegations of abuse of power stem from his role
in helping secure her release from police custody in Milan after
she was detained in May on unrelated theft charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  