-- 
Egypt's Foreign Minister Calls on Donors to Provide Economic Assistance

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-02-15T15:44:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/egypt-s-foreign-minister-calls-on-donors-to-provide-economic-assistance.html
Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit called on the international community to offer
support for the economy, saying it “has been greatly affected
by the political crisis that has rocked the country.”  The protests that culminated in the Feb. 11 ouster of the
former president,  Hosni Mubarak , have led businesses to shut
down, scared off tourists and pushed up  Egypt ’s borrowing costs.
The Mubarak-appointed government, now running the country under
military oversight pending elections, is forecasting slower
growth. It has promised a stimulus plan to address the economic
complaints of the demonstrators, such as high unemployment.  Egypt’s finance minister, Samir Radwan, said yesterday the
country’s budget deficit will widen to about 8.4 percent -- less
than some analysts forecast -- as spending increases and
economic growth slows after Mubarak’s fall. The  Institute of
International Finance  in  Washington  predicts the budget gap will
be 9.5 percent of gross domestic product, rather than the 7.9
percent previously forecast by the government.  The turmoil has cost the nation about $1.5 billion of
tourism revenue, according to Central Bank Governor Farouk El- Okdah. It has also forced companies to close and sent the
currency skidding to a six-year low. Before Mubarak’s
resignation, the benchmark EGX30 Index tumbled 16 percent in one
week. The bourse has been closed since Jan. 27.  Economic Growth  Aboul Gheit said U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
as well as British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  and Saudi
Foreign Minister Faisal bin Abdulaziz bin Faisal al-Saud were
among the officials who have called him to discuss support and
developments in the country, according to a statement posted on
the ministry’s website late yesterday.  Clinton also spoke today by telephone with Prime Minister
Ahmed Shafik, the State Department said.  The Institute of International Finance cut its forecast for
Egyptian economic growth in this fiscal year to 1.5 percent from
6.1 percent, it said Feb. 4. The North African country’s economy
lost $310 million a day during the unrest, according to Radwan.  Aid “should be priority No. 1 now,” Sherif El-Halwagy,
Cairo-based director of public investments at Ace & Co.
investment group, said today in a telephone interview. “This
democracy, in its infancy, needs to be stabilized and one way to
do that is through economic support.” Ace, based in Geneva, is
a closely held investment group specializing in structuring
public and private investments and in participating in them.  Constitution Committee  The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces formed a committee
to amend the constitution and gave it 10 days to submit its
proposed amendments, according to state television. The
committee is headed by former Judge Tarek el-Bishry.  “We are optimistic about this committee,” Mohamed Morsey,
spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood, said in a telephone
interview today.  The Muslim Brotherhood will seek to form a party “at the
nearest possible opportunity,” Morsey said. Sobhi Saleh, a
member of the Brotherhood and a former parliamentarian, is a
member of the committee, Morsey said.  Several members of the military Supreme Council met today
with the heads of Egyptian newspapers and magazines and
“stressed the legitimacy of the demands of the protesters,” the
state-run Middle East News Agency said. Members emphasized the
need for police to return to the streets, MENA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 