-- 
Egypt Bourse Weighs Canceling 14% Drop in EGX 100 Amid Protests

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-02-16T10:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/egypt-bourse-weighs-canceling-14-drop-in-egx-100-amid-protests.html
Egyptian regulators, confronted by
investors angry about stock losses and a closed exchange, said
they will weigh the cancellation of transactions that led to the
biggest tumble in the EGX 100 Index in more than two years.  Bourse chairman Khaled Seyam said the exchange won’t cancel
Jan. 27 transactions because the move would be “illegal,”  Al
Arabiya  television reported today.  Individual equity holders, who accounted for 48 percent of
all trading on the Egyptian Exchange last year, jammed into a
meeting in Cairo with bourse Vice Chairman Mohamed Farid Saleh
yesterday, demanding changes in regulation and management before
the market resumes operations Feb. 20. The exchange shut after
the EGX 100 plunged 14 percent on Jan. 27. Al Arabiya also
reported the exchange won’t open Feb. 20.  Egyptian shares have since climbed in  London  and the U.S.
as President  Hosni Mubarak  bowed to protesters seeking his
resignation last week and ceded power to the military after 30
years in office. Bourse officials said they are studying
scrapping transactions from the last day of trading and will
delay the planned opening for at least a third time. Unexpected
developments could put trading off even longer, Saleh said.  “I’m surprised to hear they may be canceling some of the
trades, which happened in an abnormal environment for the
country but a pretty normal environment for the stock
exchange,” said Sven Richter, managing director and head of
frontier markets at Renaissance Asset Managers in London, which
oversees more than $2 billion, including investments in  Egypt .
“I would prefer those trades stayed in place and that they
opened the stock exchange as soon as possible. There are people
waiting to invest as soon as the market opens.”  Trading Halts  The bourse yesterday said it won’t be possible to cancel
the Jan. 26 session, when the EGX 100 declined 9.1 percent, as
trading for that day has already been settled, whereas that of
Jan. 27 hasn’t.  The Egyptian Exchange plans to open on Feb. 20 and will
halt trading for 30 minutes should the  EGX 100 Index , which
includes all stocks in the benchmark EGX 30 Index, rise or fall
more than 5 percent, said Hisham Turk, a spokesman for the
bourse. The exchange will shut for the day if the gauge moves
more than 10 percent, he said. The EGX 100 closed at an eight-
month low of 884.79 on Jan. 27 on concern protests against
Mubarak’s rule would cripple economic growth.  James Angel, associate professor of finance at McDonough
School of Business at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , said
he’s never heard of an exchange invalidating three-week-old
trades.  ‘Risk’  U.S. exchanges canceled about 20,800 trades on May 6, when
a sale of futures contracts set off a chain of selling that bled
into stocks and sent the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  down as
much as 9.2 percent, according to an account of the day by
federal regulators. The annulled transactions amount to a
fraction of the volume on a typical trading day. Shares of
Citigroup Inc., one of the most-traded securities on U.S.
bourses, changed hands at least 177,000 times yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  If the cancelation isn’t done immediately, the exchange may
“wind up creating a lot of risk,” said  Jamie Selway , managing
director at  Investment Technology Group Inc . in  New York .  “If investors are driving this, there’s going to be
winners and losers, making an adjudication quickly and
transparently and getting it decided as quickly as you can,
that’s really of paramount importance,” he said.  Investor Demands  At yesterday’s meeting in Cairo, investors argued with
exchange officials, some demanding the trading suspension
continue and others asking that the market open conditionally.
They sought the suspension of trading of 13 companies associated
with Mubarak’s regime, including Cairo-based Ezz Steel, Egypt’s
biggest producer of the metal, and suggested more regulation to
prevent  insider trading  and improve disclosure. They also called
for new management at the bourse and securities regulator, the
Egyptian Financial Services Authority.  In addition to  Ezz Steel , investors are demanding the
suspension of Ezz Aldekhela Steel Co. and Ezz Ceramics &
Porcelain Tiles Co., all of which are affiliated to varying
degrees with Ahmed Ezz, a high-ranking member of Mubarak’s
former ruling party now facing a corruption investigation by the
country’s public prosecutor. Ahmed El Maghraby, former housing
minister and a shareholder of property developer Palm Hills
Developments SAE, is also under investigation. Talaat Moustafa
Group Holding may face fresh challenges to its biggest land
acquisition after the previous government bypassed a court
ruling annulling the transaction.  ‘Black Box’  “The bourse is a black box that still hasn’t been
opened,” said Ashraf Khairy, who added he holds 2.4 million
Egyptian pounds ($408,302) in stocks and is 400,000 pounds in
debt. “We cannot trust those who presided over the corruption
to implement reforms.”  Global depositary receipts of Orascom Construction
Industries, the Egypt’s biggest publicly traded builder, lost
2.5 percent to $38.50 at 10:02 a.m. in London and is up 2.3
percent since Jan. 27. GDRs of Commercial International Bank
Egypts SAE, the country’s biggest publicly traded bank, slid 4.1
percent to $6.03, bringing the loss since Jan. 27 to 4 percent.
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the nation’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank, fell 5.1 percent to $8.45 and is down 6
percent.  The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF , a U.S.-listed exchange-
traded fund that holds Egyptian shares, has climbed 13 percent
since Jan. 27. The fund, which changes hands throughout the day
like a stock, dropped 2.1 percent yesterday.  Dollar Bonds  The yield on Egypt’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2020 was
little changed at 6.57 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Five-year credit-default swaps on the nation’s debt
rose 4.6 basis points to 341.3 from the London close. That is
down from 432.48 on Jan. 28, the day after the exchange closed.
The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Hurting Investors’  EFG-Hermes Holding reduced its recommendation on six
Egyptian companies yesterday, including Ezz Steel, on concern
earnings may be hurt by the political changes.  Ezz, whose shares tumbled 19 percent to 15.93 pounds in the
week ended Jan. 27, was lowered to “sell” at EFG with a 12-
month price estimate of 13.9 pounds and Cairo-based  Egyptian
Resorts Co ., a developer, was cut to “sell” with a price
estimate of 1.4 pounds.  Ghabbour Auto , Credit Agricole Egypt
SAE,  National Societe Generale Bank SAE  and Paints & Chemical
Industry Co. also had their recommendations reduced.  “The suspension is hurting investors more than it’s
helping them, the bourse needs to face the reopening problem in
order to get on with business,” said Mohsin Adel, managing
director at Cairo-based Pioneer Funds, where he helps oversee
500 million Egyptian pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  