-- 
Egypt Generals Running Child Care Means Transition Profit Motive

-- B y   C a m   S i m p s o n   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-02-15T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/egypt-generals-running-day-care-adds-profit-motive-to-political-transition.html
The Egyptian military, which
promises to steer the nation to a new democratic future after
the resignation of President  Hosni Mubarak , has its own economic
interests to protect as well.  The armed forces have a substantial stake in the civilian
economy through a host of government-owned service and
manufacturing companies, at least 14 of them under the auspices
of the Ministry of Military Production. Their  websites  list
product lines that include civilian goods.  Military-run companies are in such businesses as janitorial
services, household appliances, pest control and catering.  El
Nasr Company for Services and Maintenance , for instance, has
7,750 employees in such sectors as  child care , automobile repair
and hotel administration, according to its website. Other
military companies produce small arms, tank shells and
explosives -- as well as exercise equipment and fire engines.  These companies add up to “a very large, unaccountable,
non-transparent ‘Military Inc.,’” said Robert Springborg, a
professor in the department of national security affairs at the
Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey,  California , and author of
“Mubarak’s Egypt: Fragmentation of the Political Order.”  The generals “will try to massage the new order so that it
does not seek to impose civilian control on the armed forces,”
he said. “It’s not just a question of preserving the
institution of the Army. It’s a question of preserving the
financial base of its members.”  Interim Authority  Mubarak on Feb. 11 answered 18 days of protests involving
hundreds of thousands of Egyptians by relinquishing his 30-year
hold on the nation’s presidency, handing interim authority to
Egypt’s Supreme Council of the Armed Forces.  The council dissolved parliament two days later and
suspended the constitution, saying it will rule for six months
or until elections are held. The body said on Feb. 12 that it
intends to lead the nation through a democratic transition.
Mubarak, like  Egypt ’s three other leaders since the 1952
revolution, came to power from a career in the military.  As much as one-third of Egypt’s economy is under military
control, said Joshua Stacher, an Egyptian-military expert and
assistant  professor  at Kent State University in  Ohio  whose work
has been published in five academic journals. Revenues from
military companies are a state secret, along with the armed-
forces budget, he said.  Making Arms  It isn’t uncommon for governments and militaries to own or
run their own defense-related industries and arms makers. In
 Singapore  and  Israel , for example, nationalized production of
fighting hardware has been seen as a way to protect national
security by avoiding dependence on foreign producers.  What sets apart the Egyptian military, the Arab world’s
largest, is that its companies also offer an array of products
or services in the domestic consumer economy -- and without
civilian oversight.  The latest assessment of defense production and military
companies in Egypt from defense-information firm  IHS Jane’s  in  London , and a 1998 report produced by the U.S. embassy’s
commercial affairs section in Cairo, list three military-owned
firms that sell to both armed forces and the public.  One is El Nasr Company for Services and Maintenance, which
operates under the brand “Queen Service.” It has at least 18
service businesses, including child care centers, according to
its website.  General Ahmed El-Banna, general manager of El Nasr, said in
a telephone interview that the military owns 75 percent of the
company while the rest is held by a group of shareholders made
up of retired officers. Families of retired officers can inherit
shares after the principals die, El-Banna said.  Medical Gases  Two other consumer companies were named by the reports: El
Nasr Company for Intermediate Chemicals, whose  website  says it
produces chemicals, fertilizers, industrial and medical gases
and household pesticides, and Arab International Optronics, a
lens and advanced-optical maker.  No one answered the phone at Arab International Optronics
and the number given by telephone information for El Nasr
Company for Intermediate Chemicals didn’t answer.  The  Ministry for Military Production  lists on its website
more than a dozen “military production companies,” including Abu
Zaabal Co. for Engineering Industries, Benha Co. for Electronic
Industries and Maadi Co. for Engineering Industries. Abu Zaabal
was established to secure the armed forces’ artillery needs,
according to the website. It also produces water and fuel tanks.  Bench Presses  Maadi  makes parts for medical and agricultural equipment as
well as home appliances, radiators and exercise equipment,
including bench and leg presses. Benha owns factories and
produces telecommunication equipment, microwaves and personal
computers. Egyptian Tank Plant makes  red fire-fighting vehicles .  In a 2008 cable signed by U.S. Ambassador Margaret Scobey,
the embassy in Cairo told  Washington  that the Egyptian military
was “becoming a ‘quasi-commercial’ enterprise itself.” The
secret cable was dated September 2008 and was released last
December by WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that publishes
classified documents on its website.  Although the cable didn’t detail individual firms, it said
the embassy’s sources “told us that military-owned companies,
often run by retired generals, are particularly active in the
water, olive oil, cement, construction, hotel and gasoline
industries.”  The cable quoted one professor at a university whose name
was redacted speculating that the business ties helped ensure
“regime stability and security” by gaining armed-forces
cooperation.  Stifling Reform?  It also offered this view from embassy staff: “We see the
military’s role in the economy as a force that generally stifles
free market reform by increasing direct government involvement
in the markets.”  The armed forces’ business interests would be at risk if
demands for opening up the economy ran too deep, said Samer Shehata, an assistant professor at the Edmund A. Walsh School of
Foreign Service at  Georgetown University  in Washington, before
Mubarak stepped down. Born in Egypt, Shehata is the author of 
“Shop Floor Culture and Politics in Egypt.”  “The military as an institution, the high-ranking officer
corps, certainly has vested economic interests that could be
changed or could be put in jeopardy,” he said. “If the
military was completely removed from politics, then there is no
question that these interests would be put in jeopardy.”  Defense Aid  Egypt’s 1979 peace treaty with  Israel  has brought the
country an average of about $2 billion per year in economic and
military aid. About $1.3 billion is designated for defense,
according to reports from the U.S. Congressional Research
Service and the  Government Accountability Office . The armed
forces council says all international treaties will be honored.  El Nasr Company for Services and Maintenance is one of
those benefitting from the nation’s close relationship with U.S.
armed forces. El-Banna said it provides food services and
accommodations for visiting U.S. personnel during operation
Bright Star, a massive joint combat exercise held in Egypt every
two years. Personnel from  France ,  Germany ,  Greece ,  Italy ,
Jordan,  Kuwait ,  Pakistan  and  Turkey  also participate.  Military companies play a significant role in consumer food
production, said Springborg, the Naval Postgraduate School
professor.  Because the Egyptian military wanted to be self-sufficient 
in meeting the dietary needs of personnel, it runs “chicken 
farms, dairy farms, horticultural operations. And it of course 
has its own bakeries,” he said.  The military’s “business interests are very large,” said
Bassma Kodmani, executive director of the Paris-based  Arab
Reform Initiative  and a senior adviser at the French National
Research Council. Those businesses, though, help build the
nation and help keep capital within its borders.  “The army is not seen as corrupt,” she told a group of
reporters in Paris last week. “It might seem strange to people
in the west, but in Egypt it’s not considered shocking that the
army builds highways or new housing projects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cam Simpson in London at 
 csimpson13@bloomberg.net 
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 