-- 
Drugmakers Create Mobile Phone Apps to Track Diabetes, Cancer

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-02-15T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/merck-novartis-invest-in-mobile-phone-apps-to-track-diabetes-cancer.html
Drugmakers led by Merck & Co. and  Novartis AG  boosted investments in mobile phone applications and
educational websites by 78 percent to get patients to take their
drugs, eat right and exercise, an  Ernst & Young  report found.  Pharmaceutical companies initiated 97 projects last year
aimed at using information technologies to improve patient
health, according to the report by the New York-based consulting
firm, which relied on analyst reports and press releases to
reach its tally. That compares with 124 projects started in the
four prior years combined. About 41 percent of the projects were
smartphone applications, an increase from 11 percent since 2006.  Government-run health plans are pressuring drugmakers to
prove their products are worth the prices charged, so companies
are taking a greater role in making sure patients succeed with
treatments.  France ’s 2011 budget reduced drug spending by 560
million euros ($755 million), mostly by cutting medications with
marginal benefits, researchers said. The U.K. plans to set drug
payments to match product benefits beginning in 2014.  “Pharma can’t exist the way they have existed; what is
surprising is the pace of change,” said Carolyn Buck Luce,
Ernst & Young’s global pharmaceutical leader, in a telephone
interview. “The next big change in health outcomes is
behavioral change, where medicines play an important part but
not the only part.”  The report didn’t include the amount of money drugmakers
invested in such projects.  Changing Technology  Health information is changing the ways drugmakers develop
medicines and communicate with doctors, insurers and patients,
the report said. Information from patient records is helping
companies design more cost-effective clinical trials and tailor
marketing materials to the people who most need them. For
example, mobile phone software can help patients find clinical
trials for cancer or track blood-sugar levels.  Investments by drugmakers are falling behind non-
pharmaceutical companies, including Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co ., Vancouver-based  Telus Corp ., Canada’s
third-largest wireless carrier, and  International Business
Machines Corp ., based in Armonk, New York, which have committed
to spending at least $20 billion on health-related information
services, according to Ernst & Young. Pharmaceutical companies
have invested “a small fraction of that,” Luce said. Over the
next decade, monitoring patient care and proving results will be
an increasing part of their business, she said.  Applications created for  Apple Inc .’s iPhone include a
German language DiabetesMapp, which helps patients map
specialists nearby, by Abbott Park, Illinois-based  Abbott
Laboratories ; Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck’s Vree
for diabetes education and tracking of blood glucose, nutrition,
and activity; and Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis’s VaxTrak to
keep records of vaccinations.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 