-- 
Merkel Adviser Weidmann Said to Be Bundesbank Frontrunner to Replace Weber

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-15T11:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/merkel-adviser-weidmann-said-to-be-bundesbank-frontrunner.html
Jens Weidmann, the chief economic
adviser to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , is emerging as the
frontrunner to be appointed president of the Bundesbank, said
two people with knowledge of the discussions.  Weidmann faces no significant opposition within the
coalition to his nomination as the government’s replacement for
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are confidential.  Senior members of Merkel’s coalition may settle on Weidmann
as soon as today, said one of the people. An announcement may
not be made until later this week, the person said. Weidmann
will be nominated to the post from April 1 in an announcement to
be made tomorrow after Merkel’s Cabinet meets, Bild newspaper
reported today, citing unnamed government officials.  Weidmann, 42, who helped guide Merkel’s policy through the
financial, economic and euro-area debt crises, is emerging as  Germany ’s next central bank chief after Weber’s resignation on
Feb. 11. Weber, by announcing his intention to stand down on
April 30, also took himself out of the race to succeed Jean- Claude Trichet as European Central Bank president.  Appointing Weidmann to the Bundesbank may send a signal
“that Berlin was not pushing for a German candidate to become
ECB President from 1 November,” Julian Callow, chief European
economist at  Barclays Capital , said in a note to clients.  Economists including Citigroup Inc.’s Juergen Michels have
speculated that  Juergen Stark , 62, a German who is currently in
charge of the ECB’s economics department, may also be in the
running for the Bundesbank nomination.  Stark “would be an unusual choice since he has only three
years left on the executive board” of the ECB, said  Erik Nielsen , chief European economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
“If Weidmann gets the Bundesbank job, then I think the odds for
the ECB job move towards a non-German.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  