-- 
Merkel's Economic Aide Weidmann May Be Picked as Youngest Bundesbank Chief

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-15T23:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/merkel-s-economic-aide-weidmann-may-be-picked-as-youngest-bundesbank-chief.html
Jens Weidmann, the chief economic
adviser to  Chancellor Angela Merkel , may be picked as early as
today to become the youngest president of  Germany ’s central bank
in its 53-year history.  Merkel is due to convene her Cabinet ministers at 9:30 a.m.
in Berlin for the first time since Axel Weber’s resignation as
Bundesbank chief on Feb. 11. Caught off guard and robbed of her
candidate to succeed European Central Bank head  Jean-Claude Trichet  when his term expires in October, Merkel was left to
seek nominees for both posts.  “If Weidmann gets the Bundesbank job, then I think the
odds for the ECB job move towards a non-German,” said Erik Nielsen, chief European economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Weidmann, 42, has Merkel’s backing for the Bundesbank post
and faces no significant opposition from within her coalition,
according to two people with knowledge of the discussions who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are
confidential. Merkel’s office has said she will nominate a
Bundesbank president this week to replace Weber when he leaves
on April 30.  An economist and former Bundesbank analyst, Weidmann helped
guide Merkel’s policy through the financial, economic and euro-
area debt crises since becoming her chief economic adviser in
2006 at Weber’s recommendation. He emerged as frontrunner to
head the Frankfurt-based German central bank as soon as Weber
resigned.  Tapping Weidmann may allow Merkel to place her confidant on
the ECB’s executive board, which runs the day-to-day affairs of
the institution that sets monetary policy for the 17 euro
countries.  EU Bargain  Weber, who publicly criticized the ECB for buying bonds of
euro-area countries to fight the crisis, dropped out just as
Merkel seeks a bargain in the European Union that locks in
tighter fiscal discipline and coordination on policies such as
taxes and retirement in return for expanded pledges of aid to
debt-strapped governments.  EU leaders are due to meet twice in March to complete a
“comprehensive package” that Merkel says will help put the
euro on a stable footing after Greece and Ireland required
bailouts last year.  As polls show most Germans disapprove of more aid, she
faces  elections  in seven of 16 states this year, starting Feb.
20 in Hamburg. State votes determine the makeup of the German
parliament’s upper house, where Merkel already lacks a majority.  Backing Weidmann to move from government to the Bundesbank
will expose Merkel to dissatisfaction among members of her
coalition concerned about the central bank’s independence from
political influence.  ‘Think Again’  “Merkel should think again whether there’s another
candidate of the same caliber who would more credibly represent
the bank’s long, feisty tradition of independence,”  Frank Schaeffler , a lawmaker for the Free Democratic Party, a Merkel
coalition ally, said in a phone interview. “The reputation of
the bank must not be compromised.”  Economists including Citigroup Inc.’s Juergen Michels have
speculated that  Juergen Stark , 62, who is currently in charge of
the ECB’s economics department, may also be in the running for
the Bundesbank nomination.  Stark “would be an unusual choice since he has only three
years left on the executive board” of the ECB, said Nielsen at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Appointing Weidmann to the Bundesbank may signal “that
Berlin was not pushing for a German candidate to become ECB
President” on Nov. 1,  Julian Callow , chief European economist
at  Barclays Capital , said in a note to clients.  Schroeder’s Choice  Weber, 53, previously the youngest Bundesbank chief, was a
surprise choice when then-Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder named him
to replace Ernst Welteke after two decades in academia and a
stint as one of the government’s economic advisers. He will
return to his professorship at Cologne University by the end of
this year, Bundesbank spokesman Benedikt Fehr said on Feb. 12.  Weber said a lack of “acceptance” among euro-area leaders
for his monetary policy views caused him to give up on becoming
the next ECB chief, according to an interview in  Der Spiegel 
published Feb. 12. He suggested Weidmann would make a good
replacement, calling him an “absolute professional” and
“excellent economist,” the German weekly said.  “He would live and breathe his new job from day one in any
capacity,” said Weber.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  