-- 
EU Lawmakers Back Plans to Establish Patent System

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-02-15T13:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/eu-lawmakers-back-compromise-plans-to-establish-patent-system.html
European Union lawmakers approved
plans to create the first region-wide patent system that leaves
the door open for opponents Italy and  Spain  to join at a later
stage.  The European Parliament meeting in Strasbourg,  France ,
today adopted the proposal, allowing supporters of the plan to
press ahead without the full support of all the EU’s 27 nations.  “For far too long EU inventors and innovative companies
have faced a significant competitive disadvantage compared to
their global rivals,” Malcolm Harbour, a U.K. Conservative
lawmaker who chairs the assembly’s internal market committee,
said in an e-mailed statement. “As  China  is now a major
patenting power, it’s time we took action.”  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, proposed
the compromise deal after governments failed to break a deadlock
on what languages should be legally binding. Under the current
system, companies can end up paying 18,000 euros ($24,300),
including 10,000 euros for translating a patent valid in only 13
countries, the Brussels-based commission has said.  “This is a proposal that is politically acceptable and
economically necessary,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s internal-
market commissioner, said in an e-mailed statement after today’s
vote. “This will mean that a single patent protection will be
available to all companies in the EU, whatever member nation
they’re based in.”  Barnier, who called  Europe ’s existing patent system an
“unacceptable reality,” said he’s hopeful all countries will
eventually join the patent system.  Bundle of Patents  The closest thing to an EU-wide patent is for companies to
file an application with the  European Patent Office , which isn’t
part of the EU and has 38 member countries. The patent then
breaks up into a bundle of patents which companies must defend
in each individual country.  Attempts to reach an agreement on a region-wide EU patent
since 2000 have  faltered  over the language issues. The EU has 23
official languages and numerous compromise proposals have failed
to satisfy political demands or risked increasing translation
costs for companies.  The plans approved by lawmakers today need the approval of
EU ministers at a forthcoming meeting. The commission can then
draft laws setting up the new system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 