-- 
EU’s Barroso Calls Permanent Debt-Crisis Plan ‘Indispensable’

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-02-15T15:42:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/eu-s-barroso-calls-permanent-debt-crisis-plan-indispensable-.html
European Commission President Jose Barroso called the euro area’s plan to create a permanent debt-
crisis mechanism “indispensable” for financial stability in  Europe .  He commented after the commission, the European Union’s
executive arm, issued a favorable opinion of the decision by EU
government leaders in December to amend the bloc’s treaty to
establish a European Stability Mechanism in 2013 for countries
that share the euro.  “This is an indispensable decision in order to confirm our
determination to defend our common currency and to guarantee
financial stability,” Barroso told the European Parliament
today in Strasbourg, France. “The necessary conditions are in
place to carry out a simplified revision of the treaty.”  The planned ESM will replace the EU financial backstop set
up with the  International Monetary Fund  for three years last May
after a 110 billion-euro ($149 billion) loan package for  Greece 
failed to prevent increases in the borrowing costs of other
high-deficit euro nations. The main pillar of the current 750
billion-euro system is the  European Financial Stability
Facility , which can sell bonds backed by 440 billion euros in
national guarantees and use the money for rescue loans.  European finance ministers decided yesterday in Brussels
that the ESM will be able to lend 500 billion euros. That’s
twice the amount of the EFSF, whose need for buffers to secure a
AAA credit rating limits the facility’s total lending capacity to
around 250 billion euros.  Financial Assistance  The ESM-related  treaty addition  approved by EU government
heads two months ago reads: “The Member States whose currency
is the euro may establish a stability mechanism to be activated
if indispensable to safeguard the stability of the euro area as
a whole. The granting of any required financial assistance under
the mechanism will be made subject to strict conditionality.”  In addition to the verdict from the commission, a non-
binding opinion from the EU Parliament is needed before the
treaty change can go ahead. EU government heads intend to
approve the ESM in late March as part of a “comprehensive”
package of crisis-management measures including bolstering the
temporary backstop and strengthening the enforcement of budget-
deficit limits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France , at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  