-- 
Phone Operators Warn Against Apple, Google Dominance

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-02-15T16:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/european-phone-operators-warn-against-apple-google-dominance.html
European phone operators said
Internet companies such as  Google Inc . shouldn’t be allowed to
dominate content services and that platforms must be kept open
for all companies.  Regulators are willing to step in for the sake of openness,  Vodafone Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao said
today at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Mobile carriers
are returning to the idea of open platforms for Internet
applications after previously being criticised for operating
“walled gardens,” he said.  “We are here making the case for openness,” Colao said.
“We welcome the importance of avoiding dominance in any step in
the value chain.”  Mobile-phone operators are trying to cope with the
investment in high-speed networks to support the soaring growth
in data services, including film and music downloads, offered by
companies such as  Apple Inc . and Google. Some carriers are
demanding part of the revenue gained by content providers as
fees for network use.  Google’s Android operating system is the most popular
smartphone platform, according to analysis of shipments by
research firm IDC. Android is forecast to gain as much as 60
percent of the markets for smartphones and more basic phones in
three to four years, according to IDC.  Application Platform  Operators including Vodafone,  Telefonica SA  and  AT&T Inc .
are working to produce an Internet applications platform for
developers. The platform, which would be available across all
networks is designed to counter the popularity of Apple’s
application store and Google’s Android marketplace. The group
has 12,000 applications currently available.  With Apple seeking to control application billing,
operators are trying to avoid “closed systems,” Colao said.
“It’s a bit ironic we have to raise this point, when operators
are being accused of a being a walled garden.”  Content providers such as Google are “invading our turf,”  Telecom Italia SpA  CEO Franco Bernabe said today.  Phone operators currently get almost none of the revenue
within what consulting firm Booz & Co. estimates will be a $40
billion market for mobile games, entertainment, and workplace
tools by 2014.  Telefonica CEO Cesar Alierta today called for a new deal
with content providers. “A new engagement with content
providers is needed to deliver content with quality
requirements,” he said. Regulators should allow operators to
recover the costs of network investment, he said.  In January, European Union antitrust regulators said they
asked competitors and advertisers about Google’s conduct in a
probe into its search rankings.  Google is being investigated by the European Commission
over claims it discriminated against competing services in its
search results and for stopping some websites from accepting
rival ads.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Barcelona at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  