-- 
Europe Economy Expands Less Than Economists Forecast

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-02-15T14:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/europe-s-economy-expands-less-than-forecast-as-cold-weather-limits-output.html
  Europe ’s economy expanded less than
economists forecast in the fourth quarter as cold weather curbed
German output and French growth unexpectedly stalled.  Gross domestic product in the euro region rose 0.3 percent
from the previous three months, when it increased at the same
rate, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said
today. Economists had forecast the economy to expand 0.4
percent, the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Exports fell 0.4 percent in December from the previous
month, a separate report showed today.  Companies have relied on faster-growing markets to boost
sales as governments from  Spain  to  Greece  toughened budget cuts,
undermining consumer demand.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest luxury-car maker, this month forecast a
“significant” sales increase in the first half and German
investor confidence rose for a fourth month in February,
suggesting the recovery is gathering strength.  “Weaker growth is no reason for concern because it was
mainly to special factors such as bad weather,” said Alexander Krueger, head of capital market analysis at Bankhaus Lampe KG in
Dusseldorf.   Germany  will remain the role model, while other
countries will have slightly weaker growth.”  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.3521 at 3:18 p.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.2
percent on the day.  ‘Solid Growth’  In 2010, euro-region GDP rose 1.7 percent, today’s report
showed. German GDP rose 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter from
the previous three months, when it increased 0.7 percent, as
unusually cold temperatures hurt construction output.  France ’s
economy maintained its pace, growing 0.3 percent. In Italy, GDP
rose 0.1 percent while Finland’s economy grew 2.5 percent.  In Greece and Portugal, the economies contracted from the
previous three months, today’s report showed. The statistics
office didn’t provide figures for Ireland.  “Overall, these figures show solid growth,” EU Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said at a press
conference in Brussels today. “Economic growth is continuing
but it’s somewhat softening as we expected.”  Reviving exports have boosted the region’s expansion as
budget cuts and the highest unemployment in more than 12 years
prompted consumers to cut spending. The  International Monetary
Fund  raised its global economic forecast on Jan. 25 and
projected  China’s economy  will expand 9.6 percent and Indian GDP
will increase 8.4 percent. Euro-area GDP may rise 1.5 percent,
the Washington-based fund said.  ‘More Vigorous’  “We consider the economic recovery becoming more vigorous
and more self-reliant,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said at a briefing in Brussels late yesterday after
chairing a meeting of euro-region finance ministers. “Growth
has surprised upwards and prospects remain encouraging.”  The trade report showed that shipments to the U.S. rose 18
percent in the 11 months through November from a year earlier.
Exports to the U.K., the region’s largest market, increased 12
percent, while sales to  China  and Russia surged 38 percent and
29 percent, respectively. Detailed data are published with a
one-month lag. The seasonally adjusted trade deficit was 2.3
billion euros ($3.1 billion) in December, down from 3.2 billion
euros.    Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s second-largest
chipmaker, on Feb. 1 raised its full-year sales forecast on
surging demand. Munich-based BMW expects “double-digit growth”
in markets including Brazil, while Europe “will be flat,”
Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on Feb. 3.  Two Decades  “There are still many problems in Europe in countries like
Spain,” Eichiner said. “What we are intending is not to be
heavily dependent on one market.”  From a year earlier, euro-area GDP rose 2 percent, up from
1.9 percent in the previous quarter, today’s report showed. The
statistics office will publish a detailed breakdown of the data
on March 3. Estonia joined the euro region this year, making it
17 countries sharing the currency.  Adding to signs the recovery is gathering strength, German
business confidence surged to a record last month and
unemployment dropped to the lowest in almost two decades.
European economic sentiment held near the highest in more than
three years, while the services and manufacturing industries
expanded at a faster pace in January.    LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA , the world’s largest
maker of  luxury goods , said on Feb. 4 that the outlook for 2011
is “excellent” after the Paris-based company reported full-
year profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Schaeffler Group , the
world’s second-biggest maker of roller bearings, said last month
that it may add about 5,000 workers this year to meet orders.  “Business surveys suggest that the economy made a good
start to 2011,” said  Nick Kounis , an economist at ABN Amro Bank
NV in Amsterdam. “It should remain supported by strong, albeit
moderating, global growth during the course of this year, as
well as a recovery in investment. Fiscal consolidation and
sluggish labor markets should weight on domestic demand, leaving
the overall economy growing at a moderate pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  