-- 
Yen Weakens Versus Euro, Dollar, Aussie on U.S. Optimism Ahead of Reports

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-02-15T09:38:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/euro-rises-on-speculation-europe-growth-quickened-aussie-gains-on-china.html
The yen weakened against most of its
major counterparts before reports that are forecast to show a
strengthening U.S. economy, increasing the appeal of higher-
yielding assets.  Australia’s dollar approached a nine-month high versus the
yen after  Reserve Bank  of Australia minutes showed policy makers
considered a “restrictive” policy stance was appropriate. The
spread between U.S. two-year note yields and similar-maturity
Japanese debt climbed to within one basis point of the most in
seven months.  “Strong data today, and the market is expecting some
strong data, will push dollar-yen even higher,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. U.S. two-year note “yields have been moving quite
sharply higher, and that’s the reason why we’re seeing dollar-
yen moving higher.”  Japan’s currency declined 0.3 percent to 83.56 per dollar
at 9:05 a.m. in London. The yen dropped 0.5 percent to 112.66
per euro. It reached 113.44 on Feb. 11, the weakest since Jan.
28. The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3516.  Retail sales probably increased in January for a seventh
month as post-holiday promotions lured U.S. shoppers, economists
said before today’s report. Other data may show the cost of
imported goods climbed and manufacturing in the New York region
grew at the fastest pace in eight months.  Two-year Treasury yields today approached the highest in
more than eight months after gaining 27 basis points this year.
The two-year yield was two basis points higher at 0.86 percent,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The equivalent Japanese bond
yield was at 0.24 percent. The spread is near the widest since
June 10.  Australian Dollar    Australia ’s dollar advanced 0.3 percent to 83.82 yen after
earlier touching 83.90 yen, the strongest since May 13.  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  said in minutes of its Feb. 1
meeting that a “slightly restrictive” policy stance was
appropriate as a resources boom boosts incomes.  The euro swung between gains and losses versus the dollar,
climbing 0.2 percent to $1.3517. The ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in Mannheim will say today its index of German
investor and analyst expectations climbed to 20 in February from
15.4 in January, a separate survey showed.  ZEW  “Maybe the euro-zone economy had a little less momentum
going into the end of year, but on the converse we’ll probably
see the ZEW continuing to suggest the German economy, if not the
overall economy is holding up pretty well,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London.  European governments agreed yesterday to double the lending
capacity of a rescue fund for debt-laden countries in 2013,
while seeing no need for immediate steps shield  Portugal  from
the fiscal crisis.  A report today showed German gross domestic product,
adjusted for seasonal effects, rose 0.4 percent from the third
quarter, when it increased 0.7 percent. Economists had forecast
the economy to expand 0.5 percent, the median of 39 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey shows.    France ’s economy also grew less than forecast as strikes
disrupted transport. Gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent
from the third quarter, statistics today showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 