-- 
Texas Attorney General Seeks Google Ad Rate Formula

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-02-15T22:02:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/texas-attorney-general-is-seeking-google-s-formula-for-ad-rates.html
Texas Attorney General  Gregg
Abbott’s office  has requested an array of information from  Google Inc ., including the firm’s formula for setting
advertising rates, according to a demand for documents by state
antitrust officials.  The antitrust investigators also are seeking Google
documents that show “manual overriding or altering of” search
result rankings, according to Texas’s civil investigative
demand. The order is similar to a subpoena, compelling a company
to turn over documents and make executives available for
interviews.  State investigators also want Google documents on rivals  Microsoft Corp .’s Bing and Yahoo! Inc. and complaints about
purchasing and placing an ad on Google, the world’s most popular
Internet search engine.    Mountain View , California-based Google said on Sept. 3 that
Abbott is looking into whether the company’s business practices
thwarted competition. The scope of the  Texas  investigation
previously hasn’t been disclosed publicly.  The new demand was made in a 13-page letter on July 29 from
Kim Van Winkle, assistant attorney general in Texas’s antitrust
division, to  Matthew Bye , a lawyer for Google.  Reluctant to Share  Google has been reluctant to share information on its
mathematical methods, known as algorithms, for running its
search engine. In her letter, Van Winkle focuses on getting
information for  AdWords , a program for running ads next to
search results.  “While there’s always going to be room for improvement,
we’re committed to competing fair and square,” Adam Kovacevich,
a Google spokesman, said in an e-mail in response to a request
for comment. “We’re continuing to work with the Texas attorney
general’s office to answer their questions and understand any
concerns.”  The Texas demand encompasses documents related to Google’s
shopping websites Froogle, Google Product Search and Google
Shopping.  The Texas probe is one of several antitrust investigations
involving Google. The  Justice Department  is close to deciding
whether to approve the company’s purchase of ITA Software Inc.,
a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company that provides airline
ticket information.  On Feb. 9, Attorney General Chris Koster of Missouri
offered to assist the Justice Department’s ITA probe.  European antitrust regulators started probing Google in
November for allegedly discriminating in its search results,
requiring exclusivity obligations with advertising partners and
abusing its dominant position by promoting its own services over
those of rivals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  