-- 
Fed's Lacker Says Inflation May Accelerate on Higher Costs for Health Care

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-02-15T19:50:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/fed-s-lacker-says-inflation-may-accelerate-on-higher-costs-for-health-care.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said U.S. inflation may accelerate in
the second half of 2011 as firms seek to recoup higher
commodities and health-care costs.  “Firms are looking to the second half to make up for some
of the margin squeeze,” Lacker said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .
“It is not a done deal that inflation will accelerate. But it
is this time in the recovery where the potential for inflation
accelerating is highest.”  Lacker, who is among Fed officials who have said the
central bank shouldn’t ease more than planned, said any effort
by the central bank to push unemployment down at a faster rate
in the short run could spark inflation. Last week he said policy
makers need to take “quite seriously” their commitment to
review the planned purchase of $600 billion in  Treasury
securities  through June, a program aimed at reducing 9 percent
unemployment and keeping inflation from slowing.  “So while the analysis in terms of what we can expect in a
couple of years in the expansion might be right on target, I am
not sure we can push unemployment that much further down or more
rapidly without risking inflation picking up,” Lacker  said in
a separate radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
Keene.  Lacker said in the TV interview he is “watching really
carefully” inflation reports and focused on when the central
bank should remove its record level of accommodation.  Timing and Pace  “I think we know what to do,” Lacker said. “We know how
to do it. The timing and the pace are the key swing variables.
Those are the things that are just really hard to get.”  The Richmond Fed chief said he’s focused on overall
inflation rather than core readings, which exclude food and
energy and have been lower. The consumer-price index rose 1.5
percent last year, while core prices climbed 0.8 percent.  “Overall inflation has trended above core for several
months now,” Lacker said in an interview at the Richmond Fed.
“If there is a divergence over time in those two, you have to
focus on overall.”  Lacker said anecdotal reports suggest that “firms think
they are going to have more pricing power in the second half of
the year.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month that
“inflation is expected to persist below the levels that Fed
policy makers have judged to be consistent” with their dual
mandate from Congress for stable prices and maximum employment.  Smallest Advance  The Commerce Department’s core personal consumption
expenditures price index excluding food and energy, rose 0.7
percent in December from a year earlier, the smallest advance
since records began in 1959.  Dallas Fed’s  Richard Fisher  has also expressed concern with
inflation, saying last week he may dissent against further
stimulus. Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  said in January the
current easing may need to be reconsidered.  Plosser and Fisher vote on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  this year, while Lacker votes next year as part of the
policy committee’s annual rotation.  Lacker said in December he was “not well disposed” to the
second round of bond purchases, asserting that the risks
exceeded the benefits. The Fed has said it will regularly review
the pace and size of its stimulus, dubbed QE2 by analysts and
investors.  Lacker, 55, dissented four times in 2006 in favor of higher  interest rates . The Richmond Fed district includes Virginia,  Maryland , the Carolinas, the  District of Columbia  and most of
West  Virginia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  