-- 
Tarullo Says Margin Rules Must Accommodate End-Users

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-02-15T19:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/fed-s-tarullo-says-swap-margin-rules-must-accommodate-end-users.html
U.S. regulators are working to
implement margin requirements for swap traders that take
“appropriate account” of firms that use derivatives to hedge
commercial risks, Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo said.  So-called end-users of swaps pose “relatively low systemic
risk,” Tarullo told lawmakers at a  House Financial Services
Committee  hearing today. The central bank “appreciates that
posting margin would impose costs on end users, possibly
inhibiting their ability to manage their risks,” he said.  Regulators are weighing whether to let banks set thresholds
for requiring margin in transactions with end-users, Tarullo
said. The thresholds would be based on credit exposure limits in
swap trades that aren’t guaranteed by clearinghouses, he said.  The Fed, the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  and the
Securities and Exchange Commission are required by the Dodd-
Frank Act to set capital and margin standards to reduce risk in
swaps markets. The financial-regulation law was enacted last
year in response to the 2008 credit crisis, which was partly
fueled by unregulated derivatives trading.  “Proposed rules on margin requirements should focus only
on transactions between financial entities rather than those
transactions that involve non-financial end-users,” CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said at the hearing.  Lawmakers have pushed regulators to exempt manufacturers
and commercial firms from the margin requirements to avoid
harming businesses recovering from the financial crisis.  Scarce Capital  Imposing margin requirements on end-users could result in
“draining scarce working capital from the balance sheets of
mainstream American companies,” a group of senators including
10 Republicans and 3 Democrats wrote in a Feb. 8 letter to
Gensler, SEC chairman  Mary Schapiro , Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  “It’s vital that the regulators who have been empowered
under Dodd-Frank continue to allow American businesses to manage
their risks and protect themselves against market volatility,”
Representative Patrick McHenry, a North Carolina Republican,
said at the hearing.  Derivatives, including swaps, are contracts tied to bonds,
currencies, stocks or events such as the default of a company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  