-- 
Fed’s Pianalto Says Jobs Recovery Remains ‘Anemic’

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-02-15T16:15:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/fed-s-pianalto-says-job-growth-during-recovery-remains-anemic-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said the recent drop in the
unemployment rate is not a sign of a rebounding job market.  “Unemployment rates have declined a bit recently, but  job
creation  remains anemic, as businesses have been cautious in
expanding their payrolls,” Pianalto said in a speech today in
Akron, Ohio.  “Simply put, it will take a long time to recover the many
millions of jobs we have lost,” Pianalto said at the annual
meeting of the Women’s Boards of Summa Health System.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  are waiting for further proof of a durable pickup in
the job market as they press forward with their plan to buy $600
billion in  Treasury securities  to boost the pace of recovery. In
its Jan. 26 statement, the committee said the recovery “has
been insufficient to bring about a significant improvement in
labor market conditions.”  The Labor Department said on Feb. 4 the economy added
36,000 jobs in January, less than expected. The unemployment
rate fell to 9 percent in January from 9.4 percent in December
and 9.8 percent in November. The unemployment rate has been at
or above 9 percent for 21 months.  “We are seeing signs that the overall economy is gradually
improving. Manufacturing continues to expand, export activity
has risen, and companies are investing in equipment again,”
Pianalto said.   Consumer spending  also finished on a positive
note last year.”  Less Than Forecast  Sales at U.S. retailers rose less than forecast in January,
depressed by a drop in demand at building material stores and
restaurants that may reflect the influence of harsh winter
weather. Purchases increased 0.3 percent, the smallest gain
since a drop in June and followed a 0.5 percent December gain
that was less than previously estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington .  “We are still facing some headwinds. In particular, the
housing market remains depressed, which weakens household
balance sheets,” Pianalto said. “I expect that the pace of
economic growth for this year will continue to be moderate.”  The economy will grow 3.2 percent in 2011, according to the
median of a Bloomberg Survey, as consumers emerge from the
recession with lower debt burdens.  “We appear to be entering a gradual convalescence, as
delinquencies begin to subside and some households begin to
expand their borrowing again,” New York Fed President  William Dudley  said in New York yesterday.  Reduced Debt  Consumer indebtedness totaled $11.4 trillion at the end of
December, down $155 billion, or 1.3 percent, from the end of
September, according to the  New York  Fed’s quarterly report on
household debt and credit, released yesterday. Consumers have
reduced about $1.08 trillion of their debt since the peak in the
third quarter of 2008.  Pianalto devoted a third of her speech to research at the
Cleveland Fed into income growth. “The two main drivers of
income growth in a region are education and innovation,” she
said. “States with a more educated workforce, and states with
high rates of innovation, saw their incomes grow significantly
faster over long periods of time.”  International competition has increased and the rate of
growth in skilled workers has slowed, Pianalto said, calling it
a “troublesome” trend.  “In the past, skilled workers had been relatively
insulated from this competition, but this is less true today.
The number of skilled workers in other countries who will
compete with workers in some middle- and higher-skilled
occupations in the  United States  is growing,” she said.  In response to audience questions, Pianalto said other
changes would help U.S. growth, “we can improve our regulatory
structure, we can improve our tax structure.”  She said the productivity of the workforce, driven by
innovation and education, was ultimately most important. “The
more productive your workforce is the more you’re going to
improve your standard of living,” she said.  Pianalto, 56, became president of the Cleveland Fed in
2003. She is not a voting member of the FOMC this year and has
never dissented from a FOMC decision. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Pianalto voting every other
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Akron,  Ohio  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  