-- 
Lacker Says Lowering Unemployment Risks Inflation: Tom Keene

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T h o m a s   R .   K e e n e
-- 
2011-02-15T16:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/fed-s-lacker-says-cutting-unemployment-risks-sparking-inflation-tom-keene.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said any effort by the central bank to
push unemployment down at a faster rate in the short run could
spark inflation.  “So while the analysis in terms of what we can expect in a
couple of years in the expansion might be right on target, I am
not sure we can push unemployment that much further down or more
rapidly without risking inflation picking up,” he said today in
a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Lacker is among Fed officials who have said they believe
the central bank shouldn’t ease more than planned. Policy makers
need to take “quite seriously” their commitment to review
their purchases of $600 billion in  Treasury securities  through
June, a program aimed at reducing 9 percent unemployment and
keeping inflation from slowing, he said last week.  Asked if the “natural rate of unemployment” could be
close to 7 percent now, Lacker said there is a difference
between the rate in the short and long term. The rate fell to 9
percent last month from as high as 10.1 percent in October 2009.
Employers added 36,000 workers last month, the smallest gain
since September, as winter weather depressed payrolls, figures
from the Labor Department showed.  “The natural rate is sort of a slippery concept,” he
said. “There is the rate of unemployment that you could expect
an economy to get to as a result of an expansion. But on the
other hand there is the rate of unemployment that you really
ought to expect in the short run and that you can’t really
better without pushing inflation up. I think those are two
different things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  