-- 
Finland’s Katainen to Host Premiers Before EU Summit

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-02-15T15:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/finland-s-katainen-to-host-european-premiers-ahead-of-eu-summit.html
Finnish Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen invited European heads of state and government to
Helsinki to hone the region’s crisis response ahead of a March
11 summit.  The meeting in the Finnish capital will be held on March 4,
Finland’s National Coalition Party and the  European People’s
Party  said in separate e-mailed statements. Katainen invited
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French Prime Minister Francois Fillon, European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso , as
well as other leaders representing  Europe ’s conservative blocs.  “As far as I’m informed, Merkel has already said she’ll
come to Finland,” Katainen said in an interview in Brussels
today. “Hopefully everyone can come.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  and Financial
Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  were also invited.  The Finnish meeting won’t include leaders from Europe’s
socialist-leaning blocs including representatives from Greece,
Spain and Portugal. Holding the meeting in Helsinki allows
Katainen to show Finns how he’s helping tackle the European
Union’s economic woes as he faces a backlash in voter sentiment
against the bloc. The northernmost euro member is due to hold
parliamentary elections on April 17.  Katainen’s National Coalition remains  Finland ’s biggest
party with 20.4 percent support, though its backing has slipped,
according to a poll published by state-owned broadcaster YLE on
Jan. 28. Prime Minister Mari Kiviniemi’s Center Party and the
opposition Social Democrats have also lost ground, slipping to
18.5 percent and 18.9 percent respectively.  The big winner in the elections may be the anti-EU True
Finns, which have gained more than 10 percentage points over the
past year to 16.6 percent, according to pollster YLE.  Ireland holds elections on Feb. 25 and opposition Fine
Gael, which is a member of the EPP, leads in the polls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  