-- 
Food Surge Is Exacerbating Poverty, World Bank Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 
2011-02-16T04:37:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/food-price-jump-pushes-44-million-into-extreme-poverty-world-bank-says.html
Global food prices have surged to
dangerous levels, pushing 44 million more people into extreme
poverty since June, according to the  World Bank , which warned
some nations may make the mistake of imposing curbs on shipments.  “The price hike is already pushing millions of people into
poverty and putting stress on the most vulnerable, who spend
more than half of their income on food,” President Robert Zoellick said yesterday. During the 2008 food crisis, the bank
said 100 million may be driven deeper into poverty. The bank
defines “extreme poverty” as living on less than $1.25 a day.  The bank’s food-price index rose 15 percent between October
and January, led by wheat, sugar and edible oil. The gauge is 3
percent below a 2008 peak, when surging costs sparked riots in
more than a dozen countries. The outlook for rice, staple for
half the world, “appears stable,” the bank said in a  statement .    Food security  across the Middle East region has become
more of a prominent issue,” Tom Puddy, head of grain marketing
at Perth, Australia-based exporter CBH Group, said today.
Governments “are looking to try and secure food stocks to curb
rising inflation and food prices to prevent any civil unrest.”  Surging food costs contributed to protests in  Tunisia  that
ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January.  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  resigned as president on Feb. 11 following more
than two weeks of unrest.  Corn has surged 86 percent in the past year, and wheat is
up 69 percent after drought and floods damaged crops from  Russia 
to  Argentina . The Food & Agriculture Organization’s World Food
Price Index gained to a record in January for a second month.  ‘Dangerous Levels’  “Global food prices are rising to dangerous levels and
threaten tens of millions of poor people,” Zoellick said,
commenting in the statement and a conference call. “If we don’t
get a relief on the weather side, then I foresee conditions
getting worse, and mistaken policy actions such as exports bans
or other tax or price controls will exacerbate the problems.”  Trade curbs were a feature of the 2008 spike in food prices,
when India and  Vietnam  were among nations that restricted or
suspended shipments. Russia banned wheat exports last year after
drought hit its harvest. Russian Agriculture Minister  Yelena
Skrynnik  said yesterday that the government may decide whether
to extend or lift the ban after crops are reaped, or in October.    Thailand , the world’s largest rice exporter, has no plans
“for the moment” to curb shipments as the nation has abundant
reserves to ensure food security, Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said in an interview last month. “We should all
continue to benefit from the world market,” Abhisit said.  ‘Good Harvests’  Unlike in 2008, rice prices have made more moderate gains
and “good harvests in many African countries” have “prevented
even more falling into poverty,” said the Washington-based
World Bank, which defines its mission as fighting global poverty.  While rough-rice futures traded in  Chicago  have gained
about 53 percent since the end of June, they remain below the
record $25.07 per 100 pounds reached in April 2008.  “It is important to ensure that further increases in
poverty are curtailed by taking measures that calm jittery
markets and by scaling up safety net and nutritional programs,”
the bank said.  Group-of-20 finance ministers and central bankers meeting
this week should make food a priority, Zoellick said. The G-20
should sponsor a code of conduct on exports bans, better
information on inventories and long-range  weather forecasts .  As food costs gain, consumers even in developed nations are
using more of their income to pay for food, Caroline Spelman,
the U.K. secretary of state for environment, food and rural
affairs, said at a conference yesterday. “In poor countries
we’ve seen the cost of bread can spark riots.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  