-- 
French Economy Grows Less Than Forecast on Inventories

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-02-15T08:06:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/french-fourth-quarter-gdp-expands-0-3-unchanged-from-3q.html
  France ’s economy grew less than
economists forecast in the fourth quarter as strikes disrupted
transport and prompted businesses to draw down inventories.  Gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent from the third
quarter, when it increased the same, Paris-based statistics
office Insee said today. Economists forecast a 0.6 percent gain,
the median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Strikes to protest an increase in the  retirement age  that
came to a head at the end of October forced refineries across
the country to close and hampered production at other plants.
That offset gains generated by a car purchase subsidy and a rise
in exports, resulting in growth of 1.5 percent in all of 2010
and suggesting President Nicolas Sarkozy’s target of achieving 2
percent growth this year is ambitious, economists said.  “These massive distortion should be corrected as early as
the first quarter,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP
Paribas in Paris. “We forecast a decline in private
consumption, a rebound in exports and private investment and a
turnaround in the contribution of inventories.”  The euro dropped after the release, trading as low as
$1.3470. It was at $1.3477 at 8:25 a.m. Paris time.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  maintained her
forecast for 2 percent growth this year and said that the budget
deficit will fall to 6 percent of GDP or less this year. She
spoke on France 2 television after the figures were released.  Spending, Investments  Household spending rose 0.9 percent in the fourth quarter
and gross fixed capital formation increased 0.4 percent, today’s
report showed. Exports rose 0.8 percent. Inventories shaved 0.8
percentage points off growth, Insee said.  Sarkozy is looking to demand from abroad to drive the
recovery as he seeks to trim the  budget deficit  in the run up to
an election in 2012. He earmarked an extra 500 million euros
($673 million) to help people find work last week after jobless
claims rose to a seven-year high in December.    Consumer spending  on manufactured goods gained 1.9 percent
in the fourth quarter. The aid for car purchases, unveiled by
Sarkozy in December 2008 as France plunged into the worst
recession since World War II, ended on Dec. 31. That prompted
households to bring forward purchases even as jobless claims
rose to a seven-year high of 2.7 million at the end of December.  The GDP report was “disappointing,” though it “looks
better under the surface,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at
ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam. In the month ahead, “consumption is
likely to lose some vigor as the car scrappage scheme ends and
the impact from fiscal consolidation as well as still weak labor
market condition come to the fore.”  The economy expanded 1.5 percent in the quarter compared
with a year earlier, Insee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  