-- 
LG Aims for Fourfold Gain in 2011 Smartphone Sales to Revive Handset Unit

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-02-15T01:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/lg-aims-for-fourfold-gain-in-2011-smartphone-sales-to-revive-handset-unit.html
  LG Electronics Inc ., the world’s
third-largest maker of mobile phones, aims to quadruple
smartphone sales this year in an effort to turn around its
money-losing handset business.  Smartphone sales are targeted to rise to 30 million units,
the Seoul-based company said in a statement today, without
providing a year-earlier figure. Including other types of
handsets, LG plans to sell 150 million phones, a 30 percent
increase from last year, according to the statement.  The mobile-phone division posted a third straight quarterly
loss last month after LG’s sales of smartphones lagged behind
rivals such as Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. LG is
rolling out more of its Optimus models powered by Google Inc.’s
Android software and equipped with the latest technologies,
including 3-D functionality, to revive earnings.  “They are trying to be one step ahead of their competitors
in adopting new technologies because they’ve been behind,” Lee Soon Hak, a Seoul-based analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co.,
said by telephone. “In our view, their competitiveness is
recovering.”  LG rose 1.7 percent to 123,500 won as of 9:54 a.m. in Seoul
trading, headed for the highest closing level since April 29,
while the Kospi index slipped 0.1 percent.  The electronics maker will introduce 20 smartphones this
year and expand its research and development staff by 15 percent
to more than 6,000 employees, according to the statement.  The mobile-phone division aims to return to profit this
year, Park Jong Seok, head of the unit, said at the Mobile World
Congress in Barcelona yesterday. The turnaround will probably
take place in the second quarter, Lee said.  The handset maker unveiled an 8.9-inch tablet computer
called the LG Optimus Pad and the LG Optimus 3D smartphone,
capable of recording 3-D images, at the event this week.  In November, the Optimus One became LG’s first smartphone
to sell more than 1 million units, about 40 days after its
debut, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 