-- 
Geithner Says Sacrifices Needed to Fix Fiscal Woes

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-02-15T22:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/geithner-says-real-sacrifice-needed-to-fix-fiscal-problems.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. needs to make sacrifices to fix its
fiscal problems, while cutting too much from the federal budget
quickly would endanger the economic recovery.  “We cannot pretend that our budget problems are merely the
result of the financial crisis, nor can we pretend that we can
restore fiscal responsibility without real sacrifice that
affects all Americans,” Geithner said today in testimony at a
hearing before the House Ways and Means Committee.  President  Barack Obama ’s budget for the 2012 fiscal year,
his first since Republicans took control of the House, aims to
reduce deficits by more than $1 trillion in the coming years.
The plan includes cuts to energy, transportation, housing and
other programs popular with his fellow Democrats. It also would
allow income and capital gains taxes to rise after 2012 for
individuals earning more than $200,000 annually and married
couples making more than $250,000.  “Our deficits are too high and they are unsustainable,”
Geithner said. “Left unaddressed, these deficits will hurt
economic growth and make us weaker as a nation. We must go back
to living within our means.” The Obama budget cuts non-
discretionary spending to its lowest level as a share of the
economy since the administration of President Dwight Eisenhower,
Geithner said.  ‘Missed Opportunity’    Dave Camp , the committee’s chairman and a Michigan
Republican, called Obama’s budget a “missed opportunity” that
would “result in record high deficits while pushing the federal
tax burden to over 20 percent of our economy, a level never
sustained in our nation’s history.”  Camp asked Geithner about calling for rewriting the
corporate  tax code  in the budget while proposing almost $200
billion in higher taxes on U.S.-based multinational corporations
and oil and gas companies.  “This budget is proposing changes that continue to pick
winners and losers,” Camp said. He said the administration is
offering “proposals that will raise taxes on some companies or
some activities in order to offset spending that’s unrelated to
those activities.”  Geithner responded that the budget also included tax
incentives intended to spur investment and innovation in the  United States . The goal of revamping the corporate tax code, he
said, should be to eliminate provisions that enable some
companies and industries to pay lower effective tax rates than
their rivals.  ‘Lower Taxes’  “When we allow parts of the American economy to pay much
lower taxes than the average, that means taxes are higher on all
other businesses in your state,” Geithner said. “It adds to
inefficiency. It probably hurts growth overall.”  He said the administration wants “the market to decide
which businesses grow, not the community of tax lobbyists and
tax planners.”  Geithner in his opening remarks said cutting many services
too quickly “would jeopardize the recovery and destroy tens of
thousands of jobs.”  Because changes to the budget can be made from one year to
the next, Congress and the Obama administration should “commit
to a multiyear plan of fiscal responsibility, phased in over an
appropriate time horizon,” Geithner said.  Social Security  The administration will consider ideas that put Social
Security “on more sound financial footing over the long term,”
he said. “However, we will reject plans that slash benefits;
that fail to protect current retirees, people with disabilities
and the most vulnerable; or that subject Americans’ retirement
savings to the whims of the stock market.”  Geithner repeated his view that lawmakers will raise the
country’s debt ceiling.  “I’m completely confident Congress will act as it always
does to raise the debt limit,” Geithner said in response to a
question. “I very much welcome the comments made by the
Republican leadership, both in the House and the Senate, that
recognizes that America has obligations and is going to have to
meet them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  