-- 
Soros Raises SPDR Gold Holding 0.5% in Fourth Quarter

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-15T13:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/george-soros-raises-holdings-of-spdr-gold-shares-by-0-5-in-fourth-quarter.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
increased his SPDR Gold Trust share holding by 0.5 percent in
the fourth quarter and  John Paulson  kept his investment
unchanged, filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission show.  Soros Fund Management LLC held 4,721,808 SPDR Gold Trust
shares as of Dec. 31, compared with 4,697,008 shares at the end
of the third quarter, according to the filing. Soros’s call
options on 705,000 shares in the trust as of Sept. 30 weren’t
listed in the latest report. Paulson & Co.’s holding, the
largest in the SPDR fund, was 31.5 million shares.  A decade-long surge in gold has attracted investors seeking
better returns than equities or bonds, and helped boost holdings
in exchange-traded products backed by gold to a record in
December. The metal’s climb last year to an all-time high was
more than triple the gain in global equities, and bullion beat
shares in five of the past six years.  “Investment demand remains the most important driver for
the gold market,” said  Daniel Brebner , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in London. “The entrance or exit of large funds in and
out of exchange-traded products can give an idea of the
conviction by these investors as to the prospects for gold.”  Investors in 10 gold-backed exchange traded products own
metal valued at $89.2 billion according to Bloomberg
calculations, even after cutting assets in tons by 4.5 percent
since Dec. 20 when holdings peaked. Immediate-delivery gold
traded at an all-time high of $1,431.25 an ounce on Dec. 7 and
erased 4.1 percent since then to $1,373.15 today.  Soros, Paulson    Michael Vachon , a spokesman for Soros, declined to comment
on gold investments and the filing, when asked before its
release.  Armel Leslie , a Paulson spokesman, declined to comment.  Soros Fund Management LLC manages about $27 billion. The
company’s SPDR Gold Trust holding was worth $655 million as of
Dec. 31, the filing showed, representing 8.5 percent of the $7.7
billion total in the  SEC filing . The firm’s holdings in the  iShares Gold Trust  of 5 million shares, also backed by the
metal, remained unchanged as of Dec. 31 from the preceding
quarter.  Soros described gold at the World Economic Forum’s meeting
in Davos,  Switzerland , in January last year as “the ultimate
asset bubble.” In a Nov. 15 speech in Toronto the 80-year-old
said conditions for the metal to keep rising were “pretty
ideal” and at this year’s Davos forum he said the boom in
commodities may last “a couple of years” longer.  Long-Term Investors  “Most ETP investors are long-term investors and keep
holding assets regardless of what the price is doing,” said  Carsten Fritsch , a Frankfurt-based analyst at  Commerzbank AG .
“I would expect them to keep invested on the long-term risk of
printing of money by central banks” and on inflation concerns,
he said.  Investor demand for precious metals accelerated after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 and
as governments and central banks led by the  Federal Reserve 
pumped more than $2 trillion into the world financial system.
That stoked concern that inflation will accelerate. The Fed cut  interest rates  to near zero in December 2008 and has kept them
there since and Greece and Ireland got bailouts.  Soros’s holdings of  Platinum Group Metals Ltd ., a
Vancouver-based miner, jumped to 12.7 million shares worth $34
million as of Dec. 31, from 1.5 million shares as of Sept. 30,
filings showed. Platinum Group Metals said Feb. 9 it began
developing a mine in northern  South Africa  with first production
scheduled to start in 2013. The mine will produce platinum,
palladium, rhodium and gold.  Palladium Gains  Palladium jumped 42 percent in the fourth quarter and
platinum gained 6.8 percent.  Among his investments, Soros increased his stakes in  Kinross Gold Corp ., based in Toronto, bought shares in  Pan
American Silver Corp . and cut holdings in Toronto-based  Barrick
Gold Corp ., the world’s biggest gold mining company, the filing
shows.  Paulson, 55, who bet against U.S. mortgage markets amid the
subprime crisis, is also the biggest owner of Johannesburg-based  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd .,  Africa ’s biggest producer, filings and
data compiled by Bloomberg show. His stake in the miner was
little changed at 40.95 million shares in the fourth quarter,
the filing shows. New York-based Paulson’s funds generated
profits of more than $3 billion in 2007.  Put Options  Eric Mindich’s Eton Park Capital Management LP added 5
million put options on the SPDR Gold Trust as of Dec. 31 to
bring the total to 8 million, its filings show. The company
owned 4.5 million shares in the trust at the end of the year.  A put option gives the holder the right to sell the
security at a set price and date. Bullion has declined 3.4
percent this year as signs the global economy is strengthening
curbed demand for the metal.  Eton Park also bought a stake in Platinum Group Metals,
purchasing 4.8 million shares, the filing shows.  Touradji Capital Management LP, founded by Paul Touradji,
held 173,000 shares in the SPDR Gold Trust as of Dec. 31,
according to an SEC filing. There was no holding listed in the
filing as of Sept. 30. Leslie, also a spokesman for Touradji,
declined to comment before the filings were made public.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 45 days of each quarter’s end to show their
U.S.-listed stocks, options and convertible bonds. The filings
don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much cash the firms hold.  ETPs trade on exchanges, with each share representing metal
held in a vault. They accounted for 21 percent of gold
investment demand last year, according to GFMS Ltd., a London-
based research firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ; 