-- 
German ZEW Investor Confidence Probably Increased in February

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-02-15T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/german-zew-investor-confidence-probably-increased-in-february.html
German investor confidence probably
increased for a fourth month in February as  Europe ’s largest
economy gathered strength and stocks rose to a three-year high.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
will say its index of investor and analyst expectations, which
aims to predict developments six months in advance, increased to
20 from 15.4 in January, according to the median forecast of 38
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That would be the highest
since July 2010. The ZEW releases the report at 11 a.m. today.  “The German economy is presenting a very positive, almost
textbook image at the moment,” said Jens Kramer, an economist
at NordLB bank in Hanover,  Germany . “The basis upon which the
recovery is built has become much broader and stronger.”  Germany’s economy is powering the region’s expansion after
demand from faster-growing economies such as  China  boosted
exports and helped push unemployment to the lowest in almost two
decades. Germany’s  DAX Index  has gained 34 percent over the past
year and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest luxury
carmaker, has forecast “significant” sales growth.  ZEW’s indicator measuring current economic sentiment
probably rose to 83 from 82.8, according to the Bloomberg
survey. That would be the highest since July 2007.  China Sales  The German economy probably expanded 0.5 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months, when it grew 0.7
percent, a Bloomberg survey shows. The Federal Statistics Office
in Wiesbaden will release the report at 8 a.m. today. Euro-
region gross domestic product probably rose 0.4 percent in the
fourth quarter, a separate survey shows.  The benchmark DAX index has rallied 6.9 percent this year
to the highest since January 2008, reflecting optimism that a
strengthening global recovery will boost earnings.  Hochtief AG ,
Germany’s largest builder, yesterday forecast higher fiscal
full-year profit on surging orders.  Exports to emerging markets helped fuel earnings last year.
Sales to China alone jumped 45 percent in the first 10 months of
2010 compared with the same period a year earlier, data from the
statistics office show.  BMW Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on Feb.
3 that the Munich-based company will have “double-digit” sales
growth in markets including China,  Korea  and  Brazil . “It’s
clear that the capacity in China will be increased,” he said.  Germany’s VDMA machine-makers’ association said on Feb. 10
that industrial output may increase 10 percent this year after
rising 8.8 percent in 2010. Plant and machinery orders surged 44
percent in December from a year ago, it said.  Renewed Imbalances  The improving outlook has also fueled payrolls growth. The
German jobless rate is at 7.5 percent, the lowest since 1992.
Business confidence rose to a record last month.  Companies are already gaining room to pass on higher costs
to consumers just as labor unions seek more pay. German
inflation accelerated to 2 percent in January from 1.7 percent
in the previous month. The  European Central Bank  aims to keep
annual increases in consumer prices just below 2 percent.  With countries from Ireland to  Greece  struggling to lower
their budget deficits and restore investor confidence, the ECB
earlier this month kept its benchmark interest rate at a record
low of 1 percent. That may be risky for Germany, which is the
fastest-growing major economy in the 17-member euro area.  “The expansionary monetary policy is laying the groundwork
for a renewed buildup of imbalances,” said Natascha Gewaltig,
an economist at Action Economics in  London . “Previous energy-
price increases have started to feed through the product chain,
and with unemployment falling and wages picking up, there is
more room to pass on price increases to consumers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  