-- 
German Government Under Pressure to Scrap Meads Missile Project

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-02-15T18:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/german-government-under-pressure-to-scrap-meads-missile-project.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government came under pressure from coalition and opposition
lawmakers to scrap the seven-year-old Meads missile-defense
project after the U.S. canceled the program.  The Pentagon said yesterday it will terminate funding for
the Medium Extended Air Defense System when the current contract
ends in 2013. A lawmaker for the Free Democratic Party, Merkel’s
coalition partner, called the U.S. decision “not unexpected and
correct” and renewed the party’s objection to the project.  “If the U.S. is now canceling the project as part of
budget-cutting measures,  Germany  shouldn’t be left behind,” the
Free Democrats’ Juergen Koppelin, who sits on the parliamentary
budget committee, said today in an  e-mailed statement  in Berlin.  The Free Democrats, which opposed the project when it was
approved by a Social Democratic-led government in 2005, last
year called for the end of Meads as part of measures to cut 8.3
billion euros ($11.2 billion) in defense spending by 2014.  Alexander Bonde, a lawmaker from the opposition  Green
Party , said Germany should scrap the program after 2013 and
begin talks with the U.S. and  Italy  -- the other two partners in
the project -- to end the development stage immediately.
Overruns already would cost the German government an additional
250 million euros over the initial 1 billion euros in
development costs for Germany, according to his office.  The Greens endorsed Germany’s participation in the project
in April 2005 after some of the party’s conditions were met.  Germany will continue its commitments for the development
phase of the project, according to a Defense Ministry official
who declined to be identified in line with government rules. The
official wouldn’t comment when asked about the government’s
intentions beyond the development phase.  Cost, Delay  A Pentagon fact sheet showed that continuing with the
program would have required as much as $1.16 billion
additionally for the five-year period ending 2017. The Meads
system had grown in cost by about $1 billion and its overall
schedule delayed an additional 18 months, according to the
Senate Armed Services Committee in its version of the fiscal
2011 defense authorization bill, passed by Congress last month.  The Meads program is managed out of Orlando,  Florida , under
Meads International LLC, a joint venture of Bethesda, Maryland-
based  Lockheed Martin Corp ., Lfk-Lenkflugkorpersysteme Gmbh of
Germany and MBDA of Italy. MBDA is the world’s second-largest
missile maker and is jointly owned by  BAE Systems Plc , European
Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co. and  Finmeccanica SpA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  