-- 
German Investor Confidence Rises for a Fourth Month as Economy Strengthens

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B l a c k
-- 
2011-02-15T10:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/germany-s-investor-confidence-increased-fourth-month-on-economic-outlook.html
German investor confidence increased
for a fourth month in February as  Europe ’s largest economy
gathered strength and stocks rose to a three-year high.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months in advance, rose to 15.7 from
15.4 in January. Economists forecast a gain to 20, according to
the median of 38 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The German economy is driving the region’s expansion after
demand from faster-growing economies such as  China  boosted
exports and helped push unemployment to the lowest in almost two
decades.  Germany ’s  DAX Index  has gained 34 percent over the past
year and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest luxury
carmaker, has forecast “significant” sales growth.  “The economy is powering ahead,” said Sarah Hewin, a
senior economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London . “The
improvement in the labor market is an ongoing trend and that’s
going to support a more broad-based recovery.”  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.3511, up from $1.3489 yesterday.  ZEW’s indicator measuring current economic sentiment rose
to 85.2 in February from 82.8 the previous month, ZEW said.  China Sales  The German economy expanded 0.4 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous three months, when it grew 0.7
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
In  France , gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent from the
third quarter, while the euro-region economy grew 0.3 percent.  The benchmark DAX index has rallied 7.1 percent this year
to the highest since January 2008, reflecting optimism that a
strengthening global recovery will boost earnings.  Hochtief AG ,
Germany’s largest builder, yesterday forecast higher fiscal
full-year profit on surging orders.  BMW Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner on Feb. 3
forecast the Munich-based company to have “double-digit” sales
growth in markets including China, Korea and  Brazil . “It’s
clear that the capacity in China will be increased,” he said.  Germany’s VDMA machine-makers’ association said on Feb. 10
that output may increase 10 percent this year after rising 8.8
percent in 2010. Plant and machinery orders surged an inflation
adjusted 44 percent in December from a year ago, it said.  The improving outlook has also fueled payrolls growth,
lowering the German jobless rate to 7.5 percent, the lowest
since 1992. Business confidence rose to a record last month.  Companies are already gaining room to pass on higher costs
to consumers just as labor unions seek more pay. German
inflation accelerated to 2 percent in January from 1.7 percent
the previous month. The  European Central Bank  aims to keep
annual increases in consumer prices just below 2 percent.  With countries from Ireland to  Greece  struggling to lower
their budget deficits and restore investor confidence, the ECB
earlier this month kept its benchmark interest rate at a record
low of 1 percent. That may be risky for Germany, which is the
fastest-growing major economy in the 17-member euro area.  “The expansionary monetary policy is laying the groundwork
for a renewed buildup of imbalances,” said Natascha Gewaltig,
an economist at Action Economics in London. “Previous energy
price increases have started to feed through the product chain
and with unemployment falling and wages picking up, there is
more room to pass on price increases to consumers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  