-- 
Ghonim Calls for End to Protests, Strikes to Bring Stability

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-02-15T08:09:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/ghonim-calls-for-end-to-protests-strikes-to-bring-stability.html
  Google Inc . executive Wael Ghonim,
whose social-media expertise helped trigger the anti-government
protests that toppled Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak , called for an end
to protests and strikes to help rebuild the country’s economy.  “If you get paid 70 dollars, this is not the time to ask
for 100 dollars,” Ghonim said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday. “If you really care about this country,
it is not about you anymore. This is about restoring you know,
that stability. This is about sending signals to everyone that
Egypt is becoming stable and we are working on that.”  Mubarak, Egypt’s autocratic ruler for 30 years, ceded power
to the military on Feb. 11 as a popular revolt swept the Arab
world’s most populous state. Since Sunday,  Egypt  has been
governed by a military council that has promised to lead the
country through a democratic transformation.  Ghonim, 30, who was released on Feb. 8 after being held by
the government in secret detention for more than a week, said he
met military leaders over the weekend and he believes they are
“really sincere” about bringing about the change demanded by
the Egyptian people.  “They realize the value of business and creating jobs,”
the activist said. “We had a half an hour discussion about the
challenges of how to get people back to work and how to create
jobs. They are aware of the problems.”  Egypt’s tech-savvy youth, who used the internet and sites
such as Facebook and Twitter to organize their protests, could
help make Egypt the Silicon Valley of the Middle East, he said.  “We are looking at the scene and we are impressed. The
high tech community, especially the high tech industry, is one
of those industries that can take Egypt to the next step. We can
be another  India  when it comes to high tech,” he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  