-- 
Gilts to Snap Decline on Low Rates, Standard Life Says

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-02-15T09:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/gilts-to-snap-decline-on-low-rates-standard-life-says-update1-.html
U.K. government bonds, headed for
their longest losing streak in at least a quarter of a century,
will start to recover as investors realize interest rates are
set to stay lower for longer,  Standard Life Investments  said.  Prices may stabilize when yields on 10-year bonds reach
about 4 percent, said Euan Munro, who runs 64.9 billion pounds
($104 billion) at  Scotland ’s second-biggest fund manager. Yields
are up 82 basis points from six months ago to 3.85 percent.
Gilts fell 0.71 percent this month after losing investors money
in each of the previous five months, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “There is a little bit of a Pavlovian response that we are
about to enter a monetary tightening phase which doesn’t usually
just mean a couple of 25 basis points rises, it usually means a
lot more than that,” Munro, 40, said in an interview on Feb.
10. “It’s very difficult to see that type of amplitude of move
going forward and that is what is being priced in.”  Gilts have dropped on concern the  Bank of England  may need
to raise the benchmark interest rate from a record low of 0.5
percent to combat inflation. The  consumer price index  is set to
exceed an annual rate of 4 percent, twice the official target,
in the next few months, according to  Mervyn King , governor of
the  Bank of England .  King Argument  The increase reflects higher oil and other commodity
prices, a weaker pound and an increase in taxes on  consumer
goods , King said. He expects the inflation rate to start falling
later this year, he said on Jan. 25.  “The Mervyn King argument seems logical enough, putting up
rates is not going to help the situation,” said Munro, “But
they never prepared the market, they never forecast the level of
inflation.”  U.K. government bonds lost money for five straight months
in 1994 and for four consecutive months in 2007, 1999 and 1990,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard Life Investments, the fund unit of Edinburgh-based
life insurer  Standard Life Plc , expects bond investors to accept
that not lifting interest rates to tackle inflation is the right
policy, Munro said. The Bank of England last adjusted interest
rates, cutting them to a record, in March 2009.  Standard Life’s senior economist, Douglas Roberts, on Jan.
18 reiterated his prediction that rates will probably stay on
hold this year because the economic recovery will be muted and
inflation will slow.  Economy Shrinks  The U.K. economy unexpectedly shrank 0.5 percent in the
fourth quarter after ice and heavy snow disrupted transport
services and kept consumers away from the shops during the
coldest U.K. December in a century. Markets had accepted that
the fourth-quarter decline in gross domestic product was
weather-related, he said.  “What is going to be interesting is as the January and
February data come through, is growth going to be slower than
people thought?” Munro said. “If that is the case I think we
will see yields stabilizing at current levels.”  The state of the U.K. economy is closer to what it was in
2008, when the oil price went “bananas,” rather than in 1994,
when interest rates started to rise, contributing to a
“terrible” year for gilts, Munro said. Gilt prices fell 13.5
percent in 1994, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “The big rise we have seen in food and energy prices -- if
it is not followed by wage rises, and I don’t think it will --
will be a squeeze on the household sector,” Munro said. “Last
time, in 2008,  government bonds  did extremely well.”  Yields on 10-year bonds have risen from a low of 2.79
percent on Aug. 25. A yield of 4 percent is close to the average
nominal growth of GDP and may help to support 10-year gilt
prices, Munro said. The last time 10-year bonds yielded 4
percent was May 11, Bloomberg data show.  Bonds “are going to stop falling at this speed,” Munro
said. “We are getting close to some fundamental value levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  