-- 
Global Demand for U.S. Assets Declined in December

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-02-15T17:29:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/global-demand-for-u-s-stocks-bonds-financial-assets-dropped-in-december.html
Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds
and other financial assets fell in less than forecast in
December as the outlook for the economy brightened, figures from
the Treasury Department showed today.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$65.9 billion during the month, compared with net buying of
$85.1 billion in November, according to data released today in
Washington. Purchases were forecast to decline to $40 billion,
according to the median of five estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Prospects for accelerating economic growth, propelled by
Federal Reserve purchases of Treasuries, are drawing overseas
investors to the U.S., along with concerns about the
creditworthiness of European nations such as Spain and  Portugal .
The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Stock Index rose 4.3 percent in
December.  “The U.S. still has investment money pouring in here from
global investors seeking the safest, most liquid markets in the
world,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. “There was still some
concern about world financial markets, especially the  euro zone ,
in December.”  Including short-term securities such as bills and stock
swaps, foreigners purchased a net $48.2 billion, compared with
net buying of $35.6 billion the previous month.  Private net purchases were $93.3 billion in December,
compared with $76.4 billion in November. Foreign official
investors had net sales of $45.1 billion in December, compared
with net sales of $40.8 billion in November.  Stronger Dollar  “The greater reliance on private inflows should be taken
as a good sign,” said Robert Brusca, president and chief
economist at Fact & Opinion Economics in  New York . “That could
explain why overall long-term flows seem lighter while the
dollar got stronger and total net securities inflows
increased.”  The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities captures
international purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks,
corporate debt and securities issued by U.S. agencies such as
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , which buy home mortgages.  Estimates for net purchases of long-term U.S. financial
assets in December ranged from $10 billion to $66 billion,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  Foreign Purchases  Total foreign purchases of Treasury notes and bonds were
$54.6 billion in December, compared with purchases of $61.7
billion in November. Foreign demand for U.S. agency debt from
companies such as  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac registered net
buying of $9.4 billion in December after buying of $14.2 billion
in November.  Net foreign purchases of equities were $10.2 billion after
net purchases of $13.2 billion in November. Investors purchased
a net $2.6 billion in U.S. corporate debt in December after
buying $4.7 billion the month before.  China’s Treasury holdings dropped $4 billion or 0.4
percent, to $891.6 billion. The drop in China’s Treasury
holdings came as China reduced its position in short-term bills
by $9.4 billion, or 38 percent, to $15.4 billion, the lowest
since July. Its holdings of longer-term notes and bonds rose
$5.4 billion or 0.6 percent to a record $876.2 billion in
December, according to Treasury data.    China  in 2010  In 2010, China increased its purchases of longer-term
Treasuries by 6.2 percent while its short-term holdings fell 78
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as the  U.S.
economy  continued to improve after the financial crisis.  Japan, the second-largest holder, increased its holdings to
$883.6 billion from $877.2 billion in November. The  United
Kingdom  increased its holdings to $541.3 billion from $511.8
billion.  Hong Kong , counted separately from China, reduced its
holdings to $138.2 billion from $138.9 billion.  Regarding China, a Treasury Department official said the
Obama administration isn’t satisfied with the country’s progress
in strengthening the yuan and is “intensely focused” on the
issue.  “We’ve made progress on the currency issue but that does
not mean we are satisfied,”  Lael Brainard , the Treasury’s
undersecretary for international affairs, said in a Feb. 10
speech to the U.S.-China Business Council in  Washington .  In a report to Congress on Feb. 5, the Treasury said China
had made “insufficient” progress in allowing its currency to
rise, however, the report declined to brand China a currency
manipulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  