-- 
Goldman Sachs Said to Close Fixed-Income Prop Group

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-02-16T21:35:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/goldman-said-to-close-proprietary-trading-desk-to-comply-with-volcker-rule.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., the  U.S.
bank  that relies on fixed-income trading for the largest portion
of its revenue, will shut its Global Macro Proprietary Trading
desk, a person with knowledge of the decision said.  The eight-person desk, which trades currencies and stocks
as well as products tied to  interest rates  and other fixed-
income markets, will close in the days ahead, said the person,
who declined to be named because the decision wasn’t public.  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment.  “Keeping the prop business going will have little benefit
and closing it will be seen as a positive move to comply with
Dodd-Frank,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst
with Mediobanca SpA, who has a “neutral” recommendation on
Goldman Sachs.    Morgan Stanley  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . are among Wall
Street firms breaking off or winding down such trading units to
comply with the Volcker rule, a provision of the Dodd-Frank
financial law that prohibits banks from betting capital for
their own accounts. The intent was to avert losses that might
cause the collapse of firms and the financial system.  The group reported results as part of Goldman Sachs’s
fixed-income trading division, the person said. That division
generated revenue of $13.7 billion in 2010, 35 percent of the
firm’s total.  The Wall Street Journal reported the decision to close the
trading desk yesterday.  Volcker Rule  Goldman Sachs last year shut down an equity proprietary-
trading group, Goldman Sachs Principal Strategies, to comply
with the Volcker rule. Pierre Henri Flamand, the former head of
Goldman Sachs’s Principal Strategies group, retired last year to
start his own hedge fund.  The bank said on Jan. 19 that earnings dropped 52 percent
in the fourth quarter, its third straight quarterly decline.  Goldman Sachs’s shares climbed 90 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$168.81 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have risen 0.4 percent this year after
dropping 0.4 percent in 2010.  Regulators are in the process of implementing the Volcker
rule, which was passed as part of Dodd-Frank in July. The  Federal Reserve  confirmed last week that banks would generally
have two years to comply after the rule takes effect.  ‘Robust Implementation’  Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said
last month that there’s a chance some activities in the firm’s
investing and lending segment won’t be allowed by new rules.  The company’s so-called special situations group, which
invested in distressed assets such as Thai car loans and
Japanese golf courses, shouldn’t be affected by the Dodd-Frank
Act’s prohibition on proprietary trading because most of the
group “is actually a lending business,” Viniar told analysts
on Oct. 19.  The  Financial Stability Oversight Council , a group of
regulators charged with preventing a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis, released a study Jan. 18 recommending a
“robust implementation” of the Volcker rule that includes
requiring banks “to sell or wind down all impermissible
proprietary trading desks.”  Executives from companies including JPMorgan,  Citigroup
Inc ., General Electric Co.’s GE Capital unit and Credit Suisse
Group AG have met with Federal Reserve or U.S. Treasury
Department officials since November to discuss implementation of
the rule.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley, the world’s top merger adviser, said last
month that it plans to break off its largest proprietary-trading
group, Process Driven Trading, as an independent advisory firm
by the end of 2012. New York-based Morgan Stanley may also turn
its Equity Trading Lab proprietary group into an electronic
client-trading unit, two people with knowledge of the matter
said this month.  JPMorgan told traders in a commodity prop-trading group in
August that their unit was being closed, a person familiar with
the matter said at the time. The firm planned to close all prop
trading groups, affecting 50 to 75 employees in fixed-income and
equities prop groups, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 