-- 
Gold Bug Wins Test in Race for White House: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-02-15T00:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/gold-bug-wins-test-in-race-for-white-house-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
If you’re a Republican thinking of
running for president -- and who isn’t? -- the annual
 Conservative Political Action Conference  is the base you have to
touch.  It doesn’t hurt to stop by, even if you don’t have Oval
Office aspirations. In 2009,  Rush Limbaugh , dressed as  Johnny Cash  and bouncing up and down like a bobble-head doll on a
dashboard, drove the crowd wild.  There was no such rapture this year for the 11,000
conservatives, almost all white, almost all Republican, with a
hard-core group of libertarians sprinkled in. Tea Party
firebrand Representative  Michele Bachmann  had to tell the
audience to stand up three times as she shouted her usual crowd-
rousing, “Obama will be a one-term president.”  Maybe the high of November has passed. Maybe a 15-candidate
straw ballot is too much to cope with. Certainly, across town on  Capitol Hill , the new Republican majority in the House was
having trouble governing.  Conservatives may ultimately get their wish to kill
government programs they don’t like in the guise of deficit
reduction -- down with “ Car Talk ,” Big Bird and food
inspections (and hello, E. coli). But it bodes ill for
Republicans when they can’t muster the votes needed to extend
parts of the Patriot Act.  Still, CPAC is one-stop shopping, a way to see most of the
characters likely soon to be crisscrossing the cornfields of  Iowa . The closest thing to Limbaugh this year was  Donald Trump ,
who came into the house on a few hours notice but with enough
time for him to make some attitude adjustments.  Change of Heart  Last time I checked, Trump was no conservative. He played
one on Thursday: He’s now pro-life and pro-gun, along with anti-
tax, tired of America being disrespected and China-phobic (their
products stink). He says he will decide in June whether to
sacrifice his great life for the abuse that comes with running.  Trump was a harmless diversion, except for the curious
moment when he declared that Representative  Ron Paul  has “zero
chance of getting elected.” Though Paul is beloved at CPAC --
for the second straight year he won the straw poll -- at least
half the room cheered Trump’s putdown. Paul isn’t going to be
moving his  gold bars  into 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue unless the
end of days comes to pass, but didn’t these folks come to dream
the impossible dream? Are they suddenly pragmatic?  No one has less celebrity and more intelligence going for
him than the diminutive, balding Mitch Daniels, governor of  Indiana , who dreams of helping those “on the first rung of
life’s ladder” even as congressional Republicans plan cuts in
federal funding to women, infants and children and to those who
need help paying for heat in the winter.  Reagan Link  A genuine conservative who worked in the Reagan White
House, Daniels may not be conservative enough in 2011.  “Our main task is not to see that people of great wealth
add to it,” he said, “but that those without much money have a
greater chance to earn some.” With a heart bleeding that
profusely, he was lucky to get 4 percent in the  straw poll .  Unlike Daniels, who is at one with his accountant’s
demeanor, the formerly mild-mannered Tim Pawlenty must have
gotten ready for CPAC by having a consultant force-feed him
Dirty Harry movies. Suddenly, just about everything seems to
anger the former two-term governor of  Minnesota .  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney
performed well but didn’t kill. Romney came in a respectable
second in the straw poll. How significant is a good showing? Ask
President Romney, who won the straw polls in 2007 and 2008.  Palin’s Opportunities  Sarah Palin didn’t perform at all, and her absence was
pointedly noted by former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum,
who is selling himself as the Most Conservative Candidate Who
Might Run. In a radio interview, he provocatively  mused  about
whether Palin’s “other responsibilities,” like being a mother
of five, or “other business opportunities,” an apparent
reference to her paid speech-making, had kept her away.  It takes much less than that for Palin to haul out the
nukes. (A few weeks ago -- before his personality transplant --
Pawlenty  seemed to backtrack  on his very mild criticism of
Palin.) Though stopping short of committing blood libel, Mama
Grizzly did say Santorum’s wife should call him a “knuckle-
dragging Neanderthal.”  As always, the CPAC exhibition space offered a window into
the psyche of the attendees.  Obama Countdown  There was all the Reagan memorabilia a mantle could hold,
and, for $20, an Obama presidency countdown clock. For free, you
could “become a  Luce Lady ,” spin a wheel (I won a pocket
constitution), embrace abstinence, or put your support behind
stopping immigration and cutting taxes.  At the John Birch Society’s booth, the group’s president,
 John McManus , was all too ready to explain why the pro-gay-
rights organization down the way, GOProud, was ruining his
neighborhood. The Family Research Council refused to show up at
all.  Amid the bumper stickers was “Will Work for Ammo.” It
made me think that CPAC itself is running a bit low on
ammunition, not to mention a genuine frontrunner to lead the
charge back to the White House.    Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How  George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  