-- 
Google Would Like Nokia to Use Android, Schmidt Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-02-15T20:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/google-would-like-nokia-to-adopt-android-software-schmidt-says.html
  Google Inc . Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  said the company “certainly tried” to convince  Nokia Oyj  to use its Android smartphone software and is open to
a partnership in the future.  Nokia said on Feb. 11 that it would make  Microsoft Corp .’s
Windows Phone 7 its primary mobile-phone platform, deciding
against Android. Microsoft’s software, which trails Android in
market share, will replace Nokia’s home-grown Symbian platform.  “We would like them to adopt Android at some point in the
future and that option remains open,” Schmidt said at the
Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain.  Microsoft’s deal with Nokia, the world’s biggest maker of
handsets, is a bet that the two companies together can mount a
bigger challenge to  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and devices powered by
Android. Shipments of phones with Android software overtook
those of Nokia’s Symbian smartphones in the fourth quarter,
researcher Gartner Inc. said last week.  Microsoft’s share of the worldwide smartphone operating-
system market declined to 4.2 percent in 2010, from 8.7 percent
a year earlier, according to Gartner. Google’s Android platform
grabbed 22.7 percent of the market, up from 3.9 percent, while
Apple’s iOS share rose to 15.7 percent from 14.4 percent.  Including phones made by companies other than Nokia that
run Symbian, Nokia’s operating system had a 37.6 percent share
for the year, down from 46.9 percent in 2009.  Software Overhaul  Microsoft released a complete overhaul to its mobile
operating system last year. Two million copies of the program
were shipped in its first quarter on the market, a number
analysts said was disappointing.  Nokia CEO Stephen Elop said the company’s operating-
software agreement with Microsoft enables it to “re-enter” the
U.S. market.  Since the announcement of its partnership with Microsoft,
Nokia’s shares have tumbled 18 percent, wiping about 5.5 billion
euros ($7.4 billion) off the Finnish company’s market value.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, fell $3.17 to
$624.98 at 2:59 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , dropped 2 cents to
$27.05.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  