-- 
Google Chases Computer Criminals to Search-Engine Competitors

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-02-15T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/google-chases-computer-criminals-to-search-engine-competitors.html
  Google Inc . has almost cut in half
the malicious software affecting users of its search engine,
driving hackers to competitors including Microsoft Inc.’s  Bing ,
 Yahoo!  Inc. and  Twitter Inc. , a report says.  Hackers targeted Google, owner of the most popular search
engine, 38 percent of the time as of Dec. 31, according to the
report to be released later this month by Barracuda Networks
Inc., a web security firm.  Mountain View , California-based
Google accounted for 69 percent of the attacks in a sample
conducted around June, the report says. A Barracuda  report  in
July labeled Google “king of malware.”  Even as Google improved its security, the number of attacks
increased. In the December sample, Barracuda said it found 226
pieces of bad software a day, compared with 146 in June.
Meanwhile, Google’s competitors recorded an increase in malware-
laced search results: Cyber criminals placed 30 percent of their
bad software on Yahoo! search results in December, up from 18
percent in June. Bing accounted for 24 percent in December, up
from 12 percent in June. And the targeting of Twitter rose to 8
percent from 1 percent, the report says.  Google said it has ratcheted up efforts to identify and
scrub attempts at so-called search poisoning, which allows
criminals to take control of computers to perpetuate cyber
attacks, as well as large-scale banking and identity-theft
swindles.  Faster Detection  “We have done a lot of work to detect these quickly and to
warn users,”  Niels Provos , principal software engineer in
Google’s infrastructure security group, said in an interview.
Last year, it took 10 hours to remove the bugs; now it takes an
hour, he said.  Until a few years ago, worms, viruses, Trojans and other
such malware could largely be avoided if users stayed away from
porn sites and other dubious web neighborhoods. The cyber
thieves’ gambit to infect search results is harder to bypass.
Americans conducted 17.8 billion searches in November 2010, a 23
percent increase from a year earlier, according to  ComScore
Inc. , a Reston Virginia-based market-research firm.  “One of the reasons this is so highly targeted is the
volume of searches is increasing rapidly,” said Paul Judge,
chief research officer of Campbell, California-based Barracuda.
“People have become lazy and dependent on” Google and its
rivals.  Targeting Popular Searches  During a 60-day period last year, one out of every three
terms  ranked  most popular by  search  companies produced a result
that linked to malicious code, Judge said.  Recently, some web users who clicked on search results for  Gwyneth Paltrow ,  Brett Favre  and Prince William’s fiancée Kate
Middleton were tricked into downloading programs that allowed
criminals to take over their computers, the consultants said.  Once hackers get access, they scour data banks for Social
Security numbers, tax returns and other personal information,
said Chris Swecker, former assistant director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation’s criminal investigative division.  “They want to suck information out of your computer,”
said Swecker, who heads his own  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
security consulting firm.  The infected PCs then also can be enlisted in an army of
other unwitting machines known as botnets that are used to carry
out scams.  Marketing Lessons  The criminals rely on some of the same techniques --
sprinkling key words, links and videos on their websites --
legitimate companies use to boost their search-result rankings,
Judge said.  “The attackers have learned from the marketing people,”
he said.  Some companies make the criminals’ job easier by ranking
their searches, the most popular of which are then targeted to
be infected, he said.  Cyber criminals also spread rumors -- including recent
 false  reports of singer Gwen Stefani’s death -- to spark
searches they can embed with their programs, said  Anup Ghosh , a
former program manager at the  Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency .  In one recent incident, users who clicked on a picture of
 Paltrow  at a New York charity event were greeted by a dialog box
that said their computer needed to be scanned for viruses. A
click on that box triggered animation simulating a scan that
claimed to find numerous viruses. Choosing “remove all”
downloaded the malicious program. The link was taken down one
hour after it appeared.  Anti-Virus Focus  For the most part, security companies spend most of their
time developing anti-viral programs and fixes for existing
software and aren’t focused on cleaning up the searches, said
Ghosh, who founded Fairfax, Virginia-based  Invincea  Inc. to
create products to fill that void.  “Just about everybody in the security industry ignores
this problem,” said Ghosh.  That may be changing. Google and Microsoft engineers said
they scan billions of web addresses daily to identify suspect
sites. The rivals also share information on hacker search ploys,
said Bruce Cowper, a group manager in Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft’s Trustworthy Computing unit.  “As attacks become more complex, I think there’s going to
be a lot more collaboration across the industry,” he said.  Dana Lengkeek, a Yahoo! spokeswoman, referred questions to
Microsoft, which provides security for the Sunnyvale,
California-based company’s search engine. Matt Graves and Jodi
Olson, spokespeople for San Francisco-based Twitter, didn’t
respond to e-mails.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  