-- 
Icahn Stake Loses Value as Clorox Success Returns Cash: Real M&A

-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-02-15T05:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/icahn-shareholdings-losing-value-as-clorox-excels-returning-cash-real-m-a.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn ’s investment
in  Clorox Co . gives him a stake in a company that is already
squeezing more profit from sales and generating more cash than
any U.S. household products maker. That may make it harder for
the activist to push for a sale or breakup.  Clorox, which makes everything from its namesake bleach to
Hidden Valley ranch salad dressing and Kingsford charcoal,
earned about 20 cents before interest and taxes for every dollar
of sales in the past year, more than any U.S. competitor that
has also boosted cash from operations for three years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Clorox’s shares have gained less
than 1 percent on Icahn’s disclosure of a 9.1 percent stake last
week after retreating 6.2 percent yesterday.  While Icahn made millions in the 1980s pressuring companies
from USX Corp. to Texaco Inc. to split up or boost dividends and
buybacks, Clorox has already returned 85 percent of its
operating cash to shareholders since 1996, according to Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. A sale of the Oakland, California-based
company would also be almost twice as large as the biggest ever
acquisition in the household products industry, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “It’s not like he’s saying that they’re doing the wrong
thing,” said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business. “They’ve already been doing
what he usually asks people to do. That is unusual. It suggests
that he does think the company is undervalued.”  Susan Gordon, Icahn’s spokeswoman, said he was traveling
and unavailable for comment.  Motorola,  Lions Gate   Icahn, who turns 75 tomorrow, is loading up on Clorox after
the shares of some of his most recent investments declined in
value.  Motorola Inc . and  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp . are
worth less than when his stakes in the companies were first
disclosed, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  He initially revealed his stake in Motorola in January 2007
when it traded at about $75. Icahn pressured Motorola to use all
its cash to repurchase shares and then called on the Schaumburg,
Illinois-based company to separate its mobile-phone business.
The stock fell 50 percent from his first investment through Jan.
3, the day before the spinoff was completed.  Shares of Santa Monica, California-based Lions Gate have
fallen 30 percent since Icahn first reported a stake in May
2006. Icahn and the film studio’s directors have clashed over
board seats, his failed takeover bid for the company and an
ongoing lawsuit claiming he had “secret” arrangements to merge
Lions Gate with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  BEA Systems, Oracle  BEA Systems Inc., after pressure from Icahn, sold to
Redwood City, California-based  Oracle Corp . at $19.38 a share in
April 2008, representing about a 63 percent gain for
shareholders since he first revealed a stake in the San Jose-
based company eight months earlier.  Icahn bought 1 million shares of Clorox’s common stock at
$66.35 apiece and options to purchase 11.5 million shares at $41
each because the company was undervalued based on its focus on
“mega-trends,” a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission said. Icahn may seek talks with management “from
time to time” and supports Clorox’s plan to buy back as many as
11 million shares by the end of June.  The 12.5 million stake Icahn holds in Clorox is profitable
above $63.48 a share, according to the filing and data compiled
by Bloomberg. The stock, which rose as high as $72.43 following
the disclosure, closed at $66.85 yesterday.  ‘Full Sale’  Clorox’s businesses, which include more than 50 products,
are worth $71 a share, New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
John Faucher said in a report to clients yesterday. In a
leveraged buyout, Clorox may fetch $70 to $72 a share,
Faucher estimated.  “It’s difficult to get a full sale of a company with as
many disparate brands as they have,” said  Jack Russo , an
analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis . Icahn will probably urge
Clorox’s managers to sell certain brands, he said.  Dan Staublin, a spokesman for Clorox, declined to comment
beyond the regulatory filing.  Clorox may be worth even less if split into separate units,
according to Zurich-based UBS AG’s Nik Modi.  The company already squeezed about 19.8 cents of earnings
before interest and taxes for every dollar of sales last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s higher than an
average Ebit margin of 16 percent for its closest rivals and
more than any competitor that increased cash from operations for
three consecutive years, the data show.  Energizer Batteries  Energizer Holdings Inc. of St. Louis, the maker of
Energizer batteries and Schick shavers, had an Ebit margin of
16.4 percent, while Princeton, New Jersey-based Church & Dwight
Co., which makes Arm & Hammer detergents and Trojan condoms, had
a margin of 17.2 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Clorox has paid about 85 cents of every dollar of  cash flow 
from operations to shareholders over the past 15 years and
returned more cash to owners than any of its closest competitors
in the past five years, including Cincinnati-based  Procter &
Gamble Co . and  Colgate-Palmolive Co . of  New York , according to
Bernstein’s New York-based analyst Ali Dibadj.  “It’s a profitable company that’s now returning cash to
shareholders,” said Connie Maneaty, an analyst with BMO Capital
Markets in New York who rates the shares “market perform.”
“It’s not as though he is stepping into something that is
terribly run because Clorox is not terribly run.”  ‘Extra Value’  Clorox would be the biggest acquisition of a household
products company on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A bid for Clorox would be almost twice as large as
Newell Co.’s $6 billion purchase, including assumed debt, of
Rubbermaid Inc. in 1999. Clorox, which said almost 90 percent of
its brands are No. 1 or No. 2 by market share and are sold in
more than 100 countries, has equity and net debt of $11.2
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Icahn “is a catalyst for getting a takeover bid,” the
University of Chicago’s Kaplan said. “He’s investing in
companies where he thinks there’s extra value, so that might be
attractive to an acquirer.”  The company’s size may leave London- and Rotterdam-based  Unilever NV , the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods maker,
and P&G, the world’s largest consumer-products company, as the
only buyers large enough to make a bid, according to Peter Sorrentino, who helps oversee $14.4 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, and owns Clorox shares.  ‘Growing or Dying’  “Clorox would make sense for big players such as a
Unilever or P&G,” he said. “It’s a matter of growing or
dying.”  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Emergency Medical
Services Corp ., the largest U.S. operator of ambulance services
and provider of emergency-room doctors, agreed to be acquired by
New York-based private-equity firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC
in a leveraged buyout valued at about $3.2 billion, including
net debt and transaction costs.  Stockholders of EMS will receive $64 a share in cash, the
companies said in a statement yesterday. The shares retreated 11
percent as the purchase price was less than some investors
projected. The Greenwood Village, Colorado-based company had
surged 31 percent since Dec. 13, the day before EMS said it was
looking at strategic alternatives.    General Electric Co . of Fairfield, Connecticut, agreed to
buy the well-support division of Aberdeen, Scotland-based  John
Wood Group Plc  for about $2.8 billion, adding equipment that
helps extract more oil and gas from mature fields. The
transaction may close later this year, with the approval of John
Wood holders, GE said in a statement.    EchoStar Corp ., the Englewood, Colorado-based provider of
television set-top boxes and satellite services, agreed to buy  Hughes Communications Inc . of Germantown, Maryland, for about
$1.8 billion, including net debt.  There have been 2,877 deals announced globally in all
industries this year, totaling $238.9 billion, a 14 percent
increase from the $209.6 billion in the same period in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Rabil in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 