-- 
Tiger Brands Buys Powdered Food Group For $184 Million to Expand Presence

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-02-15T14:55:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/tiger-brands-says-it-agreed-to-buy-davita-trading-for-185-million-in-cash.html
  Tiger Brands Ltd ., South Africa’s
largest food company, agreed to buy powdered seasoning and
beverages group Davita Trading Ltd. for about 1.35 billion rand
($184 million) in cash to expand its presence in  Africa .  Davita, a closely held company based in Johannesburg,
operates in 28 African and Middle Eastern nations, and last year
earned 99 percent of its revenue from exports, Tiger said in a
statement today. The deal is subject to approval from
competition authorities and isn’t expected to close before April
1, the company said.  Tiger Brands  is following other South African companies
expanding into faster-growing African markets, including
Standard Bank Group Ltd. and retailer  Massmart Holdings Ltd ., to
compensate for slower domestic growth. Tiger Brands, which makes
most of its sales in  South Africa , said  consumer spending  in
Africa’s largest economy continues to be “impacted by low
levels of job creation and a shrinking labor market.”  The acquisition increase Tiger’s presence in Africa, where
of Davita’s distribution network will provide new opportunities
for growth, Tiger said. Davita posted turnover of 567 million
rand during the 12 months to Feb. 28, according to the
statement.  Tiger’s operating margins are likely to remain under
pressure, even as the trading environment improves in the second
half, the company said in a separate statement today. “Reduced
operating debt levels and continuing low interest rates are
expected to impact positively on the results for 2011.”  Shares in Tiger fell 1.3 percent to 180.53 rand at 4:36
p.m. in Johannesburg, extending the decline so far this year to
6.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at   vwessels@bloomberg.net  