-- 
Tighter Rules, Lawsuits Worry Australian Directors, Report Says

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-02-15T02:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/tighter-rules-lawsuits-worry-australian-directors-report-says.html
Tighter regulations and a rise in
class-action lawsuits are among the biggest concerns of
Australian company directors this year, according to a report
commissioned by the law firm Mallesons Stephen Jaques.  An online survey in December of 125 directors representing
more than 300 organizations found that 79 percent of respondents
said financial reporting compliance and disclosure was of
greatest concern and that regulatory reform has been carried out
in a piecemeal fashion.  “Ridiculous and meaningless governance and reporting
requirements,” were the types of comments received that
captured the frustration expressed by directors, according to
the study’s authors, Meredith Paynter and Tim Bednall, Sydney-
based partners at Mallesons.  Australian regulators and politicians, like their
counterparts in the U.S. and Europe, are pressing for tighter
controls and overhauls of rules governing the financial system
in a bid to prevent a repeat of the 2008 global recession, when
credit markets were paralyzed following the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc . in the U.S.  The Australian Securities & Investment Commission, the
country’s stock market regulator, didn’t immediately respond to
a request for comment.  Inadequate, or misleading disclosure of material
information is often cited as the reason for filing a class
action, or a group, lawsuit on behalf of shareholders, who claim
they suffered losses because a stock declined in value,
according to the report.  Class-Action Lawsuits  Nufarm Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest supplier of farm chemicals,
was accused last month in two lawsuits filed on behalf of
shareholders of providing misleading profit forecasts and debt
levels.  More than a third of the respondents in the survey said
they have been involved in an organization that has given
attention to class-action issues in the previous 12 months.  “Directors are having to turn their minds to addressing
actual and potential class-action risks,” the report’s authors
said. “We expect that this is a trend that will continue to
accelerate.”  Mallesons said it commissioned the survey to gain a better
understanding of the issues and challenges facing directors. The
law firm hired Lewers Research, an Australian company, to
conduct the survey. Survey recipients were asked to respond to a
variety of multiple-choice and free-form questions. Neither the
directors nor the companies who responded to the survey are
named in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  