-- 
World’s Largest English Daily Publisher Said to Weigh India IPO

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-16T06:51:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/times-publisher-bennett-coleman-said-to-plan-india-ipo-in-next-two-years.html
Billionaire Indu Jain’s Bennett,
Coleman & Co. plans to give  stock options  to employees in
preparation for a potential initial public offering in  India  in
the next two years, said three people with direct knowledge of
the matter.  Some senior staff at the Mumbai-based publisher of the
Times of India and Economic Times were told about the stock
options last week, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified because there hasn’t been a formal announcement.
Bennett, Coleman Chief Executive Officer Ravindra Dhariwal
yesterday declined to comment.  An IPO by the publisher of the world’s largest English
daily would allow investors to tap revenue growth in Indian
newspapers even as U.S. and European rivals face declines in
advertising sales. The Asian nation’s newspaper market, which
has more readers than the  U.S. population , may expand 6.8
percent annually, PricewaterhouseCoopers forecast last year.  “Overall media spends have been pretty buoyant” in India,
Chennai-based Aashish Upganlawar, an analyst at Spark Capital
Advisors Pte., said by telephone today. “As people spend more
on consumption like automobiles, education and real estate, we
are looking at higher spends in the smaller towns too.”  Bennett, Coleman may compensate employees with cash if the
shares aren’t listed by Dec. 31, 2015, according to an internal
document obtained by Bloomberg News. The options, which offer
employees the right to buy shares at 446 rupees ($9.80) each,
will vest over four years from the date of the grant, it said.  Indian Newspapers  India’s newspaper publishing market, which has 356 million
readers, may expand 6.8 percent annually to $4.1 billion by 2014,
PwC said in a report last year. The  Times of India  has 7 million
readers, it estimated.  U.S. newspaper circulations continued to decline in the six
months through September, with the average daily circulation for
635 newspapers falling 5 percent from a year earlier, according
to Audit Bureau of Circulations data released in October. The
Wall Street Journal had the highest weekday circulation of 2.06
million, while  USA Today  was second at 1.83 million and New York
Times was No. 3 with about 876,600, it said.    New York Times Co ., publisher of the namesake newspaper and
the International Herald Tribune, on Feb. 3 reported a 26
percent decline in profit for the fourth quarter as print
advertising and circulation revenue shrank.    Blackstone Group LP , the world’s biggest private-equity
firm, in April said it planned to invest 2.25 billion rupees in
Jagran Media Network Pvt. to benefit from a surge in readership
in India. A unit of Jagran Media prints the Hindi-language
 Dainik Jagran , the nation’s most-read daily with 16.3 million
readers, according to PwC.  The Times of India is the world’s largest broadsheet
English daily and the group’s  Economic Times  is the second-
largest financial newspaper, according to the  website  of the
company’s Times Internet affiliate. Bennett, Coleman also has
television, radio and advertising assets.  Jain’s net worth is $3.1 billion, according to a Forbes
ranking in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  