-- 
Import Prices in U.S. Rose 1.5% in January, Led by Fuels, Food

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-15T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/import-prices-in-u-s-rose-1-5-in-january-led-by-fuels-food.html
The cost of goods imported into the
U.S. rose more than forecast in January, boosted by higher
prices for commodities such as fuels and food.  The 1.5 percent increase in the import-price index followed
a revised 1.2 percent gain in December, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington . Economists projected a 0.8 percent
increase for January, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. Excluding food and fuel, import prices
climbed 0.6 percent.  A weaker dollar along with rising demand from emerging
markets such as Brazil and China have pushed up prices of oil,
food and building materials. With joblessness at 9 percent, U.S.
companies have limited ability to pass along higher costs to
consumers, one reason why the  Federal Reserve  says it plans to
stick to its program of buying assets through mid-year.  “The pass-through, certainly from commodities to core
consumer prices, is pretty small,”  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief
economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York , said before the report.
“From the Fed’s perspective, inflation expectations are the
main channel through which higher commodity prices can lead to
higher inflation, and inflation expectations are pretty tame.”  Projections for gains in January import prices in the
Bloomberg News survey of 53 economists ranged from 0.2 percent
to 1.5 percent.  From a year earlier, import prices increased 5.3 percent in
January, compared with a 5.1 percent gain in December. Import
prices were forecast to rise 4.4 percent in January from a year
earlier, according to the survey median.  Petroleum Costs  The cost of imported petroleum rose 3.4 percent in January
from the prior month and gained 18.5 percent over the past four
months.  Excluding all fuels, import prices were up 0.8 percent from
a year earlier.  Prices of imported food increased rose 2.6 percent last
month, and were up 14.8 percent from a year earlier.  Costs of imported automobiles, parts and engines rose 0.5
percent from the prior month, the largest monthly gain since
December 2007. Prices of  consumer goods  excluding vehicles
climbed 0.3 percent after no change.  Imported capital goods prices were up 0.2 percent.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Producer prices are due
tomorrow and the consumer-price index on Feb. 17.  An  unemployment rate  that’s held above 9 percent since May
2009 is also restraining labor costs. Persistent joblessness and
a declining inflation rate prompted Fed policy makers on Nov. 3
to announce a plan to purchase of $600 billion in  Treasury
securities  by the end of June to bring down long-term borrowing
costs.  Dollar Weakens  Since reaching a one-year high on June 7, the dollar has
fallen about 8.1 percent against a trade-weighted basket of
major currencies, making imported goods more expensive.    Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc ., which owns and operates quick-
serve Mexican restaurants across the U.S., is seeing its costs
for imported tomatoes, green peppers and tomatillos rise, along
with beef and cheese. Still, the company has been reluctant to
raise prices.  “Commodity inflation has continued to push our food costs
higher in 2011 already, and we expect continued inflationary
pressure on many of our ingredients,” said John R. Hartung,
chief financial officer at Denver-based Chipotle in a Feb. 10
earnings teleconference. “We plan to hold off on any menu-
pricing decisions until later in the year, which will allow us
to see how inflation plays out on a sustained basis and allow us
to see how consumers react to price increases from other
restaurants and grocers.”  Goods From  China   The cost of goods from China rose 0.3 percent in January,
while those from Japan increased 0.4 percent, today’s report
showed. Goods from Latin America climbed 2.2 percent, and those
from the European Union increased 1 percent. Prices of Canadian
imports increased 2.8 percent, and goods from  Mexico  were up 1.2
percent.  U.S. export prices increased 1.2 percent in January after
rising 0.6 percent in the previous month, today’s figures
showed. Prices of farm exports advanced 3.2 percent, while those
of non-farm goods increased 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  