-- 
Mindich's Music Valentine; Eveillard's Rembrandt Embrace: Scene Last Night

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-02-15T17:13:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/mindich-s-music-valentine-eveillard-s-rembrandt-embrace-scene-last-night.html
Making the right Valentine’s Day
plan was easy for the chief executive of Eton Park Capital
Management,  Eric Mindich .  He brought his wife, Stacey, to the Valentine’s Day Benefit
at  Lincoln Center  Theater last night. The evening combined a
concert by the Tony Award-winning Polish-Brazilian crooner Paulo Szot and a candle-lit dinner amid red poppies. The dress code:
“Something Red.”  The crowd included John C. Whitehead, former Goldman Sachs
banker and currently founding chairman of the Lower Manhattan
Developent Corporation; actor Sam Waterston; playwright John Guare; Whitney Museum Co-Chairman Brooke Neidich.  Also on hand was Bartlett Sher, who directed Szot in the
Tony-winning revival of “South Pacific” at Lincoln Center.  On March 15 previews begin at the theater for “War
Horse,” about an English boy who leaves home in search of his
steed.  Hat Trick  Some celebrities need stylists; others need a good
cleaning.  Rembrandt got the latter for his 1658 “Self-Portrait,” the
results of which were unveiled last night at the opening of
“Rembrandt and His School: Masterworks from the Frick and Lugt
Collections.”  The exhibition presents work from the collections of Henry
Clay Frick, who was drawn to Rembrandt’s paintings, and Frederik
Johannes Lugt, who favored the drawings.  The “Self-Portrait,” with multiple layers of varnish
removed, has the spotlight in the Oval Room at the Frick
Collection on Fifth Avenue.  “What’s different is the legibility of the background and
the way the hat is much more clearly defined,” said Frick
Director Anne Poulet of the portrait. “You can now see all the
nuances of light; the fabric, the hands and the face, they’re
all glowing.”  Downstairs visitors put their noses right up to the
drawings -- studies of a dog lying down, a woman having her hair
combed.  “There is a simplicity to it,” said Jean-Marie Eveillard,
a trustee at the Frick and a senior adviser to First Eagle
Investment Management LLC. He and his wife, Elizabeth Eveillard,
a consultant and former senior managing director at Bear Stearns
& Co., are principal sponsors of the exhibition.  Some guests found something to be desired in the cleaned
self-portrait. “I must say, he looks very old for a 52-year-
old,” said Britt Tidelius, an art critic.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story: Amanda Gordon at
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 