-- 
ING May Return to Profit in Fourth-Quarter, Post U.S. Insurance Writedown

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-02-15T11:39:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/ing-may-return-to-profit-in-fourth-quarter-post-u-s-insurance-writedown.html
  ING Groep NV , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, may say it returned to profit in the
fourth quarter, even as it took a writedown in the U.S.
insurance unit to prepare for an initial public offering.  The bank and insurer will probably report net income of 596
million euros ($806 million), according to the average estimate
of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. ING had a loss of 712
million euros in the year-earlier period when it set aside money
for extra payments to the Netherlands after receiving state aid.  ING is preparing to sell its insurance operations, a
condition for gaining European Union approval for the bailout,
and is considering two IPOs, one led by  Europe  and one in the
U.S. The firm in November announced steps to bring accounting
for its variable annuities business at the U.S. insurance unit
in line with peers. This will lead to a writedown of about 1
billion euros before tax in the fourth quarter, the Amsterdam-
based firm said at the time.  “The good news is that this final cleansing session in
U.S. insurance will increase transparency and allow the market
to focus on underlying developments going forward, which we
expect to improve,” Lemer Salah, an Amsterdam-based analyst at
SNS Securities, wrote in a report dated Feb. 11. Salah has a
“buy” recommendation on the stock.  ING received 10 billion euros from the government in 2008,
repaying half in December 2009. The firm also got a guarantee on
U.S. mortgage-related assets.  The company is scheduled to report earnings tomorrow before
the market opens. The following table shows analysts’ estimates
and year-earlier figures in millions of euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  