-- 
InterContinental Hotels Profit Gains, Aided by Travel Recovery

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-02-15T07:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/intercontinental-hotels-profit-gains-on-franchises-asia-travel-gains.html
  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc ,
the owner of the Holiday Inn brand, said profit rose 38 percent
in 2010 as business travel recovered.  Net income climbed to $293 million from $213 million in
2009, the Denham, England-based company said in a statement
today. That compares with the $291.4 million average estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales gained 5.9 percent to
$1.63 billion.  Business and leisure travel is recovering after companies
and consumers cut spending during the global recession. Revenue
per available room in the hotel industry rose 21.3 percent in
the year through December in the Asia Pacific region, and 6.2
percent in the Americas, where InterContinental has most of its
business, according to London-based researcher STR Global.  “We have a high regard for IHG as the leading global hotel
group, with open-ended medium-term expansion potential in terms
of net room growth and with limited capital requirement, as well
as strong brands and a sensible asset-light ownership
structure,” Nigel Hicks, an analyst at  Liberum Capital , said in
a note yesterday. He recommends selling InterContinental shares
after they gained more than 50 percent over the past year.  InterContinental increased the total number of rooms by 0.1
percent last year to almost 650,000. It owns fewer than 20
hotels and gets most of its income from franchising. The company
said it started marketing the sale of its InterContinental New
York Barclay hotel today.  Shareholder Returns  The disposal of InterContinental’s owned hotels and a high
level of cash generation should allow “considerable scope” for
share buybacks and capital returns, Hicks said.  The company plans to pay a full-year dividend of 48 cents a
share, up from 41.4 cents in 2009.  “The industry staged the sharpest recovery in its history,
exceeding all expectations,” Chief Executive Officer Andrew
Cosslett said in the statement. “Our priority is to increase
market share and improve margins in an industry set for strong
growth.”  The Holiday Inn brand renovation helped boost average
revenue per room for the chain in the U.S., InterContinental
said. Refurbishments are almost complete and 91 percent of the
properties are operating under the new standards,
InterContinental said. The company also plans to renovate its
Crowne Plaza brand.  InterContinental shares have risen 12 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 4 billion pounds
($6.4 billion.) That compares with a 1.3 percent decline for
Marriott International Inc. and a 6.9 percent gain for Starwood
Hotels & Resorts Worldwide in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  