-- 
Liquid Robotics Lures BP, Navy, NOAA With Wave-Powered Glider

-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 
2011-02-15T23:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/liquid-robotics-lures-bp-navy-noaa-with-wave-powered-glider.html
The National Oceanographic and
Atmospheric Administration’s  Pacific Marine Environmental Lab 
(PMEL) in  Seattle , which has an annual budget of around $40
million, has monitored the seas using sensors on buoys and boats
for nearly 40 years, a process lead engineer Christian Meinig
describes as slow and expensive. So five years ago, when Meinig
learned about the Wave Glider, a robotic ocean-monitoring device
that can go anywhere on the sea for a year without recharging
its battery, he wanted the lab’s 40 oceanographers to try it
out. “Research ships cost typically $15,000 to $40,000 per day
and of course can do much more than a Wave Glider,” says Meinig.
“However, the Wave Glider gives us a unique tool to bring down
the costs of observations and sample regions of the ocean that
are rarely or never visited by research vessels.”  Unlike other unmanned devices and gliders, which rely on
batteries that eventually lose their charge, the Wave Glider
needs no fuel and captures energy from the environment,
converting wave motion into thrust and harvesting sunlight via
solar panels to provide electricity for sensors. It can be
remotely controlled as well as programmed to travel to a
destination. GPS-enabled electronics transmit data gathered by
the sensors to the operator’s website.  As word of the gliders spread through the oceanography
community, its creator, nonprofit  Jupiter Research Foundation  in
Puako, Hawaii, in 2007 spun off a for-profit company to keep up
with demand:  Liquid Robotics  in Sunnyvale, Calif. Inventor, co-
founder, and Chief Executive Officer Roger Hine, who holds a
master’s in robotics from Stanford, initially thought the
project was “just a fun engineering problem.” Then, he says, the
team realized that converting wave motion directly into
propulsion was an unprecedented -- and potentially lucrative --
way of dealing with the ocean’s No. 1 constraint: its vastness.  PMEL is now outfitting two of Liquid Robotics’ Wave Gliders with
sensors -- the base price is $175,000, plus $45,000 for sensing
equipment -- to study increases in the ocean’s acidity due to  climate change , a problem that threatens the food chain. Many
basic shelled organisms that other marine creatures feed on,
like certain types of plankton, oysters, clams, sea urchins, and
corals, die or are adversely affected. This summer, Meinig says,
PMEL will use the gliders to explore acidity in remote areas of
the ocean around Hawaii. Meinig and his team will assess
performance and determine cost-effectiveness compared with other
gliders, buoys, vessels, and satellites to decide whether to
recommend buying more.  To date, the 45-employee company has sold 50 gliders that have
logged more than 100,000 miles of operations. Besides scientists
drawing on them for ocean acidification data, the U.S. Navy uses
them for security purposes, BP relies on them to monitor water
quality near the defunct Macondo well in the Gulf, and Monterey
Bay Aquarium Research Institute employs them to track algal
bloom toxic to otters off the California coast. Although
maritime security and scientific applications have generated the
most revenue for Liquid Robotics so far, Hine anticipates that
spending by commercial sectors -- specifically petroleum (a $1
trillion industry), wind, and fishing ($200 billion) -- will
soon exceed them. Last year, he says, Liquid Robotics had $7
million in revenue and he expects that to almost double this
year.  By March, Hine says, Liquid Robotics will close its first
venture capital round, which a regulatory filing shows could be
for as much as $23.1 million. Unlike the approximately five
other unmanned glider-makers, which grew out of academia and
depend on government grants to cobble together funding, Liquid
Robotics has the luxury of fine-tuning its technology to win
customers even as the government pulls back on funds, says
Justin Manley, who is responsible for the company’s business
development in scientific and commercial arenas. Hine says
Liquid Robotics is planning to use the venture financing to
expand its field operations and sales and marketing teams to
better support commercial customers. The company is also
developing sales, applications engineering, and product support
partnerships, Hine says. He notes that final assembly will
continue in Sunnyvale; engineering, payload integrations, and
testing will remain in  Hawaii .  The ocean hosts tremendous industries that have a huge need for
maritime data. Last year the oil and gas industry bought $250
million to $300 million worth of unmanned maritime systems; the
Defense Dept. spent $70 million to $100 million to reduce or
eliminate mines, inspect ships, and conduct inspection
surveillance, according to Lindsay Voss, the senior research
analyst of trade group the Association for Unmanned Vehicle
Systems International. That same year, the scientific community
(universities, NOAA, and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, for
example) spent $40 million to $50 million, Voss says. She
expects 4 percent to 6 percent annual revenue growth in the
unmanned maritime systems market over the next decade. “We saw
tremendous interest in whether water in the Gulf was safe, and
gliders and unmanned maritime technology are key tools,” she
says.  For PMEL’s Meinig, Wave Gliders could unlock vast new
territories that will help mankind  better understand
acidification.  “I hope we’ll be able to make discoveries with it
for years to come,” he says.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen A. Frenkel at
 kfrenkel@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  