-- 
Italian Economy Expanded 0.1 %, Less Than Forecast in the Fourth Quarter

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-02-15T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/italian-economy-expanded-0-1-less-than-forecast-in-the-fourth-quarter.html
Italy’s economic growth slowed more
than economists forecast in the fourth quarter, as industrial
output declined, leading the export-led recovery to lose
momentum.  Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent from the previous
quarter, when it climbed 0.3 percent, Rome-based statistics
institute Istat said in a preliminary report today. That was
less than the 0.2 percent median forecast of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The economy expanded 1.3 percent
from a year earlier and 1.1 percent in 2010, Istat added.  Industrial output in the euro-region’s third biggest
economy declined 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter as sales of
Italian goods abroad failed to offset weak domestic demand,
Istat said last week. With an  unemployment rate  close to the
highest level since monthly records began in 2004,  consumer
spending  will not show a “real recovery” until next year,
retailers’ lobby  Confcommercio  said in a Jan. 10  report .  “The GDP rise in the fourth quarter is due to an increase
in the added value of agriculture and services while industrial
production declined,” Istat said in today’s report.  Italy’s recovery from the global recession has been slower
than that of its euro-area partners.  Germany ’s economy, the
region’s biggest, expanded 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter
from the previous three months and 4 percent from a year
earlier, while French GDP grew 0.3 percent on a quarterly basis
and 1.5 from the same period of 2009, separate reports showed
today.  New Forecast  The government led by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  on
Feb. 9 approved a plan to revive economic growth, including
fiscal incentives for small- and medium-sized companies and
proposed changes to the constitution to make doing business
easier. Berlusconi predicted the $2.3 trillion economy will
expand 1.5 percent this year, up from a Sept. 29 projection of
1.3 percent.  Still, political uncertainty may cloud the growth outlook
after prosecutors in Milan filed on Feb. 9 a request for the
premier to stand trial in an underage prostitution case. The
government survived a no-confidence motion by three votes in
December after the defection of Berlusconi’s long-time ally,  Gianfranco Fini , left him scrambling for a working majority.  Istat is scheduled to release final GDP figures for the
fourth quarter including a breakdown of data on March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 