-- 
South African Police Shoot to Quell Ermelo Protest After Rioters Open Fire

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-02-15T16:20:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/live-ammunition-used-by-police-to-quell-protests-in-south-african-township.html
South African police used live
ammunition to quell protests in a township in the northeast
Mpumalanga province after their officers were fired on.  “Police were compelled to respond in the same way as lives
were under threat,” police spokesman Leonard Hlathi, said in an
interview with Johannesburg-based television station eNews
today. Protesters also threw stones, burned tires and attacked a
TV news crew.  Police Commissioner Bheki Cele today sent a team of top-
ranking officials to Wesselton township in Ermelo, where
residents began protesting two days ago over a lack of
government services and jobs. The rioting comes after President  Jacob Zuma  pledged in his Feb. 10 state-of-the-nation speech to
“move faster” to improve services and boost employment for the
one in four people in the country without work.  “The key issue is whether the protests are likely to
spread” and what “are the implications of this ahead of the
municipal elections in May,” Udesh Pillay, an analyst at the
Human Sciences Research Council in  Pretoria , said in an e-mail.
“It may be necessary for the president to intervene directly,
given the tone and content of the state-of-the-nation address.”  A protester was shot and killed in Piet Retief township in
Ermelo, eNews reported, citing police. Hlathi didn’t answer
three calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Protests    South Africa  had a record 111 protests last year about the
lack of services, such as water, roads and housing, according to
Johannesburg-based Municipal IQ, an independent local government
research group.  The ruling  African National Congress  condemned the violence
in an e-mailed statement today and said it “wishes to assure
all South Africans that genuine service-delivery concerns are
receiving urgent attention at the ANC’s highest decision-making
body, the National Executive Committee.”  Dozens of protesters were taken into custody in Ermelo
today after they burned tires and threw stones at vehicles, the
police said in an e-mailed statement. An eNews reporter and
cameraman were injured when demonstrators attacked them, the
broadcaster said.  “While people have the constitutional right to express
their dissatisfaction with any service-delivery issue affecting
them, they need to do so within the boundaries of the law,”
Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 