-- 
Ivory Coast’s Gbagbo Plans Suit Against Citigroup, BNP

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-02-15T18:12:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/ivory-coast-s-gbagbo-plans-to-sue-bnp-paribas-citigroup-units.html
Ivory Coast ’s incumbent President
Laurent Gbagbo will start “judicial proceedings” against the
local units of  BNP Paribas  SA, and  Citigroup Inc . after the
lenders closed their branches in the West African nation.  Gbagbo’s appointed Justice Ministry will take the action
immediately, Ahoua Don Mello, a spokesman for the
administration, said in a statement read on state-owned  Radio
Television Ivoirienne  today. The salaries of government workers
will be paid to other banks, Don Mello added.  Jeffrey French, a London-based spokesman for Citigroup,
declined to comment in an e-mail today. Ilias Catsaros, a
spokesman for Paris-based BNP Paribas, also declined to comment
in an e-mail.  BICICI, BNP Paribas’ unit in  Ivory Coast , said yesterday it
decided to close its branches temporarily because it was no
longer able to guarantee “legal and accounting security” for its
clients, or “physical security for its employees,” according to
a statement published on its website.  Ivory Coast has been gripped by a political crisis since
the electoral commission named  Alassane Ouattara , 69, the winner
of a Nov. 28 presidential election. Gbagbo, 65, refuses to cede
power to him, alleging electoral fraud. The  Central Bank  of West
African States, which includes Ivory Coast, refuses to continue
transactions with Gbagbo’s administration, leading to his
attempts to seize their offices in the country.  The European Union has levied trade and travel bans on
Gbagbo, his supporters, and institutions loyal to him. The
United Nations, U.S., EU and African regional leaders all
recognized Ouattara as the winner of the election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 