-- 
Japanese Stocks Fluctuate as GS Yuasa Advances, Hoya Retreats

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-02-15T02:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/japanese-stocks-fluctuate-as-gs-yuasa-advances-hoya-retreats.html
Japanese stocks fluctuated as
companies that reported or forecast higher earnings rose,
while brokerages cut their investment recommendations on some
shares.  GS Yuasa Corp., a battery maker, jumped 5.4 percent
after the company boosted its profit forecast. Sumitomo Metal
Mining Co., a copper producer, advanced 2.3 percent after
copper climbed to a record yesterday in  London . Hoya Corp., a
maker of optical glass, fell 2.6 percent after Credit Suisse
Group AG cut its rating on the company.  Copper prices are rising because “there’s strong demand
for infrastructure development in emerging nations,
especially in China, so related companies will get a boost,”
said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees about $450 million in
Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little changed at
10,725.82 at the midday trading break in Tokyo. The broader
Topix index rose 0.2 percent to 960.76, with four stocks
advancing for every three that retreated. The Topix’s seven-
day climb is the longest winning streak since a 13-day run
that ended Aug. 4, 2009.  The Topix has gained 5.6 percent this month, the most
among the major Asia-Pacific indexes. That has driven the
average price of stocks in the gauge to 16.3 times estimated
earnings, the highest level since August.  ‘Market is Overheated’  “Supported by corporate earnings, the stock market has
been strong, but I see the market is overheated,” Ichiyoshi
Investment Management’s Akino said.  GS Yuasa jumped 5.4 percent to 620 yen, the most in the
Nikkei. The company boosted its full-year net income forecast
25 percent to 10 billion yen ($120 million), and it increased
the planned full-year dividend to 8 yen a share from 7 yen.  Tokyo Tatemono Co., a property developer, leapt 4.1
percent to 406 yen. The company said it expects operating
profit to rise 3.9 percent to 25 billion yen this year.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Barclays Capital  increased their
share price estimates on the company.  Sumitomo Metal Mining climbed 2.3 percent to 1,515 yen,
set for the highest close since November 2009. Mitsui & Co.,
which counts commodities as its largest source of profit,
increased 2.5 percent to 1,539 yen. Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s
No. 1 commodities trader, advanced 1.2 percent to 2,379 yen.
Trading companies were the biggest support for the Topix
among the 33 industry groups in the index.  Copper Rises  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum climbed 1.8
percent yesterday, the most this month. Copper for delivery
in three months increased to a record of $10,168.50 a metric
ton in London yesterday after a report showed that imports of
the metal rose in January in  China , the world’s largest
copper consumer.  Softbank Corp., Japan’s second-biggest mobile-phone
operator by market value, climbed 3.4 percent to 3,160 yen
and was the most-actively traded stock by value in Japan.
China Mobile Ltd., Vodafone Group Plc and Bharti Airtel Ltd.
and Softbank will cooperate on the development of China’s TD-
LTE technology standard for so-called fourth-generation
mobile services, China Mobile made the announcement in a PR
Newswire statement from Barcelona dated yesterday.  China Inflation  China’s consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in January from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on its
website at 11 a.m. today. Producer prices climbed 6.6 percent
from a year earlier, according to the statement.  Also today, the  Bank of Japan  is scheduled to release
its latest policies following a two-day meeting.  Hoya fell 2.6 percent to 1,950 yen after Credit Suisse
cut the company’s rating to “underperform” from
“neutral.”  T&D Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest publicly traded life
insurer, dropped 1.4 percent to 2,430 yen. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analyst Takanori Miyoshi lowered his rating to
“sell” from “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 