-- 
Jobless Waiter Can Seek Ex-Wife's London Home After Winning Divorce Appeal

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-15T17:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/jobless-waiter-can-seek-ex-wife-s-london-home-after-winning-divorce-appeal.html
A U.K. appeals court ruled for the
first time that the fairness of a divorce ruling made in another
European country can be challenged in Britain, in a case filed
by an unemployed Italian waiter seeking his wealthy ex-wife’s
London home.  Francesco Traversa can sue his former spouse for ownership
of her U.K. residence and a cash payment, even though he was
ordered by an Italian court to vacate the home in 2008 as part
of their divorce, the Court of Appeal in London said yesterday,
in a ruling which described his ex-wife, Carla Freddi, as
“affluent.”  “He’s very pleased that he’s been given permission to
bring the case forward, but of course he’s got a long way to
go,” Traversa’s lawyer,  Frank Feehan , said in a phone
interview. He said his client, 53, who is originally from
southern Italy, has lived in  England  since the late 1980s.  The Valentine’s Day ruling follows a landmark U.K. Supreme
Court decision in October that gave greater weight to pre-
nuptial agreements in divorce settlements. Last month, a British
millionaire was separately ordered to increase a payout to his
ex-wife to 8 million pounds ($12.9 million), from 5 million
pounds, in a case where a judge said divorces involving wealthy
couples are having an “unfortunate” effect on U.K. family law.  Freddi’s lawyer, Peter Callaghan, didn’t immediately return
a call for comment.  U.K. lawsuits over foreign divorces can be filed when one
spouse wins an allegedly unfair separation abroad against an ex
with a “significant” connection to Britain. Freddi, whose
family is from northern Italy, separated from Traversa in 2003
and got the divorce five years later from a court in Brescia,  Italy , according to the ruling.  Non-European Countries  Before yesterday’s ruling, permission to file such cases
mainly stemmed from divorces in non-European countries,
particularly those that provide less protection for women, said
 Suzanne Todd , a family-law lawyer with  Withers LLP , who isn’t
involved in the case.  Traversa and Freddi, who have two children together, wed in
1987 after agreeing to keep their assets separate in case of
divorce, according to the ruling. Freddi’s parents sought to
“protect her fortune, present and future,” from Traversa, who
came from a “modest” background, the ruling said.  Traversa didn’t participate in the Italian divorce case and
hasn’t paid child support, according to the ruling. Freddi is
seeking 67,000 euros ($90,000) in support payments.  “We’ll have to wait and see if the English court looks at
the property regime as unfair,” Todd said. “It would seem
pretty unfair for someone who decides to not participate in the
proceedings in Italy to get another bite at the cherry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 