-- 
JPMorgan, With a Nod to Meredith Whitney, Calls Muni Holdings Diversified

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-02-15T15:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/jpmorgan-in-nod-to-whitney-says-its-diversified-muni-holdings-limit-risk.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s municipal
bond holdings are diversified enough to handle a likely increase
in defaults, according to the firm’s head of commercial banking.  “We are not worried about our portfolio, despite what I do
think is going to be an increase on a national basis on
defaults,” said Todd Maclin, chief executive officer of
JPMorgan’s commercial bank, during a presentation today for
investors in the New York-based company.  Among the audience was  Meredith Whitney , the independent
analyst who stirred controversy by predicting municipal defaults
will total hundreds of billions of dollars. Maclin presented
data on how JPMorgan’s $9.7 billion municipal portfolio is split
up to allay investor concern.  About 26 percent is concentrated in local  government bonds ,
22 percent is invested in primary and secondary education,
14 percent is in state governments and the rest is split among
higher education, utilities, airports and other investments,
according to Maclin’s presentation.  “I put this chart together for you, girlfriend,” he told
Whitney, drawing laughter from the audience and the analyst. She
declined to comment in an interview. JPMorgan ranks second by
assets among U.S. lenders after Bank of America Corp.  Whitney, a banking analyst and chief executive officer of
Meredith Whitney Advisory Group, predicted on Dec. 19 during
CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” that states’ fiscal stress would
spark 50 to 100 sizable defaults.  Her analysis drew criticism from investors and state
officials. California Treasurer Bill Lockyer called the
prediction “apocalyptic arm-waving.” The National League of
Cities’ research director cited her “stunning lack of
understanding.” William H. Gross, who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said he
doesn’t subscribe to her theory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  