-- 
MKB Says Hungarian Inflation May Slow, Rates to Stay Unchanged

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-02-15T11:10:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/mkb-says-hungarian-inflation-may-slow-rates-to-stay-unchanged.html
Zsolt Kondrat, a Budapest-based
economist at MKB Bank Zrt., the Hungarian unit of  Bayerische
Landesbank , comments on Hungarian inflation and  interest rates .  Inflation slowed to 4 percent in January from 4.7 percent
in December, the statistics office in Budapest said today.  Kondrat made the comments in an e-mail to clients.  On the January inflation figure:  “The surprise was due to lower prices of food, lower
administered prices and significantly lower alcohol and tobacco
prices.  “Though the difference between our forecast and the fact
was much smaller, it still bears more importance that industrial
products and market services inflation was also lower than we
expected.”  On the outlook for inflation:  “As a consequence of today’s data, we lowered our inflation
forecast. Inflation is expected to stay mostly between 3.5
percent and 4 percent during the year before falling to 3.2
percent in December due to base effect. We forecast average
inflation at 3.7 percent for 2011.  “There are sizable upward inflation risks as the
government’s intended structural reforms in the area of public
transportation and drugs can easily add around 0.5 percentage
points to inflation. However,  core inflation  and market services
inflation still does not show any sign of underlying
inflationary pressure in the economy. "  On the outlook for interest rates:  “In spite of looming inflationary threats from reforms and
food and energy prices we still do not expect more rate hikes
from the central bank. This view is also reinforced by the fact
that the central bank’s November inflation forecast, which was
accurate in the fourth quarter of 2010, envisaged 4.5 percent
average inflation in Q1 2011, a figure that now seems too
pessimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon at   zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 