-- 
King May Not Get Chance to Wield Power Over Banks Under New Law

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-02-16T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/king-s-term-as-boe-governor-to-end-before-broader-regulatory-power-enacted.html
Bank of England Governor Mervyn King
may not get the chance to exercise new powers over banks under
legislation to be introduced later this year by Chancellor of
the Exchequer George Osborne.  Osborne’s bill abolishing the U.K.’s financial regulator
and handing most of its authority to the central bank in  London 
is due to take effect in 2013 as King’s second five-year term as
governor expires.  The almost three-year-long process stems from the need to
consult industry and lawmakers, Treasury spokesman said. The
timetable reflects differing views between King and the
government on issues including the amount of capital banks
should hold, said three people familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the issue hasn’t been made
public. The Bank of England declined to comment.  “For something the government said was so important, they
are not treating as if it is. It seems very strange,” said
Steven Fielding, a professor at the Center for British Politics
at Nottingham University. “Unless there is some kind of other
reason, it’s very surprising.”  King is due speak on the outlook for inflation and economic
growth at 10:30 a.m. in London, when the central bank publishes
its quarterly  Inflation Report . Data yesterday showed  consumer-
price growth  accelerated to 4 percent in January, twice the
bank’s 2 percent target.  Independence  Osborne begins the second stage of consultations on the
 Financial Regulation Bill  this week, and it’s due to be
submitted to lawmakers after the summer recess following another
round of scrutiny. Final passage would come in late 2012.  By taking more than twice as long to become law as the bill
that gave the Bank of England its independence more than a
decade ago, the political wrangling would deprive King of the
mantle of being the only one of the world’s major central
bankers with control of both monetary policy and financial
regulation.  In 1997, former Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who was
chancellor at the time, proposed handing the bank powers to set
interest rates and stripping it of supervisory and some
financial stability powers it is now due to regain.  ‘Flawed’  King and Osborne began working in June, a month after the
coalition government took office, on the overhaul of financial
regulation that would give the Bank of England more power than
it has ever had in its 317-year history.  In the May 2010 coalition agreement, the Conservatives and
Liberal Democrats listed banking as their top priority after the
budget and taxes, saying the existing regulatory system is
“fundamentally flawed and needs to be replaced.”  Under their plan, the governor will preside over two
panels: one that sets  interest rates  and another that will
supervise banks, insurers and investment firms.  In its current schedule, the government would introduce the
bill in the House of Commons in the second half of 2011 and be
enacted by late 2012. The new set-up would be in place by early
2013, months before King’s term ends June 30, 2013.  While the legislation makes its way through parliament,
King will preside over a shadow committee for financial-
stability policy -- whose members yet haven’t been appointed --
while the Financial Services Authority will continue to regulate
individual institutions. The central bank already has resolution
powers to take action when a bank fails.  Capital Clash  King was the first senior British policy maker to conclude
in 2008 that the financial system was facing potential
insolvency, not merely a crisis of liquidity, and resisted calls
to flood the markets with cash. That stance at the time rankled
government officials, the people say, and his insistence on
going further now continues to cause consternation.  More recently, King argued in a speech in October that
proposed global standards for the amount of capital banks should
hold are “insufficient to prevent another crisis” and that
they should use profits “to rebuild capital rather than pay out
higher dividends and compensation.”  A paper whose authors include Monetary Policy Committee
member David Miles and released on the central bank’s website
last month calculated that doubling the amount of capital banks
hold would have a “small long-run impact on the cost faced by
bank customers.”  Political Comments  Beyond the realm of policy, King’s private comments about
Osborne and Prime Minister David Cameron during the 2010
election campaign were disclosed in a cable from the U.S.
ambassador in London published by Wikileaks.org in December.  U.S. Ambassador Louis Susman wrote to Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton citing a Feb. 16 meeting with the governor,
according to the cable. During the discussions, King, 62,
“expressed great concern about Conservative leaders’ lack of
experience.”  By 2013, the new governor will gain more combined power
over domestic financial regulation and monetary policy than any
other central banker.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet’s
attempts to navigate the euro zone out of a sovereign-debt
crisis are constrained by the need to defer to domestic
regulators on bank oversight.  While U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke gets
increased power over non-bank financial firms under the Dodd-
Frank law, he will have to coordinate with other agencies that
regulate securities firms and the insurance industry.  Regulatory Change  The FSA, set up in 1997 to oversee the financial industry,
will split in two under the new law. Most of its regulatory
powers will move to the bank under Hector Sants, the FSA’s
current chief executive officer. He’ll become one of the bank’s
deputy governors and chief executive of a new  Prudential
Regulatory Authority , which will regulate all deposit-taking
institutions, insurers, investment banks and clearing houses.
The PRA will operate under a board chaired by King’s successor.  A separate Consumer Protection and Markets Authority will
be created to look after customers, regulate exchanges and take
over the FSA’s authority to impose penalties for market abuse.  The government plan will also create a new Financial Policy
Committee with the governor as chairman that would address risks
to market stability. Bank of England executives will make up the
majority of the committee, with other members coming from other
regulatory bodies and the markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  