-- 
Korean Won Recovers Loss as China Inflation Data Damps Tightening Concern

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 
2011-02-15T06:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/korean-won-slips-on-concern-china-tightening-to-hurt-exports-bonds-steady.html
South  Korea ’s won rose, rebounding
from initial losses, after slower-than-expected Chinese
inflation tempered concern monetary policy will be tightened
aggressively in the nation’s biggest export market.  The currency earlier declined as foreign investors sold
more Korean stocks than they bought, as they have on all but one
of the last five days. Consumer prices in China rose 4.9 percent
in January from a year earlier following a 4.6 percent gain the
previous month, data showed today. Economists expected a 5.4
percent jump, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “The won recovered following the Chinese inflation data,
which showed lower-than-anticipated price pressures,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “With inflation in China not as high as feared,
markets are betting that the PBOC will not have to hike rates as
aggressively and China’s slowdown will be mild. This is good
news for the won as  China  is a major export market for Korea.”  The won rose 0.3 percent to close at 1,119.25 per dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched a
one-month low of 1,128.70 last week, when the People’s Bank of
China raised its benchmark  interest rates  for the third time in
four months to help counter inflation.    South Korea ’s exports surged 46 percent last month from a
year earlier and China, the world’s second-biggest economy,
accounted for 15 percent of shipments, official data show.
Chinese trade figures released yesterday showed the nation’s
imports jumped 51 percent in January, the most since March.  South Korea’s benchmark five-year bonds rose. The yield on
the 4 percent note due September 2015 slid three basis points to
4.45 percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange. The rate
reached 4.51 percent last week, the highest level since the note
began trading in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 