-- 
NYC Pension Managers May Face Firing for Badmouthing

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-02-15T22:22:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/new-york-city-s-pension-managers-may-face-firing-for-badmouthing-benefits.html
Newly hired managers for part of  New
York  City’s $108 billion pension might be fired if they
criticize workers’ benefits, according to a trustee of the
police retirement fund.  Joseph Alejandro said he proposed that the fund’s board be
able to dismiss future managers who disparage a public pension,
“its beneficiaries or any trustees or employees.” The
Employees’ Retirement System is also considering the provision,
he said.  Blackstone Group LP ’s chief strategist,  Byron Wien ,
strained relations with New York unions last year when he said
benefits are “too generous.”  “The intent isn’t to chill analysts who provide legitimate
information,” Alejandro said in an interview yesterday. “We
are trying to prevent money managers from taking positions that
are essentially opinions based on political viewpoints.”  Unions across the U.S., including the American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees, are rallying members
and lobbying lawmakers to counter what they call an assault on
recession-weary working people by governments trying to lower
costs. New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who presents his 2012
budget this week, has made trimming pension expenses a priority
for his third term.  The mayor, confronting a $2.4 billion deficit in a $67.5
billion spending plan for the fiscal year beginning July 1, has
proposed that new workers must reach 65 to collect full
benefits. He would also increase worker pension contributions
and end an annual $12,000 payment to retired police and
firefighters that costs at least $600 million a year.  Freedom of Speech  Restricting pension-fund managers’ comments wouldn’t run
afoul of freedom-of-speech rights under the U.S. Constitution,
said Charles Sims, a First Amendment lawyer at Proskauer LLP, a
New York-based firm. The amendment applies only to government
actions, he said.  “Even considering a public pension board to be part of
government, it still can require confidentiality or other speech
restrictions in a contract,” Sims said.  The proposal is being reviewed by the  New York City 
comptroller’s office, which oversees pensions, said Alejandro,
treasurer of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association. Michael Loughran, a spokesman for Comptroller  John Liu , declined to
comment. Harry Nespoli, chairman of the Municipal Labor
Committee, didn’t return a message left with his office.  No Discussions  The Fire Department Pension Fund is also considering the
provision, Alejandro said.  Tom Butler, a spokesman for Steve Cassidy, firefighters-
union president, denied that his union is in discussions about
such language. Zita Allen, spokeswoman for Lillian Roberts,
executive director of District Council 37, the city’s largest
municipal union, declined to offer an immediate comment.  “There have been no such discussions” with trustees of
the  United Federation of Teachers , said Richard Riley, a
spokesman for the union’s president, Michael Mulgrew. A
telephone call to the office of the Board of Education
Retirement System wasn’t answered.  The city’s five pensions had $108.6 billion of assets at
the  end of November , according to the comptroller’s office.  Nycers, with more than $38 billion, paid $140.6 million in
fees to investment managers in the year that ended June 30,
according to its website. The $22 billion  Police Pension Fund 
paid $80 million.  Fees Paid  The  Teachers’ Retirement System , with $39 billion of
assets, paid about $100 million in management fees in the
previous fiscal year, the latest publicly available figure. The
 Board of Education Retirement System , with $2.6 billion of
retirement assets for administrators and non-teacher school
workers, paid about $9.8 million. The $7.2 billion Fire
Department Pension Fund doesn’t post pension information on its
website.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, has
been trying to mend relations with the pensions after Wien’s
comments. Its president,  Tony James , met in May with
representatives from one of the five plans that have $750
million committed to the firm. He also sent a letter addressing
Wien’s remarks to the head of the New York City Employees’
Retirement System. Blackstone’s spokesman,  Peter Rose , declined
to comment.  Best Returns  “Investment decisions should be focused on how to generate
the best possible returns,” said  Marc LaVorgna , a spokesman for
the mayor. “The decisions should be agnostic in almost all
respects.”  The city’s annual pension costs, now about $7.5 billion,
will increase to about $9 billion by 2016, from $1.4 billion in
2002, the mayor has said. That’s about 12 percent of New York
City’s budget for next year, according to the November spending
plan.  Pension and benefit costs are “simply not sustainable”
and the mayor and labor leaders must compromise on changes to
the  retirement plan , Council Speaker  Christine Quinn  said today
in her State of the City speech.  Blackstone’s dust-up with the city’s pensions came as the
firm diversified beyond private equity, its third-largest
business at the end of last year by assets under management.
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Schwarzman ’s push has meant
hiring personnel not in the buyout business, whose clients
include pension funds.  It would be difficult for a pension fund to terminate its
current commitments to a manager because of the long-term nature
of the private-equity asset class, said Andrew Wright, a partner
at  Kirkland & Ellis LLP  in New York.  Illiquid Securities  “It’s one thing for an investor in a hedge fund to submit
a redemption request,” he said. “It’s another thing for an
investor to seek to cash out of a closed-ended private equity
fund that makes investments into illiquid securities over a 10-
year period.”  Efforts to cut retirement costs have spawned protests from
beneficiaries, including lawsuits. An Afscme advertising
campaign called “Stop the Lies: Public Service Workers Under
Attack” tries to shift the blame for state  deficits  away from
employees and onto corporations and  Wall Street .  Afscme points out that its average member earns less than
$45,000 a year and that average pensions are about $19,000
annually.  New York’s mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story: Cristina Alesci in New
York at   calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 