-- 
New Republicans Face Budget Test on GE-Rolls Royce JSF Engine

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-02-15T00:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/new-republicans-face-budget-test-on-ge-rolls-royce-jsf-engine.html
The 87 new Republican members of the
U.S.  House of Representatives  may face a test of defense
spending versus deficit cutting this week as Congress decides
whether to continue funding a backup engine for Lockheed Martin
Corp.’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.  The spare engine, being developed by  General Electric Co .
and Rolls Royce Group Plc, is targeted for elimination by
Defense Secretary Robert Gates, who today called it an
“unnecessary and extravagant expense.”  Republicans won a majority in the House of Representatives
in November when many candidates campaigned against  government
spending .  Most freshman lawmakers have not disclosed their position
on continued funding for the GE-Rolls Royce engine.  The House is expected this week to start debating a
Pentagon spending bill for the remainder of the current fiscal
year ending Sept. 30. That bill includes $450 million for the
development of the GE-Rolls Royce engine. The primary engine is
built by Connecticut-based Pratt & Whitney, a unit of  United
Technologies Corp .  Speaker of the House John Boehner of Ohio supports the
second engine program. About 1,000 GE employees work on the
backup engine at a facility in Evendale,  Ohio .  Representative Tom Rooney, Republican of  Florida , is
offering an amendment to eliminate funding for the engine when
the House debates the Pentagon spending bill. That amendment is
co-sponsored by Representatives John Larson, Democrat of
Connecticut, Lynn Westmoreland, Republican of Georgia and
Chellie Pingree, Democrat of Maine.  Amendment Defeated  Rooney, Larson and Pingree proposed a similar amendment
when the House debated the 2011 defense authorization act. That
amendment was defeated 231 to 193 on May 27, 2010, the last
roll-call vote on the second engine issue.  Both GE and United Technologies have been lobbying the new
members of Congress since January to secure their votes.  For more than four years, GE has defied the Pentagon and
convinced Congress to fund the backup engine for  Lockheed Martin
Corp .’s F-35. The $382 billion F-35 program is the most
expensive in U.S. history. GE Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey R. Immelt last year sent notes to all the 435 members of Congress
to ask for their support on the engine.  Obama has picked Immelt to lead the new President’s Council
on Jobs and Competitiveness. Obama former press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said in January that the appointment does not change the
president’s position on the F-35 engine.  ‘Legal Options’  Obama released his 2012 budget proposal today that did not
include money for the GE-Rolls Royce engine. In a press briefing
at the Pentagon, Gates warned that he was willing to look at
“all available legal options” to shut down the back up engine
if Congress continues providing money for it. Gates said that he
hoped that the new lawmakers focused on “fiscal
responsibility” would vote against the secondary engine to save
$3 billion.  GE Aviation spokesman  Rick Kennedy  disputed the $3 billion
needed to complete the development of the backup engine. “GE
and Rolls Royce believe the number is closer to $1.8 billion,”
Kennedy said in an e-mailed statement.  Rooney’s amendment to strike the $450 million for the GE
engine in the Pentagon’s 2011 budget is being fought in advance
by supporters of the second engine.  Representative Roscoe Bartlett, the Maryland Republican who
leads the House Armed Services Tactical Air and Land
Subcommittee, set up a staff briefing on the engine. In his note
to fellow House Republicans, Bartlett “‘encourages members,
especially freshmen members,’’ to send their aides to briefing.  Representatives Robert Andrews, Democrat of New Jersey, and
Michael Conaway, Republican of  Texas , sent letters to House
lawmakers pressing for support of the GE engine, saying there
would be at least $21 billion in long-term savings if GE
continues to compete with United Technologies on the program.  Representatives Rodney Alexander, Republican of Louisiana,
and Mike McIntyre, Democrat of  North Carolina , also sent letters
to their House colleagues in support of the GE engine.  -- Editors: Steven Komarow, Terry Atlas  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 