-- 
Manufacturing in New York Area Grew at Faster Pace

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-02-15T14:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/new-york-manufacturing-grows-at-a-faster-pace-as-factories-lead-recovery.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
sped up in February, a sign factories continue to drive the
economic expansion.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to 15.4 from 11.9 in January. Economists projected an
increase to 15, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the so-
called Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern  New
Jersey , and southern  Connecticut .  Manufacturers will probably keep benefitting from gains in
business investment in new equipment and rising exports that
reflect improving global growth and a weaker dollar. Increased  consumer spending  may give factories another boost that will
bolster production and hiring.  “Manufacturing has accelerated strongly out of the final
months of last year and started 2011 with quite a bit of
momentum behind it,” said  Paul Ashworth , the chief U.S.
economist at Capital Economics NA Ltd. in Toronto, who forecast
the gauge would climb to 15. “We’ve still got some strong
growth globally that’s helping manufacturing exporters.”  Sales at U.S. retailers rose less than forecast in January,
depressed by a drop in demand at building material stores and
restaurants that may reflect the influence of harsh winter
weather. Purchases increased 0.3 percent, the smallest gain
since a drop in June and followed a 0.5 percent December gain
that was less than previously estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington.  Futures Decline  U.S. stock futures declined after reports showed retail
sales increased less than forecast last month and prices of
imported goods climbed. Futures on the  S&P 500  expiring in March
lost 0.2 percent to 1,324.5 at 9:02 a.m. in New York. The yield
on the 10-year note was little changed at 3.62 percent.  Before release of the manufacturing index, estimates of 56
economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 11 to 21.  Nine components of the index rose this month. The Empire
State gauge of new factory orders decreased to 11.8 from 12.4
last month, a measure of shipments decreased to 11.3 from 25.4
and employment fell to 3.6 from 8.4.  Today’s report showed an index of prices paid rose to 45.8
from 35.8 in January, while prices received increased to 16.9
from 15.8.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now fell to 49.4 from 59.  Sharp Rise  “We know the price of many commodities, particularly energy
commodities, are going up quite sharply,” Ashworth said. “It
appears at the moment to be hitting profit margins rather than
being passed onto consumers -- that doesn’t mean it won’t be
passed on another few months.”  “Overall demand is still pretty soft so it’s going to be a
challenge to pass those costs on,” he said.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
Philadelphia Fed’s report is due Feb. 17. The national ISM
factory data will be released on March 1.  Overseas demand for American goods is helping support
manufacturers. Exports rose 1.8 percent in December to the
highest level since July 2008, according to Commerce Department
data released Feb. 11. For all of last year, exports increased
17 percent, the biggest one-year gain since 1988.  Biggest U.S. producer  New York-based Alcoa Inc., the biggest U.S. aluminum
producer, expects demand for the metal to double by 2020, driven
by consumption in  Asia ,  Brazil  and the Middle East, according to
Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld .  “We see places like  China  continuing to lead with growth
of 21 percent last year, 13 percent this year,” Kleinfeld said
in an interview Jan. 26. “We actually see that places like  Southeast Asia , Brazil, Middle East are increasing the growth
rate.”  Consumer spending in the U.S. will rise 3.2 percent this
year, the biggest gain since 2005, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey this month.  Manufacturing makes up 11 percent of the  U.S. economy  and
about 6 percent of New York’s. Factories boosted payrolls by
49,000 workers in January, the most since August 1998, according
to Labor Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  