-- 
NFL Makes Third Compensation Offer to Super Bowl Fans Left Without Seats

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-02-16T05:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/nfl-makes-third-compensation-offer-to-super-bowl-fans-left-without-seats.html
The 400 fans who were prevented from
occupying their seats at the  Super Bowl  have a third
compensatory option available to them.  Ticketholders now can accept $5,000 or a refund of
documented expenses, whichever amount is higher, National
Football League spokesman Brian McCarthy said in an e-mail
yesterday. The proposal came after NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell spoke with fans in the past week, McCarthy said.  The league originally offered $2,400, triple the face value
of the tickets, to each affected fan. It then said they could
alternatively choose one free ticket, along with round-trip
airfare and hotel accommodations, to any future Super Bowl.
Those options still stand.  The NFL and Dallas Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  added 13,000
seats in temporary bleachers at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington,  Texas , for the Feb. 6 game in a bid to break the Super Bowl
attendance record. Fire marshals allowed 11,740 seats to be
used, taking the attendance for the game to 103,219 -- 766 less
than the record set at the Rose Bowl in  Pasadena ,  California , in
1980.  The 400 fans couldn’t occupy their seats because workers
hadn’t finished installing handrails and guardrails. They had to
watch the game, which the  Green Bay Packers  won 31-25 against
the Pittsburgh Steelers, on television screens inside the
stadium.  The NFL and Jones also are facing a lawsuit from Cowboys
season-ticket holders who say they were promised prime Super
Bowl seats and instead were given folding chairs with obstructed
views. The NFL, the Cowboys and Jones are accused of breach of
contract, fraud, breach of good faith and violating Texas’s
deceptive trade practices law.  The plaintiffs are seeking more than $5 million in actual
damages, which can be tripled under the state’s trade law, in
addition to unspecified punitive damages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 