-- 
Nigeria's Taliban-Inspired Uprising in North Sparks Christian-Musim Divide

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-02-16T17:07:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/nigeria-s-taliban-inspired-uprising-worsens-religious-divide.html
A mounting campaign of violence in
northern  Nigeria  by Islamic militants inspired by  Afghanistan ’s
Taliban movement is deepening religious tensions in Africa’s top
oil producer before elections in April.  A group known as Boko Haram, or “Western education is a
sin,” has carried out a series of attacks, including multiple
bomb blasts on Christmas Eve in the Plateau state capital, Jos,
that killed 80 people, in its bid to establish Islamic rule in
northern Nigeria. Since then, more than 200 people have died in
sectarian violence in Plateau state alone, according to New
York-based  Human Rights Watch .  The violence in the north, coupled with a festering
insurgency in the oil-rich Niger River delta, threatens to erode
stability in  Africa ’s third-biggest economy as President  Goodluck Jonathan , a southern Christian, seeks to extend his
term in office. Nigeria’s first international bonds fell to a
record low yesterday.  “Boko Haram’s strategic focus is to attack institutions of
the state to discredit it,” Jude Uzonwanne, Nigeria strategist
for  Monitor Group , a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based investment
advisory company, said in a telephone interview on Feb. 10.
“They’re likely to intensify the attacks as the elections come
closer and it becomes a guessing game how it will end.”  Gunmen on motorbikes on Jan. 28 assassinated Modu Gubio, a
candidate for governor in northeastern Borno state, and five
others, including a brother of the sitting governor in the
capital, Maiduguri. The attack was claimed by Boko Haram in
posters put up around the city.  Population Pressure  Security forces repelled an attack by gunmen on a church in
Maiduguri yesterday, Police Commissioner Mohammed Abubakar said
by phone today. In the central city of Jos, 12 people, including
a policeman, were killed in clashes yesterday between Christian
and Muslim groups, police authorities said.  Increasing population growth and the southward drive of the  Sahara desert  have pushed Muslim farming and herding communities
up against non-Muslims, sparking heightened competition for land
and resources. That has fueled conflict along religious lines,
said Peter Egom, an analyst at the  Nigerian Institute of
International Affairs  in Lagos, the commercial capital.  “These people are now using violence on a religious
platform to address their social and economic exclusion,” he
said.  Petroleum Industry  While the religious unrest doesn’t pose an immediate threat
to the petroleum industry, the main provider of government
revenue and the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports, “it
adds to the risks investors have to take into account,” said
Uzonwanne.  The yield on Nigeria’s 10-year Eurobonds climbed 2 basis
points, rising to a record high of 7.104 percent on a closing
day basis, as of 6:04 p.m. yesterday in Lagos, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The $500 million of debt sold Jan.
21 is the nation’s first international issue and rated B+ by
Standard and Poor’s, four levels below investment grade.  Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp .,  Chevron Corp . of  San Ramon ,  California ,  Total
SA  and  Eni SpA  run joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. that pump about 90 percent of the West
African nation’s oil.  Consumer Market  Nigeria, with a population of more than 140 million, 72
percent of which is under 30 years, is potentially the biggest
consumer market in Africa, with growing demand for electricity,
housing and retail goods providing new opportunities for
investment, according to the Monitor Group.  Companies including  Diageo Plc , Nestle SA,  Procter & Gamble
Co ., and  MTN Group Ltd ., Africa’s largest mobile-phone company,
have increased their operations in Nigeria in recent years.
Major upheavals may also hinder the country’s cocoa industry,
the world’s fourth-largest, and investments in the electricity
and mining industries now being pushed by Jonathan’s government.  The main oil-producing region in the southeastern Niger
River delta was engulfed by violence sparked by national
politics once before, in the 1967-70 Biafra civil war, when the
ethnic Igbos tried to secede and form an independent nation. The
conflict claimed as many as three million lives.  “Nigerians are very good at dancing on the brink without
falling over,”  John Campbell , a former U.S. ambassador to
Nigeria and fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  Washington , said in a telephone interview on Feb. 10. “But if
you dance on the brink, accidents could happen.”  Civil War  There is no “guarantee” that civil war won’t erupt again,
said Campbell, whose book  “Nigeria: Dancing on the Brink ,” was
published in November.  Attacks by armed groups in the Niger delta cut 28 percent
of oil output between 2006 and 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The region has been hit by a surge of violence in
recent months after a period of relative calm that followed a
government amnesty in 2009 and the disarming of thousands of
militant fighters.  In the north, Boko Haram is capitalizing on an upsurge in
religious tension since Jonathan, a native of the Niger River
delta who took office in May after the death of President Umaru Yar’Adua, a northern Muslim, won the nomination of the ruling
 People’s Democratic Party . That violated a party rule to rotate
the presidency between the north and the south.  Jonathan faces two northerners, Muhammadu Buhari, a former
military ruler, and Nuhu Ribadu, an ex-chief of the West African
nation’s anti-corruption agency, in the national election.  Middle Belt  The wave of religious attacks has centered on Nigeria’s so-
called middle belt region, where local communities resisted the
encroachment of Islam in the 19th century before the advent of
British colonial rule. After the British arrival, many villagers
adopted Christianity as a defense against Islam.  At least 14,000 people died in religious and communal
clashes in Nigeria between 1999 and 2009, according to Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group .  Boko Haram has shown a more targeted approach since it
emerged in December 2004, attacking police stations in the
northeastern towns of Kanamma and Geidam, where militants
hoisted Taliban flags.  Armed clashes between security forces and the group in four
northern states in July 2009 killed more than 700 people,
including the sect’s leader, Mohammed Yusuf, according to the
Nigerian military.  High profile attacks by the group since then include an
assault on the prison in the city of Bauchi on Sept. 7, when it
freed 721 prisoners, including more than 100 members awaiting
trial.  A large population of unemployed people in northern
Nigeria, where poverty levels at 70-80 percent are more than
double those in the south, is likely to be influenced by
religious rhetoric and will keep Boko Haram supplied with
fighters, according to Uzonwanne of  Monitor Group .  “The challenge for the government is to show them that
there’s an alternative,” he said. “The key question is how to
keep the jobs coming and then keep the streets safe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 