-- 
No Gekkos as Spacey Weeps, Banks Crash in ‘Margin Call’: Film

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-02-15T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/no-gordon-gekkos-as-kevin-spacey-weeps-banks-crash-in-margin-call-film.html
  Kevin Spacey  weeps over his dying
dog as a senior broker at a Wall Street investment bank on the
brink of financial ruin in “Margin Call.”  The bankers in this smart film, set over 24 hours at the
beginning of the 2008 financial crisis and showing in
competition at the  Berlin Film Festival , are no Gordon Gekkos.
First-time feature director J.C. Chandor portrays them as
cynical yet human; some are even likeable. That may be because
his father worked at Merrill Lynch & Co. for 40 years.  The ominous opening has a team of groomed, efficient
personnel managers swarming through a department of the bank,
offering severance packages, crates for personal belongings,
insincere sympathy and a brochure titled “Moving On.”  Fired risk analyst Eric Dale (Stanley Tucci) passes a USB
stick to his junior colleague Peter Sullivan (Zachary Quinto) on
his way out the door. Sullivan, who has a Ph.D. in nuclear
physics, is one of the few department employees to keep his job.
“Be careful,” Dale warns as he passes over the stick.  Sullivan pores over the data on his computer late that
evening and finds real-estate liabilities worth several times
the bank’s capital in its packaged debt products. He alerts his
boss, prompting a midnight crisis meeting.  The aloof Chief Executive John Tuld (the name may be viewed
as an allusion to former Lehman Brothers Inc. CEO Richard Fuld)
helicopters in to hatch a rescue plan. Demi Moore plays a risk
manager whose warnings weren’t heeded.  Toxic Debt  The team plots to offload billions of dollars of toxic debt
as quickly as possible before customers catch on to the
quantities involved and the market collapses. Tuld (played by
Jeremy Irons) predicts the operation will spark a major
financial crisis, yet insists it is the only course of action.  “Margin Call” maintains pace and tension, though the
action all takes place in the offices and meeting rooms of one
Wall Street skyscraper with spectacular views of the city by
night. Apart from the high-powered cast, it’s a low-budget film.
There are no car chases, no arrests, no violence. More
surprisingly under the circumstances, no tempers fly.  While there are parallels to events at Lehman, this is not
a film a clef for insiders to decipher. Even the complex debt
products are helpfully explained by Sullivan to Tuld, who
doesn’t understand them (“I didn’t get where I am today by
being intelligent,” he says.)  Stripper Budget  Paul Bettany, whose performance as brash salesman Will
Emerson is so believable you wonder whether you’ve met him,
gives details to two junior colleagues of how he managed to
spend earnings of $2.5 million the previous year.  Though shocked to realize he spent more than $70,000 on
hookers and strippers, he says “but I can claim most of that
back as expenses.”  Doubt about the value of their work haunts Spacey’s
character and the fired analyst, Dale. He describes how in a
former life as an engineer he once built a bridge that saved
commuters hours of travel time. His implication is that that was
a worthwhile occupation -- unlike his current profession.  Rating: ***  For more information on the Berlin Film Festival, go to
 http://www.berlinale.de/en .  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 