-- 
Nokia’s Elop Only Put Microsoft Plan for Board Vote

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-02-15T17:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/nokia-executives-only-presented-microsoft-plan-for-board-vote.html
  Nokia Oyj  executives put only the  Microsoft Corp . option for vote at a board meeting on Feb. 10
after having studied three plans, Executive Vice President Mary McDowell said in an interview.  “We had presented three scenarios: continue with the
current plan of record, a Google option and a Microsoft option
but the recommendation that we made to them was the Microsoft
option so that’s what they approved,” she said. The executives
first went to the board in November with the options, she said.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop announced on Feb. 11
that Nokia would make Windows Phone 7 its primary mobile-phone
platform, replacing its home-grown Symbian. Since then, Nokia’s
shares have tumbled 18 percent, wiping out about 5.5 billion
euros ($7.4 billion) off the Finnish company’s market value.  Investors and analysts remain skeptical that adopting the
Windows Phone 7 platform is going to help Nokia claw back ground
lost to  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and handsets based on Google Inc.’s
Android software.  “The decision to transition its smartphone portfolio to
Microsoft Windows Phone is a risky one for Nokia,” said Alex
Spektor, an analyst at Strategy Analytics Inc.  Meanwhile, in an  open letter , a group of “nine young Nokia
shareholders,” who said they’d all worked for the company in
the past, said they plan to challenge Elop’s strategy and
partnership with Microsoft at the next  shareholders’ meeting ,
slated for May 3. The unidentified shareholders didn’t respond
to an e-mail sent to them seeking additional comment.  Plan B  The letter, entitled “Nokia Plan B” said that its authors
would seek Elop’s ouster, would maintain “ownership and
control” of Nokia’s software and restructure the Microsoft
alliance to focus primarily on the North American market.  Nokia spokesman  Doug Dawson  said the company will stay on
track with its new strategy.  “We are aware of the anonymous letter, but have not been
directly contacted,” he said. “Nokia’s new strategy has the
full approval of the board of directors and the Nokia leadership
team, and our focus right now is on executing this new
strategy.”  Nokia’s McDowell said the company will go forward with the
strategy of using Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 as its main
smartphone platform.  “We’ve announced what our strategy is, it was made with a
great deal of thorough analysis so this is our plan,” McDowell,
who is in charge of the Espoo, Finland-based company’s low-end
mobile phones, said at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.  McDowell said there will be more Symbian phones this year.  “Symbian’s not going to go zero,” she said. “We had
growth in Symbian in places like Russia and  China  and we will
have more attractive products hitting the market this year.
We’ve got a whole roadmap of new Symbian devices that we’ll be
bringing to market in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
dbenaaron1@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  