-- 
North Korea Exports to China Show Birthday-Boy Kim's `Back Door' Reprieve

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-02-16T06:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/north-korea-exports-to-china-show-birthday-boy-kim-s-back-door-reprieve.html
North Korean leader Kim Jong Il
turns 69 today, his country beset by international sanctions,
livestock disease and the aftermath of floods. A rebound in
trade with  China  may be the best birthday present he gets.  North  Korea ’s exports to China jumped 51 percent to $1.2
billion last year, led by iron ore, coal and copper, Chinese
government data show. China’s sales to its ally rose 21 percent
to $2.3 billion from a year earlier, with supplies of wheat and
oil helping ease chronic shortages of fuel and food.  Two-way
trade  fell 4 percent in 2009, when the  United Nations  tightened
sanctions after Kim’s regime carried out a second nuclear test.  The revival in commerce contrasts with U.S. efforts to
isolate North Korea after a year in which 50 South Koreans died
in attacks that roiled markets. Kim needs China to meet a pledge
to put “rice with meat soup” on every table and build a
“thriving nation” by 2012, the centennial of his father and
the nation’s founder,  Kim Il Sung .  “Even if  North Korea ’s front door is firmly locked, there
is every reason to think the regime can gain what it needs to
survive with impunity as long as the back door is open to
China,” said Scott Snyder, an adjunct senior fellow for Korea
studies at the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations.
China’s trade risks making sanctions “ineffective,” he said.  North Korea’s media has been building up to Kim’s birthday
with reports of an ice-sculpture festival, film shows, cooking
competitions and flower exhibitions. Trees burst into bud
earlier than usual and a “solar halo” appeared on a mountain
revered as Kim’s birthplace, the Korean Central News Agency said.  Regime Risk  China wants to avoid regime collapse in its neighbor to
prevent a flood of refugees across their 1,415-kilometer (880-
mile) border. Economic distress may also lead the North to lash
out in a bid to win aid and provide propaganda to prop up the
regime, said Kim Yong Hyun, a professor of North Korean studies
at  Dongguk University  in Seoul.  The North’s Nov. 23 shelling of Yeonpyeong Island, which
killed four people, sent the cost of insuring South Korean
government debt up the most in two years.  China’s government is divided on the best way to deal with
North Korea, said Huang Jing, a professor at  National University 
of Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Diplomacy.  “One side wants them to reform and open up,” he said.
Another faction is trying to provide North Korea security,
giving the country oil, ammunition and spare parts, he said.  Crude oil was the No. 1 item North Korea bought from China
last year, according to the Seoul-based  Korea International
Trade Association , which tracks the data. Automobiles, wheat
flour, rice and cell phones were also among the top 10. North
Korea’s exports were dominated by coal and  iron ore .  Crude, Coal  China sold $325.8 million of crude oil to North Korea last
year, up 37 percent from 2009. China’s coal imports jumped 54
percent to $394.4 million, while iron ore purchases doubled to
$195 million, according to China’s customs department.  Two-way trade of $3.5 billion was still dwarfed by China’s
$207.2 billion commerce with  South Korea .  North Korea’s $22 billion economy shrank 0.9 percent in
2009 after its total trade fell 10.7 percent, according to the  Bank of Korea  in Seoul. North Korea doesn’t release figures.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in July said the U.S.
would intensify sanctions against North Korea for sinking a
South Korean warship, killing 46 sailors. The measures aimed to
deny the regime funds to carry out “destabilizing, illicit, and
provocative policies,” she said.  Birthday Pressure  “As it’s  Kim Jong Il ’s first birthday since revealing his
youngest son as his heir, he’s under great pressure to rally as
much public support as he can,” said Dongguk’s Kim. “There
really isn’t much economic achievement Kim can show.”  Kim probably had a stroke in 2008 and is preparing to hand
power to his youngest son, Kim Jong Un, the South Korean
government says.  China’s Public Security Minister Meng Jianzhu praised the
elder Kim in Pyongyang on Feb. 14 for a “successful solution of
the issue of succession,” KCNA said. That would mark the first
statement by a  cabinet  official backing the handover. Chinese
Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ma Zhaoxu didn’t answer yesterday
when asked whether the government approved of the succession.  The junior Kim was named vice-chairman of the National
Defense Commission on Feb. 10, the  Chosun Ilbo  reported today,
citing an unidentified person familiar with the issue. The NDC
is the highest government body, and is chaired by Kim Jong Il.  Kim Jong Un was named a general and appointed to the second-
highest military post of the ruling Workers’ Party in September,
paving the way to become the regime’s next leader.  Foot & Mouth  An epidemic of foot and mouth disease that broke out on Dec.
25 is casting a pall over Kim’s plans. The virus has infected
more than 10,000 cattle and pigs, killing 8,655 of them,
according to a Feb. 7 report by the World Organization for  Animal Health . The numbers don’t include outbreaks reported in
January, according to the report received by e-mail yesterday.  North Korea’s dependence on oxen to plow fields and haul
harvests means the disease may disrupt farming in a nation
facing a food deficit of 542,000 tons this year, according to
the UN’s World Food Program.  Crop losses from flooding last year restrained the rise in
food output to 3 percent for the 12 months ending October, even
though more fertilizer, pesticides and tractors were used, the
WFP said in November.  “China can help North Korea meet its immediate needs,”
said Cho Bong Hyun, a research fellow at the Seoul-based IBK
Economic Research Institute. “But that support will still fall
far short of what North Korea needs to boost its economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in  Seoul  at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  