-- 
Obama Says Pakistan Leaders Mustn't Prosecute U.S. Diplomat for Shooting

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-02-16T21:46:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/obama-says-pakistan-must-not-prosecute-u-s-diplomat-for-deaths-of-two-men.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Pakistan mustn’t prosecute a U.S. consulate worker who has been
charged with murder in  Pakistan  and imprisoned after the
shooting deaths of two Pakistanis.  “Obviously, we’re concerned about the loss of life,”
Obama said at a  Washington  press conference yesterday. Still,
he said, the U.S. worker, Raymond Davis, should be treated as a
diplomat. “There’s a broader principle at stake that I think
we have to uphold,” he said.  The shootings have triggered street protests in Pakistan,
raising pressure on the government of President Asif Ali Zardari, a key U.S. ally in the fight against Islamic extremism
in the region. The U.S. government contends that Davis, who has
been held since Jan. 27, acted in self-defense when he was
approached by robbers and has diplomatic immunity.  Pushing for Davis’ release, U.S. Senate Foreign Relations
Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, said
during a trip to Pakistan yesterday that the U.S. State
Department would conduct its own investigation into the
killings and may hold criminal hearings.  “We don’t want this one incident to derail our
relationship,” Kerry said in a televised press conference in
Lahore. “We must move beyond this incident and continue to
strengthen our partnership.”  Obama said prosecution of Davis could set up an
“untenable” situation around the world, making ambassadors
and other diplomats vulnerable to local prosecutions.  “It means they can’t do their job,” he said. “And
that’s why we respect these conventions, and every country
should as well.”  Police Accusation  The police chief of Lahore has accused Davis of committing
“clear-cut murder” on a city street last month, and a judge
ordered him held in custody. U.S. lawyers are expected to file
a petition in the Lahore High Court tomorrow seeking his
freedom.  “Davis can’t be tried in its local courts,” Kerry said
in Pakistan yesterday. “This matter is not for the local
courts to decide.”  Davis is a former Special Forces soldier originally from  Virginia  who spent 10 years in the U.S. Army before leaving in
August 2003, the  Associated Press  reported, citing Defense
Department records. The State Department hasn’t described his
role in Pakistan except to say he was “a member of the
administrative and technical staff” of the embassy.  “We’re building a strategic relationship with Pakistan,”  Philip J. Crowley , the U.S. State Department spokesman, said at
a briefing today in Washington. “We certainly do not want to
have issues like this distract us from our joint efforts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  