-- 
Obama Honors Buffett, Bush With Medal of Freedom

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-02-15T20:26:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/obama-honors-buffett-george-h-w-bush-with-medal-of-freedom.html
President  Barack Obama  said
billionaire  Warren Buffett  and 14 other people awarded the
Presidential Medal of Freedom today “reveal the best of who we
are and who we aspire to be.”  Buffett is “not only one of the world’s richest men,” he
is “one of the most-respected,” Obama said during a ceremony
in the White House East Room.  Former President George H.W. Bush, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, poet Maya Angelou, and Democratic Representative John Lewis of  Georgia , a leader of the civil rights movement, are
among today’s recipients. Sports legends Stan Musial, of
baseball’s St. Louis Cardinals, and Bill Russell, of
basketball’s Boston Celtics, also were honored.  The medal is the nation’s highest civilian honor and is
presented to people who have made worthy contributions to the
U.S. or to world peace.  Buffett, 80, who was an adviser to Obama’s presidential
campaign, is chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., which has subsidiaries in industries
spanning insurance, energy and ice cream. Forbes magazine
estimated Buffett’s fortune is worth $45 billion.  Buffett has pledged to donate most of his wealth to the
foundation established by  Microsoft Corp . co-founder Bill Gates
and his wife, Melinda Gates, as well as other philanthropic
organizations. Obama said Buffett “uses his stature as a leader
to press others of great means to do the same.”  No Fancy Ties  The president said Buffett doesn’t wear “fancy ties” or
drive “fancy cars.” Instead, “you see him devoting the vast
majority of his wealth to those around the world who are
suffering, or sick, or in need of help.”  Obama said Buffett is “so thrifty” that the last time he
came to the White House Obama gave the billionaire a new tie
because the one he was wearing was “looking a little
shredded.” The president joked that “when  Bill Gates  came, he
wanted one, too.”  Bush, 86, the 41st president and the father of Obama’s
predecessor, was cited for his long service to the country.
Before winning the White House in 1988, he was vice president
under  Ronald Reagan . He is a U.S. Navy veteran, was a U.S.
representative from  Texas , an ambassador to the  United Nations ,
chairman of the Republican National Committee and director of
the Central Intelligence Agency.  ‘Late Bloomer’  Obama also honored cellist Yo-Yo Ma, 55, and joked that
while Ma was a “late bloomer” -- beginning his concert career
when he was 5 years old, “he went on to record over 75 albums
and win 16 Grammies.”  Obama said that Merkel, 56, “broke barriers” when she
became the first woman and the first person from the former East
Germany to serve as German chancellor. After the fall of the  Berlin Wall , she progressed in politics as the East and the West
joined as a unified nation. Merkel didn’t attend today’s
ceremony. Obama said she would soon be coming to the White House
for an official visit.  “To America,  Chancellor Merkel  and the country she leads
are among our closest allies,” he said. “To me she’s a trusted
global partner and a friend.”  Also honored was Tom Little, an optometrist who was one of
10 medical workers murdered by the Taliban in August as they
returned from an aid mission. He and his wife, Libby, had lived
and worked in  Afghanistan  for three decades, according to the
announcement.  The other recipients were: labor leader John Sweeney, the
former president of the AFL-CIO; John H. Adams, co-founder of
the  Natural Resources Defense Council ; Gerda Weissmann Klein,
who has written several books about surviving the Holocaust;
civil rights activist Sylvia Mendez; artist Jasper Johns; and
Jean Kennedy Smith, the sister of slain President John F. Kennedy who was U.S. ambassador to Ireland from 1993 to 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  