-- 
Obama Says He Is `Eager' to Tackle Spending on Health, Tax-Code Overhaul

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-02-15T16:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/obama-says-he-is-eager-to-tackle-spending-on-health-tax-code-overhaul.html
President  Barack Obama  said he is
“prepared to work with Democrats and Republicans” to seek
solutions for long-term deficits fueled by entitlement programs
such as Medicare and Medicaid.  “This is going to be a negotiation process,” Obama said
at a Washington news conference, saying a solution to “huge
problems” from Medicare and Medicaid spending are possible if
“all sides are serious about it and all sides are willing to
give a little bit.”  The president said Social Security doesn’t present such an
immediate threat to U.S. finances and that he’s confident the
administration and Congress can find a bipartisan way to make
the retirement system “stable and stronger.”  Obama sent Congress a $3.7 trillion  budget  yesterday that
projects the federal deficit will exceed $1 trillion for the
fourth consecutive year in 2012.  He didn’t offer a specific overhaul of Medicare, Medicaid
or Social Security, which represent about 40 percent of the
budget.  The federal deficit for the current fiscal year is
forecast to hit a record $1.6 trillion -- 10.9 percent of gross
domestic product. Under Obama’s plan it would be $1.1 trillion
in 2012, 7 percent of GDP. The budget forecasts the deficit
will be $627 billion in 2017, or 3 percent of GDP, a level the
administration says is sustainable. The shortfall would grow in
subsequent years, reflecting the impact of  baby boomers  drawing
Social Security payments and Medicare benefits.  ‘Tough Choices’  The government must make “tough choices,” Obama said
today. “Cutting domestic spending alone won’t be enough to
meet our long term fiscal challenges.” He said he’s “eager”
to tackle defense spending, health care and the  tax code .
“Everyone’s going to have to give a little bit.”  On corporate taxes, Obama said “if we are going to get
serious about deficit reduction and debt reduction, then we’ve
got to look at all the sources of deficit and debt.” He said he
wouldn’t sign a bill that lowers corporate taxes while
preserving loopholes.  “We shouldn’t provide special treatment to the oil
industry when they’ve been making huge profits,” he said.  Spending, Revenue  About two-thirds of the deficit reduction under Obama’s
budget plan would come from spending cuts and the rest from
increases in taxes and government fees. Obama previously
pledged to freeze non-security discretionary spending for the
next five years, and under his budget about half of all federal
agencies would see their budgets reduced from levels in 2010,
the last time agencies operated under an enacted budget,
according to administration documents.  Republicans who control the House have deemed the budget
for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 insufficient to reduce
the federal debt. The budget falls short of the deficit
reduction that Obama’s fiscal commission proposed in December
and would have a modest impact on the $12 trillion in total
deficits the  Congressional Budget Office  projects the
government will run up over the next 10 years.  “Entitlements are going to be a key part of this issue as
is  tax reform ,” Obama said today. He also said lawmakers must
consider “unjustifiable” tax breaks.  This year’s deficit as a proportion of GDP is the highest
since the 21.5 percent in 1945 at the end of World War II.  The budget calls for $1.5 trillion in tax increases over
the next 10 years, with the bulk of that coming from allowing
former President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts for those earning
more than $250,000 to expire.  ‘Carried Interest’  Another $300 billion would come from limiting the ability
of the wealthy to take itemized deductions. It would also
impose a $30 billion “financial crisis responsibility fee” on
banks, a $15 billion tax increase on the “carried interest”
paid to investment managers and rescind a dozen tax breaks for
the oil, gas and coal industry to raise more than $46 billion
over 10 years.  Even as the battle lines over the 2012 budget are drawn,
Congress and the administration continue to haggle over
spending for the 2011 fiscal year.  The government has been operating under temporary spending
measures known as continuing resolutions; the latest one ends
March 4.  Pressure on Spending  Last week, after House Republican leaders said they would
propose reducing the 2011 budget by about $35 billion over 2010
spending levels, their members forced them to come up with more
cuts for a $61 billion reduction. The revised plan outlined
Feb. 11 would end more than 100 government programs and cut
spending on areas including the environment, health care,
energy and transportation.  Also looming is a fight later this year when Obama seeks
to increase the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit, needed to
prevent a default on government obligations. Republican leaders
have said they will demand deep spending cuts in exchange, and
a number of Tea Party-backed members want to go further than
their leaders may propose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  