-- 
Obama Pushes for Corporate Tax Changes Needed to Cut U.S. Budget Deficit

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-02-15T20:09:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/obama-pushes-for-corporate-tax-changes-needed-to-cut-u-s-budget-deficit.html
President  Barack Obama  challenged
Republicans to work with him to end corporate tax loopholes and
curb spending on entitlement programs such as Medicare and
Medicaid to rein in the federal  budget deficit .  At a Washington news conference the day after he released
his 2012 budget plan, Obama said he will push again for
corporate tax increases that Congress previously failed to
enact, and is “prepared to work with Democrats and
Republicans” to seek solutions for the growing costs of
government health-care programs.  “This is going to be a negotiation process,” Obama said
today. “If we are going to get serious about deficit reduction
and debt reduction we’ve got to look at all the sources of
deficit and debt. We can’t be just trying to pick and choose.”  Obama’s $3.7 trillion budget request for the fiscal year
starting Oct. 1 includes no plans for dealing with shortfalls
caused by Medicare and Medicaid programs for the elderly and the
poor.  Republicans criticized the president’s budget, saying it
doesn’t go far enough to address long-term deficits. House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  told White House budget
director  Jacob Lew  that Obama has “disappointed us all.”  ‘Drivers’ of Debt  “You know the drivers of our debt are entitlement
programs, and yet you do nothing to address that,” Ryan, a
Wisconsin Republican, said today at a budget committee hearing.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said
Obama’s proposed budget “just punted” on “the real issues
facing our country,” and pledged that Republicans would propose
ways to cut entitlement spending in their 2012 budget.  “Republicans will not punt,” Boehner said at a news
conference. “Everything is on the table and we will put forward
a budget that deals with the big challenges that face our
country.”  Obama said much more work needs to be done by both parties
to tackle longer-term deficits, which his budget projects will
total more than $7 trillion through the 2016 fiscal year.  “There are going to be plenty of arguments in the months
to come,” he said. “I’m not suggesting that we don’t have to
do more.”  Using ‘Scalpel’  The president said he is using a “scalpel” to reduce
discretionary spending and defended some of the programs where
he’s proposed increased spending, such as education, research
and infrastructure.  “We owe the American people a government that lives within
its means while still investing in our future,” he said.  The budget revives dozens of corporate tax proposals
previously rejected by Congress, including $129 billion in
higher taxes on the overseas profits of U.S. companies. He also
proposed changing the tax treatment of oil, gas and coal
companies, which would raise about $46 billion.  “I continue to believe I’m right,” Obama said, explaining
why he is pushing measures that have failed to win support in
the past. “What’s different is that everybody says now they’re
really serious about the deficit.”  Obama said he wouldn’t sign a bill that lowers corporate
tax rates while preserving loopholes because “we shouldn’t
provide special treatment to the oil industry when they’ve been
making huge profits.”  Meetings with Executives  Obama and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in the past
months have held meetings with corporate executives, who have
pushed for reducing taxes on global profits rather than
increasing them.    Procter & Gamble Co . Chief Executive Officer Robert McDonald told the House Ways and Means Committee last month that
the notion of “revenue-neutrality” on overhauling corporate
taxes should be taken off the table.  Obama said today that stemming “unjustifiable spending
through the  tax code ” must be part of any effort to restrain
the deficit.  “What is absolutely true is that it’s going to be
difficult to achieve serious corporate  tax reform  if the formula
is, ‘Lower our tax rates and let us keep all our special
loopholes,’” Obama said. “If that’s the formula, then we’re
not going to get it done.”  Tax Cuts  Obama said he will continue to call for the end of income
tax cuts for top-income earners, which Congress extended through
2012, bringing back pre-2001 tax rates on income and  capital
gains  for individuals earning more than $200,000 annually and
married couples making more than $250,000.  “When it comes to over the long term maintaining tax
breaks for millionaires and billionaires, when that will mean
additional deficits of a trillion dollars, you know, if you’re
serious about  deficit reduction , you don’t do that,” he said.  Obama said he is “prepared to work with Democrats and
Republicans” to seek solutions for what he described as “huge
problems” from Medicare and Medicaid spending.  “This is going to be a negotiation process,” Obama said.
A solution is possible, he said, if “all sides are serious
about it and all sides are willing to give a little bit.”  The president said Social Security doesn’t present such an
immediate threat to U.S. deficits and that he is “confident”
the administration and Congress can find a bipartisan way to
make the retirement system “stable and stronger.”  Arab Uprisings  Obama defended the U.S. response to popular demonstrations
in  Egypt  that last week toppled Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , who had ruled the country for thirty years.  “We were on the right side of history,” Obama said, while
cautioning that the U.S. couldn’t get too involved because the
protests were an “Egyptian event.”  As demonstrations have spread to other countries, including
Yemen, Bahrain and Iran, Obama said the U.S. supports the
“aspirations” of the protesters.  “You can’t maintain power through coercion; at some level
in any society there has to be consent,” he said. “Governments
in that region are starting to understand this.”  Obama criticized steps Iran has taken in response to the
demonstrations, “which is to shoot people and beat people and
arrest people.”  “My hope and expectation is that we’re going to continue
to see the people of  Iran  have the courage to be able to express
their yearning for greater freedoms and a more representative
government,” he said. “What we can do is lend moral support to
those who are seeking a better life for themselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  