-- 
Oil Gains for First Time in Three Days Amid Middle East Unrest

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-02-15T07:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/oil-trades-near-lowest-since-november-on-forecast-gain-in-u-s-stockpiles.html
Oil climbed for the first time in
three days in New York as civil unrest spread from  Egypt  to
crude-producing countries in the Middle East, renewing concern
supplies may be disrupted.  Futures gained as much as 0.7 percent after demonstrators
clashed with security forces in Bahrain, Yemen and Iran, the
second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. Prices dropped yesterday after the Egyptian
army dissolved parliament and suspended the constitution
following the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak . The risk of
turmoil spreading to Middle East oil producers is growing,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note yesterday.  “We’re seeing a little bit more graphic news on what’s
occurring in the Middle East,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “The
market is gaining support from what’s happening there.”  Crude for March delivery increased as much as 57 cents to
$85.38 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $85.08 at 3:31 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract slid 0.9 percent to $84.81, the lowest
since Nov. 30. Prices are up 15 percent in the past year.  Oil’s slump pushed its 14-day relative strength index, a
measure of how fast prices have risen or fallen, to 36.9
yesterday, the lowest since August, Bloomberg data show. A
reading of 30 or less typically indicates a market is
“oversold” and set to recover. The index was at 38.05 today.    Brent crude  for April settlement climbed as much as 55
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $103.63 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. Yesterday, the contract advanced
2.1 percent to $103.08, the highest since September 2008.  Brent Premium  Brent’s gains outpaced those of New York crude, widening
the difference between front-month prices to a record. The
spread between the April contracts was at $14.42 a barrel today,
from $14.35 yesterday. The March West Texas Intermediate
contract in  New York  expires on Feb. 22.  West Texas crude’s discount is likely to extend as
stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the contract’s delivery point,
climb after the start up of new pipeline capacity to the area.
Stockpiles rose in the week ended Jan. 28 to 38.3 million
barrels, the highest since at least 2004, according to the
Energy Department. TransCanada Corp. started deliveries to the
storage hub on Feb. 8 in the second phase of its Keystone
pipeline project.  U.S. crude inventories nationwide probably advanced 2.5
million barrels, or 0.7 percent, in the seven days to Feb. 11
from 345.1 million a week earlier, according to the median
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington . The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will publish its data today.  Spreading Turmoil  Fresh signs the anti-government demonstrations in North
Africa are spreading through the Arab world have renewed concern
oil supply may be disrupted.  Prices rose to a two-year high last month on speculation
the violence would interrupt flows through the  Suez Canal . They
dropped 8 percent in the 10 days through yesterday as the 
protests subsided and Mubarak ceded power to the armed forces.  “The prospect of regional contagion impacting a key oil
supplier appears elevated,” JPMorgan analysts led by New York-
based  Lawrence Eagles  said in a note yesterday. “Egypt’s state
of transition will be difficult, but it is the reports of
simmering unrest in key oil exporter  Iran  as well as regular 
protests in Algeria, Bahrain and Yemen that are of more direct
concern to the oil market.”  Bahrain Protests  Thousands of security officers were deployed yesterday in
Tehran to stop separate groups of demonstrators, rallying
throughout the city, from converging on the central Azadi Square,
al-Jazeera reported.  Iran is the second-biggest OPEC producer, behind  Saudi
Arabia , and pumped 3.7 million barrels a day in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yemen and Bahrain
produced a combined average of 355,000 barrels a day in 2009,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Bahraini riot police fired tear gas to break up protests
across the island nation. Yemeni protesters announced plans for
a fifth day of demonstrations after thousands gathered yesterday
in Sanaa to demand President Ali Abdullah Saleh step down,
clashing with police and pro-government demonstrators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  