-- 
Oil Supplies Rise in Survey on Cushing Pipeline: Energy Markets

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-15T20:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/oil-supplies-rise-in-survey-on-cushing-pipeline-energy-markets.html
U.S. crude stockpiles rose for a
fifth week as  TransCanada Corp . completed an extension of a
pipeline to Cushing,  Oklahoma , adding to a glut at the country’s
biggest oil-trading hub, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Inventories climbed 2 million barrels, or 0.6 percent, in
the seven days ended Feb. 11 from 345.1 million a week earlier,
according to the median of 13 analyst estimates before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Twelve of the respondents forecast
an increase and one projected a decline.  Stockpiles at Cushing, the delivery point for New York-
traded West  Texas  Intermediate, rose in the week ended Jan. 28
to the highest level since at least 2004, according to the
Energy Department. TransCanada started deliveries to the hub on
Feb. 8 in the second phase of its Keystone pipeline project.  “We’re going to see inventories rise, especially at
Cushing,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions
LLC in Houston. “The Keystone pipeline opened a new extension
to Cushing, which is already near record levels.”  The first phase of the $12 billion project, from Hardisty,  Alberta , to Wood River and Patoka,  Illinois , started service in
mid-2010. The link is operating at about 450,000 barrels a day,  Paul Miller , senior vice president for oil pipelines at Calgary-
based TransCanada, said Feb. 8.  An expansion to the  Gulf Coast , the third phase of the
project, known as Keystone XL, may be operational by early 2013
if regulators approve it. The XL extension will run from Cushing
to Nederland, Texas, linking Gulf refineries to Canada’s oil
sands.  Cushing ‘Problem’  Cushing stockpiles climbed in 10 of the past 13 weekly
reports from the Energy Department and peaked at 38.3 million
barrels in the last week of January.  “The problem with Cushing isn’t going away anytime soon,”
Larry said. “The plans to build links to the Gulf are all well
and good, but rarely are these projects finished by the
projected end date. The problem is being dealt with by
increasing storage capacity at Cushing.”  Terminal operators including  Plains All American Pipeline
LP , The Gavilon Group LLC and  Magellan Midstream Partners LP 
have announced plans to build 14 million barrels of oil storage
at Cushing by the end of 2011. That would boost capacity as much
as 25 percent at the hub from the existing 55 million barrels.  Crude oil for March delivery declined 49 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $84.32 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the lowest settlement price since Nov. 30. April futures slipped
$1.16, or 1.3 percent, to $87.57, the ninth straight decline.  Brent Rises  Cushing supplies have depressed WTI prices in relation to
Brent oil in  London . Brent for April settlement declined $1.44,
or 1.4 percent, to $101.64 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Yesterday, it touched $104.30, the
highest intraday price since Sept. 25, 2008.  The premium of April Brent to New York futures for the same
month was $14.07 a barrel today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News. The gap averaged 76 cents last year.  “We’re going to continue to see an inflow of imports from  Canada ,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.  During the past decade  North Sea  barrels were imported into
the U.S. because oil was costlier in New York.  Crude-oil imports slipped 1.2 percent to 8.91 million
barrels a day in the week ended Feb. 4, according to the Energy
Department. The  U.S. imported  an average 1.96 million barrels a
day from Canada in the first 11 months of last year, the most
from any country, department figures show.  Overstocked  “We’re overstocked with oil,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “We’re in the
midst of a seasonal uptrend in crude-oil stocks that typically
doesn’t end until May.”  Nationwide crude-oil stockpiles climbed 11.9 million
barrels in the four weeks ended Feb. 4, the biggest gain for
that length of time since March, department figures showed.
Supplies rose in the first quarter during the past 14 years.  Refineries probably operated at 84.7 percent of capacity,
according to the Bloomberg News survey. That was unchanged from
the prior week. Utilization rates slipped in three of the
previous five weeks.  “Stockpiles should also rise because of low refinery run
rates,” Kilduff said.  ‘Remove Justification’  Gasoline stockpiles increased 1.85 million barrels, or 0.8
percent, from 240.9 million, the survey showed. Supplies climbed
in all but one of the past 12 reports and surged to the highest
level since March 1990, in the week ended Feb. 4. Fourteen
respondents gave product-supply estimates. Thirteen respondents
projected a gain and one said there was a drop.  “We will probably end up with a large surplus when
gasoline demand picks up this summer,” Evans said. “This
should remove any justification for price increases in the
months ahead.”  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably slipped 400,000 barrels, or 0.2
percent, from 164.4 million, the survey showed. Ten of the
analysts anticipated a decline, three projected an increase and
one said there was no change.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  