-- 
U.S. Homebuilder Confidence Stagnates in February on Slow Sales

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-02-15T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-stagnates-amid-inventory-glut-job-concerns.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
stagnated in February, reflecting a still-depressed housing
market.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index registered a reading of 16 for the fourth
consecutive month, in line with the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, data from the Washington-
based group showed today. Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  Builders must compete with a glut of unsold properties
depressing  home prices  as the number of foreclosure filings
rises and unemployment holds above 9 percent, damping demand for
new construction.  “While builders are starting to see more interest among
potential home buyers, we are also dealing with a multitude of
challenges, including competition from foreclosure properties
and inaccurate appraisals of new homes, which are limiting our
ability to sell,” said NAHB Chairman Bob Nielsen, a
homebuilder from Reno,  Nevada , in an e-mailed statement “On top
of that, an extremely tight lending environment continues to
make it almost impossible to obtain credit for viable new and
existing projects.”  Economists forecast the builder index in February would
hold at 16, according to the median of 47 projections. Estimates
ranged from 15 to 18.  The measure, which was first published in January 1985,
reached a record low of 8 in January 2009, and averaged 54 in
the five years before the recession began in December 2007.  Single Family  The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales rose to 17 from 15, the report showed. A measure of sales
expectations for the next six months rose to 25 from 24. The
gauge of buyer traffic held at 12.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  Builders in two of the four regions saw a drop in
confidence this month. The gauge fell to 12 from 13 in the
Midwest and decreased to 13 from 15 in the West. The index
increased to 22 from 20 in the Northeast and increased to 18
from 17 in the South.  A Commerce Department report due tomorrow may show builders
began work on more houses last month, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Builders remain on the sidelines while foreclosures are
still a threat. There were 190,000 new houses on the market at
the end of December, the fewest since January 1968, the Commerce
Department said Jan. 26.  With high unemployment and banks seizures poised to resume
after a slowdown, foreclosure filings will climb about 20
percent in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing crisis,
RealtyTrac Inc. said last month.  Home Values  Home values in the U.S. fell during the fourth quarter
because potential buyers anticipated prices would decline
further. The median price of a single-family home dropped from a
year earlier in 71 of 152 metropolitan areas tracked by the
National Association of Realtors, the group said last week.  “Affordability is the least of the problems right now,”  Ara Hovnanian , chief executive officer of  New Jersey ’s largest
homebuilder, said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “The issue is
unemployment, fear and lack of confidence, and that’s what’s got
to turn right now.”    Hovnanian Enterprises Inc . on Dec. 22 reported a fourth-
quarter loss bigger than analysts expected as revenue fell 19
percent. The company has cut about 75 percent of its workforce
in the past four years, Hovnanian said during the interview. He
said he expects the industry “to start building some momentum”
in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 