-- 
London Stock Exchange’s Bid for TMX May Help Alpha, Schmitt Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-15T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/london-stock-exchange-bid-for-tmx-may-help-alpha-trading-ceo-schmitt-says.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc’s
bid for  TMX Group Inc . may advance efforts by Alpha Trading
Systems to become a full exchange with a listings business in  Canada , said Jos Schmitt, chief executive officer of the bank-
owned trading platform.  LSE agreed Feb. 9 to buy TMX Group, owner of the Toronto
Stock Exchange, for about C$3.2 billion ($3.24 billion) in
stock. LSE shareholders will own 55 of the combined company,
while TMX investors will own the rest.  “The entire merger is an element that should be favorable
to our recognition as an exchange,” Schmitt, 48, said in an
interview. “We become the major Canadian anchored
marketplace.”  Alpha, an alternative trading system owned by Canada’s
biggest banks, said it applied to regulators about 10 months ago
to become an exchange so it can also list companies to challenge
TMX’s Toronto Stock Exchange and  TSX Venture Exchange .  TMX had revenue of C$163 million, or 29 percent of its
sales, from fees charged to companies to list securities on its
marketplaces. Alpha trades TMX-listed stocks on its platform,
yet doesn’t have regulatory approval to assign companies a
listing on its own system. Schmitt says he expects Alpha to have
approval this year as part of its exchange application to the
Ontario Securities Commission.  “I hope this will help accelerate the regulatory process
around the recognition of Alpha as an exchange,” Schmitt said.
“We absolutely need to make sure we bring competition in the
listings space.”  Broader Market  National Bank Financial analyst Shubha Khan said he
questions whether Alpha can gaining listings business against a
larger, trans-Atlantic rival.  “I don’t think you’ll see a big migration of listings from
the TSX to Alpha or a whole bunch of new listings going to
Alpha,” Khan said. “I’d argue it would be more attractive to
list on a merged TMX-LSE rather than Alpha. You’d have access to
a broader  capital market .”  A sale of TMX to the London exchange would be the largest
foreign takeover of a financial services company in Canada,
where banks and insurers are protected by ownership limits.  The transaction requires approval of Ontario and Quebec
securities regulators as well as Canada’s federal government,
and needs support of two-thirds of TMX shareholders.  “What struck me is they’re not packaging this merger as a
defensive move to thwart” competition, Khan said.  Alternative marketplaces have eroded TMX’s former monopoly
in stock trading in the past three years. Alpha, which started
in November 2008, had about 19 percent of the share of Canada’s  stock trading  marketplace last year compared with about 73
percent by TMX, according to the  Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of Canada . Other platforms and exchanges in Canada,
including Instinet’s Chi-X, Canadian National Stock Exchange and
Pure Trading, had about 8 percent of the market.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; Nick
Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  