-- 
Hong Kong Jockey Club Faces Biggest Threat in 126 Years From Online Gaming

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-02-16T04:29:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/hong-kong-jockey-club-faces-biggest-threat-in-126-years-from-online-gaming.html
For 126 years, the  Hong Kong Jockey
Club  has survived equine flu, bribery scandals, the Japanese
invasion and the return to China. Now the operator that takes
more money per race than any other faces a bigger challenge: the
Internet.  As members gather in private boxes this weekend, to dine on
steamed sea perch with crushed fava beans and sip  Chateau
Margaux  at the Mercedes-Benz Hong Kong Classic Cup, about a
third of the money wagered on the thoroughbreds will bypass the
club’s monopoly and go to unauthorized Internet betting sites.  “Competition is just a mouse click away,” said Winfried Engelbrecht-Bresges, 55, the  Jockey Club ’s German chief
executive officer. “Our competitiveness is at risk.”  There’s even more at stake for the government. The  Jockey
Club , the city’s sole provider of horse racing, football betting
and lotteries is also its largest single taxpayer. Hong Kong
gets about 7 percent of tax  revenue  --HK$12.8 billion ($1.64
billion) last year -- from the club, helping keep income tax
 rates  in the former British colony among the lowest globally.  The operator is also the city’s biggest source of
charitable donations, spending HK$1.52 billion in the year ended
June on everything from hospices for single mothers to art
archives.  About HK$105 million is bet on every race, according to
William Nader, the club’s executive director for racing. That’s
more than 50 times the average at U.S. tracks in 2010. After
prizes and winning bets are paid out, the  Hong Kong  government
takes at least 72.5 percent of what’s left in taxes. That
compares with 25 percent in  Singapore .  Better Odds  The windfall for Hong Kong is threatened by a rise in
unauthorized Internet betting sites, which avoid paying gambling
taxes or royalties to the track, enabling them to offer more
attractive odds, said Engelbrecht.  “Online gaming has eroded racing’s capacity to ensure it
achieves a fair return from all the wagering that takes place,”
said  Andrew Harding , who heads the secretariat of the Sydney-
based  Asian Racing Federation .  Some tracks are trying to fight the problem of “free
riding” by online bookmakers by linking with race courses in
other countries to take bets on each other’s races. The system,
called commingling, broadens the pool of gamblers the race
operators can access, allowing them to offer better odds.  French tracks have commingling deals with counterparts in  Switzerland , the U.K.,  Spain ,  Italy  and the U.S. while the
 Singapore Turf Club  has an arrangement with  Tabcorp Holdings
Ltd . where some Australian bets on Singaporean races are pooled.  Lost Revenue  Hong Kong’s tax regime makes such deals prohibitive because
the city doesn’t make allowances for double taxation, said
Engelbrecht. The jockey club’s overseas revenue would be taxed
twice -- in the country where the bet was made and in Hong Kong
-- removing any profit. The city’s  government  said in an e-
mailed response it is “willing to review the taxation structure
for inbound commingling.”  Engelbrecht estimates annual revenue for illegal bookmakers
from Hong Kong horse races is equivalent to between one-third
and 100 percent of the Jockey Club’s receipts. That means the
government lost at least HK$2.6 billion in revenue, based on the
HK$7.9 billion in racing taxes the club paid in the year ended
March 2010.  Online Poker  Growth in the club’s racing revenue is failing to keep up
with global online betting. Hong Kong’s gross racing revenue
grew 3.6 percent to $1.5 billion in the year ended June.  Internet gambling  last year grew 10.4 percent to $11.9 billion,
according to  GBGC  gambling consultants.  One way to beat the Internet operators is to join them. The
jockey club already gets 30 percent of its earnings from online
soccer betting and Engelbrecht wants the government to legalize
expansion into other sports, such as basketball.  That would help it compete with companies such as London-
listed  Betfair Group Plc , which takes bets on everything from
horse racing in  Tampa Bay  to online poker.  “It’s more and more difficult for Hong Kong to maintain
its monopoly and have a thriving business when there are so many
competing alternatives out there, both illegal and legal,” said
Stephen Burn, Betfair’s Global Racing Director. “There is a
tidal wave of people who want to use the new technology.” Burn
said Betfair doesn’t take bets on Hong Kong horse races.  Malarial Swamp  Many gambling websites are based in locations such as
Vanuatu or Curacao where outside authorities are powerless to
shut them down. They don’t pay racing levies or share revenue
with race operators and hence can offer better odds.  “They will always return better money than we do,” said
Louis Romanet, chairman of the International Federation of
Horseracing Authorities, said by telephone. “We have to pay for
organization of the races and tax.”  Horse racing has been a pastime in Hong Kong since the
British drained a malarial swamp to form a racetrack at Happy
Valley in 1841. Races have taken place there ever since, except
for a few years during the Japanese occupation in 1941-45,
according to the jockey club’s website.  A second track and clubhouse were built at Sha Tin in 1978
to offer weekend races, including the  Cathay Pacific Cup , which
has a purse of HK$20 million, more than the $2 million in prize
money at the  Kentucky Derby . The club was forced to suspend
racing for one month in 1992, when a third of the horses were
afflicted by equine flu, though none died. Four years later the
word “Royal” was dropped from the club name before Britain
handed Hong Kong back to  China  in 1997.  Who’s Who  The club’s reputation was tarnished when one of the
committee of 200 people among its more than 21,000  members 
allowed to nominate new entrants, John Hung, was sentenced to
two years in jail in June 2009 for taking bribes worth
HK$450,000. In December last year, the city’s  Independent
Commission Against Corruption  said three other members were
under investigation for similar abuses.  Neither the  ICAC  nor the jockey club would comment on the
current investigation. Engelbrecht said the 2009 case was an
exception and  “we rely very much on quality control of the 200
voting members made up of a who’s who in Hong Kong society.”  Those members include billionaires Victor Fung, chairman of  Li & Fung Ltd . and Vincent Lo, chairman of  Shui On Land Ltd .  Betting Accounts  The club has a reputation for weathering storms. During the
financial crisis, some members transferred a combined HK$2
billion into their betting accounts (the club doesn’t provide
credit) from banks “because they trusted us more,” said
Engelbrecht.  That reputation may help the club expand into Internet
betting because gamblers take a bigger risk entrusting their
money to unregulated sites, said James Hollins, equity analyst
at Evolution Group on  London .  “In the ideal scenario you have one brand and platform for
sports, poker, casino and bingo,” said Hollins.  The seeds of the club’s future may also have been sown in
1997 with the prospect of a new, much larger market in mainland
China, where horse racing is currently illegal.  To attract the swelling ranks of Chinese high rollers, the
Hong Kong Jockey Club spent $100 million to build a clubhouse in
Beijing where it now has 1,000 non-betting memberships.  “It’s important to establish ourselves as a brand,” said
Engelbrecht. “Ten years ahead, I’m pretty convinced there will
be horse racing in China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  