-- 
Top Stories: Worldwide

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-15T00:35:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/top-stories-worldwide.html
The following are the day's top                    
general news stories:                                                            1. Obama Submits a $3.7 Trillion Budget as Republicans Pledge to Oppose Plan   
2. Egypt-Inspired Protesters Battle Security Forces in Bahrain, Yemen, Iran    
3. U.S. Bailout Watchdog Barofsky to Resign to Pursue `Other Opportunities'    
4. Tunisia Democracy Gridlock Foreshadows Transition Woes in Egypt Leadership  
5. Freezing Mubarak Assets Shows How  Switzerland  Fights Image of Dirty Money     1. Obama Submits a $3.7 Trillion Budget as Republicans Pledge to Oppose Plan     President Barack Obama sent Congress a $3.7 trillion budget               
 that projects the federal deficit will exceed $1 trillion for                 
 the fourth consecutive year in 2012 before falling to more                    
 "sustainable" levels by the middle of the decade. The deficit                 
 for the current fiscal year is forecast to hit a record $1.6                  
 trillion -- 10.9 percent of gross domestic product -- up from                 
 the $1.4 trillion the administration estimated previously. It                 
 would be $1.1 trillion in 2012, 7 percent of GDP. By 2015 it                  
 would decline to $607 billion, or 3.2 percent of GDP. The                     
 president´s budget plan would reduce federal shortfalls by $1.1               
 trillion over a decade through spending cuts in areas ranging                 
 from heating subsidies for the poor to grants for airports and                
 water-treatment plants. It also would increase revenue,                       
 including letting taxes rise for married couples with more than               
 $250,000 in annual income and ending some tax breaks for oil,                 
 gas and coal companies. Obama said he will meet his pledge to                 
 cut the deficit in half by the end of his first term. Speaking                
 at a middle school in suburban Baltimore this morning, the                    
 president said the government must spend to support education,                
 research and infrastructure to keep the U.S. economically                     
 competitive.                                                                    2. Egypt-Inspired Protesters Battle Security Forces in Bahrain, Yemen, Iran      Demonstrators clashed with security forces in Bahrain,                    
 Yemen and Iran yesterday, emboldened to challenge ruling                      
 regimes by the success of Egypt´s populist uprising against                   
 President  Hosni Mubarak . Bahraini riot police fired tear gas to               
 break up protests across the island nation, and one man                       
 reportedly was shot dead by police, as demonstrators demanded                 
 more political freedom and jobs. Yemeni protesters announced                  
 plans for a fifth day of demonstrations after thousands                       
 gathered yesterday at Yemen´s Sanaa University to demand                      
 President Ali Abdullah Saleh step down, clashing with police                  
 and pro-government demonstrators who hurled stones and wielded                
 clubs. In Tehran, thousands of security officers were deployed                
 to stop separate groups of demonstrators, rallying throughout                 
 the city, from converging on the central Azadi Square,                        
 al-Jazeera said. The Iranian authorities have cheered the                     
 downfall of Mubarak, who positioned  Egypt  as a political and                  
 military counter-balance to Tehran´s influence, while at the                  
 same time cracking down on domestic opponents inspired by                     
 events in Cairo. "Each country has its own unique                             
 circumstances," said Alireza Nader, an international policy                   
 analyst at the Rand Corporation´s Washington office and a                     
 former Middle East specialist at the U.S. Treasury Department.                
 "But whether it´s Persian Iran or Arab Yemen or Bahrain, all                  
 those countries are vulnerable to social unrest."                               3. U.S. Bailout Watchdog Barofsky to Resign to Pursue `Other Opportunities'        Neil Barofsky , who criticized the U.S. Treasury                           
 Department´s handling of taxpayer-funded bailouts as special                  
 inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Fund, resigned                
 effective March 30. Barofsky, 40, said in a letter to President               
  Barack Obama  that he was stepping down to "pursue other                       
 opportunities," saying his office had a "truly remarkable                     
 positive impact." He said his office´s investigations led to 14               
 criminal convictions for fraud, recovered more than $150                      
 million and avoided the loss of $550 million in fraud. Since                  
 taking office as special inspector general in December 2008,                  
 Barofsky assailed the U.S. bailout of American International                  
 Group Inc., the Treasury´s housing loan- modification program,                
 and the government´s decision to speed the pace of closings of                
 General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC auto dealerships.                   
 TARP´s "most significant legacy" may be "the moral hazard and                 
 potentially disastrous consequences associated with the                       
 continued existence of financial institutions that are `too big               
 to fail,´" Barofsky said in a report last month.                                4. Tunisia Democracy Gridlock Foreshadows Transition Woes in Egypt Leadership    In what may be a lesson for Egypt, the ouster of Tunisian                 
 President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali one month ago has created                   
 conflict between politicians jostling to fill the political                   
 hole. The former ruling party says Islamic participation in a                 
 future government would hurt women´s rights and tourism, while                
 the Islamists say their opponents should be permanently banned                
 because they supported Ben Ali´s dictatorship. A committee of                 
 university scholars working on recommendations to shape                       
 elections and the new regime doesn´t include representatives                  
 from the largest Islamic group, Ennahda, which questions its                  
 legitimacy. The disputes come ahead of elections in six months,               
 the first since the North African state´s independence from                   
  France  in 1956. "Tunisia will be a test case for the Arab                     
 world," said Mohsen Marzouk, Tunisian head of the Arab                        
 Democracy Foundation in Qatar, in a Feb. 9 telephone interview.               
 "Success would give Arab youth seeking change a model to turn                 
 to. Failure means instability, economic losses, a possible                    
 return to military rule and fuels the opinion that Arabs are                  
 not ready for democracy."                                                       5. Freezing Mubarak Assets Shows How Switzerland Fights Image of Dirty Money     Switzerland´s decision to freeze any assets of former                     
 Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak was made faster than anywhere                
 else as the Alpine nation no longer wants to be perceived as a                
 place where dictators can stash money. Less than two hours                    
 after Mubarak´s resignation was announced on Feb. 11, the Swiss               
 government said it blocked any funds belonging to him and his                 
 immediate entourage to avoid "possible misappropriation" of                   
 Egyptian state property. "The old days are over," said Theodore               
 Greenberg, former chief of the  money laundering  section of the                
  U.S. Department of Justice . "No despot, no dictator or other                  
 kleptocrat will easily be able to deposit dirty money.                        
 Switzerland as a favorite place for criminal or blood money                   
 should be a thing of the past, a topic for novels on money                    
 laundering or  James Bond movies ." Switzerland, where about 27                 
 percent of the world´s privately held offshore wealth is                      
 managed, has tightened money- laundering rules to curb the                    
 inflow of illicit funds. The nation has returned about 1.7                    
 billion francs ($1.8 billion) of dictators´ assets to their                   
 countries of origin, more than any other financial center of a                
 comparable size, according to the government´s website.                         -0- Feb/15/2011 00:35 GMT
 