-- 
Top Stories: Business and Finance

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-15T00:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/top-stories-business-and-finance.html
The following are the day's top                    
business stories:                                                                1. Berkshire Divests BofA, Nike Stakes as Buffett Takes Control of Portfolio   
2. Mizuho May Seek to Leverage BlackRock Stake to Buy Asset Managers in Asia   
3. World Bank Loves Kangaroo Bonds on Currency Swap Benefit: Australia Credit  
4. Yen Trades Near One-Week High Against Euro Before China Inflation Report    
5. Australia Blocked China Rare-Earth Takeover on Concern of Threat to Supply  
6. Shipping Glut Punishes Gesco Bonds as Freight Revenue Drops:  India  Credit   
7. EU to Double Rescue Fund in 2013, Takes No Additional Measures on Portugal  
8. Ambani's Flagship Reliance Communications Posts Profit Drop, Soaring Debt   
9. Australian Central Bank Says Consumer Restraint Is Easing Price Pressures   
10.Exports to Lift Japan Economy from Consumer-Led Contraction: Chart of Day   
11  London  Banks Fold Their Union Jack as Brussels Seizes Financial Regulation  
12.Dougan Lowers Return-on-Equity Target as Goldman's Blankfein Clings to 20%    1. Berkshire Divests BofA, Nike Stakes as Buffett Takes Control of Portfolio     Berkshire Hathaway Inc. divested its stake in Bank of                     
 America Corp., the largest U.S. lender by assets, as Chairman                 
  Warren Buffett  took control of the portfolio previously run by                
 his backup stock picker, Lou Simpson. Buffett´s firm had no                   
 shares in the bank at the end of 2010, compared with 5 million                
 shares three months earlier, Omaha, Nebraska- based Berkshire                 
 said today in a regulatory filing that lists the company´s U.S.               
 stockholdings. Berkshire also eliminated its stakes in Nike                   
 Inc., Comcast Corp., Nalco Holding Co., Fiserv Inc., Lowe´s                   
 Cos. and Becton, Dickinson & Co. Buffett, 80, is reshaping                    
 Berkshire´s stock portfolio amid changes in the company´s                     
 investment managers. Simpson, once identified by Buffett as his               
 emergency stand in, retired late last year. Berkshire, the                    
 biggest shareholder of Coca-Cola Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co .,                   
 hired former hedge fund manager Todd Combs to help Buffett with               
 equity investments. "Any position that Buffett was                            
 uncomfortable holding on his own will have been sold in the                   
 fourth quarter" as Simpson left, said David Kass, a professor                 
 at the University of Maryland´s Robert H. Smith School of                     
 Business.                                                                       2. Mizuho May Seek to Leverage BlackRock Stake to Buy Asset Managers in  Asia      Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Japan´s third-largest bank by                
 market value, may seek to buy investment advisory firms in Asia               
 with BlackRock Inc. after purchasing a stake in the world´s                   
 biggest asset manager last year. Mizuho is studying ways to                   
 deepen ties with New York-based BlackRock to aid a strategy of                
 investing Japanese pension money in faster-growing Asian                      
 economies, Yasuhiro Sato, president of Mizuho Corporate Bank                  
 Ltd., said in an interview. The Tokyo-based bank aims to                      
 leverage the 2 percent stake in BlackRock it bought for $500                  
 million in November to compete with larger rival Sumitomo                     
 Mitsui Financial Group Inc., which tied up with Barclays Plc                  
 last year in wealth management. The number of millionaires in                 
 the Asia-Pacific region reached 3 million in 2009, matching                   
 those in  Europe  for the first time, according to data from                    
 Capgemini SA and Bank of America Corp.´s Merrill Lynch & Co.                  
 unit. "The stake in BlackRock alone wouldn´t be enough to                     
 manage a substantial amount of money in Asia," Sato said on                   
 Feb. 8. "Acquisitions of management firms in the region will be               
 the next step."                                                                 3.  World Bank  Loves Kangaroo Bonds on Currency Swap Benefit: Australia Credit    Sales of bonds in Australia by foreign issuers are off to a               
 record start in 2011 as banks snap up securities to meet new                  
 international capital rules. The World Bank´s International                   
 Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European                         
 Investment Bank and Germany´s Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank                  
 led A$10 billion ($10 billion) in sales of kangaroo bonds,                    
 Australian dollar-denominated notes issued by non-domestic                    
 borrowers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That´s up                 
 from the previous record of A$8.5 billion in the same period                  
 last year. Australia is luring borrowers as the currency trades               
 within 3 percent of the strongest level on record against the                 
  U.S. dollar , supported by the highest  interest rates  in the                   
 developed world and accelerating economic growth. While                       
 benchmark rates at 4.75 percent compare with 1 percent in the                 
 euro zone and as little as zero in the U.S., the swaps market                 
 is making it cheaper for some issuers to sell debt in Australia               
 as at home. "The higher interest-rate levels in  Australia                      
 compared to other developed  currency markets  do play a role in                
 terms of the attractiveness of the product with international                 
 investors," Andrea Dore, the lead financial officer for capital               
 markets at the World Bank, said in a telephone interview from                 
  Washington . Current rates for swapping the proceeds, known as                 
 the  basis swap , offer "competitive funding costs compared to                  
 other markets," she said.                                                       4. Yen Trades Near One-Week High Against Euro Before  China  Inflation Report      The yen traded near a one-week high against the euro before               
 a report that economists said will show China´s consumer-price                
 inflation accelerated last month, fueling concern the central                 
 bank will take more measures to cool growth. The euro was close               
 to the lowest in three weeks versus the greenback on                          
 speculation European finance ministers meeting for a second day               
 today will fail to agree on measures to shield  Portugal  from                  
 the region´s debt crisis. Australia´s dollar traded about 0.2                 
 percent below this year´s high versus New Zealand´s before the                
 larger South Pacific nation´s central bank releases minutes of                
 this month´s policy meeting. "China´s strong CPI data may                     
 suggest the pace of tightening is too slow," said Toshiya                     
 Yamauchi, a senior currency analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow                   
 Ltd., which provides foreign-exchange margin-trading services.                
 "The yen is likely to be bought should stocks decline following               
 the data, cooling risk sentiment in the markets." The yen                     
 traded at 112.37 per euro as of 8:31 a.m. in Tokyo from 112.40                
 in  New York  yesterday, when it rose to 112.09, the strongest                  
 since Feb. 9. Japan´s currency was at 83.33 per dollar from                   
 83.32. The euro bought $1.3486 from $1.3489 yesterday, when it                
 dropped to $1.3428, the weakest since Jan. 20.                                  5. Australia Blocked China Rare-Earth Takeover on Concern of Threat to Supply    China´s bid to gain control of the world´s richest rare                   
 earth deposit in 2009 was blocked by Australia´s Foreign                      
 Investment Review Board on concern it would threaten supply to                
 non-Chinese buyers. State-owned China Non-Ferrous Metal Mining                
 (Group) Co. in May 2009 offered A$252 million for a 51.6                      
 percent stake in Lynas Corp., which needed cash to resume                     
 development of the Mount Weld rare earth mine in Western                      
 Australia. Minutes of a meeting by the review board on Sept.                  
 23, 2009, obtained by Bloomberg News through an Australia                     
 Freedom of Information Act request, show a concern the deal                   
 could undermine Australia as a reliable trading partner. "We                  
 have concluded that they would not be able to exclude the                     
 possibility that Lynas´ production could be controlled to the                 
 detriment of non-Chinese end users," the minutes show. That                   
 would have been "inconsistent with the government´s policy of                 
 maintaining Australia´s position as a reliable supplier to all                
 our trading partners and hence potentially contrary to national               
 interest."                                                                      6. Shipping Glut Punishes Gesco Bonds as Freight Revenue Drops: India Credit     Yields on the bonds of India´s biggest shipping companies                 
 are rising to records as the nation´s corporate borrowing costs               
 surge and freight revenues slump because of a glut of vessels.                
 The yield on bonds due December 2018 sold by Great Eastern                    
 Shipping Co., or Gesco, jumped 37 basis points this year to                   
 9.37 percent on Feb. 7, the highest level since they were sold                
 in 2009. Essar Shipping Ports & Logistics Ltd.´s June 2019 note               
 reached a record 10.38 percent the same day. Leasing costs will               
 drop 34 percent in 2011 as shipyards deliver 200 capesize                     
 ships, spanning about 35 miles end-to-end, according to a Jan.                
 10 Bloomberg News survey of eight fund managers and analysts.                 
 Shippers are being squeezed after borrowing costs for the                     
 highest-rated Indian companies climbed to a 23-month high of                  
 9.25 percent as the central bank raised borrowing costs to                    
 contain inflation. The Baltic Dry Index of commodity-shipping                 
 costs tumbled 59 percent in the three months to Jan. 31, the                  
 most since 2008. While Gesco´s 2018 bond lost 1.1 percent this                
 year, China Ocean Shipping Group Co.´s April 2015 notes gained                
 0.8 percent and the October 2017 debt of Russia´s OAO                         
 Sovcomflot rose 0.4 percent, Bloomberg data shows. "The issues                
 are not positive for shipping bonds, and they are not much                    
 sought-after now," said Puneet Pal, a bond manager in Mumbai at               
 UTI Asset Management Co., which oversees 653 billion rupees                   
 ($14.4 billion). "Yields should still go higher to justify                    
 buying them."                                                                   7. EU to Double Rescue Fund in 2013, Takes No Additional Measures on Portugal    European governments agreed to double the lending capacity                
 of the rescue fund for debt-laden countries in 2013, while                    
 seeing no need for immediate steps to shield Portugal from the                
 fiscal crisis. Finance ministers decided that the future                      
 emergency aid mechanism will be able to lend 500 billion euros                
 ($675 billion), twice the size of the fund set up in the wake                 
 of Greece´s near- default last year. "The situation on the                    
 sovereign-debt markets remains worrying," Luxembourg Prime                    
 Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters after chairing a                  
 meeting of European finance ministers in Brussels yesterday.                  
 "The Portuguese authorities did take effective actions. If this               
 action would reveal itself as not having been sufficient, other               
 measures will have to be taken, but I have no indications that                
 this has to be done in the short term." Bonds in Greece, Italy                
 and Portugal fell as Germany opposed stepping up the rescue                   
 effort until European governments take fresh measures to                      
 bolster the competitiveness of the 17-nation economy. The                     
 maneuverings over longer-term economic policies pushed the                    
 near-term  crisis management  into the background.                                8. Ambani's Flagship Reliance Communications Posts Profit Drop, Soaring Debt     Billionaire Anil Ambani´s Reliance Communications Ltd.                    
 reported a sixth straight drop in quarterly profit amid falling               
 prices, undermining the company´s ability to reduce the biggest               
 debt load in India´s phone industry. Third-quarter net income                 
 fell 57 percent from a year ago to 4.8 billion rupees ($106                   
 million), the Mumbai-based company said yesterday. While that                 
 beat the 3.6 billion rupee average analysts´ estimate compiled                
 by Bloomberg, sales and earnings before interest, tax,                        
 depreciation and amortization missed projections. The results                 
 may erode investor confidence in a company reeling from a                     
 one-day, 14 percent stock slide, a 71 percent surge in net                    
 debt, and a deepening government probe into the sale of                       
 mobile-phone licenses sold in 2008. Ambani´s group, which had                 
 blamed "baseless" speculation from unidentified rivals and                    
 brokers for last week´s stock rout, said Feb. 12 federal                      
 investigators questioned some of its officials. "It´s a pretty                
 bad set of numbers, disastrous," said Naveen Kulkarni, a                      
 Mumbai-based analyst at MF Global Securities Pvt. "There´s a                  
 problem with execution with respect to what the top management                
 thinks and what people on the ground are able to execute."                      9. Australian Central Bank Says Consumer Restraint Is Easing Price Pressures     Australia´s central bank left interest rates unchanged this               
 month as consumer restraint slows inflation and offsets                       
 stronger demand for the nation´s resources, minutes of its Feb.               
 1 policy meeting show. "The continuation of subdued growth in                 
 consumer spending and the lower-than-expected inflation                       
 outcomes provided additional time for the board to assess at                  
 future meetings the evolving balance of risks to both output                  
 and inflation," the minutes released today in Sydney said. The                
 minutes reflect growing attention by  Reserve Bank  of Australia                
 members to consumers who are holding back purchases and saving                
 more after seven interest-rate increases from October 2009 to                 
 November last year. Households that the RBA characterized as                  
 "highly value-conscious" are easing price pressure fueled by a                
 mining investment boom and a labor market near full employment.               
 The RBA minutes said "the evident caution in household spending               
 would, if it persisted, reduce the pressure on prices that                    
 might normally be expected in an economy with very strong terms               
 of trade and limited spare capacity."                                           10.Exports to Lift Japan Economy from Consumer-Led Contraction: Chart of Day     Japan´s exports may pull the nation´s economy out of its                  
 contraction, as overseas sales surpassed domestic demand in                   
 relative contribution for the first time in five quarters,                    
 Cabinet Office data show. The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the                     
 proportion of growth from net exports and domestic demand,                    
 according to data compiled by Bloomberg from Cabinet Office                   
 figures. Overseas shipments minus imports were better for                     
 Japan´s gross domestic product than consumption for the first                 
 time since July-September in 2009, though both contracted from                
 the year-earlier period as overall GDP shrunk 1.1 percent in                  
 the final three months of 2010. The lower panel shows quarterly               
 growth in China, Japan´s largest export market. Private                       
 consumption is "dead," said Naoki Iizuka, a senior economist at               
 Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. "Exports are probably going to                
 be the only thing keeping Japan´s economy alive." Nissan Motor                
 Co. and Honda Motor Co. are among exporters that have raised                  
 their profit forecasts on higher overseas demand, signaling                   
 companies have become more resilient to yen´s 8 percent gain                  
 against the dollar the past year. Exports may help Japan´s                    
 economy expand between an annualized 1 percent and 2 percent                  
 this quarter, Iizuka said.                                                      11.London Banks Fold Their Union Jack as Brussels Seizes Financial Regulation    London, the financial capital of Europe, is coming to grips               
 with a foreign concept: None of its three most important                      
 regulators speaks with a British accent. For the island nation                
 that opted out of the euro, the start of three European Union                 
 oversight agencies on New Year´s Day has stirred anxiety about                
 London´s future as a money center and how to influence the EU,                
 which is overhauling rules from bonuses and bank capital levels               
 to naked short-selling, high-frequency trading and                            
 over-the-counter derivatives. "The U.K. has to accept European                
 regulation willingly in exchange for developing its position as               
 Europe´s financial center," said  Simon Gleeson , a financial                   
 regulatory lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP in London. "The U.K.                 
 needs to be on the inside if it is to remain Europe´s financial               
 center." The EU regulators will set rules and guidelines for                  
 all of Europe, supervise their implementation and may intervene               
 in nations during a crisis. National regulators won´t have                    
 freedom to interpret the agencies´ regulations. London bankers,               
 who can appear "arrogant and patronizing" to EU officials,                    
 according to a report by ex-Barclays Plc adviser Malcolm                      
 Levitt, must learn to negotiate with European partners as                     
 equals if their finance industry is to prosper, lawmakers and                 
 bankers said.                                                                   12.Dougan Lowers Return-on-Equity Target as Goldman's Blankfein Clings to 20%    By cutting Credit Suisse Group AG´s profitability target                  
 last week, Brady Dougan acknowledged what some Wall Street                    
 bankers and investors are loathe to concede: Tougher capital                  
 rules will mean lower returns. Dougan, 51, chief executive                    
 officer of the Zurich-based company since 2007, lowered the                   
 goal for return on equity, a measure of profitability, to more                
 than 15 percent from more than 18 percent. By contrast, Goldman               
 Sachs Group Inc., the bank that makes the most revenue from                   
 trading, insists its target of a 20 percent return on tangible                
 equity doesn´t need to be moved. Profitability soared in the                  
 middle of the last decade as banks increased leverage, using                  
 borrowed money to bulk up on assets. The credit crisis exposed                
 the risks of that strategy and resulted in $1.48 trillion of                  
 writedowns and losses worldwide. To generate the same returns                 
 while holding more capital, Wall Street firms can either                      
 discover fresh profit opportunities or reduce costs, including                
 pay, analysts said. "If the margins stay the same and the                     
 balance-sheet leverage drops, as we know it has, ROEs go down,"               
 said Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in                  
 New York. "Your choice is pretty simple then: You cut                         
 compensation to your employees or you ask your clients to pay                 
 more. If that´s impossible, well then your targets are going to               
 go down."                                                                       -0- Feb/15/2011 00:35 GMT
 