-- 
Option ARM Time Bomb Blows Early, Easing Damage to U.S. Housing

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-02-15T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/option-arm-time-bomb-blows-early-limiting-damage-to-u-s-housing-market.html
This was the year thousands of U.S.
homeowners with option adjustable-rate mortgages were supposed
to default as their payments spiked. Low interest rates and a
surge of early delinquencies mean the numbers probably won’t be
as bad as forecast, softening the blow to a housing market where
prices have resumed falling.  Consider Stan Jones, who took out option ARMs in 2005 and
2006 to buy homes for his daughter and son during their college
years. He estimates that the loans, which have a floating rate
tied to a short-term bond index, saved him thousands of dollars
as the  Federal Reserve  drove borrowing costs to record lows.  “They’re calling these loans ‘exotic mortgage schemes,’”
said Jones, an executive with a Fort Lauderdale, Florida, firm
that provides workers and technology for home-based call-center
networks. “And the whole time I’m thinking, ‘What, are you
crazy? This is the greatest thing in the world.’”  Monthly payments on option ARMs reset after an initial low-
rate period, usually five years, and researchers at CoreLogic
Inc. in  Santa Ana , California, estimated in 2009 that such
recasts would peak at 54,000 a month in August of this year. In
a 2006 cover story in BusinessWeek magazine titled  “Nightmare
Mortgages,”  George McCarthy, a housing economist at the Ford
Foundation in New York, compared the looming resets to a neutron
bomb.  “It’s going to kill all the people but leave the houses
standing,” he said at the time.  What he and other analysts didn’t anticipate was that so
many option ARMs would go bad before resetting, and that
interest rates would stay low enough to minimize the impact of
the adjustments on borrowers like Jones who are making their
payments. Still, a model developed by  JPMorgan Chase & Co .
analysts predicts that 70 percent of remaining option-ARM loans
that were bundled into bonds will eventually default.  ‘Disaster Already Happened’  About $600 billion of the loans were made from 2005 through
2007, according to industry newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance.
Of those packaged into bonds, some 20 percent have been
liquidated at losses to investors, and almost half of the
remaining ones are at least 30 days delinquent, in foreclosure
or have been seized by lenders, according to data from JPMorgan.  “It’s not that option ARMs weren’t a bad way to finance
homes, it’s just that the disaster already happened before the
resets,” McCarthy said in a telephone interview last week.  The prospect of fewer defaults is a plus for the housing
market, which was burdened by 2.2 million foreclosed homes as of
Dec. 31, according to data from Lender Processing Services Inc.
in Jacksonville, Florida. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home
values in 20 cities fell 1.6 percent in November from a year
earlier, the biggest decrease since December 2009, the group
said Jan. 25. The gauge remains 30 percent below its 2006 high.  Loan Modifications  Lenders and servicers are seeking to limit losses by
modifying loans. Terms on about 20 percent of option ARMs have
been revised, sometimes with a switch to a fixed rate, said
Michael Fratantoni, vice president of research at the  Mortgage
Bankers Association , a Washington-based trade group. JPMorgan,  Bank of America Corp . and  Wells Fargo & Co . hold the biggest
portfolios of option ARMs.  About half of the loans issued from 2003 to 2007 remain
outstanding, he said.  For the remaining homeowners, payment increases will be
limited to 30 percent to 40 percent, Barclays Capital Inc.
estimated in a Jan. 7 report. Some borrowers are seeing their
bills go down, lenders including Bank of America say. Analysts a
few years ago were forecasting that payments for some borrowers
could double.  “Of the borrowers who are still paying, the recast will
not be a big deal,” Fratantoni said. “It’s not at all what
people anticipated.”  1980s Debut  Option ARMs, introduced in the early 1980s by companies
such as Golden West Financial Corp.’s World Savings unit,
initially appealed to well-off borrowers who had uneven income
streams or received most of their compensation in large yearend
bonuses, which made conventional mortgages with regular monthly
payments difficult. By the mid-2000s, as the housing market
boomed, the loans gained widespread popularity, especially in
California and  Florida , where  home prices  were rising quickly
and the option for a minimum payment allowed borrowers to
qualify for homes they couldn’t otherwise afford. The initial
payments, known as teaser rates, could be as low as 1 percent.  The loans were mostly sold to borrowers with at least
average credit scores. Subprime loans, which triggered the
financial crisis, went to the least creditworthy homebuyers.  Cheapest Option  Option adjustable-rate mortgages are structured to give
borrowers a choice of payment options: principal and interest,
interest-only or a minimum outlay covering only a portion of the
interest and none of the principal. Most borrowers opted to pay
as little as possible, with the shortfall added to the
principal. The minimum-payment option increased 7.5 percent a
year.  Many couldn’t keep up and defaulted or abandoned homes long
before the loans hit scheduled five-year recasts. The loans can
reset sooner if the balance reaches specified principal caps,
usually 110 percent to 125 percent of the original balance.  “They took a loan that was borrower friendly and made it
into a toxic loan, which we warned regulators about again and
again and again,” Herb Sandler, who with his wife, Marion, was
co-chief executive officer of Golden West, said in a Sept. 22
interview with the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission that was
released last week. The Sandlers ran Golden West from 1963 until
it was purchased by Wachovia Corp. in 2006. Wells Fargo bought
Wachovia two years later as its shares collapsed under the
weight of overdue mortgages.  Dangers Remain  Sandler said Golden West structured its option ARMs more
conservatively than competitors, using a 10-year recast period
and eschewing 1 percent teaser rates. The company also kept its
loans rather than package them into securities that were sold to
investors, so it had more riding on their quality.  Countrywide Financial Corp. and Washington Mutual Inc., the
first- and third-largest home lenders in 2005, that year granted
68 percent of their option ARMs with little or no documentation
of borrowers’ incomes, according to the  FCIC’s report . Wells
Fargo, upon buying Wachovia, marked down its option ARMs by
$26.5 billion, the company said in a 2009 presentation.  While the threat to the housing market may be diminished,
option-ARM lenders and borrowers aren’t out of danger. About 46
percent of the loans that were securitized are at least 30 days
delinquent or worse.  Underwater Borrowers  Borrowers accounting for 42 percent of securitized option
ARMs have never fallen behind on their payments, according to
data from Amherst Securities Group, an Austin, Texas-based bond
broker. This group on average owes 17 percent more than the
value of their properties. Such underwater homeowners are more
likely to stop paying their mortgages, according to Amherst. The
firm estimates that as many as 11 million borrowers may default
without action being taken to help them.  A sudden rise in interest rates could trigger defaults in
markets where option ARMs are popular, hastening the speed and
magnitude of recasts. About 60 percent of the loans were written
in  California , while 12 percent are in Florida, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts.  For now, the interest rate environment remains benign. An
index tied to one-year Treasury yields commonly used as a
benchmark for option ARMs is at 0.29 percent, down from almost 5
percent at the start of 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Those benchmark rates are guided by the Fed.  Impact of Rates  “Lots of lenders have taken action to stave it off,
knowing it’s a problem,” Jon Maddux, chief executive officer of
 YouWalkAway.com  in Carlsbad, California, said of option-ARM
delinquencies. Maddux’s firm advises borrowers on strategic
defaults.  “They have extra time because rates are low. But when
those rates go up, that’s when we’re going to see this problem
happen,” he said.  While a spike in rates would cause more borrowers to
default, the two-year lag from the time a borrower becomes
delinquent to the foreclosure would delay the impact on the
market, according to Chandrajit Bhattacharya, a senior mortgage
strategist at Credit Suisse in  New York .  “The negative-equity issue and strategic defaulting have
been around for several years now,” said Celia Chen, a housing
economist for Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “If these option-loan borrowers haven’t succumbed
to them, I don’t think they will.”  JPMorgan Efforts  The biggest option-ARM lenders have been restructuring
loans, converting them into fixed-rate mortgages, extending
terms and forgiving principal, said  Guy Cecala , publisher of
Inside Mortgage Finance.  “Everyone identified option ARMs as a potential time bomb
if they didn’t defuse it,” Cecala said.  JPMorgan has reworked about a quarter of the $40 billion of
option ARMs it inherited when it acquired Washington Mutual in
2008. The New York-based bank plans to adjust terms on an
additional $2 billion to $4 billion before resets kick in, said
David Lowman, who heads its home-loan unit.  While Bank of America’s portfolio faces high loan-to-value
ratios and delinquencies, it doesn’t expect “a catastrophic
number of defaults” caused by payment increases,  Rick Simon , a
spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company, said
in an e-mail.  Of loans issued by its Countrywide Financial unit that have
adjusted, more than half experienced less than a 20 percent
payment increase and many saw a decrease, Simon said. Bank of
America, which bought Countrywide in 2008, expects the same
experience this year.  Losses Lower  Wells Fargo, after buying Wachovia, marked down its option
ARMs by $26.5 billion, according to Tom Goyda, a spokesman for
the bank. The San Francisco-based company has since reduced its
estimated writedown by $2.4 billion.  Wells Fargo has modified more than 80,000 loans since the
beginning of 2009. The company’s outstanding balance of Pick-A-
Pay Loans fell to $54 billion on Dec. 31, 2010, from $101.3
billion at the end of 2008, primarily through payoffs and
modifications. The company has forgiven $3.7 billion in
principal, Goyda said.  “So far the loan losses continue to be lower than
originally projected,” he said.  Three weeks ago, Jones, the Fort Lauderdale executive, got
a call from JPMorgan offering to convert the option ARM on one
of his investment properties to a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
with a 4 percent interest rate, he said. While his floating
interest rate is only 3 percent, the bank offered to hold his
monthly payment at $738. Jones locked it in because he expects
rates will rise.  Jones’s other loan recast last year. He said the change was
so small he didn’t even notice it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  