-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall on JPMorgan Equity Forecast, Bahrain Protests

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-02-15T16:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/most-emerging-market-stocks-decline-as-jpmorgan-cuts-forecast-on-inflation.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first day in three after JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduced its
outlook for equity gains and as protests in Bahrain escalated.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.1 percent to
1,104.09 at 10:54 a.m. in  New York . Chinese banks declined after
a measure of inflation quickened to the fastest in at least six
years. Bahrain’s dollar bonds sank, sending yields to a record
high, after anti-government protests escalated. BM&FBovespa SA,
the operator of Latin America’s largest exchange, declined on
concern it will face stronger competition.  JPMorgan strategists led by  Adrian Mowat  in Hong Kong cut
their year-end target for the MSCI index to 1,300 from 1,500 on
expectations that accelerating inflation in developing nations
will spur tighter monetary policy.  “Developed markets are becoming more attractive on concern
that rising inflation and interest rates could hurt growth in
emerging nations,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , strategist at Banco
de Oro Unibank in  Manila . “Portfolios are getting rebalanced in
favor of developed markets.”  The MSCI emerging-market index has dropped 4.1 percent this
year as central banks in  China , Brazil and  India  raised
benchmark interest rates to curb inflation spurred by record
food prices. The MSCI World index has gained 5 percent in 2011
as the U.S. Federal Reserve and European Central Bank keep
borrowing costs at record lows.  Middle East Protests  Bahrain’s dollar bonds due 2020 fell for a fifth day,
sending yields up five basis points to 6.13 percent, the highest
level since the debt was issued in March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Protests against the government escalated today as a second
demonstrator was reportedly killed and police used tear gas to
break up the funeral march of an opposition supporter.  Popular demands for democracy and civil rights, following
mass protests that toppled  Egypt ’s Hosni Mubarak, are rattling
rulers of a region that holds about three-fifths of the world’s
oil reserves.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
largest lender by market value, sank 0.7 percent. Consumer
prices rose 4.9 percent last month from a year earlier, as
prices excluding food surged the most in at least six years.  Oil rallied above $85 a barrel in New York on concern civil
unrest in the Middle East may disrupt supplies. Rosneft,
Russia’s biggest oil company, climbed 1.2 percent. Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, rose 1.2
percent.  Lira Strengthens  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  widened one basis point to 266,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX
CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps for emerging  Europe , the
Middle East and Africa was little changed at 207, according to
data provider CMA in  London .  Turkey’s lira strengthened 0.1 percent against the dollar,
erasing earlier losses, while  government bonds  rallied and the
ISE National 100 Index of shares rose 0.4 percent after the
central bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged,
following two months of cuts.  The bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending rate at a
record low of 6.25 percent, according to an e-mailed statement
today. Six of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg this week
had predicted no change. Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  unexpectedly
lowered the rate in December and January, seeking to deter
short-term capital inflows and weaken the lira.  The Bovespa stock index fluctuated, following three days of
gains, and was little changed. Natura Cosmeticos SA,  Brazil ’s
biggest cosmetics maker, led gains for companies that benefit
from consumer demand as traders pared bets for higher interest
rates after a halt in Brazilian retail sales growth.  BM&FBovespa fell 3 percent, the most in a week, on
speculation competition will crimp fees. Bats Global Markets and
Claritas Investments are discussing plans to build a new
equities exchange to challenge BM&FBovespa’s monopoly in
Brazilian stock trading, according to a Bats executive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  