-- 
France's Total in Talks With SacOil About Buying Into Congolese Oil Block

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-02-15T10:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/total-of-france-plans-to-acquire-stake-in-congo-oil-block-minister-says.html
  Total SA ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
producer, will buy a stake in an oil block in the Democratic
Republic of Congo owned by two South African companies, Oil
Minister Celestin Mbuyu said.  The French company will buy into Block 3, located along
Congo’s border with  Uganda , and which is currently controlled by
a subsidiary of  SacOil Holding Ltd . and Divine Inspiration Group
Ltd., Mbuyu said in an interview yesterday in Kinshasa, the
capital. Both Total and SacOil confirmed that talks are being
held about the block.  Congo is in the process of allocating dozens of oil blocks
across the country, which is about the size of Western Europe.
The Central African nation currently produces about 25,000
barrels of oil a day and plans to increase production through
drilling near its eastern borders with Tanzania, Burundi,  Rwanda 
and Uganda, and in its central basin.  Total is holding discussions about the block and no deal
has yet been signed, company spokeswoman Phenelope Semavoine
said by mobile phone today, declining to comment further.  SacOil is in talks with Total about selling shares in its
oil block, Chief Executive Officer Robin Vela said. “Total is
one of the majors we’ve been talking to,” he said by phone from
Johannesburg today. “In the next 24 hours we will be putting
out a formal detailed announcement of what we’ve landed on.”  ‘Pen to Paper’  SacOil wanted to understand which of the suitors the
Congolese government preferred “before we put pen to paper,”
Vela said. Shares in SacOil rose as much as 6.5 percent to 1.80
rand, and were trading 4.1 percent higher at 1.76 rand at 12:05
p.m. in Johannesburg, giving the company a value of 1.02 billion
rand ($140 million).  DIG Chief Executive Officer Andrea Brown didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment via text, e-mail, or phone.  Total is also negotiating for rights to Block 4, the last
available oil block along Congo’s border with Uganda, Mbuyu
said.  Eni SpA  and 11 other companies are also interested in the
area, he said. The recipient will be announced in the next three
to four months, Mbuyu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  