-- 
U.S. Consumer Bureau Funding Would Drop 40 Percent Under Republican Plan

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-02-15T22:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/house-republicans-target-consumer-protection-bureau-funding-in-budget-bill.html
U.S. House Republicans moved to cut
the budget of the nascent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
by 40 percent under a temporary spending bill being considered
this week.  Republicans lawmakers, who took control of the House after
the CFPB was created, put a provision in the so-called
continuing resolution that would limit Federal Reserve transfers
to $80 million. That would be a sharp cut from the $134 million
the bureau would get in President Barack Obama’s 2011 budget.  The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July, created the CFPB and
called for it to be funded by a percentage of the Fed’s budget,
as much as $500 million per year, with the bureau’s director
deciding how much is needed.  Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts lawmaker who
co-wrote the law that created the CFPB, said today that he and
fellow Democrats thought the bureau’s funding mechanism was safe
and were surprised to learn about the Republicans’ tactic.  “This shows the depths of their unhappiness with consumer
protection,” Frank, the top Democrat on the House Financial
Services Committee, said in an interview.    Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser charged
with setting up the bureau, attacked efforts to squeeze the its
funding in a speech today in Hastings-on-Hudson,  New York .  “Politicizing the funding of bank supervision would be a
dangerous precedent, and it would deprive the CFPB of the
predictable funding it will need to examine large and powerful
banks consistently,” Warren said in remarks prepared for the
75th anniversary celebration of  Consumers Union , the nonprofit
organization that publishes Consumer Reports magazine.  Holt Amendment  Representative Rush Holt, a New Jersey Democrat, filed an
amendment seeking to remove the restriction on the CFPB’s budget
and replace it with other cuts. Even if the Republican measure
passes the House intact, it would have to survive a vote in the
Democrat-led Senate and the threat of a veto by Obama, who
championed the bureau as a top achievement in Dodd-Frank.  Republicans, who almost unanimously opposed the Democrat-
led regulatory overhaul, focused particular attention on the
consumer bureau, saying it would hinder the safety and soundness
of the institutions it oversees.  House Financial Services Chairman  Spencer Bachus , an
Alabama Republican, said the funding structure gave the CFPB
power “with no strings attached.”  “Since this new government bureau has virtually unlimited
powers over a huge part of our economy, accountability demands
that Congress exercise appropriate oversight,” Bachus said
today. “So until we know more about the bureau and its needs,
it is entirely sensible to limit its funding to $80 million.”  Neugebauer  Representative Randy Neugebauer, a Texas Republican who
serves on the Financial Services Committee, has introduced
legislation that would move the CFPB into the Treasury
Department from the Fed, a step that would make it subject to
the congressional appropriations process.  “Given the significant and perhaps over-regulating powers
the CFPB has been given by the Obama administration, Congress
must have a say on the appropriation of taxpayer money funding
this agency’s operation,” Neugebauer said when he introduced
the bill.  Warren, in her speech today, defended Dodd-Frank’s caps on
the bureau’s funding, which limit it to about a tenth of the
Fed’s operating budget each year, by pointing to one of the
largest bank failures of the 2008 financial crisis.  IndyMac  “It would take nearly 20 years to invest as much money in
protecting consumers and consumer financial markets as it cost
the government to resolve IndyMac -- a single institution that
failed in the financial crisis of 2008,” she said.  Warren pointed out that other banking regulators would
continue to receive independent funding.  Democrats, who made the independence of the consumer agency
one of the cornerstones of the Dodd-Frank law, said Republicans
were doing the banks’ bidding.  “The financial industry always hated this,” said
Representative Brad Miller, a North Carolina Democrat, in an
interview today. “And in my experience in Congress, what the
financial industry wants, Republicans are usually perfectly
willing to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 Pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at +1-
   cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  