-- 
Family Dollar Surges After Peltz’s Takeover Proposal

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-02-16T21:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/peltz-s-trian-offers-to-buy-discounter-family-dollar-for-up-to-60-a-share.html
  Family Dollar Stores Inc . surged the
most in more than 30 years in  New York  trading after investor  Nelson Peltz  offered to buy the retailer for as much as $7.6
billion, spurring speculation other suitors will follow.  Peltz’s New York-based Trian Fund Management LP is
proposing a bid of $55 to $60 a share, according to a regulatory
filing, or up to 36 percent more than yesterday’s closing price.
The stock rose as much as 27 percent today.  Family Dollar, led by Chief Executive Officer Howard Levine, is selling more groceries and renovating stores to
attract customers. The second-biggest dollar chain in the U.S.
may draw private equity bids now that Trian has made an offer,
according to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., Nomura
Securities International Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  “This price is not unreasonable given the potential for
operational improvements,” Charles Grom, a JPMorgan analyst in
New York, wrote today in a note to clients. He rates the shares
“overweight.” “It’s feasible that another private equity firm
could enter into the mix.”  Family Dollar climbed $9.29, or 21 percent, to $53.25 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The increase
was the biggest since 1980, the earliest available data tracked
by Bloomberg. The company first sold shares in 1970.  Trian said yesterday that it contacted Levine, who is 52
and one of Family Dollar’s largest shareholders, to give him the
opportunity to participate as an investor. Family Dollar said
yesterday that it will review Trian’s proposal with help from
financial adviser Morgan Stanley and  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP , its legal counsel. Josh Braverman, a Family Dollar
spokesman, declined to comment further. Trian had no comment
beyond the filing, said Carrie Bloom, a spokeswoman for the
hedge fund.  Staying Independent  Family Dollar, started as a single store in 1959 by
Levine’s father Leon, may fight a takeover and accelerate stock
buybacks and cost cuts to remain independent, according to Mark Miller, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in  Chicago .  “Family Dollar has a paternalistic culture that we believe
would be anachronistic to a leveraged buyout,” Miller wrote
today in a note to clients. He rates the shares as “market
perform” and said the likelihood of a Trian takeover is
“low,” citing a lack of financing and an unspecific purchase
price.  “Given that Trian has not exhibited the debt, much less
the equity component to finance a $7 billion LBO, I am more than
skeptical,” said Robert Chapman, founder of hedge fund Chapman
Capital in  Manhattan Beach ,  California . He said he sold Family
Dollar shares short in after-hours trading yesterday at an
average of $57 apiece. In a short sale, traders sell borrowed
stock, betting they will be able to buy it back later at a lower
price, profiting from the difference.  Sales Performance  “Peltz may be looking to recover enormous lost capital
gains since Family Dollar reported decelerating same-store
sales,” Chapman said.  Before today, Family Dollar had tumbled 12 percent this
year, including a drop of 8.8 percent Jan. 5 when it said growth
of comparable-store sales had slowed to about 4 percent in
December. For the year through August, it projected sales by
stores open at least 13 months would rise 5 percent to 7
percent, compared with gains of at least 6.1 percent in the
three most recently reported quarters.  At $60 a share, the Peltz offer values Family Dollar,
including net debt, at about 10 times the last 12 months’
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
That compares with a median of 8 times Ebitda in seven earlier
U.S. takeovers of discount retailers since 1997.  Dollar General History  In the biggest deal in the sector, KKR & Co. paid 16 times
trailing Ebitda for  Dollar General Corp . in 2007.  Trian took a stake in Family Dollar last year and urged the
Matthews, North Carolina-based retailer to boost sales growth.  Levine has since accelerated the opening and remodeling of
stores. Family Dollar also has added more groceries and other
consumables to grab shoppers from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . and other
rivals competing for consumers pinched by high unemployment.  Family Dollar, which operates more than 6,800 stores,
increased sales at outlets open at least 13 months by 6.9
percent in the quarter ended Nov. 27. By the same measure,
larger Dollar General boosted sales by 4.2 percent in the three
months ending Oct. 29.  Private equity firms have shown an appetite for low-cost
retailers, which benefited during the recession as consumers
looked for deals. KKR took Dollar General public in 2009.  Trian, which is headed by Peltz, Peter May and Edward
Garden, is one of Family Dollar’s largest shareholders, with a
stake of about 8 percent, according to the filing.  Peltz, 68, is known for pushing companies such as Wendy’s
and Arby’s fast-food chains to increase value by cutting costs
or merging with rivals. Trian’s investments include
Wendy’s/Arby’s Group Inc. and  Legg Mason Inc ., the Baltimore-
based asset manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  