-- 
Pentagon Seeks $500 Million for Cyber Technologies

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   R a c h a e l   K i n g
-- 
2011-02-15T23:04:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/pentagon-seeks-500-million-for-cyber-research-cloud-computing.html
The U.S. Defense Department is
planning to spend $500 million to research new cyber security
technologies including cloud computing and encrypted data
processing, Deputy Defense Secretary William Lynn said today.  The Pentagon will also provide   seed capital  for companies
to develop dual-use technologies that serve our cyber security
needs,” Lynn said in prepared remarks delivered at  a technology
conference  in  San Francisco .  “Cyber defense is not a military mission, like defending
our airspace, where the sole responsibility lies with the
military,” Lynn said. “The overwhelming percentage of our
nation’s critical infrastructure -- including the Internet
itself -- is largely in private hands. It is going to take a
public-private partnership to secure our networks.”  The $500 million is part of the Pentagon’s 2012 budget
request of $2.3 billion to improve the Defense Department’s
cyber capabilities. At a Pentagon news conference yesterday,
Defense Secretary Robert Gates called the research money, to be
spent through the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or
Darpa, “big investment dollars, looking to the future.”  The military is reaching out to commercial companies for
the latest technologies and technical experts to safeguard the
Pentagon’s computer networks from attacks and espionage, Lynn
said. The effort is part of a “comprehensive cyber strategy
called Cyber 3.0,” he said.  Intel, Google  Lynn told the conference that he had met with  Intel Corp .
and  Google Inc ., and planned to meet with  Microsoft Corp . “They
all think there is technology that can be deployed, both
hardware and software” that can adapt technologies to better
defend against attacks.  Other elements of the Pentagon’s strategy include
developing “active defenses” -- technologies that detect
attacks and probes as they occur, as opposed to “defenses that
employ only after-the-fact detection and notification,” Lynn
said.  The Defense Department is working with the Department of  Homeland Security  to ensure that the U.S. electrical grid and
financial systems are as safe as the military’s networks, Lynn
said. “Secure military networks will matter little if the power
grid cuts or the rest of government stops functioning.”  The Pentagon also is building “collective defenses” with
allies and civilian agencies to monitor  computer networks  and
warn each other of cyber intrusions, Lynn said.  U.S. lawmakers have said that hackers probe government
computer networks “millions of times” a day and about 9
million Americans have their identities stolen by cyber thieves
every year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .
Rachael King in San Francisco at 
 rking25@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  