-- 
Perella Wins as Main Adviser on NYSE, Deutsche Boerse

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-02-15T19:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/perella-weinberg-scores-coup-as-main-nyse-adviser-on-deutsche-boerse-deal.html
Perella Weinberg Partners LP scored
one of the biggest coups since the investment bank’s founding
five years ago by serving as the main financial adviser to  NYSE
Euronext  on its planned merger with Deutsche Boerse AG.  The firm was the sole adviser to NYSE until shortly before
the exchange agreed to the combination today, said two people
with knowledge of the situation. That may entitle Perella
Weinberg to the biggest slice of the $20 million to $25 million
in fees that Freeman & Co., a New York-based consultant,
estimates NYSE will pay its advisers.  “It’s a big feather in their cap,” said Steven Kaplan, a
professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.
“When you start a boutique, there’s always a question as to
whether you can get business and whether the relationships will
pay off.”  Firm co-founder Peter Weinberg, 53, and colleague Andrew Bednar overlapped with NYSE Chief Executive Officer Duncan Niederauer, 51, at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., where Niederauer
worked from 1985 to 2007. Weinberg, Bednar and Dietrich Becker,
another Perella Weinberg banker, are advising NYSE, according to
two people familiar with the situation.  Rich Adamonis, a spokesman for NYSE, and Kara Findlay, a
spokeswoman for Perella Weinberg, declined to comment.  NYSE recently added  BNP Paribas  as a principal financial
adviser, the people said, along with Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley. Deutsche Boerse will control 60 percent of the new
company, which will be the world’s largest owner of equities and
derivatives markets.  Second Opinion  Perella Weinberg was the world’s 17th-biggest merger
adviser last year, with $63.5 billion of transactions, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley  was first with
$484 billion.  Founded by Weinberg and Joseph Perella in 2006, the 325-
employee firm doesn’t lend money or manage stock offerings.
While big banks emphasize their full-service capabilities,
Perella Weinberg and other boutiques such as Evercore Partners
Inc. and Greenhill & Co. often tell clients the lack of those
services makes them less likely to have conflicts of interest.  In the past six months, Perella Weinberg advised  Massey
Energy Co . on its proposed sale to  Alpha Natural Resources Inc .;
counseled directors at J. Crew Group Inc. on the company’s
management-led buyout; and worked with some shareholders of
Cargill Inc. regarding the planned spinoff of its majority stake
in  Mosaic Co .  Deutsche Boerse Advisers  Perella, 69, made his name at First Boston Corp. in the
1980s as one of a new breed of dealmakers who ushered in an era
of hostile takeovers and leveraged buyouts. He later co-founded
an advisory boutique, Wasserstein Perella & Co., before joining
Morgan Stanley.    Deutsche Bank AG  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . are Deutsche
Boerse’s principal advisers, and the German exchange operator is
also getting advice from  Credit Suisse Group AG  and Societe
Generale.  Those advisers may split another $20 million to $25 million
in fees, according to Freeman estimates based on fees paid in
historical deals. NYSE paid Citigroup Inc. $20 million for
advice on its $10 billion acquisition of Euronext NV in 2007.  Linklaters LLP is providing legal counsel to  Deutsche
Boerse , and NYSE is using Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz LLP,
Stibbe NV and Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 