-- 
TPG, Gores Said to Compete for Stake in Nokia Siemens

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-02-16T01:40:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/tpg-gores-are-said-to-compete-to-acquire-stake-in-nokia-siemens-networks.html
TPG Capital, Gores Group LLC and a
third private equity firm are competing to buy a stake in Nokia
Siemens Networks after  Blackstone Group LP  lost interest,
according to three people with knowledge of the discussions.  An agreement is likely to be reached by the end of the
second quarter, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. Gores, which was
working with Blackstone, is teaming up with another buyout fund,
the people said. The third bidder competing against TPG and the
Gores consortium couldn’t be identified.  Nokia Siemens, the 50-50 joint venture between  Nokia Oyj 
and  Siemens AG , wants to sell a minority stake in the joint
venture, while private equity funds want operational control,
said two of the people close to the talks. Previous talks with
TPG had stalled in part over that issue, one person said. Nokia
Siemens then asked the private equity firm to re-engage in
discussions, the person said.  The telecommunications-equipment maker has struggled to
stay profitable since its creation through the merger of its
parents’ wireless network assets. Nokia said last month that the
Espoo, Finland-based venture will have a loss or break even in
the first quarter on sales of as much as 3.1 billion euros ($4.2
billion).  Nokia Siemens Chief Executive Officer Rajeev Suri said
yesterday at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona that the
company is still seeking private equity investors.  Huawei Lawsuit    Christine Anderson , a Blackstone spokeswoman, and  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG,
declined to comment. Frank Stefanik, a spokesman for Los
Angeles-based Gores, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment.  “We don’t own ourselves and we wouldn’t give any comment
beyond what we’ve said,” said Ben Roome, a spokesman for Nokia
Siemens, directing all questions to the parent companies.  Doug Dawson , a Nokia spokesman, declined to comment as did Alexander Becker, a Siemens spokesman.  In July, Nokia Siemens agreed to buy Motorola Inc.’s
wireless-networks business for $1.2 billion to compete with
market leader Ericsson AB in Stockholm, Huawei Technologies Co.
in Shenzhen,  China , and Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent SA in  North
America  and Asia.  The company still aims to complete the acquisition in the
first quarter, CEO Suri said yesterday in Barcelona.  Huawei sued Motorola and Nokia Siemens last month, saying
Motorola hadn’t provided assurances that it would prevent
disclosures about Huawei technology and products to Nokia
Siemens. Motorola has sold Huawei’s wireless-network products
under the Motorola name since 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 Jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net  