-- 
Poland May Seek to Start National CO2 Platform in 2013

-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-02-15T16:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/poland-may-seek-to-start-national-co2-platform-in-2013-update1-.html
  Poland  may apply for a national
carbon-auctioning platform in the next phase of the European
Union’s emissions-trading system, the government said today.  The EU, which has given away the majority of allowances
since starting its cap-and-trade program in 2005, will require
most emitters to purchase their allotments starting in 2013.
While the EU regulator favors a single auctioning platform,
saying a centralized approach offers best “value for money,”
it agreed last year to give member states the option of running
their own national auctions.  The U.K. and  Germany , which have the biggest emission caps
and have started selling their own CO2 permits, pushed for
individual auctions when the  regulation  was discussed last year.
Poland and  Spain  also backed the option, which was allowed by
other EU states as a way to ensure competition.  “The environment minister has recommended the choice of a
national platform for the sale of greenhouse gas allowances that
Poland is eligible for under the EU emissions trading system in
2013-2020,” the Polish government said in a statement today.  The EU will auction about 60 percent of all CO2 permits in
2013, according to estimates by the European Commission, the
bloc’s regulator. That proportion of sales versus free permits
will rise in subsequent years as part of the bloc’s strategy to
use the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program to cut emissions.  New Entrants  The cap for carbon-dioxide discharges for 2013 has been set
at 2.04 billion tons, including aluminum and chemical makers,
which join the program in its third phase running through 2020.
That would be worth around 30 billion euros at today’s prices.
Airlines become part of the program next year.  The EU agreed that auctioning platforms should be
established through an “open, transparent and competitive
selection procedure.” Every application for individual auctions
will be subject to approval by other member countries.  The allocation of free allowances in the third phase of the
EU cap-and-trade will be based on the so-called carbon-intensity
benchmarks approved by member states last year. The method was
designed to give the most efficient installations in each
industry the most free allowances, while those that emit more
than the benchmarks will need to buy permits or reduce
emissions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  