-- 
Polish January Inflation Tops Forecast, Boosting Rate Expectations, Zloty

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o
-- 
2011-02-15T13:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/polish-january-inflation-tops-forecast-boosting-rate-expectations-zloty.html
Polish inflation accelerated more
than economists estimated in January, increasing the likelihood
the central bank will raise borrowing costs next month and
boosting the zloty.  The inflation rate rose to 3.8 percent in January, a 21-
month high, from 3.1 percent in the last month of 2010, the
 Central Statistical Office  said in Warsaw today. The median
forecast of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 3.4 percent.
January consumer prices rose 1.2 percent on the month.  Policy makers are weighing the need to curb inflation,
driven by global food and fuel prices, against the risk of
damaging the recovery of the largest economy among the European
Union’s eastern members. Central bankers last month increased
the benchmark interest rate for the first time since 2008, and
Governor  Marek Belka  said the move shouldn’t be regarded as a
one-time adjustment.  “The Monetary Policy Council should raise rates in
March,” Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at Societe Generale
in Warsaw, said by phone. “There’s no reason to wait because
this kind of reading can influence inflation expectations and
wage demands.”  At 2:13 p.m., the zloty was trading at 3.9271 per euro,
strengthened from 3.9439 before the consumer price figures were
published. The zloty’s 0.4 percent daily gain against the euro
is the biggest among 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Zloty Strength  The currency could strengthen to 3.9050 per euro on a
January inflation reading of 3.5 percent or higher, Bank
Zachodni WBK said in a research note before the data release.  January’s annual inflation rate will probably be revised
down to 3.5 percent or 3.6 percent when the statistical office
adjusts the weightings of its consumer price basket next month,
Societe Generale’s Janecki said.  The central bank raised the seven-day  reference rate  to
3.75 percent on Jan. 19 after having left it at a record-low 3.5
percent since June 2009 to boost the economy in the aftermath of
the global slowdown. The Monetary Policy Council holds its next
rate meeting on Mar. 1-2.  “Today’s figure is definitely a factor that will persuade
policy makers to increase rates,” said  Piotr Kalisz , chief
economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Bank Handlowy unit in Warsaw.
“And through expectations of a rate increase, we may well see
the zloty strengthening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   Nathaniel Espino at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  