-- 
Portugal Raps Delays on EU Bailout Revamp, Spars With Germany

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-02-15T14:39:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/portugal-raps-delays-on-eu-bailout-revamp-spars-with-germany.html
  Portugal  said delays in overhauling
the European rescue fund for debt-hit states threaten a new bout
of market turmoil, sparring with Germany and Austria over how to
resolve the fiscal crisis.  “The discussions are taking longer than desirable and
delays and hesitations affect the  euro zone  and the
stabilization on the euro,” Portuguese Finance Minister
Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said at a meeting of European Union
finance ministers in Brussels today.  Criticism from Portugal, seeking to wrestle down  Europe ’s
fifth-highest deficit without falling back on an aid package,
met with a rebuff from Germany and Austria that highlighted the
north-south split over reshaping the 17-nation economy.  Bonds in Portugal and Greece slipped for a third day as  Germany  opposed a stepped-up rescue effort until European
governments take fresh measures to bolster the region’s
competitiveness. The maneuvering pushed the near-term crisis
management into the background.  Portugal’s 10-year yield rose 2 basis points to 7.42
percent today. The extra yield over benchmark German bonds, a
measure of investors’ doubts about Portugal’s fiscal health,
stayed at 413 basis points, the highest since Jan. 7.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  rejected the
notion that richer states are dragging their feet, telling
reporters that Europe can act with “lightning speed” to
strengthen the bailout fund if needed.  Deficit Rules  Austrian colleague  Josef Proell  said plans to enact a
“comprehensive” program in late March of tougher deficit rules
and growth-boosting measures may avert the need to reinforce the
current fund, known as the European Financial Stability
Facility.  “The question is whether this comprehensive package is
enough of a signal to markets that the euro can be kept
stable,” Proell said. “If this is so, the pressure is gone to
act on the EFSF now. If not, the EFSF needs to be improved, but
I don’t see that at the moment.”  Finance ministers shifted the focus away from the near-term  crisis management  with a decision yesterday that the permanent
aid mechanism to be set up in 2013 will be able to lend 500
billion euros ($675 billion), twice the amount of the fund set
up in the wake of Greece’s near-default last year.  As with the current mechanism, the  International Monetary
Fund  will contribute 50 cents for every euro from European
governments. While there was no word on how the EU will boost
the lending firepower, Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden
said more of the burden will fall on the bloc’s six AAA-rated
countries.  ‘Out of Solidarity’  “All member states will be called on to make a
contribution out of solidarity,” Frieden said.  Germany, the biggest contributor to last year’s 110
billion-euro rescue of  Greece  and 67.5 billion-euro aid for
Ireland, is under domestic pressure to hitch the rest of Europe
to Germany’s low-inflation, low-deficit orthodoxy.  With her party facing elections in seven of Germany’s 16
states this year,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is seeking to
reassure voters that Europe’s largest economy is getting
something in return for handouts to debt-strapped governments.  Merkel’s coalition allies, the Free Democrats, are trying
to counter a slump in the polls by opposing more generous
bailout terms or using the fund to enable distressed countries
to retire debt at a discount.  ‘Competitiveness Pact’  Backed by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , Merkel struck a
blow for German-style economic management with a Feb. 4 proposal
for a “competitiveness pact” including caps on wages and
spending as well as a retirement-age extension.  More pressure on the south came from Finland, which joins
Germany,  France , the Netherlands,  Austria  and Luxembourg on the
roster of Europe’s AAA countries.  Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen, running for Finland’s top
job in April 17 elections, summoned Europe’s conservative prime
ministers to a March 4 meeting in Helsinki to chart the way
forward. The socialist leaders of deficit-scarred Greece,  Spain 
and Portugal were left out.  That meeting will prep a March 11 competitiveness summit of
euro-area government chiefs in Brussels. Finance ministers may
meet again March 21 to ready the “comprehensive” package for a
March 24-25 meeting of all 27 EU leaders.  In a further sign of the north-south schism, Greece and
Italy maintained their objections to proposed sanctions on
heavily indebted countries that fail to hit quantitative debt-
reduction targets.  ‘Numerical Benchmark’  “A numerical benchmark is central in the new framework,”
EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said. He called
for a “bold step forward.”  Greece or  Italy  alone could veto the rule, which would
require countries with debt above the EU ceiling of 60 percent
of gross domestic product to make annual cuts equal to 1/20th of
the excess.  With its debt burden projected at 156 percent of GDP in
2012, Greece would have to pay off the debt at an annual rate of
5 percentage points, a pace that economically healthier  Belgium 
couldn’t manage during more than a decade of fiscal
consolidation until 2007.  Any targets “need to be consistent with the economic
policy program that we have agreed with the EU and the IMF,”
Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  told Bloomberg
Television. “We don’t want this to trigger automatic
sanctions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  