-- 
Portugal Says EU Rescue-Fund Flexibility ‘Important’

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-02-15T12:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/portugal-says-eu-rescue-fund-flexibility-important-update1-.html
Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said it’s “very important” that the
European bailout fund has the flexibility to buy  government
bonds  and offer different types loans.  “The possibility of intervention in the  debt market  is
very important, be it the primary market or the secondary
market,” Teixeira dos Santos told reporters in Brussels today.
“And also loans of different types, which can include credit
lines and with conditions that are less expensive than those
that are practiced today.”  In a bid to avoid a bailout, Portugal is carrying out the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades to convince
investors it can narrow its budget gap further after Greece’s
debt crisis led to a surge in borrowing costs for high-deficit
euro nations. Ireland in November became the second euro
country, after  Greece , to seek a rescue and the first to ask for
aid from the European Financial Stability Facility.  The average debt-service cost for Portugal is about 3.5
percent. In a projection that assumes “very high” funding
costs of 4 percent for the rollover of the entire Treasury-bill
program and 7 percent on all bond issuance, Portugal would still
have an “implicit funding cost” below 5 percent by 2013, the
nation’s debt agency said last month. Ireland pays an average
5.8 percent for its rescue financing.  Bond Spread  The spread between Portuguese and German 10-year bond
yields was at 415 basis points today, after reaching a euro-era
record of 484 on Nov. 11.  Portugal ’s 10-year bond yield was at a
euro-era record of 7.64 percent last week.  Portugal sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.7 billion) of five-year
bonds through a group of banks on Feb. 7 at a yield of 6.457
percent. The securities were priced 360 basis points more than
the benchmark mid-swap rate, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The spread was 140 basis points when Portugal raised 3 billion
euros of 10-year bonds in the nation’s previous syndicated deal
on Feb. 10, 2010.  The debt agency plans to sell as much as 1 billion euros of
12-month bills tomorrow. The government intends to sell as much
as 20 billion euros of bonds this year to finance its budget and
cover the cost of maturing debt.  Portugal faces no bond redemptions until April, with
repayments that month and in June that total about 9.5 billion
euros. The debt agency also plans a “reverse auction” tomorrow
to buy back an unspecified amount of bonds maturing in April and
June. The government faces Treasury bill maturities in March,
July, August, September, October and November.  Ministers Meet  European finance ministers are meeting today in Brussels
and the region’s leaders will gather in March to consider
measures to tackle the debt crisis. European governments agreed
yesterday to double the lending capacity of the rescue fund for
debt-laden countries in 2013, while seeing no need for immediate
steps to shield Portugal from the fiscal crisis.  While avoiding a bailout, Portugal is already benefiting
from some bond purchases carried out by the  European Central
Bank . The ECB has spent 76.5 billion euros on bond purchases
since May 10 to stabilize markets. Traders with knowledge of the
transactions have said the purchases were focused on Greek,
Irish and Portuguese bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anabela Reis in Brussels at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  