-- 
Poultry Producers Preparing Anti-Dumping Case Against Brazil, Astral Says

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-02-15T14:11:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/poultry-producers-preparing-anti-dumping-case-against-brazil-astral-says.html
South African poultry producers are
studying putting forward an anti-dumping case to the government
against imported Brazilian chicken products, according to the
African nation’s second-biggest producer of the birds.  The  Southern African Poultry Association  “is doing work to
investigate making a case,” Chris Schutte, chief executive
officer of SAPA member  Astral Foods Ltd ., said in Johannesburg
today. Some Brazilian poultry products are sold in  South Africa 
at a third lower than prices in the country of origin, he said.  Astral, based in  Pretoria , fears unfair imports could hurt
its profit. The company expects imports to rise this year after
surging 42 percent in December from a year earlier.  Average broiler prices were the lowest in about four years
in 2010 even as per capita consumption rose, Schutte said.
Shipments are expected to rise this year after they reached
28,000 metric tons in December, the equivalent of about 21
million chicken carcasses, or 5 million a week, he said.  Local production of about 18 million chickens a week is
also threatened by gains in the rand that make imports more
competitive, Schutte said. Last year, 71 percent of total
poultry imports of 268,225 tons came from  Brazil  and about 10
percent from  Argentina , he said.  “The strong rand is playing havoc,” he said. The currency
has gained about 38 percent in the past two years to 7.29
against the dollar.  SAPA  officials weren’t available to comment when Bloomberg
News called the association’s offices today seeking comment.  Astral’s profit margins probably improved over the past few
months, Schutte said. While December broiler prices were in line
with a year earlier, input costs decreased, he said. February
and March prices are expected to be higher than a year earlier,
according to data included in a copy of his presentation.  Shares in Astral gained 0.3 percent to 127.33 rand at 3:54
p.m. in Johannesburg trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  