-- 
Premier Hopes to Cut Borrowing Costs After Rating

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-02-15T16:49:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/premier-foods-posts-full-year-loss-on-writedown-of-acquisition.html
  Premier Foods Plc , the U.K.’s
biggest food manufacturer, said it will sell bonds to reduce
borrowing costs and debt.  Premier Foods is seeking to diversify its funding sources
beyond bank loans after it was assigned a Ba2 rating by Moody’s
Investor Services and BB with stable outlook from  Standard &
Poor’s . Premier posted a full-year loss after a writedown in
value of its Brookes Avana dessert-making and ready-meals unit.  So far in 2011, Premier has agreed to sell its Quorn and
Cauldron meat-substitute and East Anglian canning units for a
total of about 387 million pounds ($622 million). The proceeds
should halve debt from an early 2009 peak of 1.8 billion pounds,
the company said. Chief Financial Officer Jim Smart said Premier
hopes to reduce 8.5 percent borrowing costs by selling bonds.  “The stable outlook reflects Moody’s expectation that
Premier Foods will pursue a conservative financial policy going
forward, maintaining positive, albeit modest organic growth, and
reducing its leverage over time,” wrote Douglas Crawford
yesterday, Moody’s lead analyst for the company.  Premier, baker of Hovis brand bread, rose 3.65 pence, or 17
percent, to 25.75 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the
biggest climb since September. The shares have risen 34 percent
so far this year, giving the company a market value of 617.5
million pounds.  Today, Premier took 125 million pounds in impairment
charges based on a loss of profitability at Brookes Avana, part
of its 2006 purchase of RHM Plc. Rises in wheat, milk, cooking
oil and cardboard costs hurt profit, Smart said in a telephone
conference call.  ‘No Approach’  Premier hasn’t been approached about Brookes Avana, and
isn’t looking to sell it, Chief Executive Officer Robert Schofield said on the call.  The company is talking to the unit’s biggest customer,  Marks & Spencer Group Plc , about new products, pricing and
supply arrangements, and it believes Brookes will return to
profit this year, Schofield said.  Net loss was 99.3 million pounds, or a loss of 4.1 pence
per share, compared with a gain of 25.2 million pounds, or 1.2
pence per share in the same period a year earlier, the  St.
Albans , England-based company said in a statement. Sales fell
3.5 percent to 2.57 billion pounds as it sold less non-branded
foods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  