-- 
Cameron Brings In Larry the Cat to Catch Downing Street's Rats

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-02-15T15:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/pro-cat-faction-wins-as-cameron-adopts-larry-to-catch-downing-street-rats.html
  David Cameron  gave into the pleas of
his children and some of his staff and appointed Larry, a
rescued stray tabby, as the official prime ministerial cat.  Controversy over whether the premier’s central London
residence and office at  10 Downing Street  needed a pet has raged
since at least the start of the year, when a large black rat was
shown on television running past the front door. Shortly
afterwards, Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, said there were
“pro-cat” and “anti-cat” factions at No. 10.  Today, as Larry traveled from  Battersea Dogs and Cats Home 
to Downing Street to explore his new home, Field said Cameron’s
children had been in the pro-cat grouping.  “There was a group of people within Downing Street who
thought it was a very good idea, and they won,” Field told
reporters in  London . He also offered some detail of the
selection process. “Larry showed a very strong predatory drive
and enjoyed playing with toy mice.”  Larry is an office cat, rather than a family pet, and his
food bill will be met by Downing Street staff.  Previous feline residents of No. 10 include Humphrey, a
stray who wandered into the building in 1989 when  Margaret Thatcher  lived there and was adopted. Rumors that Cherie Blair
had forced Humphrey out when her husband Tony took office in
1997 led to her posing with the cat for a picture. He died in
2006. The following year the new chancellor of the exchequer,  Alistair Darling , who lived next door at No. 11, brought in his
own cat, Sybil.  ‘Charm Our Visitors’  “I’m delighted to welcome Larry to his new home,” Cameron
said in an e-mailed statement. “He came highly recommended to
me by Battersea Dogs and Cats Home, who did a fantastic job
looking after him. I’m sure he will be a great addition to
Downing Street and will charm our many visitors.”  Within hours of Larry’s arrival, the Twitter social-
networking website had four users claiming to be Larry:
 @TabbyLarry ,  @LarryAtNumber10 ,  @No10Larry  and  @DowningStCat , as
well as an online opponent,  @No10Rat , who pointed out that Larry
has been neutered.  Cameron has three children: Nancy, seven, Elwen, five, and
Florence, born in August. His eldest son, Ivan, who was severely
disabled, died in 2009, at age six.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 