-- 
Puma Forecasts Profit Increase as Economies Recover

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-02-15T11:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/puma-returns-to-fourth-quarter-net-profit-as-revenue-gains.html
Puma AG,  Europe ’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, predicted that profit will rise this year
and next as sales are boosted by an economic recovery and
sponsorship contracts with stars such as athlete Usain Bolt.  Net income will grow at a “mid-single-digit” percentage
pace in 2011 and 2012, and revenue will probably increase in the
“mid-to-high single-digit” range, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-
based company said today as it reported a fourth-quarter profit.  Puma last year extended a sponsorship contract with triple
Olympic sprint champion Bolt and backed seven teams at the
soccer  World Cup . The sporting-goods maker also sponsored the
Red Bull Formula 1 team, whose driver Sebastian Vettel became
the sport’s youngest world champion. Puma said its “expense
ratio” will increase this year because of rising investments
related to the company’s plan to boost annual revenue to 4
billion euros ($5.4 billion) by 2015.  The sales outlook “continues to look positive,” Chief
Executive Officer Jochen Zeitz said in a statement. “Puma’s
organic growth is more than intact.”  Some investors “are skeptical regarding the company’s
ambitious forecasts,” said  Klaus Kraenzle , a consumer-industry
analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie. Puma fell 3.9 euros, or 1.8
percent, to 216.40 euros at 12:53 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Fourth-quarter revenue rose 28 percent to 623 million euros
($843 million). Sales increased 41 percent in the Americas
region, driven by higher demand in Latin America and last year’s
acquisition of Fortune Brands Inc.’s Cobra golf brand.  Greek ‘Irregularities’  Net income was 14 million euros, or 92 cents a share,
compared with a loss of 7.2 million euros a year earlier. Profit
was burdened by “irregularities” at Puma’s Greek joint
venture, which were disclosed in October. The company had one-
time costs of 31 million euros related to  Greece , of which 13
million euros were booked in the fourth quarter.  Full-year net income more than doubled to 202 million
euros, missing the average estimate for 226.4 million euros from
10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales for the year rose 11
percent, beating the company’s forecast for a “mid-to-high
single-digit” revenue increase.  The sporting-goods maker plans to pay an unchanged dividend
of 1.80 euros a share for last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  