-- 
Rand Weakens Against Euro on Concern Middle East Civil Unrest Could Spread

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-15T12:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/rand-weakens-against-euro-on-middle-east-tensions-intervention.html
The rand weakened against the euro
and pound on concern civil unrest in the Middle East may be
spreading and on speculation the nation’s central bank is
building foreign reserves to weaken the currency.    South Africa ’s currency depreciated as much as 0.6 percent
to 9.8867 per euro before trading 0.5 percent weaker at 9.8796
as of 1:41 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand also declined against
the pound, losing 0.3 percent to 11.7284, for a second day of
losses. Against the dollar the rand added less than 0.2 percent
to 7.2951.  Demonstrators in Bahrain, Yemen and Iran clashed with
security forces yesterday as they challenged their governments
following the successful ouster of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak through populist protest. Stocks fell in  Asia  on renewed
concern  China  will raise  interest rates , raising the prospect of
a slowdown in the world’s fastest growing major economy.  “It’s not a great risk picture at the moment,” David Gracey, head of foreign-exchange trading at Nedbank Capital in
Johannesburg, said by phone from the city. “The situation in  Egypt  seems to have calmed down but we’re now seeing similar
events in other parts of the Middle East.”    Government bonds  rose in South Africa for a third day, with
the 13.5 percent security due September 2015 adding 18 cents to
121.61 rand. The yield on the bond fell 4 basis points to 7.80
percent.  South Africa’s currency also weakened on speculation the
central bank was continuing to boost foreign reserves in an
attempt to weaken the rand. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
pledged in his mid-term budget speech in October to transfer
part of the government’s higher-than-estimated tax revenue to
the central bank to accumulate reserves and weaken the rand.  Reserves  “The South African  Reserve Bank  is thought to be utilizing
revenue overruns from the budget to facilitate the accumulation
of reserves,” Tradition Analytics analysts led by Quinten Bertenshaw in Johannesburg, wrote in a client note today.  South Africa’s gross reserves rose 3.7 percent in January
to $45.5 billion in January, the biggest increase since March,
the Pretoria-based Reserve Bank said on Feb. 7. The rand slumped
7.6 percent against the dollar in January.  Reserve accumulation by the central bank “has been going
on for the past few weeks and we continue to see that,” said
Nedbank’s Gracey.  A Bloomberg News call to the Pretoria-based central bank
during regular office hours today was not answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  