-- 
TransCanada Sees Decision on Keystone by Late 2011

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-02-15T21:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/transcanada-expects-u-s-decision-on-keystone-by-late-2011.html
  TransCanada Corp . expects a U.S.
regulatory decision on an expansion of its Keystone oil pipeline
by “mid-to-late” 2011.  Approval from U.S. authorities is taking longer and costing
more than the company expected because of a “heightened
political environment” and opposition to the project, the
company said today in a statement. The expansion project will
cost C$13 billion ($13.1 billion), compared with a previous
estimate of C$12.2 billion, the company said.  Calgary-based TransCanada is expanding its pipeline system
to the U.S. Gulf Coast to accommodate an expected increase in
demand for bitumen from the northern Alberta oil sands.
Environmental groups including Friends of the Earth say the
delivery system puts water supplies in U.S. Midwest at risk from
oil spills.  The Keystone pipeline already transports crude from
northern  Alberta  to refineries in the U.S. Midwest. The pipeline
expansion, known as Keystone XL, consists of 36-inch (91-
centimeter) pipe and has already been approved by Canadian
authorities.  The project will create 20,000 jobs and help reduce U.S.
dependence on oil from the Middle East and  Venezuela ,
TransCanada Chief Executive Officer Russell Girling said during
a conference call today. The U.S. Department of State has
provided no new information on the timing of a decision, he
said.  More Capacity  About C$7.4 billion has been invested in the project,
TransCanada said. About half of the pipeline has been built. The
company had expected a U.S. decision by this summer, said Terry Cunha, a company spokesman, adding that a final environmental
impact statement has not yet been submitted.  When completed, the expansion will add an additional
500,000 barrels per day of capacity to the existing pipeline,
the company said. That will boost total capacity of the system
to 1.1 million barrels a day.  TransCanada also said fourth-quarter net income fell 29
percent to C$269 million. The shares fell 1 cent to C$37.80 at
the close of trading in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  