-- 
Australia Central Bank Sees Consumer Restraint Easing Inflation Pressures

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-02-15T01:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/rba-saw-consumer-restraint-easing-price-pressure-minutes-show.html
  Australia ’s central bank left  interest rates  unchanged this month as consumer restraint slows
inflation and offsets stronger demand for the nation’s
resources, minutes of its Feb. 1 policy meeting show.  “The continuation of subdued growth in  consumer spending 
and the lower-than-expected inflation outcomes provided
additional time for the board to assess at future meetings the
evolving balance of risks to both output and inflation,” the
 minutes  released today in Sydney said.  The minutes reflect growing attention by  Reserve Bank of
Australia  members to consumers who are holding back purchases
and saving more after seven interest-rate increases from October
2009 to November last year. Households that the RBA
characterized as “highly value-conscious” may help ease price
pressure fueled by a mining investment boom and a labor market
near full employment.  “We’re not likely to see another interest-rate rise from
the  Reserve Bank  for the next four meetings,” said  Joshua Williamson , a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.
“The big risk factor is we’ve got falling unemployment, rising
wages and households with excess savings balances. In that
environment it would be unusual to expect household spending to
remain subdued in the second half of the year.”  Local Currency  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0046 at 12:35 p.m. in
Sydney compared with $1.0027 before the minutes were released.  The RBA minutes today said “the evident caution in
household spending would, if it persisted, reduce the pressure
on prices that might normally be expected in an economy with
very strong terms of trade and limited spare capacity.”  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens held the benchmark rate at 4.75
percent for a second straight meeting after a quarter
percentage-point rise in November. In testimony to a
parliamentary panel last week, he said natural disasters in the
past two months in the nation’s northeast won’t derail the
expansion.  “Given the medium-term outlook for the economy, and the
limited amount of spare capacity that existed, members judged
that this slightly restrictive policy stance remained
appropriate,” according to the minutes.  On Feb. 4, the RBA said the economy will expand more than
previously forecast this year as flood rebuilding accelerates in
the second half, tightening the labor market and pressuring
wages.  Forecasts Raised  The RBA raised its forecast for 2011 growth to 4.25
percent, from a November prediction of 3.75 percent, when
measured from the fourth quarter of 2010 to the final three
months of this year. Consumer prices will rise 3 percent, from a
previous estimate of 2.75 percent, it said.  Inflation slowed to 2.7 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, within the RBA’s target band of 2 percent to 3 percent.  The central bank said today the past two readings of the  consumer price index  “suggested that the weakness in retail
spending had led to a little more disinflation than had earlier
been expected, with the year-ended underlying rate of inflation
now clearly in the lower-half of the target range.”  Stevens last week signaled little urgency about raising
rates in the near term.  “We’re ahead of the game, which is where you want to be,
and that’s the thing that affords you periods of sitting,
waiting and watching,” he told lawmakers in Canberra on Feb.
11. “Sometimes, they can be reasonably lengthy periods.”  Cash-Rate Outlook  Traders see a less than 50 percent chance of Stevens
raising rates by a quarter point before September, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures on the  Sydney
Futures Exchange .  Australia is undergoing its biggest mining investment boom
since the 19th century to meet rising Chinese demand for the
nation’s iron ore and coal.  The minutes today said RBA members at their meeting two
weeks ago saw more evidence of “the expected strong expansion
of the resources industry.”  A government report released since the RBA’s last meeting
showed stronger-than-forecast growth in the labor market.  Australian employers added 24,000 jobs in January, the
statistics bureau said Feb. 10, surpassing the median forecast
for a 17,500 gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists.
The jobless rate stayed at 5 percent, matching the lowest level
since 2009.  “Forward-looking indicators of labor demand, including job
vacancies and hiring intentions, continued to point to solid
employment growth and some further tightening in labor market
conditions,” today’s minutes showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  