-- 
Renault Targets Doubling China Sales on New Models

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-15T13:07:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/renault-targets-doubling-china-sales-on-new-models-update1-.html
  Renault SA  forecasts that it will
double sales in China this year as the French carmaker adds new
models and introduces customer-retention programs.  Renault will add seven new or upgraded cars to its product
line for the mainland this year, Robert Chan, managing director
of the automaker’s China operations, told reporters today in  Shanghai , where Renault opened a parts warehouse with Nissan
Motor Co. New models will include the Latitude and Fluence
sedans, two Scenic models, the Megane convertible and the Laguna
Coupe sports car.  The company is also working on “long-term customer
relationship development,” Chan said, with incentives such as
three years of free maintenance.  Renault is trying to increase its presence in China as a
growing economy drives demand in the world’s biggest auto
market. Vehicle sales rose 32 percent last year after China’s
government offered tax breaks and subsidies for fuel-efficient
models to boost demand. Renault, which sold 14,705 cars in  China 
last year, has no manufacturing capacity in the country and has
said it’s seeking an opportunity to make its first factory
investment with a local partner.  The automaker is also looking to increase its number of
dealerships in China to 80, mostly in less developed cities
outside of Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou, Chan said. Renault
had 49 authorized dealers in China at the end of last year, the
carmaker said in a statement today. Chan declined to comment on
talks with possible Chinese partners.  Renault, based in  Boulogne Billancourt  near Paris, owns 43
percent of Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan.  --Liza Lin. Editors: Jerrold Colten, David Risser  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Singapore at +86-21-6104-3047 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Kae Inoue at
   kinoue@bloomberg.net  