-- 
Republicans May Fight Obama's $671 Billion 2012 Defense Budget in Congress

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-02-15T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/republicans-may-fight-obama-s-671-billion-2012-defense-budget.html
The Obama administration’s $671
billion  defense budget  for fiscal 2012, which is $37 billion
less than the current year’s request, may set up a fight in
Congress with senior lawmakers opposed to such a reduction.  The request includes $553 billion in core Department of
Defense spending, including weapons procurement, and $117.8
billion in military spending in Iraq and  Afghanistan , according
to the federal budget documents released yesterday.  Less than 2 percent to 3 percent growth in defense may lead
to “dire consequences” for weapons and troops, said U.S.
Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, chairman of the House
Armed Services Committee, in a statement yesterday. “I have
significant concerns,” he said.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates ’s proposal to cancel  General
Dynamics Corp .’s Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle and plans to
reduce the Army and Marine strength were “budgetary shell
games” not backed by strategy to counter threats from countries
like  China , defense analysts at the  American Enterprise
Institute  in  Washington  said in a  report yesterday .  The 2012 budget proposal includes $203.8 billion for
weapons buying and research, including $113 billion in base
procurement, $75.7 billion in research and $15 billion in war-
related procurement.  $70 Billion To Modernization  It also includes $9.7 billion for 32 Lockheed Martin Corp.
F-35 fighter jets, $4.7 billion for two additional Virginia-
class submarines built by  Northrop Grumman Corp . and General
Dynamics and $975 million toward two additional Lockheed Martin
Advanced Extremely High Frequency communications satellites.  “There are a number of new areas where we are beginning to
invest,” Gates told reporters at the Pentagon yesterday. Almost
all of $70 billion that the military services achieved in a
budget-cutting exercise to reroute funding into higher priority
areas will be funneled into modernization programs, Gates said.  The defense budget will also increase spending on cyber and
electronic warfare, unmanned drones and helicopters, according
to the budget documents.  Gates laid down a new marker yesterday for the current
year’s budget, the 12 months that began Oct. 1, as Congress
continued to delay completing work on the fiscal 2011
appropriations. He said he needs at least $540 billion, down
from the $549 billion base budget proposed a year ago.  “I realize that in the current fiscal environment and
political environment, it is unlikely that the Defense
Department will receive the full amount originally requested,”
Gates said.  ‘Serious Considerations’  An interim spending resolution in effect through March 4
projects core Pentagon spending for the current year at about
$526 billion, about $24 billion less than the Pentagon’s
request.  “Suggestions to cut defense by this or that large number
have largely become exercises in simple math,” Gates said. The
discussions are “divorced from serious considerations of
capabilities, risk and the level of resources needed to protect
this country’s security and vital interests around the world.”  Current expenses include about $28 million a month to
continue developing an alternative engine for  Lockheed Martin
Corp .’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, a program the department and
military services have said they don’t need, Gates said.  F-35 Engine  Gates yesterday said he may try legal avenues in another
attempt to shut down the project, kept alive by members of
Congress who say it’s needed as a backup to the primary engine
being developed by  United Technologies Corp .’s Pratt & Whitney
unit.  General Electric Co . and Rolls Royce Group Plc are
developing the second engine.  “When the current continuing resolution expires, I will
look at all available legal options to close down this
program,” Gates said. He called it a waste of money “needed
for higher-priority defense efforts.”  General Electric defended the alternative engine as a
valuable precaution that will save money through competition.  “Fifteen years of bipartisan congressional support for the
F-136 engine is based on good government policy that will save
taxpayers money,” said  Rick Kennedy , a spokesman for GE
Aviation, in an e-mail.  The proposed Defense Department budget for fiscal 2012 of
$553 billion would represent growth of about 3.6 percent,
adjusted for inflation, over the stopgap legislation, according
to Pentagon figures.  Deficit Reduction  The request represents a $13 billion reduction from the
$566 billion the Pentagon planned last year for fiscal 2012.  It’s the first installment of $78 billion in deficit
reduction cuts, or 2.67 percent, that are part of a $2.91
trillion defense plan through 2016, according to the documents.  The proposal allots $52.5 billion for Tricare, the military
health-care program, and allows for an increase in the
enrollment fees for working-age retirees and families.  Gates said last May that military health-care costs are
“eating the Defense Department alive.” Pentagon officials have
tried for years to increase Tricare fees to help ease increases
in health-care spending. Military advocacy groups and lawmakers
have opposed passing along more costs in a program that has
grown to 9.6 million beneficiaries.  The proposed 2012 budget includes an increase in enrollment
fees of $2.50 a month for working-age retirees and $5 a month
for families. The co-payment for prescription medication would
increase by as much as $3 for those filled in retail pharmacies,
while being eliminated for orders by mail. There would be no co-
pay for prescriptions filled at military facilities.  War Expenditures  The Obama administration’s proposed $117.8 billion war bill
would be the lowest expenditure for the wars since fiscal 2006.
It reflects assumptions of declining troop levels in  Iraq  and
Afghanistan.  The Pentagon today has roughly 97,000 troops in Afghanistan
and 47,000 in Iraq. The 144,000 total is the lowest since July
2006, when the U.S. had about 148,100 deployed, according to
military data compiled by the nonpartisan  Congressional Research
Service . U.S. troops are scheduled to leave Iraq by the end of
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story: Tony Capaccio in
Washington at   acapaccio@bloomberg.net  Gopal
Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  