-- 
Retail Sales Probably Rose in January as Promotions Enticed U.S. Shoppers

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-02-15T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/retail-sales-probably-rose-in-january-as-promotions-enticed-u-s-shoppers.html
Retail sales probably increased in
January for a seventh month as post-holiday promotions lured
U.S. shoppers, economists said before a report today.  The projected 0.5 percent gain in purchases would follow a
0.6 percent December increase, according to the median forecast
of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other data may show
the cost of imported goods climbed and manufacturing in the New
York region grew at the fastest pace in eight months.  Sales at retailers like  Gap Inc ., Limited Brands Inc. and  Macy’s Inc . topped analysts’ estimates last month, adding to
signs that household spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, will keep contributing to the expansion.
Nonetheless, bigger gains in employment will be needed to ensure
the pickup in demand by American consumers is sustained.  “It’s an improving environment for consumers, with some
job growth and equity markets rallying,” said Jennifer Lee, a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “This is
all good news for spending. We need the consumer to come back to
help strengthen the recovery.”  The Commerce Department’s sales figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a gain of
1.1 percent to a drop of 0.5 percent.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to 15 this month from 11.9 in January, according to
the Bloomberg survey median. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New
York, northern  New Jersey , and southern  Connecticut . The report
will be released at 8:30 a.m.  Import Prices  Also at 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department may report the
import price index rose 0.8 percent last month after climbing
1.1 percent in December, according to the Bloomberg survey
median, reflecting higher expenses for imported oil and raw
materials.  Two other reports are due at 10 a.m. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index held at
16 for a fourth straight month in February, the survey showed.
Figures lower than 50 mean negative responses outnumber positive
ones, and the measure reached a record-low 8 in January 2009.  Commerce Department figures may show business inventories
grew 0.7 percent in December, a sign companies are restocking
shelves to meet rising demand, according to the survey median.  Clearance Sales  Promotions and clearances lured customers after the
holidays, helping retailers ring up sales early in the month
before bad weather slowed shopping in the last two weeks,
according to David Bassuk, head of the global retail practice at
consultant AlixPartners in  New York . Winter storms spread from
the Midwest and the South to  New England , covering 71 percent of
the country with snow on Jan. 12, according to the  National
Climatic Data Center .  Sales at stores open at least a year at the more than 30
chains tracked by Retail Metrics climbed 4.4 percent in January
for a 17th straight gain, surpassing its estimate of a 2.6
percent increase.  Gap, a clothing retailer based in  San Francisco , benefited
from higher same-store sales at Banana Republic stores, while
the Victoria’s Secret lingerie chain fueled results at Columbus,
Ohio-based Limited. Department store Macy’s sales capped a year
of “remarkable achievement in a period of economic
uncertainty,” Chief Executive Officer Terry Lundgren said in a
Feb. 3 statement.    Whole Foods Market Inc ., the largest U.S. natural-goods
grocer, last week raised its annual profit and revenue forecasts
after the Austin, Texas-based company’s first-quarter earnings
beat analysts’ estimates.  Confidence Improving  “Our results underscored signs that  consumer confidence 
continues to improve,” Co-Chief Executive Officer Walter Robb
said on a Feb. 9 conference call.  Investors have driven up retailer shares as spending rises.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index, which
includes Macy’s and Gap, has gained 31 percent in the 12 months
through Feb. 14, compared with a 22 percent advance for the
broader  S&P 500 .  Purchases also got a boost from car sales, which climbed
last month to a 12.54 million unit annual pace that was the best
since the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009,
industry data showed.  Higher gasoline prices probably lifted receipts at service
stations as regular fuel in January reached an average $3.10 a
gallon, or 11 cents more than December, according to AAA data.  The recovery’s inability to create more jobs is one thing
holding back consumers. While unemployment fell to 9 percent in
January, from 9.4 percent in December, it has been 9 percent or
higher since May 2009, the longest period of elevated
joblessness since monthly records began in 1948.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and fellow policy makers are
awaiting further proof of a durable pickup in the labor market
that will lift growth. That’s one reason why they are pressing
ahead with a second round of monetary stimulus worth $600
billion.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  