-- 
U.S. Economy: Retail Sales Climb Less Than Forecast

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-02-15T21:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/retail-sales-in-u-s-increased-less-than-economists-forecast-on-weather.html
Sales at retailers rose less than
forecast in January, showing it will be difficult for American
consumers to sustain last quarter’s pickup in spending without
bigger gains in employment.  Purchases increased 0.3 percent, the smallest gain since a
drop in June, according to Commerce Department figures today in  Washington . Other reports showed manufacturing in the New York
area accelerated and confidence among home builders stagnated.  The sales data also indicated winter snowstorms may have
played a role in the slowdown as Americans stayed away from
restaurants and home-improvement stores. While  Gap Inc . and  Macy’s Inc . were among retailers topping analysts’ estimates as
promotions lured post-holiday shoppers, rising food and gasoline
prices may have caused households to cut back on non-essentials.  “There is some momentum in consumer spending, but it’s not
particularly robust,” said Kevin Logan, chief U.S. economist at
HSBC Securities USA Inc. in New York, who correctly forecast the
gain. “Things are recovering, but they’re not really healthy,”
he said, and in addition, “the severe weather last month
curtailed all kinds of outdoor activity.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated from a 32-month
high after the reports, falling 0.3 percent to 1,328.01 at the 4
p.m. close in  New York . The S&P Supercomposite Retailing Index
decreased 0.1 percent.  Survey Median  Sales were projected to increase 0.5 percent based on the
median forecast of 79 economists in the Bloomberg News survey.
Estimates ranged from a gain of 1.1 percent to a drop of 0.5
percent. The December increase in sales was revised down to 0.5
percent from the 0.6 percent previously estimated.  Federal Reserve policy makers are among those saying
bigger gains in employment are needed to ensure American
consumers sustain spending. While unemployment fell to 9 percent
in January, from 9.4 percent in December, it has been 9 percent
or higher since May 2009, the longest period of elevated
joblessness since monthly records began in 1948.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and fellow policy makers are
awaiting further proof of a durable pickup in the labor market
that will lift growth. That’s one reason why they are pressing
ahead with a second round of monetary stimulus worth $600
billion.  Manufacturing in the region covered by the Fed Bank of New
York expanded this month at the fastest pace since June, another
report showed. The bank’s general economic index rose to 15.4
from 11.9 in January. Readings greater than zero signal growth
in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey , and southern  Connecticut .  Builder Pessimism  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo said
its sentiment index registered a reading of 16 in February for
the fourth consecutive month, in line with the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Readings below 50 mean more
respondents said conditions were poor.  Also today, figures from the Labor Department showed import
prices climbed 1.5 percent in January, propelled by higher costs
for commodities like food and fuel.  Eight of 13 major retail categories showed an increase in
demand last month, led by auto dealers, grocery stores and
service stations, according to the Commerce Department’s
figures. Filling station sales advanced 1.4 percent.  The data, which aren’t adjusted for inflation, may have
been boosted by rising gasoline prices. Regular fuel in January
reached an average $3.10 a gallon, or 11 cents more than
December, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring
organization.  Auto Sales  Sales climbed 0.5 percent at automobile dealers, consistent
with industry figures that showed car purchases climbed last
month to a 12.54 million unit annual pace that was the best
since the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009.  Demand dropped 2.9 percent at building-material stores, the
most since May, and restaurant receipts dropped 0.7 percent, the
biggest decrease since March 2009. In contrast, the 1.3 percent
gain at grocery stores was the biggest since August.    Whole Foods Market Inc ., the largest U.S. natural-goods
grocer, last week raised its annual profit and revenue forecasts
after the Austin, Texas-based company’s first-quarter earnings
beat analysts’ estimates.  “Our results underscored signs that  consumer confidence 
continues to improve,” Co-Chief Executive Officer Walter Robb
said on a Feb. 9 conference call.  Winter storms spread from the Midwest and the South to  New
England , covering 71 percent of the country with snow on Jan.
12, according to the  National Climatic Data Center .  Cutting Forecasts  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales
increased 0.4 percent after a 0.1 percent drop the prior month
that was previously reported as a gain.  January figures combined with the revisions prompted some
economists to cut forecasts for  consumer spending  this quarter.  David Greenlaw , chief financial economist at Morgan Stanley,
said purchases will rise 2.7 percent this quarter, down from his
prior estimate of 3.3 percent.  “Consumer can’t quite keep up with exuberant
expectations,” Mike Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Securities LLC in New York, said in a note to clients. Feroli
said it will “be difficult” to achieve his forecast of 3.5
percent, and said spending is tracking closer to 2.5 percent to
3.0 percent.  Household purchases climbed at a 4.4 percent pace in the
last three months of 2010, the biggest increase in four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  