-- 
Riksbank Raises Rate, Signals Faster Tightening

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-02-15T13:54:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/riksbank-raises-rate-to-1-5-signals-faster-tightening.html
  Sweden ’s central bank raised its
benchmark repo rate for a fifth time since July and signaled it
will pick up the pace of monetary tightening to keep inflation
and credit growth in check in Europe’s fastest-growing economy.  The Stockholm-based Riksbank raised the seven-day repo rate
a quarter of a percentage point to 1.5 percent, it said today on
its website. The decision was expected by all 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank also raised its rate path and
now expects the repo to average 2.5 percent in the first quarter
next year, compared with 2.2 percent previously.  “We have a continued strong economic development in
Sweden,” while rising food, raw material and energy prices are
pushing up inflation, Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said in an
interview in  Stockholm . “In such a world it’s reasonable to
continue raising the rate.” The bank forecasts another four
quarter-point rate increases this year, he said.  Sweden’s recovery has outpaced the Riksbank’s forecasts
since policy makers last discussed rates in December, with
inflation exceeding its 2 percent target for the first time in
more than two years. At the same time, policy makers need to
pace tightening to ensure rate rises don’t fuel currency gains
that hurt exporters. The country sends about 60 percent of sales
abroad to the European Union, with exports making up about half
the economy.  Krona Reaction  “The rate path was probably lower than the fixed income
market expected for 2011,” said Torbjoern Isaksson, an
economist at Nordea Research in Stockholm, in a note to clients.
“The rate path does not include rate hikes at all meetings in
2011.” Nordea is sticking to its forecast for the repo rate to
be at 2.5 percent by the end of this year, he said.  The krona weakened as much as 0.4 percent against the euro
earlier in the day, before rebounding to trade 0.2 percent
higher at 8.7272 against  Europe ’s single currency. Against the
dollar, the krona also recouped losses, trading 0.4 percent
higher at 6.4589, versus a 0.3 percent loss earlier in the day.  “We had expected a slightly steeper rate path,” said
Michael Grahn, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S, by phone. “Some
risk remains in the rest of the world and against that backdrop
the Riksbank doesn’t want to raise rates too quickly.”  Deputy Governors Karolina Ekholm and Lars E.O. Svensson
entered reservations against the decision to raise the repo rate
and also supported a lower rate path, the Riksbank said.  Currency Consideration  The prospect of fast economic growth and continued
interest-rate increases has made the krona the top performer
this year of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
against the euro, the dollar and the yen. The krona is up 13
percent against the euro since a May 20 low. Against the dollar,
the krona has jumped 25 percent since a June 7 low.  The bank won’t curb the pace of tightening even if
benchmark rates in Europe and the U.S. remain at crisis lows,
Ingves said in the interview.  The bank now expects the repo rate to average 1.7 percent
in the second quarter, versus 1.6 percent previously, it said.
The rate will reach 3.6 percent in the first quarter of 2014, it
expects.  The Swedish economy grew 5.5 percent last year and will
probably expand 4.4 percent in 2011, 2.4 percent in 2012 and 2.5
percent in 2013, the bank estimates. Inflation will average 2.5
percent this year, 2.1 percent in 2012 and 2.6 percent in 2013,
it said.  Competitive  The  World Economic Forum  in 2010 ranked Sweden the second-
most competitive economy after  Switzerland , while the krona is
the best performer against the euro this year of the world’s 16
most-traded currencies. Headline inflation accelerated 0.5 point
to 2.3 percent in December, and probably reached 2.6 percent
last month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 13 economists.  The European Union’s smallest budget deficit has allowed
Sweden’s government to cut income taxes four times since coming
to power in 2006 in a bid to spur demand. Unemployment was 7.4
percent in December, compared with a 9.8 percent peak in June
2009.  The jobless rate may fall to 5 percent by the end of 2014,
Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said on Feb. 3. Gross domestic
product surged an annual 6.9 percent in the third quarter, the
fastest pace in the European Union, Statistics Sweden estimates.  That’s helped fuel credit growth, which has hovered at
around 9 percent since January last year.  House prices  rose for
a 20th consecutive month in the quarter through December, when
they advanced at an annual rate of 4 percent, the statistics
office said on Jan. 17. Riksbank Governor Ingves has said he
tracks credit markets when setting rates.  Sweden’s Financial Supervisory Authority has tried to cool
mortgage lending and in October capped the value of loans that
banks can give at 85 percent of a property’s value.  Authorities should wait to see the effects of the lending
ceiling before deciding whether to implement more measures to
prevent a housing bubble, Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said on Feb. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  