-- 
Romanian Debt Yields to Remain Around 7% on Inflation, BRD Official Says

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-02-15T06:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/romanian-debt-yields-to-remain-around-7-on-inflation-brd-official-says.html
Romanian debt yields may remain
around 7 percent as concern about inflation prevents a further
decline in borrowing costs,  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale  SA
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Claudiu Cercel said.  Yields have declined on debt of various maturities and
auction demand has risen in the past two months amid confidence
the Balkan country is meeting demands to narrow its  budget
deficit .  “It’s pretty hard to believe yields will continue to
decline,” Cercel said yesterday in an interview in Bucharest.
“Even if there is excess liquidity in the market, we are facing
some concerns about future potential inflationary pressures and
that’s why I think we would see stabilization at the current
levels close to 7 percent.”  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale, the second-largest bank in
Romania by assets, took about 900 million euros ($1.2 billion)
in Treasuries last year and will seek to retain its ranking as
the second-biggest buyer of state debt this year, Cercel said,
without specifying how much it bought in 2009.  Austerity Measures    Romania , which has been counting on international bailout
funds to stay afloat since 2009, has sold more debt than planned
so far this year after the government pushed a 2011 austerity
budget and key legislation through Parliament to meet
International Monetary Fund-agreed conditions, which boosted
investor sentiment.  The average yield on five-year bonds declined to 7.16
percent at an auction on Feb. 3 from 7.27 percent on Dec. 23,
while six-month bill yields fell to 6.55 percent today at an
auction from 6.96 percent on Nov. 15.  The Balkan nation, which turned to the IMF, the European
Union and other lenders for a 20 billion-euro bailout in 2009,
found buyers for 10.3 billion lei ($3.3 billion) of its debt in
January and February compared with an initial auction plan of
8.2 billion lei.  The government plans to tap international markets this
quarter to raise about 1 billion euros in euro-denominated bonds
to reduce borrowing costs and help keep its budget deficit at
4.4 percent of gross domestic product this year, Deputy Finance
Minister Bogdan Dragoi said on Jan. 18. Romania last sold euro-
denominated bonds paying a 5 percent coupon in March last year
and raised 1 billion euros.  ‘Cost of Eurobonds’  “The cost of the eurobonds will be calculated based on the
same algorithm as before, so if you look at the swap-rate of
German bunds, our benchmark, and you add the cost of risk, the
credit-default swaps, then it’s clear that the yield will be
between 5 percent to 6 percent,” Cercel said.  BRD, majority-owned by  France ’s  Societe Generale  SA, said
today net income fell 36 percent in 2010 to 501 million lei as a
lingering recession prompted higher bad-loan costs.  “We can’t say that BRD’s activity increased in 2010 and
the first part of 2011 will remain difficult, but we hope that
once the economy recovers in the second half, demand for credits
will pick up as well and maybe bad-loan growth will ease,”
Chief Executive Officer Guy Poupet said at a press conference in
Bucharest today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  