-- 
Roubini Says U.S. Stocks Could Rise in Next Few Months

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-15T12:45:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/roubini-says-u-s-stocks-could-rise-in-next-few-months-update1-.html
  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who
predicted the financial crisis, said U.S. stocks may gain in the
next few months as company earnings remain resilient.  “I think tactically for the next few months equities could
rise because corporate profits are still strong,” Roubini, who
is chairman and co-founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC, said
in an interview on CNBC today, when asked for his outlook for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. “But the question is
whether the economic recovery is going to be sustained and
whether some of the risks we’re seeing down the line on the
financial markets are going to materialize.”  The  S&P 500  has climbed 5.9 percent this year, adding to
the index’s 13 percent rally in 2010 as earnings beat analysts’
estimates and the  Federal Reserve  pledged $600 billion in asset
purchases to boost the  U.S. economy . The index closed at
1,332.32 yesterday, the highest since June 2008.  Seventy four percent of the 348 companies in the S&P 500
that reported results since Jan. 10 have topped analysts’ per-
share profit predictions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Bank of America Corp. lifted its per-share profit
estimates for S&P companies in 2011 and 2012 this week and said
the gauge is “likely” to rise to 1,500 this year.  “Usually there is not a one-to-one relationship between
the stock market and the economy, but I would say this year,
some things are going well,” Roubini said. “The economy is
improving, emerging markets are doing well, the corporates are
doing well so far.”  He also said a “significant number” of downside risks
remain, including higher commodity prices, the threat of
inflation in emerging markets and “from the weakness that could
come from housing and unemployment in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  