-- 
Ryan Criticizes Lew, Obama for Failing to Address Entitlements in Budget

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-02-15T20:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/ryan-criticizes-lew-obama-for-failing-to-address-entitlements-in-budget.html
House Republican Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  told White House budget director  Jacob Lew 
the president has “disappointed us all” with his $3.7 trillion
budget request because the plan doesn’t go far enough on
spending cuts.  “Why did you duck?” Ryan asked at a House Budget
Committee hearing today where Lew defended the proposal
President  Barack Obama  unveiled yesterday. “You know the
drivers of our debt are entitlement programs, and yet you do
nothing to address that,” Ryan said.  The fight over  government spending  between Democrats and
Republicans intensified as Lew met with lawmakers on the
president’s fiscal 2012 budget and House Republicans began
debating their plan to cut $61 billion in spending for the last
seven months of this fiscal year, which began Oct. 1. Democrats
say those reductions are excessive.  Lew told lawmakers the president’s budget puts the nation
“on a path toward fiscal sustainability” by making significant
spending cuts while investing in areas such as education,
infrastructure and research to fuel economic growth.  “We need to demonstrate to the American people we can live
within our means and invest in the future,” Lew said.  He said more work is needed to pay down the nation’s debt
and address long-term fiscal challenges. “Cutting our spending
and deficits requires us to put political differences aside,”
he said.  Energy, Transportation  Obama’s budget for 2012, his first since Republicans took
control of the House, seeks to narrow deficits by more than $1
trillion in the coming years. The plan includes spending cuts to
energy, transportation, housing and other programs popular with
his fellow Democrats.  The spending plan also would allow income and capital gains
taxes to rise after 2012 for individuals earning more than
$200,000 annually and married couples making more than $250,000.  The president’s budget doesn’t offer ideas to overhaul
Medicare, Medicaid or Social Security, the entitlement programs
that represent about 40 percent of the federal budget.  House Republicans vowed to propose broader program cuts in
an alternative budget they plan to release in April.  “Republicans will not punt,” House Speaker  John Boehner 
of  Ohio  told reporters today. Pressed about details of possible
changes to Medicare and Social Security, Boehner declined to
give specifics, saying he wanted to let the Budget Committee
members “do their work.”  ‘We’re Broke’  Boehner also said he wasn’t concerned about whether budget
cuts would result in the loss of some federal jobs. “So be it,
we’re broke,” he said.  House Republican leaders including Boehner and Ryan issued
a statement saying their budget “will include real entitlement
reforms.”  “By taking critical steps forward now, we can fulfill the
mission of health and retirement security for all Americans
without making changes for those in or near retirement,” they
said.  Obama’s budget faced bipartisan criticism at a Senate
Budget Committee hearing.  ‘Modest Steps’  The panel’s chairman, Senator  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota ,
said the president’s budget took “modest steps” to address the
fiscal situation. “I wish there had been even more.”  “What I am concerned about is the longer term,” he said.  Conrad said he was looking for a proposal as encompassing
as the $3.8 trillion  debt-reduction plan  presented to a
presidential commission late last year. The plan, ultimately
rejected by the commission, would have cut Social Security
benefits and Medicare.  The committee’s top Republican, Senator  Jeff Sessions  of  Alabama , told Lew that Obama’s plan “was a very unserious
response to a very serious problem.”  “This could have been the president’s moment to rally
diverse political factions,” he said.  The deficit for the current fiscal year is forecast to hit
a record $1.6 trillion -- 10.9 percent of gross domestic
product. Under Obama’s plan it would be $1.1 trillion in 2012, 7
percent of GDP. The budget forecasts the deficit will be $627
billion in 2017, or 3 percent of GDP, a level the administration
says is sustainable.  The shortfall would grow in subsequent years, reflecting
the impact of  baby boomers  drawing Social Security payments and
Medicare benefits.  Growth Predictions  Ryan said the president’s budget was forecasting economic
growth in 2013 that was 1.3 percentage points higher than what
the Congressional Budget Office projects, and that the
administration was claiming economic growth would occur in a
year when it would raise taxes.  “History doesn’t square with your comments,” Ryan said.  The top Democrat on the House Budget Committee,
Representative  Chris Van Hollen , called Obama’s plan “a tough
love budget” that cuts spending and invests in the future.  He said Obama’s budget offers a “stark contrast” to House
Republicans’ spending proposal for the rest of fiscal 2011 that
ends Sept. 30.  “That plan would recklessly slash important programs
immediately, disregarding the impact to American workers and our
fragile recovery,”  Van Hollen  said.  House Republican leaders last week increased their proposed
spending cuts for this year to $61 billion from $35 billion
after rank-and-file members demanded deeper reductions.  The revised plan outlined Feb. 11 would end more than 100
government programs and cut spending on areas including the
environment, health care, energy and transportation.  Representative Mike Simpson, an Idaho Republican, said
Obama’s plan fails to fix the nation’s fiscal problems because
it doesn’t address entitlement programs or get to a balanced
budget.  “If this was the tough love that my father showed me when
I was young, I’d still be a juvenile delinquent,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net ,  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  