-- 
Safety Agency Puts Punishing U.S. Employers First, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-02-15T17:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/safety-agency-puts-punishing-u-s-employers-first-lawmaker-says.html
The  Occupational Safety and Health
Administration  is punishing employers at the expense of reducing
workplace injuries, Representative Tim Walberg, a Michigan
Republican, said today at a congressional hearing.  “It has become an administration more focused on
punishment than prevention,” said Walberg, chairman of the a
member of the committee who was elected last year. “I am
concerned with recent actions that suggest the administration
has shifted the balance toward punishment and taken its sights
off commonsense rules that promote prevention.”  The Republican-led House Education and the Workforce
Committee is examining how regulations proposed by the agency
are contributing to  job creation  and  workplace safety . Groups
such as the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the largest lobbying
organization for businesses, said OSHA has an activist agenda
that raises costs for employers and may hurt the economy.  Stuart Sessions , president of  Environomics Inc.  in
Bethesda,  Maryland , whose clients including the American
Portland Cement Alliance and  American Petroleum Institute ,
criticized a proposal that would require employers to shield
workers from loud noises. The measure was withdrawn Jan. 19 amid
complaints and the agency is reviewing alternatives.  The noise requirements would have cost, on average, $3,000
to $10,000 per employee a year for manufacturers with similar
expenses for transportation companies, he said.  “This is a very large cost for a policy,” said Sessions,
who spoke on behalf of the Coalition for Workplace Safety.  Republicans Criticized  Representative Lynn Woolsey, a California Democrat,
criticized Republicans for proposing to eliminate funding for
the OSHA’s statistics and information division and the agency
website.  “If OSHA comes under assault from the new majority, the
fact is, the agency may not be able to carry out its core
missions,” Woolsey said. “I strongly believe it is the lack of
regulations that has killed workers.”  Tammy Miser of Lexington,  Kentucky , cried as she told
lawmakers about the death of her brother, Shawn Boone, in a 2003
explosion at auto-wheel factory in Huntington, Indiana.  “The buzz is that OSHA regulations are bad for business
and kill jobs,” said Miser, executive director of the United
Support and Memorial for Workplace Fatalities, which represents
families who lost relatives in workplace accidents. “This is
nonsense.”  Representative  George Miller , a California Democrat, said
the agency has been effective in saving workers’ lives.  “When you talk only about the cost of regulations,
somewhere in the testimony there has to be information about the
benefits,” Miller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 