-- 
Sanofi Said to Announce Genzyme Purchase for $74-a-Share as Soon as Today

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-02-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-15/sanofi-said-to-announce-74-a-share-genzyme-takeover-as-early-as-tomorrow.html
  Sanofi-Aventis SA  may announce an
agreement to buy  Genzyme Corp . for about $74 a share as soon as
today, said four people with knowledge of the matter.  Sanofi also may make potential additional payments tied to
the performance of Genzyme’s multiple sclerosis drug, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private. Genzyme’s board was scheduled to vote Feb. 15 on the
deal, one person said.  A sale at $74 a share values Genzyme at about $19.2
billion. Genzyme rose 3.5 percent to $74.30 at the close of
Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest increase since July 26,
the week Sanofi’s interest was first reported.  Acquiring Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme, the
world’s largest maker of medicines for rare genetic disorders,
would help Sanofi Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher
compensate for revenue losses as some of the company’s biggest-
selling products face competition from generic versions. Paris-
based Sanofi would gain treatments for Fabry, Gaucher and Pompe
diseases.  Spokesmen for Genzyme and Sanofi declined to comment.  The companies have been negotiating a so-called contingent
value right, or possible payments tied to the performance of
Genzyme’s experimental multiple sclerosis drug Lemtrada.  Genzyme has projected peak sales of $3.5 billion for the
drug, known as Campath when used for blood cancer. Sanofi said
in October analysts’ estimates of about $700 million were
“probably closer to the reality of the product.” Lemtrada is
in the final stages of testing and Genzyme expects data from
those trials this year.  Manufacturing Snags  Viehbacher began pursuing Genzyme last year when the U.S.
company was focused on fixing manufacturing snags that cut into
sales of its biggest products after a virus contamination at a
Boston factory.  Shire Plc  took market share from Genzyme amid
the woes, and Genzyme’s stock sank as much as 43 percent from a
2008 high, causing unrest among shareholders.  The Sanofi chief told Genzyme CEO Henri Termeer, 64, of his
interest in acquiring Genzyme in a May 23 conversation,
according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission last year. Sanofi announced a $69-a-share, $18.5
billion cash bid on Aug. 29 after Termeer refused to negotiate.
The French company went directly to shareholders with a hostile
tender offer on Oct. 4 after Genzyme continued to spurn the
offer as too low.  Activist Investors  Sanofi said the bid allowed Genzyme shareholders to cash
out after “quite a lengthy period” when the stock
underperformed. Genzyme fired back that the offer was
“inadequate and opportunistic.” The company already had been
targeted by activist investors Ralph Whitworth of Relational
Investors LLC and Carl C. Icahn, who gained four of 13 board
seats last year in compromises brokered with Genzyme to avoid a
proxy battle.  The companies later began negotiations over the proposal
and said Jan. 31 that they had started due diligence. Genzyme
said it would provide data such as profit margins and customer
lists, which Sanofi agreed not to divulge. The $69-a-share
tender offer was set to expire at midnight New York time
yesterday.  Genzyme’s top-selling medicine, which garnered $793 million
in sales in 2009, is Cerezyme, a mass-produced version of a
human enzyme missing in patients with the inherited illness
Gaucher disease. The medicine had sales of more than $1 billion
in 2007 and 2008 before shortages caused by the plant
contamination. Genzyme is scheduled to announce 2010 earnings
tomorrow.  Biological Processes  Fabrazyme, used to treat the genetic illness Fabry disease,
and Myozyme and Lumizyme for Pompe disease, similarly provide
patients with enzymes their bodies fail to make or produce
adequately on their own.  Unlike the pills produced by traditional drug companies,
Genzyme’s medicines are made using biological processes and
can’t be readily copied by generic-drug makers. Genzyme garners
premium prices from insurers and government payers because the
therapies provide life-saving benefits.  Genzyme , founded in 1981, has about 10,000 employees and 12
manufacturing facilities worldwide, according to the company’s
website. Its products are available in almost 100 countries.  The acquisition would be the biggest industry takeover
since Merck & Co. bought rival Schering-Plough Corp. for about
$47 billion in November 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Reuters reported yesterday that the companies had an
agreement in principle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  